The thinking behind the Free Our Data campaign has now reached the inner sanctums of the Treasury - where the argument that the wider economy would benefit from making government-collected raw data free for re-use will be rigorously studied to see how it would affect some of the biggest trading funds, including Ordnance Survey, the Met Office, the UK Hydrographic Office and Land Registry.The announcement last week of the study, which will report in the autumn, shows that there is now serious consideration within government of the potential benefits of making data free, and of whether trading funds - government-owned companies which are obliged to make a profit by selling their data and/or services - are the right model for the information age.However, Michael Nicholson, chair of the Locus pressure group, which represents private-sector organisations seeking simpler access to public data, was unenthusiastic at the prospect of another examination of the topic. "This is a report-rich zone," he said. "I hope this is the last report on this before government starts taking up some of the recommendations of earlier ones."He pointed to an economic study commissioned by government, released in March from Cambridge University, which showed that making certain selections of the largest trading funds' data available for free would benefit the economy by nearly &pound;180m, while having a net cost to the government of just &pound;15m.Meanwhile, data released from the Canadian government shows that removing pricing barriers for its geographical data - in the form of its National Topographic Data Base (NTDB) - saw the number of downloads of the data jump more than 50-fold in the year to May 2008 from fewer than 100,000 to more than 5m. The NTDB includes 13 "layers" of data, such as hydrography, elevation and the road network. Interestingly, the Canadian government seems to be moving to a community-based system for correcting errors - which would be much cheaper, though potentially less accurate than a paid-for system.In the UK, the Treasury study, which will also have input from the Cabinet Office and the Office of Fair Trading, will report to Yvette Cooper, the chief secretary to the Treasury, and Baroness Vadera of the department of Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform. Questions remain though over the study's terms of reference - which Nicholson says favour the trading funds' existing financial setup.&middot; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Basically a revamped version of Guitar Hero 3 based on Aerosmith with a bulging but bizarre tracklist of 40-plus songs. It looks and sounds great with flashy virtual stadia and an instinctive strumming, swinging or "whamming" action in time to the music. There's fewer of the Guitar Battles that interrupted GH3, although famous names can still be unlocked by beating Dave Perry at his own game. Curiously, hits such as Dude Looks Like a Lady and Don't Wanna Miss a Thing are replaced by unlikely inspirations from the likes of the Clash or Joan Jett. However, richer rock wannabes will still enjoy the deluxe version with its wireless Les Paul controller (&pound;75).
With the release of Firefox 3, I mounted a private celebration: I went back to using Opera 9.5 as my main browser. This wasn't just perversity. Firefox without its add-ons is clearly inferior to Opera. Firefox with enough add-ons to make it really useful is very much slower. And Opera has one advantage over all the competition which is enough to outweigh all its other faults to me.I don't mean that Firefox is a bad browser. There's very little it won't do, and many of the add-ons are thoughtful and effective. I still love Zotero, which does citations and bibliographies from web sources and integrates with Word and OpenOffice. For anyone doing remotely scholarly work, this is wonderful. It's worth keeping Firefox around for that one add-on, and I will certainly do so.There are other valuable Firefox add-ons, too. Piclens is a gorgeous and thought-provoking way of looking at photographs. Adblock is indispensable, and I have written about it before (Drugs and Adblock shouldn't be in the hands of everyone else, May 1 2008). "It's All Text" lets you drop the contents of any text box into a real editor which will correct typos, do search and replace and so on. Tab mix plus keeps tabs in order; other add-ons will turn Firefox into a blog editor or an RSS reader. But almost all these powers come with Opera out of the box. It has no blog editor, but I don't need one. I can't find the equivalent to "It's all text", but I know it has existed. It does the two things that I really need in any browser, which are tab management and ad-blocking, very well indeed. It has a crude but effective note facility which can be synchronised across computers. The bookmarks and the history are both indexed and can be searched almost instantaneously.Best of all, though, is its mail program. I hated it at first, but I missed it for the whole year that I haven't used it. Opera's mail is unique - so far as I know - in that it indexes everything without fuss and finds it at once whenever you want it. It doesn't organise by folders (though it can) but by searches and by tags. Imagine a sort of instantaneous Gmail that works offline as well. All conversations can be automatically threaded and this suits the way I work much better than anything else.It's not perfect. It's ugly, and it doesn't do HTML mail. It doesn't integrate well with the operating system. For some these will be insuperable objections, but anyone who just cares about finding and answering their email quickly should give Opera a try.The contrast between Opera and Firefox is an interesting example of the contrasting strengths of open and closed source. Opera has always been closed source, and commercial and proprietary even though it is nowadays free to use.The good results of this are obvious. It was innovative, original and responsive to customer pressure - none of these qualities I'd associate with open source. Because its users and its programmers were always distinct groups, the programmers thought much harder about how to please the users - sometimes even before the users knew what they wanted. Opera's excellent mobile phone browser is years ahead of Firefox's project there.Firefox started with the ambition that a significant proportion of the users would be converted into programmers. In open source the boundary between the two groups is meant to be blurred. The good result is that the browser is very much easier to extend. There isn't and there couldn't be an Opera equivalent to the Firefox add-ons community. The bad result is that the extensions endlessly repeat each other.Firefox, now that it is an established success, will never run short of programmers, whereas Opera has been held back by a lack of them. The mail program, for example, was truly revolutionary when it first appeared five years ago, but it seems to have been the work of only one man, and he definitely needs help to keep it ahead of the game. But far more projects have been wrecked by having too many programmers than too few.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
It seems Capcom has stumbled across an interesting new way to teach us about physics. It's going to trick us into learning. While running play tests on the forthcoming Wii game We Love Golf, Capcom's European office realised that players were making complex calculations about wind speed and trajectory to make successful shots. What's more, they were getting more accurate as they gained experience.Rhys Cash, Capcom's research manager, was quick to see the educational - and, naturally, the public relations - possibilities. "We set up a special Games Education Projects team to take a closer look at this idea of using games as learning environments, and to explore the idea of seamless learning between game play and subjects that many kids hate - maths, physics and trigonometry."We Love Golf was a perfect fit - things like how spin affects the flight of the ball; it's incredibly complex physics that people understand instinctively. We just want to point that out to gamers so if they're learning about, say, parabolic motion at school they'll be able to say, 'that's just like the golf game I played'."To investigate the matter further Capcom has brought in Nipan Maniar, a principal lecturer in e-learning and pedagogic development at the University of Portsmouth. He'll help to develop sinister-sounding "subliminal mind programming techniques", which could end up in future Capcom releases.The concept of videogames as an educational tool is hardly new - schools throughout the UK are already working with titles like Sim City and Theme Park to teach business skills. The important thing about Capcom's idea is that games won't be openly educational, which can be a barrier: kids don't want to waste time and money learning stuff. There's also no reliance on sympathetic educators - according to a report published in 2006, called Teaching With Games, 37% of teachers were against games being used in the classroom.Sure, Capcom's initiative is as much about publicity as it is about education, and sadly we probably won't see these didactic elements making it into Resident Evil 5 ("congratulations - you've blown away 100 zombies and mastered the principles of velocity"). But it's fun to hear developers talking about gaming as an enriching experience. I learned much more about second world war combat from playing Battlefield 1942 than I ever did in my A-Level history class. And what I've picked up about underworld business from GTA IV will have to remain secret - at least until I've moved to Brazil and closed a couple of my more exotic offshore bank accounts.
The Disgo Media Bank comes with a 500GB hard drive included - which, at &pound;170 for the whole item (slightly cheaper if you shop around online) would have seemed a great deal for the drive alone a couple of years ago. But the Media Bank also records and plays back TV and video files, as well as playing music files and displaying photos. Is it a bargain?Well, no. It has a few subtle failings that mean it's not quite perfect, though if what you're looking for is something that will record and play back standard-definition TV shows, and connect on its own to your computer (via USB), then you'll be happy.The Disgo Media Bank lacks two things that these days are necessary for any useful video solution. First, it isn't network-aware: it doesn't have an Ethernet port or Wi-Fi, so the only way you'll get it on to your network is if you hook that USB port to some sort of network-aware object (such as a NAS drive); and that, generally, means that you have to laboriously put your data on to it to play it.Second, although it records via your digibox's or DVD's (analogue) Scart socket - converting DVD on the fly to AVI format for storage - and plays back via your TV's Scart, it has video connectors (like long headphone leads) - meaning you'll probably have to get an extra lead or connector to hook up to your TV.There's also the lack of a high-definition option. It's questionable whether that is a problem at present, because Freesat and its HD output hasn't yet got much traction, and Disgo can surely update its software to handle it. But that is a niggle. The remote control also feels horribly plastic; odd that so little attention is paid to our principal means of interacting with such gadgets. (Sky gets it right: its remotes aresolid.)There are the standard functions such as timed recording. But that's so terribly 20th-century. The lack of network awareness means you can't hook up to online electronic program guides such as bleb.org; and being Scart-based, it can't grab digital TV's electronic program guide. Too analogue, really.The hard drive size is pleasing, though the best recording is still only 640x480 - in effect better than (standard TV) PAL, but a long way from the high definition that we should expect to see becoming prevalent over the next few years.Overall, though, I found it less useful than the &pound;150Neuros Technology OSDI reviewed in February: though the OSD lacks a hard drive and also uses Scart, it includes internet connectivity - just, in my eyes, giving that the edge, even though it doesn't contain a hard drive. But you can buy a 500GB drive for about &pound;60. These days, connectivity is more valuable.Pros:Generous hard drive;simple interfaceCons:No network link; no HD;not EPG-awaremydisgo.com
As of last Monday, Windows XP has officially reached "end of life" - meaning you won't be able to get it, at least from Microsoft - nearly seven years after its October 2001 release. The end had already been extended by six months by Microsoft, which had originally intended to retire it in January, one year after the release of Vista, its successor.But consumer and enterprise dissatisfaction with Vista forced a delay, and even now a number of companies are still reluctant to upgrade to Vista, even though it has already had its first service pack upgrade.Bill Veghte, head of Windows, posted a letter online (atmicrosoft.com/windows/letter.html) acknowledging that at Vista's launch "some key applications and drivers were not yet available", but added that now "most devices work on most systems, and in most cases where the latest driver is not available on Windows Update, we are able to provide a link to the device vendor's website where the latest driver can be found".However, Dell, one of the largest PC makers in the world, has posted details on acompany blogof precisely how customers can keep on getting PCs with XP, which it describes as "the longest-shipping (2001-08) and most widely accepted operating system Microsoft has put out to date".It points out that for business users there is a loophole in the licensing for Windows which allows "downgrade rights" - so that people who buy Windows Vista Ultimate can in fact choose a PC that comes with XP Professional preinstalled, and upgrade to Vista when they want. Downgrading works for both Microsoft and its customers: it lets Microsoft claim a Vista sale, but the customer doesn't have to use it. And Microsoft says support for XP will continue until April 2014.More simply, though, Dell offers a "custom factory integration" option, which lets selected partners to provide it with a their own software image to be installed on newly built systems. And large enterprises which have bought volume licences for XP, and which don't want to shift to Vista yet - and may even hang on until the next release of Windows, tentatively expected sometime in 2010 - can simply provide an image that uses XP, which will then be installed entirely legally.XP will not however be generally available to end-users buying new machines, unless they can somehow access such enterprise sources. System builders will be able to install XP on white-box PCs until February next year; and Microsoft has said that low-cost, low-power "laptot" machines such as the Asus Eee PC, which have limited processing power and storage, can ship with XP until 2010.
Vot! Hitler kicked off Xbox Live?A terrific series of video mashups starts with a scene from Downfall, about Hitler's last days, and subtitles it with different scenarios.Here, Hitler is kicked off Xbox Live. Strong language follows.All the heave of the funfairWe never tire of industrial robots being used for dangerous rides. Nor did the visitors to the MACH industrial machine show at the NEC in April. (Thanks to Sean Kerslake, whofilmed it all.)I can fix an iBook in 15 secondsBust iBook? No problem!The magic of the Gawker softwaremeans it takes no time at all to repair the whole thing.&middot; Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
The US department of justice has begun a formal investigation into competition concerns surrounding an advertising tie-up between the two biggest global players in internet searches, Google and Yahoo.Officials want to know whether the revenue-sharing deal risks creating an effective monopoly for the two companies which, between them, account for almost three out of four of the world's online searches.A voluntary review has been under way for some time, but was recently upgraded to a formal inquiry, indicating that the department has alighted upon areas of concern. The investigation has arisen at an awkward time for Yahoo. Reports in the US suggest that Microsoft is once again sniffing around the Silicon Valley company and has held talks with potential partners, including Time Warner and News  Corp, about a potential break-up bid for Yahoo.Yahoo's partnership with Google was motivated, in part, by a desire to escape from Microsoft's $47bn (&pound;23.8bn) hostile takeover bid that was made this year. It involves Google providing advertising to appear alongside certain Yahoo searches in North America, with the two firms splitting the resulting revenue. The deal could boost Yahoo's coffers by an estimated $800m annually.In a statement, Yahoo brushed aside the anti-trust investigation: "There is nothing unexpected in the review of this arrangement as structured by the parties and department of justice officials."Critics of the deal say that what it amounts to is a surrender by Yahoo, which has fought a losing battle for years to keep up with Google in searches. A long-awaited  hi-tech new Yahoo advertising platform called Panama failed to close the gap last year. According to the market research firm Comscore, Google accounts for 63% of global internet searches while Yahoo, its closest rival, can only muster 11%.Advertisers have become increasingly uncomfortable about the dominance of Google which generates more revenue from online advertising in Britain than ITV gets from its television commercials.Nigel Gwilliam, head of digital at the London-based Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, said: "Clearly US anti-trust legislators have concerns as we can see from their scrutiny of the deal. Google are even more dominant in many European markets including the UK. While this has begun as a North American pact, we will be monitoring any plans to extend this overseas."Beset by much discontent among several investors, Yahoo faces a potentially stormy annual meeting next month at which the activist hedge fund investor, Carl Icahn, will seek the removal of its entire board.Jerry Yang, Yahoo's chief executive, who co-founded the business in 1994, has been attacked for mishandling Microsoft's $31-a-share offer since talks between the two companies collapsed in early May. Yang, 39, who styles himself as "chief Yahoo", would have personally received about $1.4bn for his stake if he had agreed to a deal.Yahoo's shares sank below $20 on Monday for the first time since Microsoft's initial approach in January, though they jumped by 6.4% to $21.50 in early trading yesterday on a Wall Street Journal report that Microsoft is back on the attack.Unconfirmed reports suggest that Microsoft wants to buy Yahoo's search business and that the Seattle-based software firm has held preliminary talks with Time Warner and News Corp about picking up the rest of Yahoo.Analysts said that even if the Google tie-up survives regulatory scrutiny, it is unlikely to prove as lucrative for shareholders as a takeover of the business by Microsoft."A lot of people have post-deal regret that it did not happen, and they're trying to cobble something together," Jeffrey Lindsay, an analyst at Bernstein Research in New York, told Bloomberg News. "There's a huge sense of a great opportunity having been lost."
Early instalments of this modern warfare simulator achieved legendary status online on the PC, but now Battlefield has reached the next-gen consoles and acquired a single-player game to boot. Admittedly a rather rudimentary one, in terms of storyline - you and your fellow cynical Bad Company squadmates perform the dirty work on various battlefields, collecting mercenary gold on the way - but at least the action is to the fore. And in terms of action, Bad Company definitely lives with Call of Duty 4, the benchmark for such games, adding destructible environments (if a house, say, is in your way, just blast a hole in it) to the equation. At times, it has all the manic intensity of CoD 4 and, if anything, its graphics even outshine its rival's. Not, perhaps, a hugely anticipated game, but definitely one for the cognoscenti.
A beach rave party advertised on a social networking site was cancelled as organisers urged people not to go to Torquay after a police chief said last night the event would not be allowed to go ahead.More than 4,000 people confirmed on a Facebook site that they would attend the event, touted by organisers as the "biggest open party Torbay has ever seen" and planned for this Friday night, continuing until Sunday lunchtime.But  organisers put up a message on the site they had originally used to advertise the party last night, saying: "This event is now cancelled."Torbay police commander Superintendent Chris Singer said he was "delighted" that the organisers have "seen common sense and taken the responsible step."He said there would be public safety issues if the party went ahead with the possibility of people getting cut off by the weekend's high tides.While he admitted police did not know where exactly the event was planned to take place, he warned that police would still have resources in place. His message to potential revellers was: "There is no point in coming down to Torbay if you are looking to attend an alcohol-fuelled event."The Facebook site explained that due to the unexpectedly high number of people planning attend, it would require a licence to go ahead "legally and safely"."An application for such a licence is a lengthy process and cannot be completed within the given time constraints," it read, saying that factors such as "traffic management, waste disposal and sanitary conditions" had to be carefully planned.It went on to emphasise that anyone who turned up would be arrested or asked to leave: "Do not travel to Torbay - there will still be a high police presence around the coast." Having originally promised a weekend with "lots of people and lots of alcohol", the organisers were now urging people to spread the word that the party is longer going ahead. "Sorry for any inconvenience" they apologised.
Asi Burak has quite the task ahead of him. The Israeli-born, Pennsylvania-based game developer is trying to court mainstream audiences into buying his titles. His first effort, PeaceMaker - an astonishingly sophisticated simulation of the Israel/Palestine conflict, wherein players become the president or prime minister of either nation and vie for peace - earned significant press coverage last year, and was even distributed by the Peres Center For Peace. But Burak doesn't feel the game reached his ideal audience - "people who watch The Daily Show with Jon Stewart; politically aware, socially conscious people" - because, ultimately, PeaceMaker was seen as a videogame. And according to that audience, Burak reasons, videogames are dumb.He may have a point. Mainstream videogames may have all but conquered the 18-34 male demographic, and proven extremely pervasive throughout others, but their social stigma persists. One of the most obvious reasons for this - and one of the key points of the Byron Review (dfes.gov.uk/byronreview) - is the vast "generational gap" between gamers and non-gamers. Of course, this argument implies it's just a matter of time before MP Keith Vaz sits down to a game of Grand Theft Auto VII, but Burak believes that before this can ever be achieved, we need to "dismantle the notion of the 'gamer'". "If you think about it," he says, "you won't call someone a 'radio listener', or 'TV viewer' - I mean, you might, but everyone is, right? Everyone is a filmgoer. This idea that people are 'gamers' is going to have to change. Everyone should be a gamer!"Playing to the massesIt's a sensible idea, but, as Burak notes, the difference between a gamer and a TV viewer is that the latter requires absolutely no skill or prior knowledge. Most games have several barriers to entry - the hardware required to run them, their cost and, importantly, the skills necessary to play and enjoy them. For someone who's played few videogames, even BioShock - often considered the apex in sophisticated interactive storytelling, and winner of last year's Bafta "Best Game" award - is a daunting experience. Ultimately, one could argue, the very reason videogames are so rarely taken seriously (other than by gamers, of course) is that only gamers know how to play them.In the years before arguments about videogames' artistic and social value were ubiquitous, games were a lot more intuitive. Consider Pong, the first videogame to reach a mainstream audience. In it, players have just one task: do not miss the ball. As a gameplay concept it's somewhat crude, but Pong is nonetheless instantly accessible to anyone. And as an argument for the universal merits and appeal of videogames in general, it's fairly strong: after all, Pong in its various incarnations and compilation releases is without question one of the highest-selling videogames of all time, and also the best-known.Even with the luxuries of more sophisticated technology available and the expectations that brings, many games have met similar (or even greater) success by remaining relatively spartan in their demands of the player. Pac-Man gave players two tasks: aim in the direction of pellets to accrue points, and aim away from ghosts to progress. It is still commercially viable and instantly recognisable by gamers and non-gamers alike.Similarly, Super Mario Brothers, while giving players a much more detailed world to enjoy, was essentially about running to the right of the screen and jumping. The meagre number of tasks given to the player made understanding and playing (if not mastering) Super Mario Brothers a minor undertaking. As a result, Mario has become the de facto mascot of the videogame business, and the Mario franchise has sold more then 200m units.Play Myst for meOn a smaller scale, this "less is more" philosophy has yielded significant returns, not only for developers but for the industry itself. Myst eschewed the keyboard completely; Cyan created a surrealistic and puzzle-heavy (but absolutely conflict-free) world that PC users navigated entirely using the mouse. And for all the criticism levelled at it years on, few other mainstream PC titles have been able to capture as large and diverse and audience as Myst managed.More complex simulations have benefited from making interactivity instantly possible, rather than a learned skill. The Sims, for instance, shifted more than 50m units because it took Maxis' legacy of deep simulation gameplay - SimCity, SimEarth, SimLife, etc - and implemented it into a game about the minutiae of daily life. Men, women and children took to the game in unprecedented numbers, primarily because it was easy to grasp. Maxis did away with complex micromanagement with the Sims and focused on parts of life that players of all ages could understand.The Sims achieved commercial dominance through clever game design, but Nintendo managed to conquer the console market by tackling the issue of accessibility at a hardware level. The Wii is unquestionably the most intuitive piece of videogaming technology ever; its motion-detection control system becomes, essentially, an extension of the player's body. Coupled with its range of titles - from traditional action games (Zelda: Twilight Princess) to exercise assistants (Wii Fit) - the Wii's uniquely physical control system has made a "lifestyle device" out of Nintendo's console. Which, one suspects, is exactly the perspective with which Burak wishes Wii players would see the rest of the games industry.If these examples demonstrate anything to games developers, it is not that all should compromise complexity where it is due; rather, accessibility should be a high priority. Put simply, the longer it takes for someone to understand a game, the less likely it is that they'll stay to play it. And this chronic lack of understanding about the nature of interactive media will undoubtedly come to the fore yet again in the weeks and months after Grand Theft Auto IV's release. It will be accused of encouraging violence against women, and being a platform for dormant Ted Bundys to live out their wildest, most nightmarish fantasies - essentially, an exercise in sociopathy. It will be judged by those who have never played it, and who have no concept of its nature nor the nature of any games like it. And Burak's right: we only have ourselves to blame.
Details on a Platte&middot; Ashley Bateup [says]: "Over 35% of consumers pay by postal order - this in itself says something about the consumer and their wish to remain anonymous"(Popup billing finds a new screen, June 26). Bateup has missed, or chooses to misrepresent, the point here. People pay by postal order because they don't want Platte, MBS or whoever having access to their credit card details.michaelpollitt.com/wordpress/?p=187&middot; My son is now too scared to answer "yes" to any [online] query when he's on the PC - which is no bad thing.cathykeir.co.uk/blogMy ideal phoneI found my ideal mobile on eBay, a five-year-old PalmOne Treo 600 Smartphone (Apple upsets the iPhone cart, June 12). It syncs with my iBook and my work Windows PC. It features a Qwerty and an onscreen keyboard, icon-based touchscreen (take that, Nokia N95), oh, and the ability to thread text messages - just like the iPhone.Steve Hooker,RotherhamThe tools are out there&middot; I've seen this kind of thing before, and typically it's one guy with a copy of 3D Studio Max and delusions of grandeur (Regenerate! Fans revive 60s Doctor Who, June 26). However, I recognised some of the backgrounds as being from different guys with 3D Studio Max and delusions of grandeur. They've put all the tools out, backgrounds, textures, line art for facial expressions ... all of it.skmdc.livejournal.comData in an Oyster shellOyster cards aren't just for pre-paid fares: monthly and annual season tickets (Travelcards) are all issued on them as well (Newly asked questions, June 26). So does TfL's apparent complacency about loss of revenue on a hacked card also extend more dangerously to possible loss of the substantial personal information provided when a passenger applies for or renews a long-term ticket?Don Keller,London&middot; While I agree that the ability to crack the Oyster card, per se, is not going to cause serious problems, I wonder what this means for the combo Visa, debit and Oyster card issued by Barclays. Does cracking the Oyster card open the possibility to get access to the wallets in these combined cards?Stephen Moffitt,LondonFlaming FirefoxThere are two widely differing experiences of Firefox 3 - those who apparently love it and those, like me who believe it's a disaster (Technophile, June 26). I may have the answer to these differing experiences - we're not seeing the same thing. I believe that some mirrors are distributing corrupted versions. The thing should work perfectly straight out of the box - and it doesn't.Ron Graves,Prenton&middot; You know you're going geeky when you read about a new version of a browser over breakfast in the online version of your newspaper, and you just have to go and get it there and then.pigstyave.blogspot.comWho's watching who?&middot; It seems clear to me that Britain is becoming an increasingly petty, officious, fearful, paranoid and authoritarian society (Read me first, June 26).magnacartaplus.org/newsKilling isn't a game&middot; Most people are concerned that Grand Theft Auto desensitises kids to violence in the real world. What I worry about is the army taking these gamers, putting them in front of consoles, and not telling them that on the other end of the game they are playing are real human beings they are killing (Robots on the battlefield, June 26).fearandloathingingtown.blogspot.com&middot; Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
An Irish company, 3G Doctor, is employing the until now redundant camera on the front of 3G phones to provide remote medical consultations, especially in country areas. A hospital in Da Nang City, Vietnam, has developed software to transform a mobile phone into a database of treatments and medical knowledge that can be looked at in an emergency. These are but two recent examples of the continuing astonishing advance of the mobile phone.And it is showing no sign of stopping, despite  being the fastest-growing consumer product in history. According to Portio Research, during the period 2007 to 2012, the mobile subscriber base is expected to grow by another 1.8 billion, mainly in emerging economies such as China and India but also in the US, which is expected to add 65 million more subscribers.The ecosystem in which mobiles operate is also entering a new era. In fact, a revolution is taking place. The walled gardens that the operators built to try to recoup the &pound;22bn they shelled out in the UK for licences are gradually disappearing, as are the ludicrously high data charges they try to extract from us when we download photos and videos. Potentially even more important is the fact that in the space of six months, a massive switch has been signalled towards using open-source software which anyone can take advantage of - including the legendary bedroom coder, who has so far been missing from the mobile revolution. With any luck it will pave the way for a surge of creativity.Symbian, which provides the operating system for most of the new generation of mobiles with web access, is being turned into a foundation to exploit open source rather than proprietary software. Although it was denied by the company, it was almost certainly a response to Google's proposed Android operating system for mobiles (also open source) with which Google hopes to establish a position on phones to rival its domination of the internet on computers. Whether this leads to any changes by the two main proprietary companies, Apple and Microsoft, remains to be seen. Apple's iPhone is still the trendiest phone on the planet.The iPhone has been getting most of the global publicity but it is Nokia that has been storming ahead - increasing its global market share to around 40%. To put it in perspective, Apple's target in its first whole year of 10m phones is only a third of the increase in Nokia's sales in only the first three months of this year. I have been reminded of Nokia's strengths by the arrival (on loan) of a prototype of the eagerly awaited N96 which hits the streets in a few weeks time. One of the sleekest Nokia has produced, it looks like the iPhone's baby sister but has a real keyboard that slides out, a 5.2 megapixel camera with a Carl Zeiss lens and the best video camera I have encountered on a conventional mobile (plus endless other facilities including music, maps, GPS, TV, radio and N-Gage gaming facility). For the first time I would feel happy leaving my digital camera at home and using this instead. If Nokia irons out some of the problems that can charitably be put down to it being a prototype (such as moody battery charging and Wi-Fi) then it will have another hit on its hands, and I may be in the queue for one to replace my current phone as well.If there is one cloud on the horizon for mobiles it is the same as for computers: the danger that an explosion of demand caused by video downloads - especially the BBC's iPlayer, which seems to be straining the system to its limits - will slow the internet down so much as to dilute the experience. But apart from that, the mobile marches on. At this rate it won't be that long before everyone on the planet is potentially connected via the mobile internet. If global warming doesn't spoil the party, if course.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Government 2.0 is a daft term. Its first airing, as the title of one of those management-consultant books on "how the digital revolution is transforming government and politics" was at least fresh. But that was in 2005. That said, government 2.0 is a useful code - purely temporary, and in the absence of anything better - for a fascinating revolution happening in British public life. This is a new and nearly ubiquitous enthusiasm for the power of information, including but not exclusively web 2.0 innovations, to improve public services. Look at this week's draft constitution for the NHS, with its talk of professionals being steered by the output of "digital dashboards". Watch for the forthcoming policing green paper, the white paper on local government "empowerment" and the cross-government strategy on digital equality. All will be stuffed with ideas about giving citizens the information they need.Most especially,read the strategy for "world-class" public serviceswhich the prime minister published last week: "The whole agenda of reform will rest on improved transparency of information about public services and their performance, as well as transparency about the standards that citizens should be able to expect. The internet has given a powerful voice to consumers to give feedback on private-sector services - that feedback is now spreading to public services and must be embraced."This is not just a drowning governing party clutching at policy straws. The idea of empowerment through information runs through recent Conservative policy announcements, too. Meanwhile, Parliament is experiencing its own revolution on the web. Modish innovations like"Lords on YouTube"are only the icing on what's become a tasty and conveniently sliced cake at parliament.uk.I use the term "power of information" deliberately. Although the revolution in web 2.0 technologies has been sending up shoots for a couple of years, it has blossomed in the year that's elapsed since the publication of the Power of Information report.At Technology Guardian, we've taken a special interest in the report because of the support it gives to our Free Our Data campaign (where we argue that public bodies should stop trying to trade commercially in information, but rather make their raw data available freely).We were initially sceptical about the likelihood of its ideas being taken up seriously by anyone apart from Cabinet Office pointy-heads. We've been pleasantly surprised by the innovations, from a sensible code of practice for civil service bloggers to the daring blog set up by thePower of Information taskforceitself.This is exciting stuff. Twelve years after John Major's enfeebled administration first suggested computerising citizens' dealings with officialdom, e-government is evolving to a new concept of administration.There are two points on which to exercise scepticism. One is the IT industry's inevitable attempt to present government 2.0 (sorry) as the need for one last splurge on software and systems. The second is any premature attempt to hijack government 2.0 (sorry, again) in the cause of a particular political philosophy. There's no evidence, for example, that the "empowered citizen" will demand minimal government.At the moment we have no idea in what direction web 2.0 tools and tricks will lead politics and governance. That's kind of the whole idea.
The idea of a machine that could produce a copy of itself has intrigued some of the greatest minds in history. Rene Descartes heads a list of philosophers, mathematicians and physicists who have long pondered the potential of a self-replicating machine. As have writers of science fiction, who have been also quick to warn of the dangers of unleashing such a powerful technology upon the world. But for both sets of thinkers, the reality of a self-replicating machine has lain somewhere just beyond our reach.Sitting in his office at the University of Bath, Dr Adrian Bowyer doesn't look like an evil mastermind. Bowyer is a quietly spoken, slightly podgy, twinkle-eyed 55-year-old senior lecturer at the school of mechanical engineering and inventor of the RepRap machine. Earlier this month at Cheltenham's Science Festival, Bowyer and New Zealand scientist Vik Oliver unveiled a RepRap that had the majority of its working parts "printed out" from an earlier prototype. Although the RepRap was first assembled in 2006, this was the first time a parent and child machine had appeared side by side.Technically, the RepRap is a form of rapid prototyper, the kind used by designers and engineers to streamline everything from aircraft to hairdryers, but it's easier to think of it as a printer of three-dimensional objects. Essentially, the RepRap works like the desktop printer you might have at home, but instead of printing on paper, the RepRap makes hard copy in three dimensions out of plastic from models designed on a computer.Growth potentialEven before you get into the benefits of self-replication, the RepRap is already an impressive achievement. Bowyer and an army of international helpers - all operating under an open-source licence that lets them adapt and develop the blueprint collectively - have managed to scale down the cost of rapid prototypers from tens of thousands of pounds to around &pound;250. But it is the RepRap's ability to produce its own parts (which could then produce another machine and so on) that has won Bowyer acclaim from the likes of the inventor James Dyson and executives at Google.Bowyer describes his RepRap as "potentially an extremely powerful technology" that could "give everybody - ultimately - the ability to make virtually anything for themselves in return for being helped to reproduce". For the moment it makes crude plastic knick-knacks (sandals, coat hooks, door handles and fly-swatters), but it has the potential to develop into something that could make much more sophisticated artefacts, including the ability to lay its own circuitry.The RepRap itself is a humble thing to see. It's small, little bigger in volume than a portable television, barely more than a frame assembled from long pieces of screw-grooved studding and a large number of plastic parts. At its heart is the all important extruder, which is poised to squeeze out a small film of molten plastic from a nozzle that is fed from a coil of white filament. It looks vaguely like a cut-price textile machine.Bowyer sets the nozzle to work, producing a simple coathook. Line by line, layer upon layer, the RepRap begins its task. It is an agonisingly tedious process that will take it almost two hours to "print out" each small part. It will take hundreds of hours to make the parts for a "child" machine. Not that that should temper your enthusiasm. If you think back, the first digitised images took hours to process. Now, 20 years later, such things are commonplace, done in a flash on a mobile phone.Seen it before?If you are still not convinced, perhaps it helps to take a longer view. The idea of a self-replicating machine can be traced back to remarks made by the Queen of Sweden to Ren&eacute; Descartes, but they were more seriously explored in the 19th century by Samuel Butler, who described a machine that could mimic the biological process of plants in his novel Erewhon.Science fiction writers have kept pace. Phillip K Dick, Arthur C Clarke and Nobel-nominated Karel Capek have all toyed with the idea, before John Sladek based his 1968 satirical novel, the Reproductive System, on a self-replicating machine that goes wild. It set the scene for movies like the Terminator to tap into fears of robots capable of reproducing and taking over.Bowyer thinks his RepRap will prove much more benign. Besides, his machine can't self-assemble and cannot yet reproduce all its own parts. These last two points do make you wonder if the RepRap is a self-replicating machine at all. A lathe could be used to make parts for another lathe; what's so different about his RepRap? "You could see the whole of engineering as effectively a self-replicating machine," Bowyer says. "It's very difficult to use a machine tool to make another copy of itself, but RepRap is designed to make that as easy as possible."Even though the RepRap is a doddle to operate, it remains difficult to build. To do so you have to have an ability to write your own computer code, be confident with a soldering iron and have some grasp of mechanics. It is believed that there are already around 100 RepRaps in the world, mostly made by small groups who share the skills necessary to build one. Bowyer thinks this model is perfectly suited to small groups to develop products who would otherwise struggle in normal economic circumstances. "It means that communities in the developing world manage to get one foot on the rung of the manufacturing ladder," he says."Even in China you have to spend half a billion [dollars] to create a fabrication line. You can pay people low wages but you have to make an enormous capital investment in order to make things. The thing about RepRap is that it allows you to make stuff with a very small capital investment. If you are a community that has one, you can have several machines once you have got one and what's more you can give a machine to your neighbours down the road and they can do the same thing. [It's] a very powerful mechanism for elevating people from the most extreme poverty."Recycle, againSoon, he says, communities in places like Africa will be able to download instructions for a RepRap and use it to replicate further machines, almost endlessly. Because the plans are open source, such communities will have to pay no royalties for the patent. But, he adds, such a noble stance is inevitable: "I realised that if you have a self-replicating machine, you've got to give it away anyway because there's nothing to sell. If I knock it out for &pound;1,000 you can replicate it and knock it out for &pound;900. Sooner or later you are down to the cost of the raw materials."And there is, he says, no fortune in that and, anyway, he doesn't want to spend the rest of his life in court trying to prevent people from doing with the machine the one thing it was designed to do. "You are brought to the point where you have to say 'this is a self-replicating machine, the only sensible thing do is give it way for free'."The RepRap needs to get much faster before it can even begin to realise its potential, but it is still early days for a device - even though it has been dreamt of since the dawn of the enlightenment - and Bowyer is not done yet. Soon, he plans to design a shredder for the machine, so old items created on the RepRap can be returned to granules of plastic to be reused. Think about it, he says: "You could shred your milk bottles and make a pair of sandals. What's more, when the child grows out of the shoes, you shred them, add another milk bottle, rescale the design and you have a new pair." If nothing else, the RepRap could be the ultimate recycling machine.
Sadly not - because although we might be able to have a good stab at the total processing power available through the internet (as Kevin Kelly, one of the founders of Wired magazine, has done in itslatest issue), to try to put a number on what the brain does is close to pointless, because it does so many things at once.In Wired, Kelly asserts that "collectively, we are already assembling [a single worldwide computer] from our billions of Net-connected PCs, cell phones, PDAs and the like ... they form the components of what we might call the One Machine". Its operating system, he says, is the world wide web; and instead of (biological) synapses, it deploys hyperlinks, each of which he says "is much like a synapse in the brain. Both work by making associations between nodes. Each unit of thinking in the brain - an idea, for example - grows by gaining links to other thoughts. The greater the number of synapses connecting to an idea, the stronger it becomes. Similarly, the more heavily linked a Web node is, the greater its value to the Machine. Moreover, the number of hyperlinks in the World Wide Web is approaching that of synapses in the human brain."And the human brain? A poor, outdated engine: "Measured in pure, primeval digital processing power, grey matter is about as speedy as an original Pentium chip, circa 1993." That suggests our brains run at 70MHz. Except our brains can't be compared to digital processing, because they are analogue. That too is the reason why a synapse is entirely unlike a hyperlink: a synapse reacts to its environment and the inputs to create a subtly changing organism that is never the same twice. A hyperlink, by contrast, is always the same; the problems arise when it does change.Somehow it all reminds us of the end of the film Lawnmower Man, in which the man of the title Goes Wrong, uploads his personality into a computer and thus the entire telephone system, and begins ringing every phone on the planet. Kelly approaches it from the other direction: "By 2040, the planetary computer will attain as much processing power as all 7 billion human brains on Earth." This seems unlikely.Still, there is one statistic that we can readily agree with: Kelly notes that the brain "is incredibly efficient", able to hold all its processing power in a head-sized package weighing a few pounds that uses 20 watts. By contrast, the global computer uses - Kelly estimates - 377bn watts, about 5% of the electricity produced. Of all the statistics in Kelly's article, that's probably the most worrying; and the one that points to the simplest reasons why the "One Machine" is never likely to approach the power of our brains, even by 2040: if it keeps growing, we won't be able to afford to feed it. While Moore's Law might roughly double processing power every 18 months, the price of powering that power is going to rise quickly too. But unlike humans, machines do have an "off" switch.
Just in case you missed the news, Square Enix has announced a DS version of legendary SNES RPG, Chrono Trigger. From thepress release:With artwork by famed manga artist Akira Toriyama and an unprecedented and inspiring musical score created by Yasunori Mitsuda, CHRONO TRIGGER represents the best-in-class of the video game world. This newly revamped edition maintains all of the game's original elements and spirit while introducing the portability, dual-screen presentation and Touch-Screen functionality of Nintendo DS. Players will soon be able to rediscover the exhilarating RPG experience, breathtaking storyline and innovative gameplay in the palm of their hands.There will also be a new dungeon and a wireless play mode - but essentially these sound like pretty trimmings to a straight(ish) translation. Ateaser siteis up and running, but don't get too excited - unless you're really into echoing clock ticks.Next stop, Vagrant Story?Elsewhere, Konami has revealed a new Castlevania title - and I'm really not sure about this one. Castlevania Judgement is a Wii fighting game based on the classic platforming series. Naturally, the Wii Remote becomes the weapon, with players hacking and slashing away against a variety of enemies form the game's 22-year history. Konami has this to add:Select characters can also set traps and make use of monsters on the field to achieve victory in a clash of epic proportions. As an added bonus, players are also able to compete head-to-head using the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and connect with Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia on the Nintendo DS to unlock bonus gameplay content.No, still not convinced.
Aleks Krotoskipresents this week's show which looks at where technology and culture colide.Aleks andJemima Kissvisit the Glastonbury festival where they try Singstar on the Queen's Head stage, entertaining the crowd with a version of Pulp's Common People.  Nerves are tight, but Jemima's are calmed by a good helping of cider.Blogger, journalist and sci-fi authorCory Doctorowjoins us in the studio to talk digital rights and creative commons licences, and Aleks visits the artists behindBlast Theory Matt Adams and Ju Row Farr, who use interactive media to create performance art.Plus there's the latest news includingeBay's fine for selling fake goods,an EU agreement that will let the FBI look at personal data,new proposals for cheaper international mobile dataand the announcement thatWired is to launch in the UK. Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.ukPost a message on the blog about this week's programmeGet our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the weekJoin our Facebook group
The first time Philip Oliver realised that he was in the games business was when he and his twin brother Andrew started thinking about their first employee."We had been working from my bedroom for a couple of years," he remembers. "We finished sixth form and decided not to go to university, but went to buy a house. We thought 'should we employ people?' but it actually took about a year to make that decision."We'd been used to working with each other and knew each other and what we were good at. And we thought other people would be the same, that they'd work as hard  but a lot of people who came in were just after the money."The twins, who had hit the big time with popular 8-bit platform game Dizzy (published by Codemasters), discovered how to build a business the hard way  sometimes even the simplest things were alien to them because they'd never had proper jobs before."We'd never worked for anyone, or even worked in an office environment before: I didn't even know how to use a filing cabinet," he says. "We lost so much in the first year, but then it started to get better."Prospects improved, but really things haven't changed too much over the years for the Oliver twins  they now runBlitz Games, the same company they founded as Interactive Studios in 1990.Blitz employs 230 people and concentrates on a string of licenced titles such as American Idol and SpongeBob. As chief executive and chief technology officer respectively, Philip and Andrew still keep an eye on things.They've had some interesting times over the years, but a few key moments have stuck in their minds."The Dizzy thing of course, although it actually took a couple of years to happen. Even though it was a hit back then, I never believed that people would still be asking about it years later," he says. "Also, we backed PlayStation when a lot of people said that Sony were crazy going up against Nintendo and Sega. I remember trying to convince people that it was a good idea."The business has grown steadily rather than meteorically. "We've never had one of those monumental breaks," he says. "A few times we got so close  Frogger 2 was selling 35,000 copies a week when Atari and Konami fell out and had to be discontinued.""The UK used to be a hotbed of creativity and thriving businesses  now it's a bit glum," he adds. Then again, he doesn't see much else he could turn his hand to."We always knew there would be an industry, but we never projected what we'd do in the future. We were just too busy thinking about what we'd do next week. If you'd have said then that we'd still be going in 20 years, I'd have laughed."
That Robert Mugabe. Tch. That George W. Bush ahd his hanging chads. Tchuh.Er, perhaps too now that Boris Johnson: for the Open Rights Group, which aims to monitor the use of electronic systems in elections (both for voting and counting) has looked at the use of electronic counting in the London mayoral elections, noted that the counting was done electronically, andconcludes thattransparency around the recording of valid votes was a major issue, leading many of our team of 27 official observers to conclude that they were unable to observe votes being counted. And while hundreds of screens set up by vote scanners showed almost meaningless data to observers, London Elects admit that the system was likely to be recording blank ballots as valid votes.The report also details how London Elects are unable to publish an audit, commissioned from KPMG, of some of the software used to count the London vote, because of disputes over commercial confidentiality. The situation highlights the problems that arise when the very public function of running elections is mixed with issues of commercial confidentiality and proprietary software. In the context of a public election, it is unacceptable that these issues should preclude the publication of the KPMG audit.But hey, who cares as long as someone's making money?London Elects will pay Indra  the company who supplied both Bedford and Breckland during last year's chaotic trials of e-counting technology in local elections  upwards of 4.5 million for delivering the London e-count. Today's report recommends a full cost benefit analysis of any future e-count, set against a properly costed manual count.TheORG report(PDF) makes interesting reading. Perhaps this would be an interesting entry on a crime map: "Election, last seen here, presumed stolen.. details entered by: K Livingstone."Still, Ken's busy with his new job. Though at least he knows where the Olympic papers are...(Also:longer news version by Bobbie, who's read the report so you don't have to.)
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
From time to time we mention theFree Our Data campaignhere: it's a Guardian Technology campaign whose ambition is to persuade the government to make the non-personal data it collects (such as mapping data, weather data, and so on) freely available, for any sort of re-use (including commercial).As an idea, this has now begun to gain some traction in government - and even, as the wholesaga over crime mapping in Londonshows, with theConservatives.Now thePower Of Information taskforce, which includes Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office minister we interviewed a while back, has started a new initiative (though competition is just as good a word) atShowusabetterway.com:Ever been frustrated that you can't find out something that ought to be easy to find? Ever been baffled by league tables or 'performance indicators'? Do you think that better use of public information could improve health, education, justice or society at large?The UK Government wants to hear your ideas for new products that could improve the way public information is communicated. The Power of Information Taskforce is running a competition on the Government's behalf, and we have a 20,000 prize fund to develop the best ideas to the next level.To show they are serious, the Government is making availablegigabytesofneworpreviously invisiblepublic information especially for people to use in this competition.And in case you wondered if it involves puttings CDs from HMRC into envelopes..Rest assured, this competition doesnotinclude personal information about people.There is aset of examples- such as crime mapping, Fixmystreet, and a pointer to others such asfarmsubsidy.org(which "compiles obscure information about subsidies under the Common Agricultural Policy and puts it in one place, to make it much easier to see where farm subsidies are going across Europe.")The team signs off with a flourish:We're confident that you'll have more and better ideas than we ever will. You don't have to have any technical knowledge, nor any money,just a good idea, and 5 minutes spare toenter the competition.There's already alist of submitted ideas, which includes a Road Works API, FixMyTransport ("where people with shared public transport problems could come together to get things improved"), Rate My Bus, and others.Come on, people - tell us your ideas, then go and enter them on the site (or vice versa) and win the funding. It would be fantastic if a Guardian Tech reader could win this.Update:just to point tosome of the resourcesyou can use (among many, many, many): mapping information from the Ordnance Survey, medical information from the NHS, neighbourhood statistics from the Office for National Statistics and a carbon calculator from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). And these are in API form, which means they're all ready for mashup goodness.
Yesterday a press release dropped into my inbox, championingVirgin Media as Britain's most trusted ISP. The claim was the result of a survey by Reader's Digest which found that British Airways, Nokia, O2, Lloyds TSB and Tesco were also among Britain's most trusted companies.The release included quotes from James Kydd, Virgin Media's managing director of brand and marketing, who put this radical turnaround down to a new mantra ofput the customer first:"We are pleased to see that we have been able to dramatically change people's perceptions over the past 12 months. We put the customer at the heart of everything we do, by simply explaining broadband, and delivering a reliable customer service to ensure our customers receive the fastest and highest-quality broadband in the country."Oh really? That should be a surprise for the Advertising Standards Authority, which todaybanned a Virgin Media ad campaign for misleading customers:The national press ad, which ran with the headline Hate To Wait, featured a table with download times for TV shows and music tracks based on different broadband packages offered by Virgin Media.BT complained to the Advertising Standards Authority that the download speeds quoted in the ad were misleading because Virgin Media's traffic management policy capped downloading speeds at peak times.Putting customers first surely means being straight with them - and abiding by therecently agreed code of conduct.Update:A rep from Virgin has been in contact to say "the advertisement wasn't actually banned - we agreed that amends would be made if it ran again in the future". TheASA's judgmentadjudication reads as following: "The ad breached CAP Code clauses 3.1 (Substantiation) and 7.1 (Truthfulness). We told Virgin to make clear in future ads that download times would be restricted during peak hours. We advised them to seek guidance from the Copy Advice team when preparing similar ads in the future."
The slow-motion train-wreck that has been Microsoft's attempt to take over Yahoo seems to be continuing even after Microsoft publicly withdrew its bid.The Wall Street Journalnow says Microsoft is trying to put together a sort of take-over coalition where Microsoft would get Yahoo's search while AOL or News Corp would acquire other parts of Yahoo. However, it doesn't seem all that likely. The WSJ says:Some of the people familiar with these talks say they are preliminary and unlikely to result in a deal with Yahoo. Indeed, two weeks ago, Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer called Yahoo Chairman Roy Bostock to suggest they meet to discuss a new idea involving other partners, according to a person familiar with the matter. The meeting, scheduled for Monday, was subsequently canceled by Microsoft, which Yahoo took as a sign that Mr. Ballmer's efforts to find a partner have so far failed.But the story has lots of detail on the background to previous attempts at a deal. It says that under pressure from shareholders, Yahoo went back to Microsoft and offered to sell for "for $33 to $34 a share, the price range Microsoft had offered before talks broke down". Microsoft declined the offer.Among the incidentals, the April 15 meeting was held at "the Portland offices of Kirkpatrick &amp; Lockhart Preston Gates Ellis LLP, the former law firm of Microsoft founder Bill Gates's father." For secrecy, Microsoft told Yang's party "to drive to the back of the building, where a woman holding a closed red umbrella would be waiting for them at the loading dock." And for the May 2 meeting at Seattle airport, "The Yahoo camp was encouraged that Mr Ballmer had donned a polo shirt in purple, Yahoo's color."It's impossible to say what will happen next, because Microsoft may not be as predictable as it used to be. In the 1990s, the company was clearly run by programmers, or "friends of Bill". They always took the view that they could write stuff, so they generally didn't really need to buy stuff. Now Bill Gates has more or less bowed out, the company is clearly run by businessmen and wheeler-dealers, or "friends of Steve".Somehow I don't think thatRay Ozziesaying "That's the stupidest idea I've ever heard" is going to have the same impact as Gates saying it.Update: Media Guardian now has anews item.
The results of the London mayoral elections have been called into question after independent observers cast doubt on the hi-tech process used to count ballot papers.A report today from the Open Rights Group (ORG), which closely monitors the use of electronic voting systems, claims that problems with the technology could have resulted in as many as 41,000 ballots going unaccounted for in the May elections."The system threw up a number of problems and an unacceptable level of uncertainty," said Becky Hogge, executive director of the organisation, which campaigns on technological issues that affect members of the public.Although the glitches are unlikely to have changed the overall result of the mayoral race  Boris Johnson won by almost 140,000 votes after second choices were taken into consideration  today's report lists a string of potentially serious problems with the counting procedures used in the mayoral and London Assembly elections.Among the deficiencies highlighted in the report are the counting of blank ballots as valid votes, frequent jams in the scanning machines and a series of bugs and system freezes. ORG's observers also reported that they were refused access to parts of the process at counts in London Olympia and Alexandra Palace.In at least two cases, the margin of error was greater than the winning candidate's margin of victory, leading the group to conclude that there was "insufficient evidence" for it to say that the results were accurate."When you bring computers into the mix, you get trouble because they deal in absolutes, not judgment," said Hogge. "What we'd like to see is a proper cost-benefit analysis of whether it's worth using electronic counting at all."Most of the questions revolve around Indra, the company that was paid an estimated 4.5m to supply the technology used for counting votes.London Elects, the organisation overseeing the vote, said none of the major parties had voiced any complaints about the count, and that extensive preparations had been made to ensure that no votes were lost."We don't agree with ORG's position on e-counting, and we did a lot of tests to ensure that the system would work on the day," said a spokesman. "This is the biggest single election in Britain, and the scale and complexity means that e-counting is the only option."Although similar systems were used for the previous mayoral elections in 2000 and 2004 without incident, electronic voting and counting systems have come in for serious criticism in the past. The local and regional elections in 2007 descended into chaos when counting machines failed to work properly.Serious problems were highlighted in the wake of that debacle, including major issues with the Scottish system and massive delays in some areas where trial systems were being operated by Indra.
Nearly 13 years ago, 28-year-old software developer Pierre Omidyar had an idea for an online auction site. Under the title AuctionWeb, he offered a broken laser pointer for sale to the highest bidder. Pleasantly surprised when the item sold for 14.83, Omidyar contacted the buyer to check that he realised the pointer was broken. "I'm a collector of broken laser pointers," came the reply.That was the birth of eBay, one of the internet's most prized success stories. From the simple realisation that there is a potential buyer out there for almost anything, and that the internet makes such matchmaking possible, a giant business was created. eBay currently has 84 million active users worldwide; last year, the total value of items sold was nearly $64bn (32bn).But the tide may be turning against the internet's golden child. Yesterday, a French court ordered eBay to pay 38.6m (30m) in damages to LVMH, the luxury giant behind Louis Vuitton and Christian Dior, for negligence in allowing the sale of fake bags and clothes, and of perfume that it was not licensed to sell. The ruling comes hot on the heels of a judgment by another French court that ordered eBay to pay 20,000 to Hermes for allowing the sale of fake bags. L'Oral has lawsuits pending against eBay in five European countries, including the UK, and there is another filed by Tiffany in the US.As part of its case, LVMH presented evidence to the court that of the 300,000 products purporting to be Louis Vuitton or Christian Dior sold on the site in the second quarter of 2006, 90% were fakes. As an ex-eBay seller myself, I became aware of the scale of the problem some time last year. For a few years, I had been funding my handbag habit by re-selling items I had tired of. But quite suddenly, the prices began to drop steeply until there was little point in selling on eBay, and I switched to a vintage store. It seemed that fakes had flooded the eBay market to the extent that buyers no longer expected to find the real thing - and so, no longer expected to pay the real price.There are still genuine designer goods to be found on eBay. A seller who goes under the name of "Authentic LV lady" is offering a slightly used monogram Louis Vuitton handbag for $829.90, and a Hermes Kelly bag for $5,599. She has posted numerous close-up photos with each offering, showing the logo-stamped zip pulls, the quality of the stitching, the dustbag and boxes.There are ways to spot a fake. Some are technical: if you have an intricate knowledge of the details of the bag you want to buy, you can check that logos are in the right place, that the colour of the lining is correct. Stitching is often a giveaway: cheap factories struggle to replicate the even, immaculate stitching of top-quality bags. (For instance, the leather tab that attaches the handle to the classic Louis Vuitton Speedy bag will always have five regular, even stitches across the top.) Some sellers are crafty in implying authenticity without declaring it outright, to avoid liability: for instance, they will use the abbreviation "auth" in the description, but not the word "authentic". Others give themselves away more obliquely: those who boast a $1,650 bag is "genuine leather" are unlikely to be dealing with real quality merchandise.Pierre Gode of LVMH declared that yesterday's ruling "protected brands by considering them an important part of French heritage". But what is really at stake, of course, is not principle but cash: luxury retailers have long tried to combat counterfeiters, and in eBay they now have a wealthy target to sue. eBay argues that it has already clamped down on the counterfeit problem. The company says it employs 2,000 people worldwide to spot and block counterfeit sales, and that 95% of fraudulent listings are removed before the auction ends.But it is not just the luxury giants that are finding fault with the world's largest online auction house. There are estimated to be more than a million people who make a living selling on eBay; at a recent eBay conference, many of the small sellers berated the company for what it sees as the "gentrification" of the site. Their concern is that eBay, built on the back of small sellers, is now abandoning them in order to become a rival to Amazon. They point out that the "auction" element that gave eBay its erratic charm is being phased out: "Buy it now" fixed-price sales accounted for 42% of the total in the past three months of last year. For all the charm of its beginnings, this could be the year that the world falls out of love with eBay.
My brother-in-law, a creative director at Ubisoft, has released his latest Flash game - he's a great game designer (I covered his last title, Drop Sum,a while back), so I don't feel too bad blogging about it.Flipped Outis a highly polished take on the children's memory game, pairs. The screen flashes eight picture cards, then turns them around - you must identify the requested pair as quickly as possible. The recipe becomes more complex as you go through and there are Xbox-style achievements to aim for as you go.The game is being hosted onMochiads, a rather nice web game platform by San Francisco-based tech company, Mochi Media. It provides a sort of network for game developers, publishers and advertisers to hook up and distribute ad-funded titles. It's by no means unique, of course - there are lots of ad-funded Flash game portals around - but it has a nice community feel, and has just announcedMochiAds for Publishers, a free service for website publishers looking to host games.This sort of virtuous circle between game makers, advertisers and distributors is probably the way the Flash game business is going, so I'll be talking to Mochi Media next week about the future of browser gaming...For now though, enjoy Nick's game!
Diablo 3 was announced last weekend. Cue excitement, anticipation and - in my case - a re-install of Diablo 2. I caught up with Diablo 3's Lead World Designer Leonard Boyarsky and chatted about designing Diablo 3, how the random sections will work and why co-op - hurrah! - is so important.So what does a Lead World Designer do then?I'm responsible for lore, history and world creation. The role goes across lots of departments from quest design to artists. Or as I like to tell my wife, I'm a bit like a God. No seriously, it's a wide encompassing role.Why the delay in announcing Diablo 3?I have only been at the company for two and half years so can't speak about what happened before then but I know since I have been involved we have been working flat out to create something very special. People have been waiting a long time for this game. People expect a lot from us and we have to deliver. We always like to make our announcements feel like a big event so we want to have something fantastic to show. And any delay is primarily because we want to deliver this quality of game.What audience are you going for with Diablo 3? Newcomers? WoW players? Or just fans of the original games?One of the great things about Blizzard as a company is that we if we make a fantastic game then people will play them. If Diablo 3 is as good as we think it will be then we will attract new players. But the Diablo fans are vital to us. They are the guys waiting for the game and we want to make them happy. We want to make it accessible but need to make sure the gameplay is fun and deep enough for fans too. We test it with all kinds of players. WoW dragged in new players who had never played an MMO before and I think Diablo 3 could be equally inclusive.Diablo 3 sounds like it will be more structured and quest driven than the older games?It's a balancing act. We don't want to make it feel too structured and it needs to remain open ended. But we want players to get interested and immersed in the story and lore. This is something we can definitely improve on from Diablo 2. Diablo 2 was great with action and the story was ok but the questing and justification for action was often quite weak. We don't want to make it feel you are being pulled along or hemmed in but we want to make it feel like something big is going on. So yes, a real balancing act.So how do you fit the random settings, which Diablo is well known for, in with the more structured game you appear to be planning?This is where the "adventures" come in. Even in the previous games, where there was a lot of random elements, there were still specific characters in specific towns. But to keep as much of a random feel as possible we have these things called adventures. These are quests or scripted events or anything that can fit into slots in the world. These will be randomly placed and may appear in your game or may not. They could be little scenarios, or self contained events. We can chain them together and say if this spawns in this game then this will also happen. But your friend may not even see any of them in his game. But we're not afraid to put the work into that as we think people will play this game twenty times in a row because that is what the randomness is there for. So if you don't see it on your first go you may see it on your fifth. And that makes people want to play even more. And now we have new classes, with class specific quests and different NPC reactions to each class. This just adds to the variety and there is lots that can be mixed and matched. The adventures are like the flavour on top of the fixed action. ItWhat changes are you planning in art design, setting etc?We want it to be familiar to fans of the original games but things have come a long way since then. The first Diablo game was s fairly conventional fantasy world with a little bit of horror. Diablo 2 started pushing the envelope a little and Diablo 3 will bring more and push things further. If we get more distinctive with styles and history it gives people more to grab onto and so get further connected with their characters.What do you think of the clones that have sprung up since Diablo 2 such as Mythos, Titan Quest, Hellgate etc?We play a lot of games, we're all gamers. I know people on the team have played those games. We look at all games and think "we like that" or "we don't like that". But then all developers do that. Yes, I'm being politically correct here!How important is online to Diablo 3?Very important. I see it as playing a single player campaign in a multiplayer setting. Like really getting that feeling of sitting around with your friends playing a tabletop game. You can join in any time with your friends, although this obviously affects the game. For example Non Player Characters (NPC) will have different reactions to different classes. So very few of them will know that the Witch Doctor exists while the Barbarian is very common. This affects how they react to you, could easily change the team dynamic. But yes, we are going to really nail the player experience with Battle.net and make it easy to play online.How will co-op work in Diablo 3?We have had some very animated discussions about this. We all care a lot. But part of it is just trying to convey what we can do in this area. There are so many facets to it. What if your friend is level 20 and you are level 3. If the level 20 leaves takes you to an area you can't cope with and then leaves you obviously die. Will your corpse remain there? There are a lot off issues to solve but ultimately we want to remove all the barriers that prevent you from getting together and playing with your friends. That's our goal.What about the Mac version. Will it be released at the same time? Will Mac and PC players be able to play together?We haven't announced release dates yet but there will be a Mac version. Will Mac and PC gamers be able to play together? (laughs)That's a great idea. We'll see.
You may recall the launch of Conservapedia.com back in March 2007, founded by American religious activists (a styling that we always like; has anything ever been done by a non-activist?) who asserted that Wikipedia was "increasingly anti-Christian and anti-American".Their principal beef was that they found themselves unable to make permanent changes on the site to articles that they disagreed with (or where the evidence disagreed with them). So they cloned it - though not in a Dolly the sheep kind of way, obviously - and under the, um, guidance of Andy Schafly, its founder, set about creating their own little corner of the net where they could be sure that their version of truthiness would reign. And just to make sure, they subtitled it "The Trustworthy Encyclopedia".Enter, earlier this month, a paper published in the Proceedings of the National Academies of Science (PNAS), in which a team led by Richard Lenski studied bacterial evolution of a lab strain of E.coli going over 30,000 generations spanning 20 years.As Ars Technica explains in asplendid in-depth piece,Many of the bacteria have evolved the ability to better utilize the sugar available in their cultures, but one strain underwent at least three distinct changes (at generation 27,000, 31,000 and 33,000) that enabled them to access citrate present in the mediumsomething their parents were incapable of. Lenski saved samples of every culture at intervals of 500 generations, and his paper suggested his lab was going back and sequencing the genomes of the intermediaries to try to find out the genetic basis for the evolution of this new trait.So far, so scientific. However Conservapedia didn't like this idea that bacteria might "evolve". So Schafly (who is said to have an engineering background) wrote to Lenski,saying"Skepticism has been expressed on Conservapedia about your claims, and the significance of your claims, that E. Coli bacteria had an evolutionary beneficial mutation in your study...." Basically, he wants the data. Because it was taxpayer-funded.ARS again:From here on out, standard Internet drama ensued. By the time of his next reply, Lenski had apparently read the discussion pages attached to the letters, and discovered that Schlafly hadn't actually bothered to read the paper he was demanding the data for. He has also discovered that some Conservapedia members were simply calling the whole thing a hoax, and accusing him of having engaged in research fraud. As a result, Lenski was apparently very annoyed, and his second letter is far more assertive.Panda's Thumb (geddit?) has alsobeen covering the fun, in which Lenski is first polite, then realises that Schafly didn't actually read the paper in full, doesn't understand what the data are, and hasn't taken any notice of the peopleon Conservapedia itselfwho have some expertise in the subject and think it's a well-researched paper.ARS notes the aftermath:Several of those individuals are apparently now ex-Conservapedia members, having had their accounts blocked for insubordination. In fact, anyone who questioned Schlafly's demands seem to have been branded an opponent of public access to scientific data; the statement, "I'll add your name to the list above of people who oppose the public release of data" peppers Schlafly's responses throughout the discussion.Oh dear. It sounds so unlike the ideals that Schafly wanted - an encyclopedia you can trust, and where the right people get to edit it. Who knew the internet was so full of people who can think - and that scientists might actually turn out smarter than people whose minds aren't flexible enough to accommodate one of the great ideas of history?
A number of web sites are written using Adobe's Flash technology, which search engines have not been able to search. Now some will be able to, according to Adobe.It says:Adobe is providing optimized Adobe Flash Player technology to Google and Yahoo! to enhance search engine indexing of the Flash file format (SWF) and uncover information that is currently undiscoverable by search engines.Google has been quickest off the mark, and theOfficial Google Blogboasts:Google has been developing a new algorithm for indexing textual content in Flash files of all kinds, from Flash menus, buttons and banners, to self-contained Flash websites. Recently, we've improved the performance of this Flash indexing algorithm by integrating Adobe's Flash Player technology.This doesn't give any credit to Adobe, and makes no mention of Yahoo, but maybe you wouldn't expect it. In any case, the Official Google Blog isn't a real blog, it's just a list of marketroid announcements.Yahoo appears to be a bit slower off the mark (maybe it's had other things to worry about) and has not posted a press release or blog comment so far, but Adobe's blurb says:Yahoo! also expects to deliver improved Web search capabilities for SWF applications in a future update to Yahoo! Search. "Yahoo! is committed to supporting webmaster needs with plans to support searchable SWF and is working with Adobe to determine the best possible implementation," said Sean Suchter, vice president Yahoo! Search Technology Engineering.Microsoft, however, is missing altogether, for reasons unknown. The companies obviously talk to one another, and Microsoft recently licensed Flash Lite for mobile phones. Also, Adobe would no doubt be sensitive to accusations that it was abusing its monopoly power if it played favourites, at least in any obvious way.But Microsoft may not feel that adding Flash search is a high priority, especially when it's trying to promote its own Silverlight, or maybe it just doesn't like the cost. Either way, its much larger number of users makes Flash search much more of a priority for Google than it is for Live Search....But does anybody care? I've never run a search while thinking "Gee, I hope this finds some really good Flash sites," and in the years when I usedProxomitron, I blocked Flash altogether. Times have changed since Flash was "mostly evil," but will Google's ability to find any texts embedded in Flash files (including URLs, but not including anything in images or videos) change your life?Update:Charles Arthur adds:John Gruberthinks it's bad news:t's completely closed and opaque. Adobe is only providing the magic recipe to Google and Yahoo; all other search engines remain locked out.One has to agree: it's wrong to only let Google and Yahoo have this information, yet deny it to Microsoft, Ask, and so on. Why not an API so everyone can get at it? Can't we all benefit from getting at subtitles or other things inside Flash? What's so special about Google and Yahoo - apart from that they're bigger than the others?
Great news for fans of ironic eighties nostalgia: from July 3rd, owners of Guitar Hero III will be able to download and play along to 'Top Gun Anthem', the heartrending instrumental from the hit movie, which even now has the power to make grown men with no military experience salute proudly while staring with macho intent into the middle distance. Incredibly, it will be available for free. The petition for 'Playing with the boys' begins here - I suggest a topless volleyball protest outside the Activision offices.Which other irony-drenched eighties soundtrack tunes would readers like to see in the Guitar Hero catalogue? Gamesblog would (sort of) like to know!Anyone for BJ and the Bear?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's been on the cards for a while, but yesterday magazine publisher Conde Nast announced it for definite: we'll be seeing aBritish version of Wired magazinesome time next year.It's not the first time that there's been an attempt to bring the in-house magazine of the technorati to these shores - indeed, the Guardian was intimately involved in the (ultimately failed) launch of Wired UK back in the late 90s.Brand Republic describes it thus:The previous incarnation of Wired, which came before Conde Nast bought the title in 1998, lasted less than two years before the plug was pulled in 1997. It had initially been a joint venture between US publisher Wired Ventures and Guardian Media Group, but the two fell out and the magazines lost over 2m.Or you could read Danny O'Brien'sbrilliant, rambling essay on why it all went wrong, which is far more colourful.Anyway: that was then - this is now. Will you be buying Wired when it hits the shelves? And what do you want to see from it?
Things are becoming increasingly complex in the aftermath of Tanya Byron'sreviewof the effects of inappropriate digital media and online content on kids, released in March this year. The Byron Review set out several recommendations to the UK government, suggesting in no small voice that it should a) regulate the content and b) educate and inform the purchasing units (aka 'parents') of what ratings actually mean.To wit, things are moving forward, but not without the characteristicbitching and moaningpolitical filibustering between the parties involved.The proposed government actions start this month, according toMCV. In short,* DCMS will launch a four month public consultation on reforming the video games classification system in July 2008;*DCMS will publish its proposals for reforming the classification system byll early 2009; and*DCMS will work with the games regulators to agree a way forward for classifying online gaming. This will be included in the overall classification consultation to enable the results to feed into the UKCCIS sub-group which will be set up in autumn 2008.* DCMS will work with key stakeholders on raising awareness about the importance of video games classification by autumn 2008* DCMS and BERR will take forward, with industry and regulators, proposals for a comprehensive awareness campaign of the new classification system and parental controls in early 2009* DCMS and BERR will work with the retail industry to work towards an agreed set of standards for in-store information with the aim of raising awareness of consumers and reduce access of video games to people below recommended ages by November 2008In terms of the latter points, this is good timing as there were several high-profile incidents in which kids were able to buy age-inappropriate titles from bothhigh streetandonlineretailers late last month.In terms of the former, this is where things between the industry (i.e. PEGI) and the government (i.e. BBFC) have got interesting.FromMCV:The UK Government has published its official action plan for video games classification changes following the recommendations made in March's Byron Review.It pledges a four-month public consultation period will take place from July, in which publishers keen to argue the toss for a pan-European classification system will have their say.However, it is looking increasingly likely that Whitehall will push through Byron's proposal that the British Board Of Film Classification increases its powers in the UK.To which several game publishers have suggested that the BBFC and the UK government don't have the interests of the games industry at heart. In particular, there's suggestions that the BBFC isn't up for the task. Miaow. A BBFC press release landed in my inbox this morning countering such attacks:We are disappointed and concerned about attempts by one or two video games publishers to pre-empt, through recent press statements, the forthcoming public consultation on video games classification...The games industry really does have nothing to fear from a set of proposals which would provide more robust, and fully independent, decisions, and detailed content advice, for the British public, and especially parents. The Byron proposals, far from envisaging the collapse of PEGI, specifically provide for a continuing PEGI presence in UK games classification. They also provide significant opportunities to reduce duplication of effort and costs. And they would make wider use of a system, the BBFC's, which British parents recognize, trust and have confidence in.Another bone of contention in this arena is where the cash will come from for the ratings reviews and action points. According tonews sources, there is an assumption that the games industry will fund its own child safety advertising.Centralising regulations and ratings will have several desired effects, including, as the BBFC press release states, providing a well-understood system for those people who aren't au fait with the content of interactive media. Yet there is a fear by the industry that they're losing control over their products. However, it has historically struggled to maintain control in the face of public opinion, and any support external reviewers can offer should be welcomed rather than rejected.
The world's biggest online auctioneer, eBay, was ordered by a French court yesterday to pay &euro;38.6m euros in damages to the luxury goods group LVMH for negligence in allowing the sale of fake bags, lipsticks and designer clothes.The fine of more than &pound;30m is the biggest eBay has faced in Europe and is the latest episode in a series of long-running legal battles it has fought with fashion and cosmetic giants.The site immediately appealed against the ruling and said luxury goods giants were using the issue of fakes as a "stalking horse" to attack online commerce and keep a stranglehold of sales outlets to the detriment of consumers.The confrontation has implications for the access of online shoppers to luxury brands through auction sites and also for eBay's business model as it faces the issue of how to police its platform of global sites, which at any one time have about 100m items for sale across the world.The issue has particular resonance in France - the base for some of the world's biggest luxury goods companies, who have placed themselves at the forefront of fighting counterfeit.The French company LVMH, the world's leading luxury brand, went to the Paris commercial courts demanding &euro;50m in damages over two issues: first it argued that eBay had committed "serious errors" by not doing enough to prevent the sales of fake goods in 2006, including Louis Vuitton bags and Christian Dior products; it also argued that eBay had allowed unauthorised sales of perfume brands owned by the group: Christian Dior, Kenzo, Givenchy and Guerlain.It said that even if the perfumes were real and not fake, their sale on the site violated Christian Dior's distribution network which only allowed sales through specialist dealers. The court ordered eBay to stop selling the perfumes or running ads for the brands, or face a fine of &euro;50,000 a day.The ruling ordered eBay to pay &euro;19.28m to Louis Vuitton Malletier and &euro;17.3m to its sister company Christian Dior Couture for damage to their brand images and causing moral harm. It must also pay &euro;3.25m to the four perfume brands for sales in violation of its authorised network.Pierre Gode, an aide to Bernard Arnault, the LVMH president and France's richest man, told AFP: "It is a major first, because of the principles that it recognises and the amount sought." He said the decision was crucial for the creative industry and "protected brands by considering them an important part of French heritage".The ruling comes a month after another French court ordered eBay to pay the fashion house Hermes &euro;20,000 for allowing the sale of counterfeit handbags.The site said it had stepped up its measures to prevent counterfeiting since 2006 and now spends $20m (&pound;10m) a year keeping the site "clean", using programmes to analyse suspicious sales and working with the owners of brand rights. Last year, 2m items suspected of being counterfeit were removed from the site and 50,000 sales stopped. Vanessa Canzini, an eBay spokeswoman in Europe said: "The big issue here doesn't seem to be to do with counterfeiting - if it was, they would have gone after the counterfeiters. It's about saying we are a luxury brand, we don't want others selling our goods, even if they are real. That's why we will appeal this decision."In a statement, eBay said big luxury goods labels had a hidden agenda and were using fakes as a "stalking horse". "It is clear that eBay has become a focal point for certain brand owners' desire to exact ever greater control over e-commerce. We view these decisions as a step backwards for the consumers and businesses whom we empower every day."The group, which saw around $60bn worth of goods sold across its platforms last year, says that as a host for independent vendors, it has a limited responsibility and capacity to regulate what is sold. But luxury goods groups have accused eBay, which earns a commission on sales, of facilitating forgeries and fakes by providing a marketplace for vendors who knowingly sell counterfeit items.The site is also facing other lawsuits worldwide: the New York jeweller Tiffany &amp; Co has sued the site for turning a blind eye to sales of counterfeits, describing it as a "rat's nest" of fake goods. It also faces action from L'Oreal in the UK and five other European countries.Going cheapA quick trawl of eBay shows a variety of fake designer goods on offer:52supposedly Louis Vuitton items on sale for less than &pound;1187Louis Vuitton items made from 'unspecified' materialsA fake Dior T-shirt for99pMore than 100 supposedly Lacoste men's items selling for under&pound;163LV bags can be bought as new 'without tags'Gucci sunglasses for sale at1p861Men's tops - said to be Ralph Lauren - are available for under &pound;5There are1,416Christian Dior items for under &pound;10, including a fake Dior purse for&pound;8
The American Family Association thinks, apparently, that the word "gay" is ambiguous, and so they prefer the word "homosexual" (clearly, they're never having to worry aboutcounting units in headlines).Which would be all right as long as they had a little care in the use of their spellchecker, which they're told to replace the word "gay" with "homosexual" in their use of their nice cleaned-up version of the news.But they didn't.And so.. there's been an athletics competition in which the athlete that you and I know as Tyson Gay - he's a sprinter - won.But over on AFA that led to the headline "Homosexual eases into 100 final at Olympic trials".OUCH. We should state that we have no knowledge of Tyson Gay's sexual orientation, but that we seriously don't think that headline's correct.As Right Wing Watch (whose name seems pretty descriptive)points out, it doesn't stop there:while they may have fixed this particular instance, it looks like they haven't gone back through their archives and corrected other articles where this happened, such as this article where professional basketball playerRudy Gayis referred to as "Rudy Homosexual."I wonder if they've had any articles aboutthe author of Honor Thy Father?Then again, auto-correct is the devil in the hobgoblin of the detail of little minds. I recall a story - surely apocryphal - about the American newspaper that determined that "black" was a word that should be replaced with "African-American". And so the autocorrect was set to work, once the writers had handed in their work (so they wouldn't be tempted to mess with it afterwards).Then next day someone looked more carefully at the chess column...Update:Jeremy Hooper from the Good As You website emails to say that the AFA has a "long history of doing this [making "corrections"] in ways that are not so funny. Here's a recent example in which they changed a gay marriage story so that it was worded in an anti-gay way:http://www.goodasyou.org/good_as_you/2008/06/moral-groups-co.html".There, an Associated Press story was rewritten by the site:"in a story on California's newly enacted marriage equality, the "pro-family" group presented what is perhaps their most egregious rewrite to date, making such alterations as changing the term "same-sex opponents" so that it instead reads "advocates of traditional marriage." And of course they made no editorial note that they were performing the revisionism.That the net allows people to slide into little silos is not news, but one has to wonder at techniques that present the world outside as reflecting your own silo'ed view. That's a slippery slope...
Hurray, it's another weekly regular, and this time I'm re-engaging with my 'specialist' subject - mobile gaming - which I've neglected horribly over the last couple of months. What with N-Gage finding its feet, iPhone providing a new platform and Android on the way, it seemed like a good time to start a quick regular re-cap on key news and releases.So here goes...Most interesting perhaps is last week'snewsabout Swoopin, a Facebook app that gives users access to free ad-funded mobile games. Facebooksters download the app onto their profiles then download any of the 800 or so games available on the service - these can then be sideloaded to their own handsets, or sent to friends (thereby providing the viral element whichshouldhelp growth). Ad-funded mobile gaming is an emerging area, with sites likeHovrandGamejumpoffering freebie games with embedded advertising. But bringing this model to the social networking sector could well be smarter way to build an audience of cheapo players.Elsewhere, Pocket Gamer has been snooping through industry job ads recently,unearthingpossible preparations for a mobile version of WoW,and, andspeculatingon EA's plans for, 'cross-platform networked game services'. Is the publisher about to bring mobile phone functionality to brands like FIFA, allowing PS3 gamers to fiddle with stats and team formations while on the move, then downloading the changes to their consoles when they get home? It's an idea that's been kicking round the industry for years, though mostly in the form of wishful thinking, rather than actual developer plans.Glu has attracted attention this week, giving itself writer's cramp by inking a vast array of licensing deals. It's extended its relationship with Activision and announced a mobile version of CoD: World At War, it'ssigned a new dealwith Sony Pictures to distribute games based on forthcoming super-hero comedy Hancock as well as US TV faves, Wheel of Fortune and Jeopardy. Finally, Glu has partnered with Sega to handle two Olympic games: the snappily-titled Beijing 2008 - The Official Mobile Phone Game of the Olympic Games and the more manageable, Sonic at the Olympic Games. I'll have more info on all of these next week.Recommended gamesThis week I'm playing Bridge Bloxx, the latest inHandyGames'excellent series of building-based puzzlers (try Tower Bloxx Deluxe and Pyramid Bloxx if you haven't already). Your aim is to construct and/or repair a series of bridges, using a variety of materials and parts - your design is then tested when a train comes along and either crosses safely or plunges into a ravine. Feels very similar to Amiga classic, The Incredible Machine, itselfavailable(and very good) on mobile.
Can you fold a T-shirt in two seconds, or get out of a car without showing your knickers? Do you know how to "air kiss" or eat sushi or flirt using sign language? How about undoing a bra with one hand? Thousands of these essential life skills are not taught in schools, but there's a great place where you can see them demonstrated in living colour. And no, it's not YouTube, it'sVideoJug. This isn't just a collection of random videos, it's an encyclopedia of "life explained, on film".Of course, YouTube does have instructional videos, but anyone can upload a spoof video to YouTube, so there's no guarantee that the information is reliable. By contrast, almost all VidoJug's clips are made by and for the site, and they have been researched and filmed by experts.VideoJug was founded in 2006 by David Tabizel as a sort of "wisdom project". It started after he got a flat tyre and couldn't find a good online explanation of how to fix it. AsTabizel wrote on his Founders Blog, he also recognised that "the wisdom of the older generations is often discarded, and so is lost forever when they die. This is such a waste". Finding and filming this practical experience would therefore be useful.Although VideoJug is not based on "user generated content", it does involve users. People can rate, comment on and share videos, and they can suggest ideas. There's also a section called Made By You, which offers monthly cash prizes for the most viewed user videos each month. Examples include: how to fold a dollar bill into a T-shirt, how to make coffee cake, and how to apply pink and green eye shadow.The sheer volume and popularity of cooking, make-up and hair care clips suggests the site has a very strong following among female web users. But it also has plenty of geek tips.The idea of a "wisdom project" might make VideoJug sound a bit patronising, but it isn't. It's very down to earth, and often takes a humorous approach. The Love &amp; Sex section can be funny, which makes videos less threatening and probably reduces the likelihood that people will take offence. You can watch the flirting, dating and sex clips for fun, without admitting you have flirting, dating or sex problems.A few clips  How To Photograph A Nude Woman, How To Striptease etc  are probably not watched for wholly instructional reasons, but they're not salacious.VideoJug is divided into categories, starting with Food &amp; Drink, Love &amp; Sex, Beauty &amp; Style, Sports &amp; Fitness, and Health, which I assume is an indication of popularity. There's also a search box if you are looking for something specific, and it clusters results by area. If you are just browsing, there are lists of the Most Viewed, Hot Now, and Newest clips.What it lacks is a video called something like "How to stop saying ''Just One More' and finish your damned article".
Vodafone has struck a deal with MySpace to launch Vodafone Music Reporter, a mobile music platform which will give fans of its music events the chance to present an MTV online and mobile show.The collaboration, which will see the launch of a interactive profile on MySpace, aims to expand Vodafone's music activity, which includes summer music festivals such as Music Unlimited in Germany and Vodafone TBAs in the UK.MySpace's Vodafone Music Reporter profile will enable music fans in Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK to enter a competition to "demonstrate their reporting skills" across Vodafone Music Unlimited events this summer.To enter the competition, run in conjunction with MTV, fans have to upload a photo and video review of their favourite recent gig experience.Friends of the Vodafone Music Reporter community on MySpace will then vote for the best report. The winner will join an MTV crew for a day, recording an event or festival, and "have a chance to record his/her report on-site" for the mobile and online version of the show."Vodafone Music Reporter reaches music fans in a way that reflects the latest trends of how music is experienced in the social networking space," said David Wheldon, global brand director at Vodafone."It enables music fans to interact, showcase their skills and become part of a unique Vodafone music community."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Kevin Kelly, one of the people behind Wired magazine, has come up with a stonking idea to follow up from Chris Anderson's (to be honest rather wonky) suggestion that "science is dead because search engines can do it for us" last week.Kelly's hypothesis: thatthe internet now has the power of a single human brain. Or thereabouts.Run up and down a flight of stairs (to get the required level of breathlessness), and then read the following:Just as the One Machine's hardware is assembled from our myriad devices, its software is written by our collective online behavior. Each time a person clicks on a search result or creates a link to a Web page, the Machine is being programmed. Each new link wires up a subroutine, creates a loop, and unleashes a cascade of impulses. As waves of links surge around the world, they resemble the thought patterns of a very large brain.Ooh! Does this mean that when the internet is ill we can slide it into a big MRI machine and get House MD to snarl at it for lead-swinging?Probably the stupidest thing in it is the following three sentences:Indeed, a hyperlink is much like a synapse in the brain. Both work by making associations between nodes. Each unit of thinking in the brain  an idea, for example  grows by gaining links to other thoughts.This issimply rubbish. A hyperlink is nothing like asynapse, except that both describe a connection between two points (though the hyperlink "connects" only in the abstract sense). A synapse is a responsive, organic mechanism that has been tuned by hundreds of millions of years of evolution to react more strongly to some inputs rather than others. Throw in something between 1 and 10 quadrillion (1 quadrillion = 10^16) synapses in a human brain, and you have an organism that somehow becomes conscious, and yet can also function unconsciously, which uses chemicals for its transmission systems (across the synaptic gap, which is key to how synapses can vary in behaviour).To compare that to a hyperlink feels likelese majeste.Honestly: it's hard to know quite what Kelly is trying to do here, unless it's to make everyone point to him - but is it helpful to have people pointing at you saying "that's the stupidest thing I've ever heard?" Do all those new hyperlinks constitute a new thought in the interwebs? (If so, that thought could be roughly translated into "what rubbish people write sometimes.")Chris Edwards, an occasional contributor here,rebuts the idea elegantly. And he gets to the heart of the argument:But there was one thing niggling at me: where were the figures coming from to support the contention that the One Machine rivals even one brain today? And this is assuming you accept Giulio Tononi's assertion that intelligence comes as a function of complexity, that you can just slam a bunch of circuits together and automatically get something that thinks. Towards the bottom of the page are some figures in a diagram.By far the oddest one is the choice of 70MHz for the brain's operating frequency: "grey matter is about as speedy as an original Pentium". That sounds pretty quick to me given that the calcium induced cascade that triggers a neural response takes on the order of 200s. That gives you a maximum frequency  even working on the basis that neurons switch like electronic transistors, which they don't  of tens of kilohertz. By that token, the human brain can barely keep up with a Sinclair ZX80. The actual frequency is probably way lower than that as neural signalling seems to rely on pulse trains that take tens of milliseconds to transmit from one neuron to another. The brain makes up for that sluggishness by not trying to work like an electronic computer. The transistor, as it turns out, is a pretty rotten analogue for a neuron, although maybe not nearly as bad as equating a hyperlink with a synapse.(Edit: clarified quadrillion, removed superscript code that wasn't working)
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Today's Guardian features a special supplement on the most incredible scientific experiment ever - theLarge Hadron Colliderat Cern.The roll call of contributors is outstanding: Stephen Hawking, Martin Rees, Simon Singh, Jonathan Glancey, Brian Cox, Peter Higgs, Chris Morris (yes,that Chris Morris), Michio Kaku, Jim al-Khalili, Lawrence Krauss and AC Grayling.Oh, and to bring that lofty tone down a little, I also make a brief appearance with a piece aboutCern's grid computing system- which is built to help cope with the petabytes of raw data that pour off the collider every second.It's all online, but well worth a flick through if you can pick up a print copy.
A chain of British tea-shops was once miles ahead of IBM and other computer companies, and started computerising its business in the early 1950s with LEO -- short for Lyons Electronic Office. Basically, Lyons helped finance Maurice Wilkes's development of an early computer at Cambridge University,EDSAC, in exchange for help in adapting it to work as a real business machine. That effort was run by David Caminer, who died in London on June 19, aged 92.TheDaily Telegraph's obituarysays:When the system went live at the beginning of 1954, 1,700 weekly-paid employees at the main Lyons bakery near Olympia received pay packets containing pay slips prepared by LEO. From then on the payroll job ran regularly in one form or another for as long as Lyons was in business, and the system that Caminer devised led the world for many years.LEO Computers was set up in 1956 to sell systems to other companies. It became part of English Electric, and later, ICL, the Labour government's "computer champion". ICL was eventually taken over by Fujitsu.The New York Times's obituarysays:LEOs were sold to the Ford Motor Company, tobacco companies, a steel maker, South Africa, Australia, the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia, among other buyers. When the British government chose the last LEO to handle its telephone billing system, Tony Benn, postmaster general, praised Lyons for "standing up to and beating on its own merits" the competition from overseas.TheLiverpool Daily Posthas also published an obit.There's a very readable book,A Computer Called LEO: Lyons Tea Shops and the World's First Office Computerby Georgina Ferry.
We don't have room inprintfor all your letters and blog pingbacks, but we do here. So, is copying photos "thieving"? And much more...TOUCHING THE PHONEGuy Clapperton rather misses the point when it comes to why people choose the Apple iPhone. A lot of people, like me, aren't particularly tech savvy or even particularly interested in how all these smart phones rate against each other. What we want is something reliable - and judging by experience by experience that has to be anything made by Apple Computers and running OS rather than the dodgy alternatives. Oh, and there's one other reason - that little logo. Says it all. Nick Stimson, AshburtonDavid Cohen's assessment of the iPhone as being "essentially a toy for kids [on which] to hear pop songs" is ludicrous and sensationalistic. As well as being a highly innovative and entertaining achievement, as well as, dare I say it, a technological work of art worthy of praise, the iPhone has, I have found, done everything my various Blackberries ever did - only with more panache. (Sent from my iPhone) Damian Stafford, Winchester&gt;&gt; So if people don't queue up, or if the queues don't "stretch far enough" that means they don't want the touchscreen iPhone? Has anyone EVER queued up for a BlackBerry? Does that prove that people don't want phones with keypads? Over 6 million iPhones have sold so far, and even moderate estimates (Apple is always the most moderate of them all) peg the number at over 14 by the end of this year, and 24 million by the end of 2009.iphonefootprint.comJUDGES' WEBSITES&gt;&gt; The best answer [to an Onion vox pop] comes from Katla Braidwood, Financial Adviser: "Well, good luck finding a judge that doesn't run a bestiality site."patterico.comYANG'S FUTURE&gt;&gt; putting myself into the position of a CEO on the bridge, it's not immediately obvious to me why I would scuttle the ship just to make some short term financial players and a few noisy bloggers happy, and solve Microsoft's strategic problem as it battles for Chief Tech Behemoth. Underperforming? - hey, the whole planet's tanking, (up till yesterday its yearly performance was the same as mapped to the NASDAQ and Microsoft, and Google was seriously tanking till mid April) - so what's your issue? Sure, it probably needs a new course to be plotted, new sails to be set, and some new crew to come on board, but this is no ways the first company that has hit stormy waters as it comes of age. In some industries this sort of periodic crisis is traditional, almost.broadstuff.com&gt;&gt; as they are falling apart at the seams I'll let them know they can have me (only if I can work from home :) Why would I want to work for them now in the midst of their demise? 1. They are still cool, and it seems like a fun place to work 2. Provide awesome developer tools and APIs 3. Have products I use daily (delicious, Flickr, Y!Pipes, Site Explorer and Y!Finance) 4. I have great respect for Jerry Yang 5. I could learn a lot - there are still a lot of brilliant people theregetanewbrowser.com&gt;&gt; The skeptics may be getting ahead of themselves. A person close to the situation says Yang isn't going anywhere, at least not anytime soon. Of course, if the criticisms keep rising, at some point they may force a change, but it appears not for now.businessweek.com/the_threadFREE-ER DATA?&gt;&gt; Moves are afoot to press for free (or at least affordable) access to public sector information throughout Europe, with the UK taking the driving seat. Leading the charge is Carol Tullo, head of the Office of Public Sector Information. If it comes to pass (and that remains a big IF for now), it would most notably affect sources like Ordnance Survey which, if it became affordable (or even free) could in turn revolutionise the potential for investigative research out here in blogspace, not to mention the head-spinning possibilities for mashups. Fingers crossed all goes to plan  have to say I'm a really big fan of the Free Our Data campaign, and hope this movement builds real momentum.slewfootsnoop.wordpress.comNHS WOES&gt;&gt; A spokesman for CSC denied that outstanding issues would delay the roll-out of Lorenzo to the NHS this year. She said: "It is still planned that Early Adopters will go-live over the summer." Asked if the Lorenzo product was fit for purpose she said: "Absolutely, and it is endorsed by NHS Connecting for Health, the early adopters and the clinicians who have already viewed it." On the outstanding issues and the scale of the challenge facing Lorenzo's developers, she said: "Identifying and resolving issues is to be expected within any major software design programme. We are working with the Trusts, NHS CFH and iSOFT to ensure Lorenzo meets the needs of the NHS."computerweekly.comDONGLESVictor Keegan (Opinion, 19 June) says that 3G mobile donglers can usually get mobile broadband speeds of around 3.6MB. (I think he means 3.6 Mbit/s.) In my experience you're lucky to get anywhere near that. All the same, for e-mail, web surfing and a bit of uploading and downloading, the more typical speed of a few hundred kbit/s is OK. The really scandalous part, as Keegan points out, is the charge for using this abroad. Allan jones, Yardley Gobion&gt;&gt; Just before dealing with the ridiculous charges for leaving the UK and visiting the continent, Keegan writes "I was about to become a dongler to avoid having to go to the tourist office in France every day on our holidays to check emails etc at 3 an hour." Well, is 3 an hour unreasonable for web access? It happens to be the rate charged at Life Bytes, on Sidwell Street opposite the Odeon. Personally I do not see how they could charge much less and continue to exist. Radical rethink may be timely on what internet access resources are about. My own experience on a visit to Koln and Brussels was that one euro for twenty minutes was enough to catch up on email and this was for a full keyboard and large screen.wifiexeter.blogspot.comDIGITAL THIEVESThe answer to the theft of digital photos posted on the net for free use is to apply Gresham's Law in reverse. That law of economics - that bad money drives out good - may be reversed by posting copies of the thief's advertisements on eBay to attract those who want the photos, and then offering them for nothing, by posting a link to the original, free website. Hence, 'good' sales will drive out the 'bad', as punters shun the seller for the free site. John Davies, Lancaster"Why digital thieves take your photos ...", and "... how can we stop our photos being stolen?". I only read the heading and subheadings of this. For god's sake, at least use the correct terminology. The photographs in question simply are not being stolen. They're being copied. No thieves in existence there, but copiers. Illegal copiers I'm sure (whether it's a good idea for so many things to be illegal to copy or not is another issue). You're not helping us nor yourselves by perpetuating this kind of BS. The party who initially has possession of the item in one case no longer has the item, and in the other, does. That's a big difference. That's why we have different words with very different meanings to describe the two fundamentally different situations. But you've got them mixed up. And helped other people get them mixed up too. I've only just started reading Guardian Technology (about three weeks). I'm now going to stop. Ben Dougall, Bury St Edmunds&gt;&gt; And people wonder why I never bother with sites such as Flickr. Nothing against them, I just figured that this type of behaviour had to be going on.liquidmatrix.org&gt;&gt; So the photographer is complaining because someone is selling images he wasn't actually supposed to have taken in the first place? Being a part-time freelance photographer, I'm all for protection of peoples' rights, but in this particular instance, the photographer was well aware they had broken copyright law themselves in the first place.hockeyshooter.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Like a lot of creative agencies, we occasionally use Flickr via creative commons - and it goes without saying, follow the conditions religiously. But, unless you have expensive tracking software, then if someone decides not to play ball, there's not a great deal that can be done about it.thisisherd.com&gt;&gt; Luckily, no newspaper would ever stoop so low as to try and make money from reproducing other people's digital photgraphs from Flickr with a complete disregard for copyright or providing a credit. Oh, hang on... [the Daily Mail has - http://www.currybet.net/cbet_blog/2008/05/daily_mail_fat_dog.php ]currybet.net&gt;&gt; How often does someone come up with a really new kind of theft? ...To me, this really *is* piracy, as is selling counterfeit DVDs and other types of merchandise. I don't think it's the right term for file-sharing.wendyg.livejournal.com&gt;&gt; the problem is that some people like me, use flickr as a data backup storage. I mean, I save all my best photos here on flickr in full resolution so I'll have a 24/7 online service to show them to the people and download them for prints or works if needed. I certainly disallow the possibility for people to download the original size, but sadly there is a bunch of add-ons for firefox or others to download the original one. Anyway, I guess that's the risk everyone takes when they publish a digital photo on internet. I really got mad a few months ago when I had to cover the visit of Roger Waters in my country, and a private magazine took my pictures and used them deleting my watermark, my name nor paying me a single cent. When magazines do this you wonder what can you expect from common individuals.flickr.comFILE-SHARING YOUR CAKE&gt;&gt; While he's calling for more regulation to "free up the pipes", I also wonder how often he has been annoyed with blocked ports to services like SMTP, to force you using the ISPs SMTP server. And while some ports might indicate a certain type of service, and therefore be blocked, you might have recently put your servers' SSH access on there. Come on, the most likely scenario here is that you get Youtube and Ebay with perfect speed, and that the Itunes shop works like a charm, but independent small businesses will have to pay extra to be able to run a web shop, just to fall into the priority band. And the next thing you know is that any private website will dribble with 5k per second, you cannot access any port other than 80 and 225, and you'd better forget about using any open source VOIP software but Skype contentwithstyle.co.uk&gt;&gt; It seems like networks are reluctant to spend more money on digging up roads and upgrading/replacing the existing infrastructure, especially when the business case for providing these expenses seem weak when compared to replacing dial-up with broadband. Will customers really want to pay high premiums for faster data transfer? It seems like the UK broadband infrastructure has been a victim of its own success in recent years. Penetration is high which is good for ISPs in a competitive market but broadband is less exclusive and taken from granted now. Customers expect a certain level of service, especially those customers who have paid for premium packages for many years.remedialthoughts.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Those articles about a certain proportion of users taking up a large slice of the bandwidth make one minor sleight of hand that it's worth keeping in mind. The 5%/50% (for example) is not 50% of AVAILABLE bandwidth, it's BANDWIDTH USED. To give an exaggerated example: Say 9 friends and I are sitting at a banquet table in a restaurant that seats a few hundred. My friends decide to just have a snack, while I have a full course, multiple plate meal. I use 10 times as much table space as any of them - 50% of the table space used. But we're at one table in an otherwise empty restaurant. I'm not taking 50% of the total capacity.serialganker.blogspot.comBANKS AGAINNick Steadman (Don't bank on it, Letters, June 19) claims the Consumer Credit Act overrides the Banking Code imposed by banks. Only where credit is involved. Where a current or savings account is involved, and no credit account, it doesn't. Therefore for most banking your original article (Banks slip though virus loophole, June 12), may be a very appropriate forewarning. As bank customers become aware of the lack of security provided in online banking, expect a trend back to cheques and queues in banks getting longer. M Train (no post town given)FIREFOX 3It's not just downloads that are overwhelming Mozilla's servers - it's complaints. Firefox 3 is utterly fubar and should never have been released. One massive flaw, for me at any rate, is that the Organise Bookmarks settings, no matter what you do, have no effect on the Bookmarks sidebar, which remains in its default state - chaotic (despite the fact that it was in a-z order before the upgrade). The little down arrow in the address bar (I don't know what it's called - I'm not that geeky), presented me with what appeared to be a random selection of Bookmarks. I deleted them - and got a fresh and equally random selection - this, it seems, will continue ad infinitum if allowed to. There may well be worse faults - and judging from what I've read on Mozilla's website there are a great many - but that was enough for me, and I binned it. I've been happily using Firefox for a couple of years, and right now I'm back with v2.0.0.14, which is where I'll stay until they produce a new version that actually works. Version 3 isn't it. Ron Graves, PrentonARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCEIt strikes me as quite odd that Charles Arthur looks in books from the past to provide a model for the future. The problems with this are multiple. The biggest one being that Arthur's idea of AI is routed in the past instead of the future. I will not debate the genius of Douglas Adams, but I feel like this article has been left behind by using his novels as models for the kind of AI and machinery that will eventually come into being. I think it is partially looking into the past that caused Mr. Arthur to ignore the dichotomy that is inherent in Artificial Intelligence. Software vs. Hardware. AI will presumably run on much different hardware (in human terms, biology) than people. The human brain (where most theorize intelligence exists) is a combination of hardware and software. AI, theoretically could run the sofware model within a different set of hardware. Basically, you take the brain and digitize it neuron by neuron and sidegrade it to a new platform (a computer, robot, elevator). At this point the intelligence will presumably evolve specifically to fit the new surroundings. The real issue I think Mr. Arthur should have brought up is that of "robot rights." The idea that artificial intelligences can be more than slaves may become extremely important. For a detailed novelization of some of these concepts, I recommend Accelerando by Charles Stross. It is quite new, therefore you won't be looking so far backward into the future. Sylas Aldridge, SeattlePHORM FILLERI was thinking about this recently. Since you ditched them, I began to trust your site a lot more and I now have an adblock exception that allows you do dish up the occasional advert. I was talking to someone this morning and they're going to do the same thing for the sites they trust. I may be idealistic but I think in time this could change the nature of online advertising, as long as others are thinking what I'm thinking that is Mark Lester, WorcesterSEARCH ALTERNATIVESVic Keegan is absolutely right  search is becoming horribly skewed by advertising. FindsYou.com research shows that users are fed up with what's on offer  just 14% of users still trust search engines. If you are looking to buy or find something specific, navigating the web has become a painful, laborious and often wholly unrewarding process. Moving forward it needs more people like Vic to take a chance on the new guys, and change their homepages to sites that actually serve them, rather than serving multinational corporations. Guy Walker, IslingtonRETRO TROUBLESI bought my son a Sony PS 3 for his 12th birthday on the grounds that his 500 pounds+ of PS 2 games would be compatible with the new machine. Imagine my horror on presenting the lad the console ,that in the instructions was the sombre news that the PS2 games were NOT playable!!Have I have been living under a rock on Mars? As recently as middle May I was told it would be compatible from the big games stores. Do Sony expect that I would buy these games again in the new (and more expensive) format?,I think not! The Japanese and American versions, I have since found out; are retro-enabled! Sony deserves to catch a severe cold on this one!!.If possible I will return this now not so versatile con box for an Xbox 360... cheaper and more honest! May Sony wither on this electronic highway robbery! Anthony John Hand, PolesworthAND THEN...On Jan 3, Technology rana story on Alain Jobwho was taking the Halifax bank to court. His credit card had been fraudulently used and the bank would not agree to refund his loss. Do you know what the outcome of the case was? Clive Reffell, London [The case will be heard in October - Tech.Ed]AND THEN AGAIN...Further to Ron West's piece (Stand by for some home truths about power consumption, 12 April 2007): looking for an LCD televsion I find that looking for the power rating of televisions is like trying to get blood from the proverbial stone! And I am not surprised to find that the Energy Savings Trust provides no help whatsoever; instead it says merely that a set might be "recommended" I note also that the EST has often referred to the energy consumption when sets are on standby, usually after concocting some estimate of the resultant figures for the whole nation. It is a pity they do not give a little more prominence to the consequences of sets being left on unnecessarily, given that for LCD sets intended for the living room the power required will typically be some 120 -170 times that for standby. Martin McKay (no post town given)
Paul Sams is COO of Blizzard Entertainment, the developers of World of Warcraft, Diablo and Starcraft. I sat down with him at this weekend'sWorld Wide Invitational Eventin Paris and talked Diablo 3, the WoW movie and why he thinks the PC gaming market is doing just fine.Diablo 3 then, why now?Because the team wanted to make it. They had come up with enough new things to differentiate it from the past. Whenever we make a new game we aim to make it genre defining and to take it to the next level and differentiate it from the past. I like to say we are genre definers. We look at what the team have done and what others have done and try and find out what works and what doesn't. Then we try and fix that. But the most important thing is that the team wanted to make Diablo 3. We only hire gamers and we let them decide what they want to make. If they are going to put three or four years of their life into a project we want them to have a passion for it. If we asked them to do a rodeo clown game they would probably not be excited. But if we ask them to create what they want to play there is a real commitment there.Any plans to bring Diablo 3 to console?I don't know yet. A lot of it depends on whether we think the gameplay experience will be the same on console, especially regarding the controls. Also I'd like to keep our audience together. One question mark I have is whether the console owners would allow PC players to play against console gamers. I think the answer gets a lot easier if the console owners say yes. But at the moment they do like to have closed systems. But you know, I think what it really it comes down to is the game itself. We want to deliver what is the best experience possible so the controls and everything else have to be perfect. When you are developing for multiple platforms you sometimes have to compromise. We aren't willing to compromise. We have relationships with all the console manufacturers. I know they would love to have us on their platforms, ideally on their own and not their competitor! But it's all about the game experience.Will the Activision deal have any impact on whether Blizzard takes their games to the consoles?Only in the sense that as a combined company if we decide to go cross platform then Activision's strength and knowledge in that market will give us a better chance of succeeding. But just because we are merging with Activision doesn't mean you will start seeing Blizzard console games. You will if it is the right case for the game but that ultimately depends on the game we are making at the time.Next year for Diablo 3 then?(Laughs)It will be ready when it's ready.If you take a wider look at the games industry it's clear that there is a real move towards casual gaming. But Blizzard is very much a core gamers company. Worried?I disagree that Blizzard makes games for core gamers only. With the design and development culture we've always had - easy to learn hard to master - we've crossed that bridge. All our games have the content that the core folks want. But all our games are gradually graded and welcoming. The ramping is so gradual. There are so many people I have spoken to who say to me they have never played anything like WoW before and absolutely love it. They don't fit in the core 18-35 category. We've blown traditional audience notions out of the window. We have loads of women playing, lots of older folk. Yes there is a growing demand for more causal gaming but we see that as an opportunity to reach out further.So how do you take WoW to the next level?We are still doing really well with WoW. I really think there is a huge growth in the game and not just from broadening out into new markets like Russia. We expect a huge influx when Lich King launches and not just from people returning but also from new players who see the advertising and store activity round the release. Also if you look at the data some of the MMO's that came before us are having their most successful time in years 5,6 or 7. I still feel there is a lot left. We have countless ideas for future expansions. I speak to the developers and they think Lich King is better than the first expansion, Burning Crusade. And they think that it's better than the original game. You may think developers would get jaded after working on a product for so long. But when they are saying that Lich King is so exciting and the best they have worked on then that is just music to my ears. I'm really excited.Piracy and console-only development of some big franchises, is the PC market in trouble?I think the PC is incredibly healthy. It's all about making great games. If you make great games I genuinely believe people will want to play. We've heard all the doom and gloom about the PC for years. The analysts are wrong. Go back and read the reports from three or four years ago and see how much they get wrong. We are never chasers of technology and we make our games with a low barrier to entry. Our games run fine on older PCs which makes us much more competitive then those companies that make their game accessible only to owners of very high-end PCs. It's a focus of ours to make the specs as low as possible. This makes us figure out how to make the best with less. We work intelligently to make things happen on lower specced machines.How's the movie going?We're in the second or third draft at the moment. We're interviewing directors and have added two of the producers of theDark Knightas well. They are onboard. I'm so excited about that. The directors we have spoken to have put forward their ideas and we're making progress. We're as confident as ever in Legendary Pictures as they did a great job on the Dark Knight. Will we make 2009? Time is tight and things would have to go really right for that to happen. I wouldn't rule 2009 out but like our games we only want to release when are happy. I don't think it's too far away though.
Loren Feldman has decided to call it a day with the puppet show parody of Shel Israel, which has been running athttp://www.shelisrael.com/. In anOpen Letter To Shel Israel - It's Over, he says:People like the puppet more than you because he is more real than you are. More honest than you are, smarter than you are. More human than you are. People want the Shel puppet to win. The same can't be said for you my friend.And now it's done, my little experiment with Social Media. I beat you with your own tools, in the arena in which you bill yourself an expert. You are an amateur Shel, an amateur, always remember that.As part of an exit deal, Feldman offered Israel the domain name, to which Israel promptly responded: "Deal." However, the videos are on YouTube, and Feldman says he'll keep the using the puppet. "I just like the little bastard, he makes me and a lot of people smile."The Shel Israel puppet show featured a number of guests from the world of Web 2.0 including Kevin Rose and Alex Albrecht from Diggnation, Jason Calacanis, Loic Le Meur and journalist Kara Swisher. Some of them were funny, though most people outside the milieu probably won't get some of thein jokes.Israel has been putting his viewon his blog, and he implicates TechCrunch's Michael Arrington. He says:I do believe Arrington was instrumental in getting the puppet interviews rolling. The first wave of interviews was with people who are closely connected with Arrington, including people with financial ties or well-known friendships. It has spread to include people who are notable, and less connected to Arrington's inner circle. Some of them are people who I have considered friends for a good many years. The perception is that they have gathered around Loren in support of him and against me.According to Israel: "Silicon Valley is a bad neighborhood to live in when you have pissed off Michael Arrington."But somehow I don't think this sort of escalation is going to help Israel's case, even if it's true. He's just drawing more attention to stuff that is only of interest to a tiny minority of a tiny minority. It's not even of interest to most bloggers, just a subset of Twitter users.And like it or not, Feldman is right when he says: "I beat you with your own tools, in the arena in which you bill yourself an expert." That's exactly the point made by an innocent bystander, Tom Chamberlain, back in April inShel Israel vs. Loren and the Puppet.It will be interesting to see what Feldman does next. He's already doneRobert Scoble Interviews Gabe Riverawith another sock puppet, andDave Winercould be another target.But getting a sock puppet to interview Barack Obama about Web 2.0 would have more appeal.
The scene: a tasteful, wooded corporate retreat north of Seattle. The time: one day last March. A large group - mainly chaps in their mid-forties - stands around. They seem to be in quite a state. Here's how one described the scene:'Steve Ballmer was sobbing. Minutes passed as he tried to regain his composure. But the audience of 130 of Microsoft's senior leaders waited patiently, many of them crying too. They knew that the CEO was choked up because this retreat ... was the last ever for company co-founder Bill Gates, as well as for Jeff Raikes, one of the company's longest-tenured executives. "I've spent more time with these two human beings than with anyone else in my life," Ballmer finally said. "Bill and Jeff have been my North Star and kept me going. Now I'm going to count on all of you to be there for me".'Aw shucks. There's been a lot of 'end-of-an-era' talk about the departure of Gates from the company he founded with Paul Allen in 1975. There have also been acres of speculation about 'whither Microsoft after Gates?' Both topics are, well, a bit pass&eacute;. The eclipse of the Gates 'era' began with the arrival of Google 10 years ago. And the succession plan that he and Ballmer engineered nearly two years ago effectively handed direction of Microsoft to a triumvirate of Ballmer, Ray Ozzie and Craig Mundie. So let us dispense with the Kleenex and take a detached view of Mr Gates's contribution to civilisation.The headline is that he is the John D Rockefeller de nos jours in the sense that he shaped an emerging industry and revolutionised philanthropy. The big difference is that, unlike Rockefeller, Gates did not wait until the closing years of his career to engage in good works, and the $100bn endowment of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation will ensure that his name lives on.His great contribution to the computer business was to impose order on a fragmented industry by creating a de facto standard in the shape of the MS-DOS (and, later, Windows) operating system. This, allied with the fact that IBM had lent respectability to the industry by deigning to market a personal computer, was what enabled the astonishing growth of the software business as programmers saw a platform for which it was worth developing products.The great irony is that operating systems were not part of the original plan. Microsoft's core business was producing compilers for programming languages. But when IBM dropped the opportunity of a lifetime into his lap, he was smart enough to spot it - and exploit it. He was the biggest beneficiary to date of what economists call the 'network effect' - where the value of a network increases dramatically as more people join it.The company he co-founded turned out to be a corporate extension of his personality. That is to say, it was smart, arrogant, paranoid, hyper-competitive - and curiously cautious. (Microsoft has never carried significant debt, and Gates ran the company on the basis that it could run unchanged for an entire year without earning a cent in sales revenues.)The high point (or nadir, depending on how you look at it) of the Gates corporate mindset was the way Microsoft set about exterminating Netscape, the company that developed the first big commercial browser. The anti-trust suit that followed revealed the extent of Gates's hyper-competitive, arrogant temperament. In video testimony he was shown swaying back and forth in a rocking chair, giving resentful answers to lawyers' questions, like a teenager under interrogation for suspected vandalism. He simply couldn't understand why the government had the temerity to interfere in his business.Under Gates, Microsoft exploited its monopoly to produce revenues and profits beyond the dreams of Croesus. But in the process, the company became bloated (it now has 90,000 employees), middle-aged and torpid. Its stranglehold on the PC platform seems to have blinded it to the fact that the network was becoming the computer, and people were getting computing services via their browsers. Google has been the prime beneficiary of this new kind of network effect, and Microsoft has struggled to get to grips with a world in which its old monopolies have little leverage.The company Gates leaves behind will continue to be prominent in the computing industry. But as it has aged, it has lost much of its edge and focus. Its great days are behind it: the excitement has gone. No wonder Ballmer wept.
The only surprise for fans of cult Eighties television is that it has taken so long. A satnav system featuring the voice of KITT, the robotic car in Knight Rider, will give drivers the dubious privilege of imagining they are the show's crimefighting star, David Hasselhoff.The GPS device features the voice of William Daniels, the veteran actor who provided KITT's speech in 87 episodes between 1982 and 1986. Knight Rider featured Hasselhoff as lone vigilante Michael Knight, whose self-driving, artificially intelligent, virtually indestructible car made James Bond's vehicles look like a horse and trap.As Daniels, 81, gives directions, columns of red light pulsate in sync with the spoken commands as they did on KITT. The actor, whose long career included the role of Dustin Hoffman's father in The Graduate, has also recorded 300 first names so the gadget can be customised to give a personal greeting.The Knight Rider GPS is made by Mio Technology after a deal with Universal Studios. It will go on sale in the US for $270 in August with a UK release hoped for at a later date.It remains to be seen whether satnav competitors will respond with Anthony Daniels as C-3PO or Arnold Schwarzenegger as the Terminator. In the meantime the best known British celebrity voice on satnav is John Cleese in Basil Fawlty mode.
The EU is close to finalising an agreement with the US that would allow the FBI to see the internet browsing habits and credit card histories of UK citizens.However, the prospect of an agreement between Brussels and Washington that will lower barriers to swapping previously private data, including travel history and spending patterns, will alarm civil rights advocates.Talks about the transfer of highly personal information held by the UK government and leading companies to American security agencies began following the September 2001 terrorist attacks. US counter-terrorism officials argued that increased information on the movements and habits of European residents would help prevent a repeat attack.Details of a joint report by US and EU negotiators indicate that progress on the agreement is advanced, following years of opposition from European states with stricter privacy laws. One final hurdle still to be cleared is whether British and European citizens can sue the US government over its handling of their personal data.Another area of concern relates to what 'appropiate safeguards' have been agreed to prevent the US authorities from requesting further information such as the religion, political opinion and 'sexual life' of a British resident.
