For Sale: one spaceship. It’s an exploration vessel, with an advanced jump drive, reinforced fuel tanks for long-duration flight, and capable of carrying a crew of five. It’s yours for just $350.If that’s a bit steep, there’s a smaller interceptor-style space fighter craft for $90. If you’re feeling flush, or want to go in with a group of friends to form a crew, you can buy a huge Javelin-class destroyer, bristling with turrets. That’ll set you back $2,500.If this sounds to you like science fiction, you would be correct. But the money changing hands is real. Two hundred people have already paid $2,500 for a Javelin-class starship of their very own.These spacecraft are being pre-purchased for use in an eagerly awaited multiplayer online PC game called Star Citizen, currently in development by Cloud Imperium Games. In their eagerness to play, people have been buying starships in huge numbers, which has helped the game’s makers completely annihilate all previous crowdfunding records.To date, the developers have raised just over $65m from nearly 700,000 backers, which makes Star Citizen the largest crowdfunded project there has ever been by a huge margin. (The next largest, a publishing platform called Ethereum, has raised a comparatively paltry $18m.)The Guinness World Records company officially gave Star Citizen the record for largest crowdfunding project in March, when backing for the project reached $39m – a number Cloud Imperium is now well on its way to doubling.Early support was so overwhelming that it crashed Cloud Imperium’s site in October 2012. A Kickstarter campaign, launched partly as a stopgap measure while they extended their server capacity, raised more than $2.1m.David Swofford, the director of communications of Cloud Imperium Games, said that Star Citizen raised more than $6m in November alone. “We’re hitting six or seven-million dollar months as a regular occurrence,” he told the Guardian.The game is the brainchild of Chris Roberts, the developer behind the 1990s cult classic Wing Commander series and the acclaimed space combat game Starlancer.After selling his production house, Digital Anvil, to previous backers Microsoft in 2000, Roberts left video games for Hollywood, where he was a producer on such movies as The Punisher, Lucky Number Slevin and Lord of War. Star Citizen marks his return to gaming.The game itself is a hugely ambitious project. It will have a full supply-and-demand economy in a massively multiplayer online world, as well as spin-off single-player campaigns, and will feature both first-person and space combat viewpoints – meaning you will be able to both pilot your ship and explore inside it.It will also, according to a release by Cloud Imperium Games, be Oculus Rift compatible.In a 2012interview with the Guardian, Roberts said that the game will have a fixed upfront fee for the initial download, but no ongoing subscription fees. He said income will come from purchases of ship and weapons upgrades, which will be done either with in-game earned currency, or real-world currency.“I want the players to feel like what they do has an impact on the events that unfold,” Roberts said in 2012. “It’s about ownership: I want players to feel like they’re becoming part of the lore, the history of this galaxy.”Swofford told the Guardian that the early backers were fans of Roberts’s original games like Wing Commander, “a very avid, very passionate community”, but that now word has reached a much, much wider audience.“I gotta say,” he said. “It is quite amazing.”
Upper One Games; PC (version tested)/PS4/Xbox One; £12Video games are steeped in mythology. From fantasy titles like Skyrim to expressionistic adventures like Okami, they regularly raid ancient cultures for inspiration. However, the results tend to be filtered through the homogenising lens of Tolkienesque lore, or designers simply leaf through myths and religions for serviceable enemies and settings. Few really try to get to grips with the civilisations they appropriate from.Never Alone, however, isfaithfully based on the folklore of the Iñupiat peopleof North Alaska, and is produced in close partnership with them. It tells of a girl, Nuna, who has left her village to discover the source of an endless blizzard that is ruining her people’s way of life. Played out over eight chapters, the central quest not only features Iñupiat figures and animals, but also weaves in other vital elements of the mythology, such as the Northern Lights.The game opens with animated versions of scrimshaw carvings, a traditional bone carving method used by the Iñupiat to record fireside tales told by their elders. As you progress, you encounter owls that mark video interviews with members of the Iñupiat. These short clips – linked with the area you have just discovered – tell you more about the people, their lives and the land they inhabit. This is a game that leaves you feeling educated as well as entertained.As Nuna sets out on her journey she is attacked by a polar bear but is rescued in the nick of time by an Arctic fox, which becomes her travelling companion. Nuna and Fox then become the playable characters, each with their own special skills. Nuna can drag heavy objects and use the bola, a traditional weapon, while Fox has a connection with the spiritual aspect of Iñupiat life and can work with “loons”, spiritual manifestations of animals that can help on the journey.The characters are each playable in a two-player mode – fostering the spirit of teamwork that the game says it wants to encourage – or a single player can switch between the two. This forms part of the challenge, as you must work out which character’s skills would best solve the puzzle you face – but physical obstacles often conspire to keep Nuna and Fox apart.Minimalism and momentumNever Alone is a sidescrolling platformer with very simple controls. You’re shown how to play at the start and then receive a refresher as new skills and items are introduced. The artwork and overall feel is almost cartoonish, yet beautiful and endearing. Despite its minimalist feel (it is basic to the extent that the characters never even speak), it works well at making you feel involved and I found myself with genuine affection for Nuna and Fox and their mission.The soft focus of the background just about reveals villages, ice floes and forests, providing a sense of the Arctic tundra stretching away into the distance, even though your playable area is relatively small. An unobtrusive yet atmospheric soundtrack helps to create a soothing ambience, punctuated by the occasional grunts, gasps and whimpers of Nuna and Fox as they struggle towards their goal.Checkpoints occur frequently as you complete each puzzle, which helpfully means you don’t have far to return to repeat a section if you’re caught out by a trap or something is taking too long.As the game is such a new release it’s still being patched and I encountered a couple of glitches. Some puzzles can be a little fussy in that they will only respond if you’re standing in a specific place, which I only discovered through trial and error.Somewhat disconcertingly, at one point I managed to jump Fox inside the scenery. The picture faded to black but the game was still running: I could hear I was moving around but ended up having to go back to the checkpoint. The physics can at times misbehave, with characters refusing to grab ledges, and I also found that on a few occasions that the game would slow down, causing me to mistime my steps. Overall however, these are minor complaints and the developer is releasing frequent patches.Never Alone is quite a short game, but its charm, coupled with the opportunity to explore a culture you might not know much about, makes it utterly captivating.
Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has admitted that he has made billions of dollars of failures on experiments, including the failed Fire Phone.Bezos said that embracing failures was an important part of surviving and thriving as a modern business, commenting on projects from the Kindle to the “Prime Air” drone delivery service, which he said is more than a publicity stunt.“I’ve made billions of dollars of failures atamazon.com. Literally,” Bezos told theBusiness Insider Ignition conference in New York, saying that it would be akin to having “a root canal with no anaesthesia” to dwell on them.“None of those things are fun, but they also don’t matter,” said Bezos. “What really matters is that companies that don’t continue to experiment – companies that don’t embrace failure – they eventually get into a desperate position, where the only thing they can do is make a ‘Hail Mary’ bet at the very end of their corporate existence. I don’t believe in bet-the-company bets.”‘A few big successes compensate for dozens and dozens of things that didn’t work’Bezos explained that many of his experiments that have paid off, including Amazon Web Services, Kindle, Amazon Prime, and Amazon Marketplace, have made Amazon what it is today and funded further experimentation.“If you’re going to take bold bets, they’re going to be experiments,” Bezos said. “And if they’re experiments you don’t know ahead of time if they’re going to work. Experiments are by their very nature prone to failure. But a few big successes compensate for dozens and dozens of things that didn’t work.”The Fire Phone is one such experiment that has not lived up to expectations,failing to selland leaving Amazonforced to write off $170m on unsold Fire Phones.Bezos says that he’s undeterred by the sluggish uptake, which Amazon says that it haslearned a lot about, and that he believes it will success and even if it doesn’t it was conducting an experiment.“I feel it takes more time to analyse something like that,” stated Bezos, saying that people should “stay tuned” as Amazon continues to iterate its smartphone offering.‘Super clear about what kind of company you’re trying to build’Another “bet” that has many speculating that it is just a publicity stunt and will never materialise into a real service isAmazon’s “Prime Air” drone delivery service.Bezos said that Amazon is working hard on iterating the drone technology, but warned that the US is likely to fall behind in the new field as other countries more readily adopt commercial drone technology.“You have to be super clear about what kind of company you’re trying to build,” Bezos said of the out-there experiment with drones. “We said we were going to take big bets. We said we were going to fail.”Bezos not only takes risks with Amazon’s businesses, but his own personal fortune, of which he sunk a small $250m chunk of his $30bn net worthinto the Washington Postlast year.“I didn’t know anything about the newspaper business, but I did know about the internet,” said Bezos of the purchase stating that he is “very optimistic about the future of the Post” despite seeing it as “hopeless” from the outside.The “big change” is underway transforming the newspaper from a local offering focused on the US capital into anational or global news offering, according to Bezos who has rarely spoken about his investment in the past.•Amazon Fire Phone review: setting nothing ablaze•Amazon banks on rise of the robots to speed online orders to customers•Amazon to begin testing same-day delivery drones in Cambridge
The Australian retail chain Target has removed the controversial video game Grand Theft Auto V from sale in its stores.In a statement on its website, the company claims to have made the decision following feedback from customers, “about the game’s depictions of violence against women”.Explaining the move, which will affect Target Australia’s 300 stores around the country, general manager of corporate affairs, Jim Cooper, said, “We’ve been speaking to many customers over recent days about the game, and there is a significant level of concern about the game’s content.“We’ve also had customer feedback in support of us selling the game, and we respect their perspective on the issue. However, we feel the decision to stop selling GTA5 is in line with the majority view of our customers.”Set in the seedy city of Los Santos, a parody of modern Los Angeles, Grand Theft Auto 5 follows three violent criminals as they carry out a series of audacious heists. The story involves murder and torture, but although Target Australia’s concerns specifically mention violence against women, female characters barely figure in the narrative.Players are, however, able to freely explore the city and engage in violence against any other inhabitants. In the past, the series has been criticised for allowing gamers to attack women, as well as have sex with prostitutes and then rob and kill them.In her review of GTA V last year Carolyn Petit of news site Gamespot wrote, “GTA V has little room for women except to portray them as strippers, prostitutes, long-suffering wives, humorless girlfriends and goofy, new-age feminists we’re meant to laugh at.”The game has, however, attracted almost unanimous critical acclaim, including three awards at this year’s video game Baftas. Originally released in September 2013 on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 consoles and recently remastered for the new Xbox One and PlayStation 4 machines, it was past uncut by the Australian Classification board and given an R rating, which restricts the sale of the game to adults over 18. Target Australia stated that it will not withdraw other games or movies with the same certificate.“While these products often contain imagery that some customers find offensive, in the vast majority of cases, we believe they are appropriate products for us to sell to adult customers,” said Cooper.“However, in the case of GTA5, we have listened to the strong feedback from customers that this is not a product they want us to sell.”Grand Theft Auto 5: does it really look best on PlayStation 4?
The US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is warning businesses that hackers are using malicious software to destroy computer systems, after the destructive hacking of Sony Pictures.The FBI report, seen by the Guardian, details software used an attack saying that it marked the first destructive cyberattack on a US company.The FBI does not specifically name Sony Pictures, as is typical of the law enforcement agency, but the Guardian understands that the details come from the attack on Sony Pictures that took control and crippled the studio’s computer systems across its US and international offices.“The overwriting of the data files will make it extremely difficult and costly, if not impossible, to recover the data using standard forensic methods,” says the report.Similar to Saudi Aramco attacksThe attacks appear to have the same modus operandi as those launched against oil giantSaudi Aramco from 2012, which left 30,000 computers inoperable, according to Troels Oerting, director of Europol’s Cyber Crime Centre.“The FBI routinely advises private industry of various cyber threat indicators observed during the course of our investigations,” a FBI spokesmantold Reuters. “This data is provided in order to help systems administrators guard against the actions of persistent cyber criminals.”The hacking group Guardians of Peace (Gop) claimed responsibility for thehack on Sony Pictures, which saw staff reduced to using pen, paper and fax machines, unable to use their computers. Sources told the Guardian that 70% of files, documents and even film scripts had been deleted.‘Keep the focus on who performed the hack’Five Sony Pictures films were leaked onto the internet via file-sharing sites, including Brad Pitt’s Fury as a consequence of the attack. Confidential data, including login details, movie and TV deals and staff payroll details were also leaked onto the internet.The original links to the leaks on the anonymous text sharing site Pastebin and file-sharing site Mega have now been removed, but it is believed many will still be able to download the files over peer-to-peer networks.“People will download it anyway and start mirroring it on other torrents, just a matter of time,” said Yonathan Klijnsma, cybercrime security expert from Fox-IT. “Even going after people downloading this is a lost cause [for Sony]. Keep the focus on who performed the hack, that’s where they need to go.”Several reports have implicated North Korea in the attack on Sony Pictures, which country officials failed to deny. The movie studio is set to release Seth Rogan’s latest film The Interview, a comedy that depicts an assassination attempt on Kim Jong-un.The North Korean ambassador Ja Song Nam labelled the comedy’s release an “act of war” in a letter to the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, in July, while the North Korean foreign ministry threatened “merciless counter-measures” if the US allowed the release of the film.•Did North Korea’s notorious Unit 121 cyber army hack Sony Pictures?
The immensely popular PC gaming service Steam is launching its own live streaming service so that users can easily share their game playing footage.NamedSteam Broadcasting, the feature will be a direct rival to Twitch, currently the favourite platform for live game streaming.Via a freely available client, currently in beta, Steam users will be able to watch the games their friends are playing or automatically broadcast their own gaming sessions across the service.Steam is the largest PC games distribution service in the world, with over 100m users. It is effectively a digital store, selling PC gamers, which users download and store on their computers. However, like console services such as Xbox Live and PlayStation Network, it also has a social element, with friends lists and chat forums.According to Valve, there is a range of privacy settings allowing broadcasters to restrict viewership to specific friends or to a whole friends list. Selecting “Anyone can watch my games” will place the stream on the game’s hub area on Steam. Users will even have the option to broadcast their desktop.Live streaming is becoming an increasingly popular element of games culture. Formed in 2011, Twitch TV is the dominant platform, streaming content over the internet to around 45m regular viewers. Anyone can use the service to share footage of themselves playing games, but the site also hosts and promotes top channels, which show major eSports events and tutorials by the top professional players. In august, the site was purchased by Amazon for $1bn.Currently the Steam Broadcasting service is more limited than Twitch. Users can watch footage on a variety of browsers but can only currently stream content from a Windows 7 or 8 PC, though support for Linux and Mac platforms is promised.Twitch: Why Amazon’s $1bn purchase is all about the ads
What happens when you trollTor developershard? You get unmasked.Towards the end of last week, a troll who had sent various aggressive tweets to a host of security experts and privacy advocates associated with the Tor project and browser, which enables online anonymity, had his identity exposed. To some, that may seem hypocritical. To others, it seems like justice.Andrea Shepard, the Tor developer who uncovered the real identity of her troll, says she was being harassed on and off for a year by a range of tweeters, all believed to be thesockpuppetsof one man. The main source of abuse came from a Twitter account @JbJabroni10, but others included @JbGelasius, @SnowdenNoffect, @LimitYoHangout, @HaileSelassieYo, @thxsnowman and @PsyOpSnowden.Other pro-Tor activists, includingRuna Sandvik,Jacob AppelbaumandJillian York of the EFFwere also targeted, according to Shepard’srundown of the events.Shepard believes much of the recent targeting has come about as a result of aPando Daily featurethat painted the Tor network, which encrypts users web traffic and masks their true IP address, as a “honeypot” for the US government.TheTor Project does receive government-fundingthrough a number of intermediary organisations, including SRI international, a non-profit research and development centre bridging the gap between abstract research and industry, and Internews Network, a non-profit that funds programmes supporting democracy and human rights.In 2013, the Tor Project received $1,822,907 from government departments, but as the Edward Snowden leaks indicated, eventhe National Security Agency has had a hard time deanonymising those on the network.Security expertsdecried Pando’s attemptsto paint Tor – an open source software project verifiable by third-parties – as the technical centre of a vast internet conspiracy as laughable.The troll’s targets were 59% female despite men being substantially overrepresented in the communities he targeted. “Most of his most vitriolic or sexualized remarks were directed at women,” wrote Shepard.Things came to a head when some lighter mockery was aimed at Shepard last week, using information the troll had gleaned from her LinkedIn profile and personal website.Unfortunately for the troll, this gave Shepard an IP address belonging to an iPhone that used a work network at atlantichealth.org to access her site. She also had some job information through LinkedIn’s “profiles that viewed yours” feature.After searching LinkedIn for anyone with the role at Atlantic Health, she came across two profiles: one which didn’t have a name connected to it, another for a man named Jeremy Becker. She then used the Spokeo service to search for Jeremy Beckers in New Jersey, and a search for pharmacist licensees, and found only one, which gave her the middle initial ‘T’ and a hometown of Princeton, New Jersey.She also had his father’s name, Edward Becker, and was able to find a Twitter account @ebecker which followed @JbJabroni10 and an inactive one for @JoyBecker52, apparently matching his mother Joyce Becker. Shepard had her man.And then on 28 November, seven of the Twitter accounts linked to Becker seemed to go dark. He’d been scared off the face of the internet, to the cheers of the pro-Tor and anti-troll crowds.But some have distanced themselves from supporting Shepard’s actions, even one of the apparent victims,Thomas Drake, a former NSA executive and whistleblower. Drake said he was a First Amendment and free speech “absolutist” when it was suggested that he’d backed the “doxing” (a hacker term for de-anonmyising) of the troll.And there is that nagging question: is it right that a privacy advocate exposed the identity of an online antagonist?Shepard sees no conflict between her role as a Tor developer and her unmasking of a troll – though she’d prefer it if there were better solutions to dealing with aggressive online characters.“I’m pro everyone having tools to defend privacy – yeah, that means a world where tactics like [those] I just used wouldn’t work if they were used ubiquitously, so it’s not a general solution to the problem of that sort of harassment,” she tells me.“I think a real solution to that sort of thing would be partly technical, in terms of better, decentralised social platforms with smarter filtering, and partly cultural, in terms of smarter norms about mobbing that make some fool like [Pando] spreading smears less dangerous – they’re threatening not because they say dumb shit but because they say dumb shit people buy into.”The language has been occasionally vitriolic on both sides, and the Tor developer’s critics say she wasn’t right to post personal details on Becker, regardless of what was said online.Others, including Jillian York, have distanced themselves from the exposure of Becker, whom the Guardian has been unable to contact after repeated calls to his office.Paul Carr, Pando’s editorial director, said: “[No-one] at Pando had anything whatsoever to do with any harassment towards members of the Tor community, either directly or indirectly. In fact, we have frequently reported on, and condemned, exactly the kind of gender-based harassment reportedly being experienced by Tor activists. We welcome any and all factual debate around our reporting on Tor — but cyberbullying any kind, whether by Tor’s defenders or critics, doesn’t help anyone.”But for now, if she’s threatened, Shepard won’t just sit there and take it. “I’d unconditionally like a world with less violence too, but if someone punched me in the face I’d fight back.”Whatever the moral dilemmas at play here, the ultimate irony remains: Becker would have most likely kept his identity secret if he’d used Tor.•This article has been amended to remove the claim that Pando journalists were directly involved in a campaign of harassment, which Pando refutes. A comment from Pando has been added.
Launched on 3 December 1994, the Sony PlayStation ruled console gaming for five quite astonishing years, introducing 3D visuals to the mass market and hosting dozens of vital game design innovations.This is not a “best of” PlayStation list. These are 20 titles that originated on the machine and either helped drive it to 100m sales or provided a lasting legacy to the industry.Have a read, try to calm down for a few minutes, then add your corrections in the comments section …20. Jumping Flash (SCE/Exact Co, 1995)Imagine Crash Bandicoot crossed with Mirror’s Edge and you have this early, impressively experimental first-person platformer in which a robotic rabbit named Robbit (of course) must explore 18 worlds collecting missing jetpods. Released a year before 3D platforming legend Super Mario 64, Sony’s title gave gamers a fascinating hint at what was to come.19. Einhander (SCE/Squaresoft, 1997)Back in the mid-1990s, it was widely assumed that the scrolling shooter would die out, but then Squaresoft created the awesome Einhander, which combined 3D polygonal spaceships with scrolling backgrounds, and featured a claw that let you steal weapons from enemy spaceships. As the likes of Geometry Wars and Resogun have subsequently confirmed, no modern console is complete without a good shmup.18. Intelligent Qube (SCE/G-Artists, 1997)With its state-of-the-art graphics processor, the PlayStation didn’t seem like a sensible home for abstract puzzle titles, until Intelligent Qube (known as Kurushi in the UK) came along. Here, players must clear each stage of giant cubes, while looking for bonuses and trying not to fall into oblivion. It’s a complex challenge, and it paved the way for other puzzlers like the equally thoughtful Devil Dice.17. Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver (Eidos/Crystal Dynamics, 1999)Sequel to the 1996 action adventure Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain, Soul Reaver is a hugely atmospheric vampire thriller, where the player moves between the apocalyptic realm of Nosgoth and its shadowy spectral plane. It’s filled with challenging puzzles and great story-telling, but more importantly it united Amy Hennig and Richard Lemarchand, two of the key designers behind the Uncharted series.16. Ape Escape (SCE Japan, 1999)True, this gaudily bright 3D platformer is about traveling through time capturing cheeky apes to protect humanity, but don’t let that lull you into thinking it isn’t sophisticated and innovative. Because it is. Developed at Sony’s Japan studio it’s the first PlayStation title to require the new Dualshock controller – the left analogue stick controlling movement, the right handling all the gadgets. A series of sequels followed, as well asa cameo appearance in Metal Gear Solid 3.15. Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater (Activision/Neversoft, 1999)Neversoft’s thrilling skateboard sim combined a ridiculously intuitive control system with a wonderful open-world structure, giving players a true sense of being in a skate park, pulling off cool moves. Released during the pinnacle of the extreme sports boom, the game quickly became a post-pub staple, giving players the freedom and flexibility to show off to each other without breaking their legs.14. ISS Pro Evolution (Konami/KCET, 1999)Although Konami’s superlative footie sim has its roots in the publisher’s 1996 title Goal Storm, it was in this, the fourth title in the confusing “Winning Eleven” series, that the real magic happened. Improved animations, fluid player movement and the in-depth Master League mode worked together to produce the most compelling and authentic football game so far. This was the beginning of the glorious PES era.13. Dance Dance Revolution (Konami, 1999)Konami had been experimenting with music action games for a couple of years with its DJ sim Beatmania and frenzied strum-’em-up, Guitar Freaks, but Dance Dance Revolution was its masterpiece. Players move their feet on a touch-sensitive mat in time with onscreen directions, competing against pals and falling over a lot. The series ran for several years popularising the rhythm action genre and preparing us for the likes of Just Dance and Dance Central.12. Medal of Honor (EA/Dreamworks Interactive, 1999 onwards)Designed in conjunction with Steven Spielberg and inspired by Rare’s N64 classic Goldeneye, Medal of Honor created a new genre of cinematic military shooters, designed around highly choreographed set-pieces. After the 2002 instalment, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, 20 of the staff left and formed their own studio, Infinity Ward, creator of Call of Duty. So there’s that too.11. PaRappa the Rappa (SCE/NanaOn-Sha, 1996)Designed by idiosyncratic genius Masaya Matsuura with art by Rodney Greenblat, PaRappa is a wonderfully weird musical adventure that eschewed contemporary obsessions with visual authenticity and thematic darkness in favour of karate-kicking onion teachers and lovesick rapping dogs. The follow up, Um Jammer Lammy, is equally sublime.10. Wipeout (SCE/Psygnosis, 1995 onwards)With its Designers Republic iconography and trendy club culture soundtrack, this space craft racing title exemplified Sony’s determination to capture the 20-something crowd. Beyond the hype and Chemical Brothers beats, it was a challenging weapons-based shooter that just kept coming back to enliven subsequent PlayStation machines.9. Driver (GT Interactive/Reflections, 1999)Before Grand Theft Auto III hit the PS2 like a cannonball made out of cocaine and bullets, the original PlayStation got this thrilling open-world crime adventure, which had players going deep undercover as a cop trying to trap gangland hoods. The knockabout handling and authentic reproduction of US cities made Driver the ultimate interactive car chase movie.8. Crash Bandicoot (SCE/Naughty Dog, 1996)Envisioned by Naughty Dog founders Jason Rubin and Andy Gavinin the middle of a roadtrip, Crash Bandicoot was enthusiastically adopted by Sony, which was still lacking a platforming character to go up against Mario and Sonic. With its brash comedy, likeable lead and daft plotting, the game was a smash hit, proving that PlayStation could be a family machine when it wanted.7. Tekken (Namco, 1995 onwards)With its intuitive combat system, sharply textured fighters and ridiculous operatic narratives, Tekken provided a feisty competitor to Sega’s more complex and demanding Virtua Fighter series. Originally developed for the arcade using Namco’s System 11 technology (basically just a PlayStation with more RAM) the game provided a seductive graphical showcase for Sony’s machine.6. Final Fantasy VII (Squaresoft, 1997)Sony’s coup in teasing Squaresoft from its exclusive Nintendo relationship was a major controversy at the time – as though Roy Keane, at the height of his prowess, had left Man United for Liverpool. But the game was a spectacular success – a thrilling steam punk odyssey, following spiky-haired eco-warrior Cloud Strife and his ragtag gang, facing the evil Shinra corporation. With its likeable characters, rich combat system and oh so much drama, the game defined the modern RPG experience.5. Resident Evil (Capcom, 1996 onwards)Intended as a modern take on Capcom’s little-known supernatural adventure Sweet Home, Resident Evil is effectively an interactive B-movie, combining the expressionist terror of George A Romero with the gory zeal of Lucio Fulci. Although famed for its terrible voice acting, Resident Evil set in place a fiendish blueprint – combining jump scares, puzzles and low-resource combat – that inspired a whole generation of survival horror classics.4. Metal Gear Solid (Konami/Kojima Productions, 1999 onwards)The game that popularised the stealth adventure, MGS, is a unapologetic collision of cinematic hubris, anime narrative complexity and silly gaming in-jokes. Creator Hideo Kojima says he got the idea for stealth from the destructible barriers in Space Invaders. Wherever it came from, it changed game design forever.3. Gran Turismo (SCE/Polyphony Digital, 199X onwardsShifting more than 10m copies, Polyphony Digital’s racing simulation radically altered the concept of the console driving game. Providing hundreds of realistic car models and a detailed series of driving tests, it demanded serious skill from players rather than arcade twitch-n-drift instincts. It was also a genuine system seller, with thousands of petrolheads purchasing successive PlayStation consoles just to play this one series.2. Tomb Raider (Eidos/Core Design, 1996 onwards)Yes, the original game launched on Sega Saturn, too, but Core Design’s archeological adventure came to symbolise the PlayStation era. Lara Croft was the perfect protagonist for the nineties, pleasing to the gloating lad mags, but also strong and resourceful enough to provide a role model for a new generation of women gamers. From Face Magazine cover shoots to Lucozade adverts, she was everywhere, helping to legitimise games as a cultural medium.1. Ridge Racer (Namco, 1994 onwards)The game that effectively launched the PlayStation was a super-slick racer converted from Namco’s cutting edge arcade original. With its texture-mapped polygonal car models, its slick framerate and its rousing score, the game thrilled early adopters. Four years later, a graphically improved remake was packaged with the brilliant Ridge Racer Type 4, reminding many of why the PlayStation was so exciting at launch. It felt like the future.Our thanks toEdge Magazinefor making its archive of images available for our PlayStation features this week.
Google’s latest doodle celebrates the birthday of Anna Freud, daughter of Sigmund Freud and a celebrated psychoanalyst in her own right, who is regarded as one of the founders of psychoanalytic child psychology.Born in Vienna in 1895, the sixth and last child in the family, her immersion in her father’s work began at the age of 13, when she began participating in his weekly discussions on psychoanalytic ideas.Following an early career as a teacher, she quit the profession due to ill-health and started to seriously follow in her father’s footsteps in the years after the first world war.Freud became a member of the Vienna Psychoanalytical Society after presenting her paper “Beating Fantasies and Daydreams” in 1922 and became a director in 1935 of the Vienna Psychoanalytical Training Institute.After the Freuds fled Austria in the face of increasing persecution of Jews by the Nazis, she organised their emigration to London and continued with her work as well as looking after her father, by then seriously ill due to jaw cancer.When the second world war broke out, Freud opened the Hampstead War Nursery for children who had been left homeless, and often orphaned, as a result of the conflict. Her research into the impact of stress and separation on children was published along with Dorothy Burlingham.After the nursery closed, Freud established the Hampstead Child Therapy Course and Clinic in 1952.She continued to expand her writing, publishing “Normality and Pathology in Childhood” in 1965, which was to serve as a blueprint for the work she would undertake during the last part of her life.In the 1970s she developed an interest in the difficulties suffered by emotionally deprived and disadvantaged children and continued to serve as director of the Hampstead Child Therapy Course and Clinic until her death in October 1982.
1 3D TV was initially a flopThere was hype around 3D-capable TVs in 2012 and 2013, but it wasn’t matched by interest from viewers. The BBC’s decision in July 2013 to take a three-year break from making 3D programmes reflected the flop, as the head of its 3D trial said: “It’s the right time for a good old pause.”2 Amazon’s Fire PhoneAmazon placed its bet on 3D with the launch of itsFire Phonein 2014, with a feature called Dynamic Perspective that provided a 3D effect as people looked into the screen. Meanwhile, rumours in November suggested that Apple’s next iPhone, which should be unveiled in the autumn of 2015, will also have a 3D display.3 Nintendo rows back on 3D handheldsWhen it launched in 2011, Nintendo’s 3DS gaming handheld system made 3D one of its key features, with the ability to show stereoscopic 3D effects for games. After public discussion of the possible effect on children’s eyesight, the company launched its non-3D 2DS in 2013 to sit alongside the3DS.4 Oculus Rift on the wayThe evolution of virtual reality headsets may be encouraging for the future of 3D TVs. Dismissed as an expensive failure in the 1980s,Oculus Rifthas rekindled enthusiasm in the UK. Due to be commercially released in 2015, and now owned by Facebook after a $2bn acquisition, it’s targeting games, social networking and entertainment as key uses.5 Samsung takes 3D VR mobileOculus is also working with Samsung on the latter’sGear VR headset, which uses a Galaxy Note 4 as its screen to deliver immersive 3D visuals. Due to go on sale this year, it will have a similar focus on games, but also video and more exploratory virtual-world apps.6 MIT works towards holographic TVOne of the areas of development to revive 3D TV is getting rid of the colourful glasses. In May, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology revealed its plans for a “glasses-free, multiperspective, 3D video screen”. This aims to be a cheaper, more effective alternative to holographic video for the home.7 3D interfaces for 3D displaysWatching a 3D screen is one thing, but when interacting with it there’ll be more call for 3D interfaces. TheLeap Motion gestural controllerhas attracted attention, but Intel also showed off its own technology using a 3D camera to seemingly float a graphical interface in front of people.8 ‘Ultra real’ 3D screens for cinemasDirectorDouglas Trumbullis on a mission to make “ultra real” 3D in cinemas a way to dive even deeper into films. Or, rather, to have characters dive out of the screen. It works by projecting films at 120 frames per second. “I can’t wait to see somebody up close, talking not to another character but directly to me,” he said in a recent interview.9 Aerial Burton’s hovering signageJapanese technology company Aerial Burton is working on projecting 3D images into the air. It ionises air molecules to create glowing, hovering images, with hopes of using them in emergencies to direct people to escape routes and supplies.10 Cxense working on 3D web adsInevitably, there are companies hoping to turn new 3D display technology to advertising. Norwegian firmCxenseworks on regular computers and mobile phones, making images seemingly pop out of web pages. The idea is to attract attention from people who usually glaze over banner ads.
Facebook’s introduction of video advertisements has been relatively uncontroversial – at least compared to some other changes the social network has made to its news feed in recent years.Now the latest tweak has beenannounced in a blog postfor developers. “With more and more people uploading, sharing and discovering videos on Facebook, marketers are finding video to be an important asset to drive key business metrics,” explained software engineer Jun Li.“Moving forward, when eligible, video mobile app ads will play automatically in News Feed.”This means you’re likely to be seeing more videos of apps playing in your feed – I suspectKate Upton swishing through a battlefield for Game of Waris likely to be one of the first to benefit – in the hope that you’ll install them.If you use Facebook, what’s your take on how it has introduced video, and automatic plays of video ads? There were worries a year ago that this kind of feature would hoover up mobile data in particular, but have you taken the step of disabling auto-playing unless you’re on Wi-Fi?(Here’s how to do that, by the way.)The comments section is open for your thoughts, not just on today’s story, but on how ads are working in Facebook more generally, and how you’d like to see that evolve.What else is happening in the technology world today? Here are some links that may be worth discussing:Kim Dotcom launching Internet Party in the USThe Megaupload mogul may still be battling extradition from New Zealand to the US, but his political ambitions are heading to America. “The Internet Party is coming to the United States in 2015,” he tweeted this week. Although the party’s first campaign in New Zealand was a flop: it barely registered with voters in the company’s recent election.Stephen Hawking’s new comms systemSwiftKey has lots of happy Android and iOS owners using its keyboard replacement app, but now it’s also powering the communications tech being used by Stephen Hawking, through a partnership with Intel. Apparently the ACAT system has doubled his typing speed, and will be made available for other people with motor neurone disease and quadriplegia in 2015.What’s different about Chinese mobile apps?Dan Grover is a product manager on WeChat, the Chinese messaging app that’s got nearly as many users as western rivals WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. So how do Chinese apps differ from their rivals from the US and Europe? He’s written an interesting blog post on user interface trends in his adopted country.YouTube star Stampy now has a mobile appENORMOUS PARENTAL KLAXON: Stampy is one of the most popular YouTube channels in the world thanks to his child-friendly Minecraft videos. Now they’re available in an app: iOS initially, but Android will likely follow. And if you’re not a parent of a child between six and 10, this will pass you by, but if you are, it’s likely to be an essential download.Anita Sarkeesian’s latest games videoPlaying with Privilege: 25 invisible benefits of gaming while male, following her series of Tropes vs Women in Video Games critiques.What do you think of the stories above? The comments section is open for your views, as well as your suggestions for other links worth checking out.
The room was painted black and cut off from the rest of the club down a short, darkened staircase. Approaching the doorway, you could just make out a row of flickering screens, but as you stepped in it was suddenly clear what was going on. This was the Ministry of Sound, the citadel of the mid-90s clubbing boom – and here was a room full of people playing on Sony PlayStation consoles.Launched in Japan on 3 December 1994, the PlayStation revolutionalised the video-games industry. At the time, veteran manufacturers like Nintendo and Sega fought over the family and male-teen markets with consoles that looked like consoles had always looked, and games that played like games had always played. With its advanced 32-bit processor and accelerated graphics hardware, the PlayStation was designed specifically to generate real-time 3D visuals, moving away from the painted backgrounds of previous generations. The look and language of game design changed for ever.A dedicated PlayStation area in Ministry of Sound.Photograph: Edge magazineBut it wasn’t just about better graphics. With the PlayStation, Sony made a range of vital technological and marketing decisions that allowed gaming to mature. And many of them were not so obvious on those pulsating screens.Early on, for example, Ken Kuturagi, the engineer tasked with overseeing the development of PlayStation, committed to selling games not on cartridges, which were used on older systems like the Mega Drive, but on CDs.“The whole cartridge model was a nightmare,” says Sony Computer Entertainment Europe president, Jim Ryan. “They cost a lot and you had to order the things before you knew what the finished game would be like, which is not, ordinarily, a very intelligent way to proceed. Compact discs gave people the appetite to take risks.”The PlayStation era then, saw a boom in experimental titles that appealed to a wider audience. In Japan, Sony Computer Entertainment backed offbeat projects like cartoon rapping game PaRappa the Rappa and musical puzzler Vib Ribbon, while other studios used the improved audio capabilities of the platform to produce inclusive dancing sims like Bust a Groove and Dance Dance Revolution.In the US, meanwhile, developers were able to explore the emerging extreme-sports scene, with revolutionary titles like Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater and Matt Hoffman’s Pro BMX. Games were tapping into aspirational lifestyles and activities.‘I saw how the underground club scene was influencing the youth market’Britain was a key part of this. In August 1994, Sony Computer Entertainment employed a young marketing manager named Geoff Glendenning. A lifelong gamer, he understood that young adults who’d grown up playing on the Sega Mega Drive and Nintendo SNES were being neglected as they got older; everyone was thinking about kids and teens. He saw a new market: twentysomethings with disposable income and plenty of free time. And he knew how to grab them.Mental Wealth TV ad, 1999, directed by Chris Cunningham“I had a certain cynicism about the reliance on big TV campaigns – the idea that the more times your consumer saw the product, the more impact it had,” he says.“Having been part of the late 80s rave and underground-clubbing scene, I recognised how it was influencing the youth market. In the early 90s, club culture started to become more mass market, but the impetus was still coming from the underground, from key individuals and tribes.“What it showed me was that you had to identify and build relationships with those opinion-formers – the DJs, the music industry, the fashion industry, the underground media.”‘I’d hide £100,000 of the marketing budget in a slush fund’So Glendenning and his team started talking to nightclubs and festival promoters, organising dedicated PlayStation areas where clubbers could take a break and play game demos. But it all had to be done way below the radar.“In those days, you agreed marketing budgets way in advance, but if you want to be associated with youth culture, you can’t plan a year ahead,” he says. “So I used to rough cut the budget; I’d hide at least £100,000 a year in a slush fund, which allowed me to react very quickly. Somebody would phone up on a Thursday, saying ‘We’ve got a little snowboard event on Saturday: can you help?’ So I’d say: ‘Yes, I’ll bung you five hundred quid or a grand, or some prizes.’”By 1997, there were 52 clubs in the UK alone with dedicated PlayStation rooms. Sony’s other regional offices caught on, and the company was soon sponsoring extreme-sports events and music festivals around the world, including Big Love, Tribal Gathering and later, Lollapalooza.Famously, the company produced a cardboard flyer for the 1996 Glastonbury festival featuring a PlayStation logo and the words “More powerful than God”. The card was serrated into small sections, ‘coincidentally’ perfect to provide filters – or “roaches” – for joints. It was the phrase that ended up causing more controversy, however.“It was put on big posters and attached to railings all around Glastonbury town centre,” says Glendenning. “That resulted in a threatened fatwa against Sony hardware.”Sony recognised it needed to be in the UKBefore PlayStation, Japanese console manufacturers had never been that interested in Europe as a creative centre, but Sony knew it had to be more inclusive and imaginative. Unlike Sega and Nintendo, it lacked a strong internal development studio and didn’t have well-established connections with major domestic studios like Capcom, Konami and Taito.So in 1993, Sony purchased the successful UK studio Psygnosis, providing it with one of the earliest PlayStation prototypes.The polygon T-rex that astonished Liverpool developers Psygnosis.Photograph: Edge magazine“One day, an office in our building on the Liverpool docks was locked off, and access was strictly limited,” recalls Lee Carus, then an artist at the company.“We were all dying to see what was behind that door, and the day it finally happened was awesome. There was a massive, shiny metal box at one end of the room – it was about the size of a professional office photocopier. We switched it on, clicked some buttons, browsed some menus and all of a sudden a 3D polygon dinosaur came to life on screen. We were blown away.”Duly inspired, the studio started work on the crucial UK launch title, Wipeout, a slick spaceship racing game with fast-paced, almost hypnotic 3D visuals. To impress its new audience of twentysomething clubbers, Sony brought in the achingly cool Designers Republic studio to create team icons for the craft, and also raided its music division to assemble a zeitgeist-friendly soundtrack featuring tracks by Chemical Brothers, Leftfield and Orbital.“This wasn’t diluted pop, it was gritty fringe dance music,” says Carus. “People would go out clubbing, come home and listen to the same tunes whilst playing Wipeout. It was a really brave call for the time.”Promotional items for WipeoutPhotograph: Edge magazineDuring 1994, Sony executives toured Europe and the US, showing off the PlayStation hardware and effectively seducing developers.While Sega and Nintendo would begrudgingly distribute expensive development kits to a handful of western studios, providing little technical support in the process, Sony wanted to build a global community. It made the PlayStation easy to develop for, using the common programming language C and providing CD-Roms filled with useful routines and graphics libraries. And it made its machine accessible.‘PlayStation took the average age of the gamer from 14 to 23’“We were also the first platform-holder to court and embrace the third-party publishing community in a meaningful way,” says Ryan. “Neither Sega nor Nintendo really took Europe all that seriously. For SCE to have three very strong regional pillars – Japan, Europe and the US – it was a first in the industry. It was a big contributory factor to our success.”In the UK, this meant studios got the hardware early and were keen to experiment beyond the parameters of the traditional arcade-style racers and fighting games that proliferated in Japan. Newcastle-based Reflections Interactive created ground-breaking driving games like Destruction Derby and Driver; the Derby’s Core Design developed its smash hit Tomb Raider, originally for both the PlayStation and Sega Saturn, but later as a Sony exclusive; and, of course, Rockstar brought its anarchic Grand Theft Auto titles to the machine.In the US, young studios like Naughty Dog and Insomniac were spurred on to innovate in the character-based platformer genre, creating the Crash Bandicoot and Spyro the Dragon franchises, and a wealth of intriguing new mechanics.The Chemical Brothers, whose music featured in Wipeout.Photograph: Rex“PlayStation took the age of the average gamer from about 14 to about 23,” says Glendenning. “It made games cool, it made them part of popular youth culture – people were no longer embarrassed to admit they played them.‘Games let us conquer the mundanity of real life’“But the lasting legacy goes beyond the games industry. It allowed us to demonstrate that brands aren’t built by spending millions on television advertising. They are created via word of mouth. At Sony, we designed the merchandising in-house, all the stunts and guerrilla activities were conceived in-house. Television was used to support the brand that had already been created.”The PlaystationPhotograph: Edge magazineTV still played its part, however, and in 1999 Sony’s approach to the console industry – its state-of-the-art technology, its concentration on lifestyle marketing, its creation of a post-pub gaming audience – was perfectly crystallised into a 60-second TV and film commercial.Created by famously disruptive agency TBWA, Double Life showed a succession of weird, interesting characters while a voiceover described how games had allowed them to escape the mundanity of their real lives, to command armies, to conquer worlds. It remains one of the greatest video-game ads of all time.It was Sony Computer Entertainment telling the world: you’re all strange, you all need escapism, and no matter how old you are, how cool or uncool, you are all gamers now.•The 20 most important games on PlayStation One•20 years of PlayStation - some fascinating facts
Struggling to find a fresh perspective for the New Year? Designer Aurimas Lazinskas and his team have come up with an offbeat aid: the EyeTeleporter.Breathing new life into a familiar device, this is no ordinary periscope: its lightweight design and mask attachment make it hands-free, allowing wearers to explore an unusual and immersive experience. “It basically just disembodies you in some way,” Lazinskas and Juste Kostikovaite, the team’s development manager, toldTech Monthly.Constructed with corrugated cardboard and a couple of mirrors, the viewer can be assembled in a variety of ways, allowing your vision to be teleported to lofty heights, reversed for over-the-shoulder reconnaissance or plummeted to bring you eye-to-eye with the family hound – although in the latter case it might be best to steer clear of the fake fur option lest the dog becomes equally discombobulated.Recently featured on Kickstarter, the London-based four-strong Lithuanian team have an eye to the future, although they are not thinking about commercialising their invention just yet. Instead they hope to use their funds to embark on the development of their pièce de résistance, the EyeTeleporter scooter.Currently in an early incarnation, the scooter envelopes your eyes, transporting your line of sight right down to the ground. The result is a set of wheels that is not so much about visibility as vision itself. “Why not do something which is very mobile and at the same time completely disorientating you?” ask Lazinskas and Kostikovaite.While motorists may have answers to that, the Eyeteleporter team are not to be sidetracked — they hope to complete the cardboard copy of their creation by the end of next year.
A lot of unkind things have been written about Google Glass recently. The internet-connected smartglasses are certainly an early attempt to stake out a piece of the wearable technology market, but unflattering references to their users as “glassholes” can only have contributed to Google’s decision toclose its dedicated Glass storesand, it is rumoured, hand some productionover to Intelor evenshutter Glass completely.And all this just months after Glassfinally made it to the UK. So if you were thinking of laying out £1,000 at Christmas for that special, tech-curio-loving person in your life, here’s what they can expect ...It’s reasonable to think, having grown up withscience-fiction depictionsofaugmented realityand heads-up displays, that having a screen projected into your vision is the future. It certainly feels like the future when it’s sitting on your face.A more successful vision for the future of wearable technology, however, has been the rather less ostentatious form of thesmartwatch. And while the potential for new ways of working and accessing information via a watch is smaller, so is the social anxiety caused by wearing one.Wearing themGlass is about as comfortable to wear as any lopsided pair of glasses. The interchangeable frames are light, the nosepads standard, but one side has the weight of the battery, camera, screen, small speaker and guts of the smartglasses.For people with short hair, the battery hanging out the back on the right-hand arm won’t be an issue, but it can mess up longer hair and stop you wearing hats or high-necked coats.The battery pack could be a hassle for people with long hair.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianDuring use, Glass gets warm, but not uncomfortably so. The touchpad on the side of the frame works well for scrolling through menus. Tapping on it selects items, while swiping down goes back one step. A camera button on the top of the frame enables quick snapshots or short videos with a little audible chime.Most actions can be performed either using voice or by tapping and swiping. When awake, saying “OK Glass” triggers the menu system, waiting for another keyword command such as “explore the stars”. Google searches and launching apps works well. Replying to messages is a little trickier via voice; trying to dictate a message of reasonable length with punctuation on any platform is still a little awkward, and no easier on Glass than on a phone or smartwatch.Head and eye-movement gestures can wake or turn off Glass, make notifications appear in the screen when they come in on a connected smartphone or take photos with a wink. Though only if you can wink with your right eye, which is not a talent I am blessed with.It is all fairly intuitive, once you’ve watched the startup instructional video.Reading themThe screen is just visible from the outside.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe screen is clearer than you might expect. It floats in the top right hand side of your vision, appearing as a small display projected in front of you. It is semi-transparent and quite crisp, and can be adjusted left and right to fit into the middle of your vision.People who wear glasses will likely need prescription lenses to make the screen clear enough to read.White text on a bright background is not easy to read, but looking at something not quite so bright makes it much clearer.You can watch YouTube videos, browse full websites and view photos on the screen, but most of the time it’s used for displaying small snippets of text.Some apps, such asGoogle’s Star Chart, use the full screen to produce a partial augmented reality, mapping constellations over the night’s sky by the angle and direction of your head.There are quite a few apps available now, so beyond the standard messaging, notifications and calls, you can get recipes sent to the screen, play music, games and videos, control other devices, translate text, buy goods or explore exhibitions.Battery lifeGlass lasted longer than I anticipated, with around eight hours of intermittent use. Shooting video and running apps reduced the battery life, but for general day-to-day notifications, directions and the odd photo it will last as long as a smartphone from 2012.Glass connects to a smartphone via Bluetooth for data connection while out and about, but has its own Wi-Fi when at home, which is easily configured through a smartphone. It struggles to connect to more complex corporate Wi-Fi, however.Social pariahShort of the price, which is no small matter, the biggest problem with Google Glass is the reaction of people around the wearer. It feels socially inappropriate much of the time – if not for the wearer, then for their audience.From the left-hand side Glass just looks like a normal pair of glasses.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOnly about 25% of people visibly reacted to me wearing them walking about on the street, about the Guardian, on trains and buses. Of those 25%, quite a few had adverse reactions, with some asking me to take them off and others noticeably wary of me.I think it’s the presumption that you could be recording video at any time of them without their knowledge. Yes, they can record video, but doing so drains the battery and is impractical. Taking photos and video also emits a small chime, so it isn’t as silent and secretive as you might imagine.The biggest disadvantage was that my family and friends refused to be seen with me while wearing them. They are not technology-obsessed in the same way I am, but there was nothing I could do to convince them. It was either them or Glass.Then there’s the price. Google Glass costs £1,000 with a variety of different frames. A smartwatch or similar wearable technology costs under £200.VerdictIs Google Glass the future of wearable technology? It was genuinely useful while walking about, quickly glancing at notifications was great, heads-up directions were handy and some of the augmented reality apps were fun.But most of what Glass does except the head-height photo and video functions can be done either with a smartwatch or a smartphone, if not quite as handily.Smartglasses have potential without a doubt, particularly for industries where hands-free access to information is crucial, but there is no killer app for consumers yet.If they were the price of a smartwatch, I would consider buying them, but not at £1,000. Not yet.Pros:one of the most advanced wearable technology currently available, always-accessible camera, heads-up display, decent selection of apps, interchangeable frames.Cons:expensive, socially unacceptable, can be uncomfortable with prolonged wearing, little utility that can’t be replicated by something more subtle, no killer app.Other reviews•Sony Smartwatch 3 review: great design, good screen and decent battery•Smartwatch review: LG’s G Watch R is chunky, masculine, and fast•Motorola Moto 360 review: beautiful smartwatch spoiled by poor battery life•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear•Sony Smartwatch 2 review: a second screen for your Android phone•Samsung Gear 2 and Gear Fit review: smartwatches on the up
When Janus Friis co-founded Skype in 2003, its entrenched competition was instant messaging software like MSN Messenger, AIM and Yahoo Messenger. In 2015, he’s backing a new communications startup calledWire. Its entrenched competition? Skype.Well, not just Skype. Wire combines elements of Skype, WhatsApp andcurrently-buzzy workplace communications service Slack. It’s launching as a slick, fully-formed app for Mac, iOS and Android devices and a team of 65 people – not to mention the domain name wire.com and the Twitter handle @wire.Little details that show the company’s big ambitions, as does the financial backing from Friis. “What attracted me to Wire is that it is something truly new. This is not some marginal improvement. This is not just an app,” he told the Guardian, in a rare interview ahead of its launch.“This is not just attacking one feature trying to do something marginally better. What the team has done is a complete from-the-ground-up reimagination of what communication should be. I wouldn’t have been interested if this was just another feature.”Wire is an app, of course: Mac, iOS and Android initially, with an HTML5 version in development – “It will be ready in less than a quarter,” chief executive Jonathan Christensen told the Guardian – that will cover other devices, including Windows PCs.It’s based around conversations, which can be one-to-one or group chats, into which photos, YouTube videos and SoundCloud tracks can be dragged and displayed or played. Wire populates each user’s social graph using their contacts list, sorting those contacts using various signals including regularity of chats, and time of the day or week.Wire also does voice calls, with audio quality being one of its key selling points: clear and loud, using the Opus open source audio codec that was developed in part by the company’s chief scientist Koen Vos. “We have deep expertise in audio technology: we’ve made many refinements to the audio stack. It’s one of our core things,” said Christensen.‘Solving nagging problems’ in communications appsDesign is also a big deal for Wire, with lots of clever touches to its user interface, from the ability to “ping” contacts to get their attention, to the simplicity of muting conversations if they’re getting too distracting. In its mobile apps, the text-input cursor can be swiped aside to reveal action icons.“There are hundreds of features in the product, and a lot of refinement from being in this space for many years, and knowing where the pain points are,” said Christensen. “We want to solve all those little, nagging problems that have been persistent for years and years in digital communications.”Skype looms large in Wire’s DNA: several members of its founding team worked there, including Christensen, who spent six years at Skype rising to vice president of emerging technologies, before leaving after Microsoft bought the company in 2012.He’s been building Wire’s team ever since. The company is headquartered in Switzerland, although its development team is based in Berlin, with other staff dotted around the world.Wire blends chat and voice calls.Switzerland? That brings us on to one of the most important questions for any new communications startup in 2015: security. After the surveillance revelations prompted by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, the ability (and desire) of any new communications startup to protect its users’ privacy is rightfully under scrutiny.Locating its head office in Switzerland was Wire’s first decision taken on security grounds. “If someone is interested in accessing our user data, there’s a formal and well-regulated process in Switzerland for that. They’re very mindful of privacy, and the same is true in Germany.”End-to-end encryption of voice callsWhat about the product? Recently, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) published a“Secure Messaging Scorecard”to rate various messaging apps on their security features, from whether they encrypted messages in transit; whether users could verify contacts’ identities; and whether the code was open to independent review.The trend, clearly illustrated in the EFF’s scorecard, was for niche privacy-focused apps to get lots of green ticks, and for the mainstream, popular apps to get lots of red stop signs. Can Wire buck that trend?“The first high-level statement is that we think people care about privacy, and we care about privacy. I use the app to talk to my wife, and to my business partners. I want my communications to be safe,” said Christensen.He added that Wire uses end-to-end encryption for all its voice calls, and encryption to and from its data centres for all its messages and media.“Unlike a lot of small startups, we have made a significant investment and are thoughtful about security. We have a full-time security expert working with us, and we hire outside firms to audit who can see the data and under what circumstances,” he added.Christensen did query some aspects of the EFF scorecard, though, suggesting that some of its criteria are challenging. “If you have multi-party chat and end-to-end encryption, there’s a lot of key-sharing that has to go on. At some point, you break the product and make it unusable,” he said.“But we have long-term persistent conversations: that’s a big part of our model, we want to have recall, we want to do search, and you have to have something to search against. Our model is cloud-based: it’s more like Gmail when you can always search.”How important will security and privacy be to people deciding whether to sign up for Wire, though? Social motivations – what services your friends and colleagues are using – have tended to be the dominant factors for past communications tools, from those early instant messaging clients through Skype and on to Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp.Friis suggested that security and other features can sit alongside one another. “The perception in terms of how much people think about security has certainly increased a lot since 2013 and the Snowden revelations. Simplicity, beauty, ease of use and functionality is still bigger, but they’re not mutually exclusive,” said Friis.“There are complicated trade-offs to be made in the design choices when you design these products. They’re not as black and white as sometimes they can be made out to be, but Wire have thought security in from the beginning.”Janus Friis in 2003, when he was still working at Skype.Photograph: Steve Forrest / Rex FeaturesWire’s launch is global with no barriers, rather than a slow, invite-only rollout, which means while it worked beautifully while writing this article, the real test will come if and when users start piling on to the platform.Video calls to be added laterWhat are the challenges? Video calls aren’t included at launch, which may be a problem if Wire is hoping to suck users away from Skype, Viber and Tango. “It’s not available now, but let’s just say we have those skills in-house,” said Christensen.The app includes in-app pointers explaining how features work, which Christensen acknowledged as essential for older users: “If you put this in the hands of a 17-25 year-old, they’re masters from the very first minute. If they’re 35-55 year-olds, they’re a little ‘why?’,” he said.Christensen would not say whether the company is targeting businesses or consumers, but said it had identified potential revenue streams if it can build a critical mass of users first.Wire is completely free for now – pre-revenue, as investors call it – with the emphasis on signing up users before introducing paid features later on.“It’s in our terms of use: we’re not going to look at your data and cultivate it for advertising,” said Christensen. “We’re not going to put advertising in the client. My head of design would kill me! It’s more about finding the right kind of opportunities that are additive to the user experience, and that they’re motivated to pay for. We’ve found what we think are a couple of good ones.”What comes after WhatsApp?The biggest challenge for Wire – and any new communications tool – is to get popular in the first place. Clever design, clear audio and respect for privacy are all good things, but only if enough people are using it: specifically, enough of your friends when you’re deciding whether to use it yourself.In November,Microsoft said that Skype had more than 300 million userscalling and messaging one another. Wire is starting with a handful (by comparison) of beta testers. Word-of-mouth will be the defining factor in whether Wire matters in a year’s time.Christensen said that the company has “removed many potential barriers to getting on board”, requiring only a name, email address and password to sign up, as well as the contacts list to build out a social graph.The company hopes this will serve it well in a cyclical communications market where people are still willing to try new products. “We’re laser focused in making it as good as it can be, and fill the space when people are ready to move on from the purely functional,” he said.“Our philosophy was if the first generation was about price arbitrage – Skype made phone calls free, WhatsApp made SMS free – that’s great, but what about the next thing? What about the real product that’s built around these features?”•Next for messaging apps: encryption, payments, media and ads
It's Wednesday.
Twitter unveiled a new system for reporting abuse on Tuesday and rolled it out to a small group of users, with plans to expand it in the coming weeks.The revamped system includes fewer steps to report abuse, and a new blocked accounts page that includes features for managing accounts a user has blocked. A user who has been blocked by an account will no longer be able to view that profile page.Twitter said these features would be available to all users in the next few weeks.Shreyas Doshi, Twitter’s director of product management and user safety,said in a blogpostthat the changes are part of a move by the company to improve abuse reporting on the site.“We are nowhere near being done making changes in this area,” wrote Doshi. “In the coming months, you can expect to see additional user controls, further improvements to reporting and new enforcement procedures for abusive accounts.”Like many other corners of the internet, Twitter has been a repository for abusive language. It can also get alarmingly personal, as evidenced recently by#gamergate– an online movement that targeted feminist video game critics.These critics received violent threats, occasionally with specific details about where they live after the information was posted on other sites.Twitter’s reported 23% year-on-year user growth in the third quarter, though analysis showed that people are engaging with the site less. Throughout November, the company’s top executivessold off millions in stock holdingswith the company.
Sir Clive Sinclair is backing a new crowdfunding campaign to relaunch the iconic ZX Spectrum as a new home gaming console, the Sinclair Spectrum Vega.The Vega mimics the design of the Spectrum, but is a handheld games controller with five buttons and control pad, and includes 1,000 games from the 1980s. Gone is the tape and the full keyboard, but the tinny speaker and coloured stripes remain.“The Sinclair Spectrum Vega takes advantage of major advances in technology to achieve big cost savings by replacing most of the electronics in the earlier computer products,” said Retro Computers, backed by 74-year-old Sinclair as an investor,in the Indiegogo campaign.“Instead the Vega uses a low cost micro-controller and a clever piece of software that combine to enable the Vega to [download and] run all of the games, 14,000 or more of them, which were developed during the years when some 5 million of the original Sinclair Spectrum were being sold.”Sinclair Spectrum VegaThe Luton-based startup Retro Computers rolled out the campaign 32 years after the first ZX Spectrum with a prototype ready, the name and computer intellectual property licensed from Sky, who bought it from Sir Alan Sugar’s Amstrad.The console plugs straight into a TV and was designed and developed by Chris Smith, a former ZX Spectrum games developer and foremost expert on the aged system.The company is currently in negotiations with thousands of Spectrum developers to ask permission to use their games on the Vega, which should be able run any software developed for the original ZX including Chuckie Egg, Manic Miner, Chequered Flag, Horace Goes Skiing and Jet Set Willy. Users will also be able to load their own games using an SD card.The 10% software royalties owed to the Spectrum game developers will be paid to the Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children.Although over a quarter of a century old, the Spectrum has retained its appeal with nostalgic gamers, and has been repeatedly repackaged for modern audiences. In 2002, the AmstradEmailer Plusphone came with a built-in Spectrum emulator, while in 2013, veteran developer and publisher Elite Systems releaseda bluetooth Spectrum keyboardfor use with iPhone and Android handsets.Retro Computers is looking for £100,000 in funding to start production, with the first 1,000 Vegas costing £100 each available in April. More than £33,000 has been pledged at the time of writing already with 60 days left to go.•ZX Spectrum Kickstarter project stalls over unpaid developer bills
North Korea has refused to deny involvement inthe hack of Sony Pictures, which crippled the studio’s computers this week and leaked current blockbusters and private documents online.A spokesman for North Korea’s UN missionsaid: “The hostile forces are relating everything to the DPRK (North Korea). I kindly advise you to just wait and see.”Sony staff were reduced tousing pen, paperand fax machines, unable to use their computers. Some sources said that 70% of files, documents and even film scripts had been deleted.Ex-employees on whom Sony held data told the Guardian they were worried that some of the leaked data allegedly included personal data. “There’s lots of very personal info: contracts, payroll info, work evaluation. Workers [are] upset they aren’t getting good answers from management,” said one. “The question remains if they actually have the files in question. If they do it’s a huge mess.”A group calling itself Guardians of Peace (Gop) has claimed responsibility for the hack, though links between Gop and the North Korean authorities have not been confirmed.North Korea threatened ‘merciless counter measures’ over Seth Rogen filmMany suppose that Pyongang’s motivation to hack the studio stems from theimminent release of the Sony Pictures film The Interview, a James Franco and Seth Rogen comedy that depicts an attempt to assassinate leader Kim Jong-un. It is suspected that five high-profile Sony movies - including Brad Pitt’s film Fury - were also stolen in the hack; they were subsequently distributed on various file-sharing sites.The North Korean ambassador Ja Song Nam labelled the comedy’s release an “act of war” in a letter to the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon,in July, while the North Korean foreign ministry threatened “merciless counter-measures” if the US allowed the release of the film.Sourcestold technology site Recodethat Sony Pictures was investigating the possibility that hackers working on behalf of North Korea from China were behind the attack. The company has hired Silicon Valley security firm FireEye to investigate and help repair the computer network.Similar methods to attack on South Korea in 2013Reports laterindicatedthat the tools used to carry out the attack on the movie studio were very similar to those used to attack South Korean cash machines and television stations last year, which the country publicly blamed on North Korea.This notice stuck on lifts at Sony Pictures in London..pic.twitter.com/RMZcQhjfYI&mdash; James Dean (@JamesDeanTimes)November 28, 2014Hackers displayed a message in broken English alongside an image of a skeleton across the screens of Sony Pictures employees, while several of the company’s Twitter accounts were taken over to display malicious messages targeted at chief executive Michael Lynton.cool to know that RL Stine&#39;s cover illustrator is still getting work from Hacked By#GOP.pic.twitter.com/gHUGvOMmyr&mdash; Keaton Savage (@keatonsavage)November 24, 2014The security researcher Mark Karpeles told the Guardian that the leaked files that originally appeared on Reddit last week indicated either Chinese or North Korean hackers were responsible, owing to thecharacter encodingused in some of the files.“In the file we had a line with broken characters. Those characters didn’t render right under any encoding, except EUC-CN [Chinese] and EUC-KR [Korean] … In this case, the readme.txt file could be read fine under either EUC-CN and EUC-KR, which means the file was most likely generated from a computer set in either Chinese or Korean – or the hacker deliberately converted the file (which seems unlikely),” Karpeles said.Hackers made no mention of the supreme leaderNot all security researchers are convinced that North Korea is behind the attack.“It is hard to imagine that if the thing that raised the ire of the hackers was a movie about a CIA/Kim Jong-un assassination plot that the hackers wouldn’t refer to either in their pronouncements,”wrote the independent security researcher Graham Cluley.“An attack, let’s not forget, that appears to have no qualms about drawing attention to itself … but carelessly forgets to use the opportunity to praise North Korea’s supreme leader or call for the movie besmirching his image to be withdrawn.”There are further inconsistencies with previous North Korean hacking attempts. Gop has not been linked with North Korean activities before and no previous attacks have made ransom demands of the type made in the first instance of this attack on Sony. The Gop hack also singles out Sony Pictures chief executive Lynton, which previous North Korean attacks have not done before.North Korea’s sophisticated Unit 121 cyber divisionThe country is certainly capable of carrying out an attack of this scale. Despite images of isolation and citizens deprived of basic internet access, Jong-un has called cyberattacks a “magic weapon” for “ruthless strikes” against South Korea.Areport by Hewlett Packardpublished in August 2014 described the notorious North Korean military division Unit 121 as fully capable of breaking into computer networks, writing and planting computer viruses and carrying out ambitious cyberattacks. The North Korean cyberweapons unit was created in 1998 and has steadily grown in size and capability.It has conducted more attacks on US military systems than any other country, including Russia and China. North Korea also has an agreement with Iran for cyberwarfare activities, spurred by the discovery of the US and Israeli cyberweaponStuxnet.The country also has a counter-intuitive advantage due to its lack of widespread internet infrastructure. “Cyber warfare provides a strategic advantage since outbound attacks are possible, but inbound attacks would have limited reach,” said the HP report.•North Korea may have hacked Sony for Kim Jong-un baiting in The Interview•FBI joins probe into possible North Korea hack of Sony Pictures
YouTube production studio Rooster Teeth has launched a new channel,Game Kids, aimed mainly at children.The channel will focus on games including The Sims and Minecraft, with videos featuring Rooster Teeth staff and their children, and the promise that the content will be “family-friendly”.In aQ&amp;A on the company’s websitebefore the new channel launched, Rooster Teeth’s Caleb Deneour and Geoff Ramsay gave more details of their plans, which they said “has been in the works for years”.New videos will be released every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, averaging 10-20 minutes in length in the“Let’s Play”format. The comments section will be “heavily moderated” but not disabled, and the channel will not be used to promote other Rooster Teeth content.Rooster Teeth’s main channelhas just under eight million subscribers on YouTube, and 3.5 billion views since its launch in 2006. Some of its content – the splenetically swearyRage Quitstrand, for example – may not be seen as child-friendly by some parents.“Our goal is to create family friendly content for all ages. Basically, I want to make content that my daughter can watch,” wrote Ramsay in the Q&amp;A.“The content is meant to appeal to a younger audience. I don’t want a 7 year old kid watching a Game Kids video, then watching Rage Quit. I also don’t want that kid’s parents to murder me.”Game Kids sits neatly at the intersection of two big trends on YouTube: gaming and children’s entertainment.The top 100 games channels on YouTubegenerated nearly 4.4 billion video viewsin September alone, led by channels including PewDiePie, Stampy, Vegetta and The Diamond Minecart. All are part of multi-channel network Maker Studios, which was acquired by Disney earlier in 2014.Two of those channels – Stampy and The Diamond Minecart – have large audiences of children. But non-gaming children’s channels are also popular: thebiggest channel on YouTube in October was toy-unboxing channel DC Toys Collector, with nursery-rhyme channel Little Baby Bum also in the top five on YouTube that month.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
Ho ho ho, or rather, who who who? That’s the question to ask for Santa and tech fans this Christmas, who will have a choice between two rival Santa trackers – one from the North American Aerospace Defence Command (Norad), withMicrosoft, and the other fromGoogle.Norad’s Santa dedicatedwebsiteincludes games, music and movies, and caters for eight different languages. Google, meanwhile, has built aninteractive Santa Village, which also offers games, videos and a scrolling sled-ride.Both sites feature a countdown to all-important Christmas Eve and features which will become unlocked nearer to the day. Perhaps most excitingly, Google hopes to teach kids to code as part of a short Christmas project written in basic Javascript.Norad used to work alongside Google on a combined tracker, starting in 2007, but last year the aerospace authoritydropped the companyand jumped into the sleigh with Microsoft instead, while Google forged ahead with its own version.Now Norad’s tracker is based onBingMaps, as opposed to Google Maps. There was no official reason for last year’s split. Norad released astatementat the time saying it and the search engine giant had “mutually agreed to go in new directions”.Which obviously wasn’t quite accurate, given that they are both headed to the North Pole.Norad’s own Santa village on its web app.Photograph: Norad screengrabBoth trackers also run on mobile as well as web – Norad’s on iOS, Android and Windows Play. While Google offers anAndroidmobile app andChrome extension.Norad’s history with Santa goes back a long way. The military body first started tracker since 1955, after a department store which advertised a number to phone Santa accidentally directed calls to Colorado Springs’ Continental Air Defense Command Center.Norad and Santa’s relationship has been in rude elf ever since. A voluntary team of more than1,250people deal with 70,000 calls and 12,000 emails, and calls from 200 countries come in on the 24 December.As for which one to choose? Well, the key thing here is to remember to be good so that Santa visits at all. The history of Norad’s efforts is something special, but for aesthetic and interactive experience, we might have to give it to Google.•Norad ‘Santa tracker’ drops Google Maps for Bing this Christmas
Twitter’s top executives sold off almost $50m personal stock holdings during November, with the CEO, Dick Costolo, shedding almost 50% of his holdings, and co-founder Ev Williams leading the charge by offloading $28.7m-worth of shares.Twitter’s most famous face, Jack Dorsey, sold $2.1m worth of equities, along with Adam Baim, resident of global revenues, who sold $4m worth of shares. They were joined in the sale by Alexander Roetter, head of engineering, Vijaya Gadde, general counsel, and Kevin Weill, VP of product, who all sold around $1m-worth of stock each.TheUS Securities and Exchange Commissionconfirmed the sales in official filings relating to November trading.The firm toldForbesthat “other than charitable donations, all of the executives’ stock sales were done in accordance with automatic trading plans put on file at least 90 days prior to the sales”.That implies that the sale was not due to recent stock value slides and investor jitters over the firm’s performance.Twitter’s share has price dropped by 17% in the last month, even though the firm reported Q3 revenue of $361m, up 114% year-over-year, with 23% growth in users of 13m to 284m.However, analysis published by the firm showed that users were engaging with the service less, with average individual monthly timeline views – the key metric from many advertisers’ perspective – falling from 793 to 774 in the US. Globally, that figure slid 7%. Diminishing user interest in timelines means smaller revenues for the firm, scaring investors.The share sale and price plunge follows the November downgrade by ratings agency Standard &amp; Poors of Twitter stock to BB- – or junk – status. S&amp;P said the downgrade would be reversed if the firm could broaden its revenue base in foreign markets, create new products, maintain its market position, continue to improve its profitability, and achieve positive and sustained discretionary cashflow in excess of $100m in 2016.Twitter’srecently announced software development kit, Fabric,might address some of those demands. The firm will offer the app-building and analytics kit to developers in exchange for building Twitter into the back end of every app they write – meaning everyone that uses a smartphone will be using Twitter whether they choose to or not. Ad-generation functionality will be built into the suite, with some of that revenue shared with Twitter.The price drop leaves Twitter shares essentially flat over the first year since its November IPO, with prices hovering at around $39.04c.The firm has seen high turnover of some of its top staff in recent weeks. Two of its top engineers, its head of analytics and its VP of engineering, all resigned at the end of October. The next day, Twitter’s VP of product was demoted and replaced.Costolo responded to accusations in September Paypal founderPeter Thiel, who told CNBC that the company was poorly run, remarking that there was“probably a lot of pot-smoking going on there”by tweeting: “Working my way through a giant bag of Doritos. I’ll catch up with you later.”Jessica Valenti: If tech companies wanted to end online harrassment, they could do it tomorrow
Flickr’s latest business model –selling wall-art prints of more than 50m imagesshot by its community of photographers – has sparked a debate around Creative Commons licensing.The Yahoo-owned site will keep all the revenues from sales of prints based on photos shared to Flickr using aCreative Commons “commercial attribution” licence, which allows commercial use. However, it is sharing 51% of the revenues from sales of prints licensed directly from members with those photographers.Why is this controversial? Not because it’s illegal. Flickr’s Bernardo Hernandeztold the Wall Street Journalthat the licences “are designed for the exact use case that we’re enacting through our wall-art product”, while the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s intellectual property director Corynne McSherry confirmed that “it doesn’t appear that Flickr is doing anything wrong”.Flickr had alreadypublished a separate blog poston 26 November about the new feature. “We believe it’s possible to build a healthy and profitable marketplace for photography with the ownership of intellectual property as a core tenet of that marketplace,” explained the company.The Wall Street Journal polled 14 affected photographers and found a split in their views: eight did not object to having their Creative Commons photos sold without getting a cut of the revenues, while six did object.The controversy comes from the fact that to prevent their photos being sold as wall-art prints, photographers have to use a different non-commercial Creative Commons licence, even if they’re happy for smaller companies to use their work.“As a photographer, I now have to choose whether to prevent people from using my photos, or prevent Yahoo from selling them. I can’t have both,”wrote veteran web designer and author Jeffrey Zeldmanon his blog.“I want people to use my photos. That’s why I take them. I want that usage to be unencumbered. That’s why I chose a Creative Commons license. Some of the publications and businesses that use my photos make no money at all. Others make a little something. I don’t care either way. That’s why I chose a Commercial Attribution license. The license makes my work available to all publications and products, whether commercial or non-commercial. Fine with me.But Yahoo selling the stuff? Cheesy, desperate, and not at all fine with me. I pay for a Flickr Pro account, and am happy to do so. That’s how Yahoo is supposed to make money from my hobby.”Flickr has a long-established community of amateur and professional photographers, including some who’ve used it as a platform to move from the former to the latter group.The danger for the company is that the new wall-art store risks damaging its relationship with those photographers, at a time when there is competition from sites like 500px.“It’s hard to imagine the revenue from selling the prints will cover the cost of lost goodwill” said Stewart Butterfield, who co-founded Flickr with Caterina Fake before selling it to Yahoo in March 2005. Both left the company in 2008.Flickr stagnated over the next few years in the face of competition from services including Facebook and Instagram, but wasrevamped under Yahoo’s chief executive Marissa Mayerin May 2013.“We hope you’ll agree that we have made huge strides to make Flickr awesome again,” she wrote at the time. While its new wall-art store may be perfectly legal, if more creators view it as distinctlyun-awesome, Yahoo may need to rethink its approach.•Tumblr audience up to 420m as Yahoo predicts $100m revenues
It’s nearly Christmas and for many of us that means accidentally going into an electronics store or online retailer and buying a games console. But which of the three main competitors should you aim for when that happens?Let’s look at some more facets of the three current machines.Social connectivityThese days it seems a growing number of people can’t actually enjoy games unless they’re sharing them with the entire world. The good news is, both Xbox One and PlayStation 4 allow you to upload videos of your finest gaming moments, or stream them live over the web.On PlayStation, just hit the share button, choose either Twitch or Ustream, then you’re off. The PlayStation Camera is supported so everyone can see you too. “The UI is so easy to use,” says Andrew Smith, founder of Spilt Milk Studios. “If you just want to save the last 15 minutes of footage, you can either upload it to Youtube or Facebook, or save it onto the machine for editing in the simple and friendly PS4 editing tool. You can also grab any of these files on your USB and take it to your PC for a bit more advanced editing if that’s what you want.”With Xbox One, if you have a Kinect camera, you can say “Xbox Broadcast” and you’re immediately streaming to Twitch. “It’s simple and easy-to use – absolutely as it should be,” says Adam Sawkins, developer of FortressCraft“As for uploading videos to Youtube … ugh. There’s a whole bunch of Kinect commands for no good reason, and while doing it on a SmartGlass-enabled device is a lot better, it’s still a fiddly nightmare. Itispowerful though: you can do fades and edits, but you’re better off uploading the raw footage to Youtube, downloading it, and editing it on PC. On the upside, the ‘Xbox, record that’ command grabs the previous 30 seconds of gameplay and saves it out for you to upload at a later date, which works great for unexpected events.”The Wii U doesn’t currently support streaming or sharing in this way. However, you can upload screenshots to the MiiVerse, while Mario Kart 8 allows players to view and make videos of interesting races; it’s likely this feature will make it into subsequent titles.PeripheralsBoth the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One controllers have been overhauled since the previous generation. TheDualshock 4has added a “Share” button to help with broadcasting and recording, and it has a new touch pad, which provides a new way for interacting with games (though it has rarely been used effectively so far).TheXbox One padis slightly chunkier and some gamers with larger hands appreciate that. The analogue sticks are nicely designed with textured thumb grips, and the triggers have individual rumble motors which adds a nice tactile sense to the action.The Wii U, meanwhile, has its fascinating GamePad. This bulky device boasts a large touchscreen, giving players either a second display (perhaps for maps or an aiming mechanism) or a way of playing games when someone else is watching the television. Like taking photos with an iPad, it feels a little strange and unwieldy, but you get used to it and there are some genuinely fascinating gameplay possibilities.Elsewhere, both the Xbox One and the PlayStation One have motion sensing cameras – they’re available separately, unless you pay extra for a bundle. The Kinect is undoubtedly more sophisticated adding a large number of voice commands, very precise motion controls, gesture recognition and even biometric data, such as heart rate. The PlayStation Camera can do motion tracking and voice recognition, but right now it won’t let you control the interface with gestures like the Kinect does.As for the future, Sony should launch its Project Morpheus virtual reality headset for PlayStation 4 this year, which could be a huge deal. Microsoft is doubtless working on something similar, but hasn’t announced yet. Nintendo has probably had its fill of VR gaming thanks very much.User InterfaceAll three machines offer highly visualised user interfaces, filled with app icons and social networking features. Again, it’s down to personal preference. The Xbox One set-up is the busiest, allowing lots of personalisation, including the ability to snap in-screen windows together, so you can, say, watch a video while playing a game (why?!). However, it’s very cluttered and can be confusing to navigate.The PlayStation 4 interface is much more calm and focused, providing drop-down access to menus, allowing a much more deliberate experience – although some see it as sparse and boring. It does have two key advantages: Remote Play, which lets you stream games to your Vita, so you can play away from the TV (Microsoft’s SmartGlass app provides sometablet interconnectivitybut not remote gaming), and Share Play, which lets you play against friends with certain games, even if they don’t own a copy.Both the Xbox One and PS4 interfaces keep you up to date with what your mates are doing, showing what they’re playing and how you can get involved.Nintendo’s machine has a fun friendly interface, viewable on your TV or on the GamePad. Complete with the usual Home, eShop and entertainment channels, it’ll be nicely familiar to Wii users. It also boasts the lovely MiiVerse, a sort of online social network that lets you see comments from other users in your region (both on the UI screen and within games), and join forums dedicated to specific titles – great if you’re stuck on a tricky level.It’s down to personal preference – again: each system has its merits and annoying quirks, but they are all updated with varying degrees of regularity so new features and tweaks will continue to improve things.GamesLet’s get this straight from the outset, some of our favourite games this year have been on Wii U. Bayonetta 2, Mario Kart 8, Super Smash Bros, Shovel Knight... add in 2013 faves like Super Mario 3D World and the superlative Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker remake and you have some astonishing experiences that will entertain the whole family. Next year will bring interesting multiplayer paint shooter Splatoon, a new Mario Party and maybe a new Zelda. It’s hardly a bustling line-up, but if you’ve always loved Nintendo or are happy with five or six beautifully crafted titles a year, this strange machine is still worth a look.As for PlayStation and Xbox, they get the big multiplatform releases that the Wii U doesn’t – which means all the Call of Duty, Assassin’s Creed, Destiny and Fifa you can handle. PS4 versions have tended to be slightly better in terms of HD visuals, but Xbox One is catching up. Also, if you’re a fan of a particular “franchise” (ugh), keep an eye out for console-specific features: sometimes Microsoft or Sony will tie up deals to secure extra missions, weapons or characters for their versions of a hit series.The big choice is down to the platform exclusives. For Xbox One this year that has meant the superb Forza Horizon 2, the pretty good Titanfall and Halo: Master Chief Collection, and the passable Sunset Overdrive and Project Spark. Next year will see returning favourites Halo 5, Fable Legends and possibly Crackdown 3, as well as monster slaying adventure Scalebound from Platinum Games and intriguing indie titles Inside and Ori and the Blind Forest.For PlayStation 4, we’ve seen the likes of inFamous: Second Son, Killzone: Shadow Fall and the promising but technically troubled DriveClub. Smaller indie titles like Transistor, Hohokum and Velocity 2X have been much better, but it says volumes that by far the best big exclusive on the system is the remastered edition of PS3 legend, The Last of Us. In 2015, however, there’s a strong line-up: the eagerly awaited Uncharted 4; From Software’s follow up to Dark Souls, Bloodborne; the procedurally generated space exploration sim No Man’s Sky; steam punk adventure The Order: 1886; and intriguing indie thriller, Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture.Can we just use the term “personal preference” one last time?PricingWii U is the cheapest option. Big retailers like Amazon and Argos will sell you a basic starter pack (no games) for £170, while a bundle with Mario Kart 8 and an extra controller costs £250. Basic Xbox One and PS4 packs both come in at between £300 and £330 (neither of those include a camera peripheral). Microsoft has some decent bundle deals right now: you can get a console and a copy of Assassin’s Creed Unity or Sunset Overdrive for £330.As ever, check both the major retailers and your local game stores for exclusive deals. If you’re on a budget, eBay is worth a look, but focus on machines that are still under warranty. Anyone remember the red ring of death?
When Markus Persson sold his company Mojang - maker of the Minecraft game, toMicrosoft for $2.5bn earlier this year, he justified the deal by writing: “Thank you for turning Minecraft into what it has become, but there are too many of you, and I can’t be responsible for something this big. It’s not about the money. It’s about my sanity.”What’s insane is the price tag. I mean, how does one sit down with one of the world’s largest tech giants and negotiate a deal for a game that has sold more than 50 million copies for PCs, tablets, smartphones and consoles like Microsoft’s Xbox? How did Microsoft even decide to give Persson and his two business partners $2.5bn instead of say, $2.4bn?The truth is, that sum of money is going to completely change Persson’s life but for Microsoft, the deal wasn’t about the money. It was driven by other factors, that have been prevalent across the wider tech industry this year and have conspired to create an environment where the value of a product can go from zero to $2.5bn, almost overnight.The formation of what I call a 100-foot wave, that’s just appeared among the calm waters of the gaming world, has also claimedTwitchandKabamin recent months.Twitch, a service that lets users watch and broadcast gameplay, sold, or some might say ‘sold-out’ to Amazon for $970m, while mobile US game publisher Kabam secured $120m in investment from Chinese e-retail conglomerate, Alibaba. That values Kabam, best-known for titles such as Dragons of Atlantis, at over $1bn.So what is going on? For Microsoft, the Minecraft deal is a combination of giving shareholders additional perceived value through acquisition while investing in a data demographic, made-up largely of pre-pubescent boys who will one-day have to choose between Mac and PC, Xbox or PlayStation, Apple or Android.From a brand perspective, owning or investing in the latest craze, which has already developed a loyal following, could be seen as equivalent to owning Hornby or Scalextric from my generation.In Microsoft’s case, there’s one major difference however. In today’s digital age, Minecraft users submit profile information, so not only is Microsoft buying potential brand advocates, it’s also buying their demographic data, which could potentially be used to target this audience all the way into kidulthood.Meanwhile, the valuation of Kabam is just obscene. There’s not enough in-game mobile advertisers currently to justify that sort of return on investment. But again, it’s not about the valuation.It’s a digital land-grab, using the games publisher to penetrate a Chinese population that represent approximately 50% of the global gaming market.The thing about 100-foot waves however, is that they appear out of nowhere and disappear just as quickly. The start-ups that surf them successfully are often brittle in the hands of their suitors.Remember the Draw Something app? Two years ago, Zynga spent $200m on buying OMGPOP.The Draw Something studio app hit a 15 million user peak a few days after the deal was signed and then basically fell off a cliff,losing five million daily active users over the next month.The game just stopped being cool under its new owner and any attempts to sell advertisers in as the words to be drawn, just made it an even bigger turn-off.If Amazon has plans to monetise Twitch, it should take heed and remember to put the needs of the user first. These millennial gamers are a cynical lot and don’t like to feel that they’re being overtly targeted or manipulated by advertising. One wrong move and this generation will find another outlet for their game play.Any talk of a “secret sauce” for successful game development is bullshit designed to whip up a 100-foot wave. You can’t build a business that relies on the occurrence of seismic activity unless your business is earthquakes.Careful investment, innovation in design and a love of nostalgia and history are more important than trends and crazes that dissolve as quickly as they’ve arrived.However difficult a decision it was, the guys behind Mojang were right to walk-away from the future of Minecraft. Ah who am I kidding? It wasn’t a difficult decision - it was a perfect collision of Microsoft’s necessity and the desires of Mojang. Whether they’ve supplied Microsoft with the building blocks to future success, only time will tell and history will judge.Jason Kingsley is co-founder and creative director atRebellionand chairman ofTIGARead more like thisNew technology is fuelling the growth of gaming with social purposeFrom BBC to BuzzFeed: lessons in mobile publishingTo get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox,sign up free for Media Network membership.All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “Brought to you by” – find out morehere.
It's Tuesday!
The way we use maps is changing. The way we think of the city is changing. The way we think of, interact with and navigate the streets, alleys, boulevards, roads, parks, lanes, hills, cracks and gutters is going through a seismic shift, not because the landscape has changed, but because of little black rectangles in our pockets.Apps such as Google Maps and Citymapper “smooth out the machine,” says Mike Duggan, researcher in Cultural Geography at Royal Holloway. Duggan has been researching how digital technologies change our experiences of everyday places, and one of the main things he’s noticed is the way new technology continues to smooth out the machine that billions of us navigate every day – the city.“There’s a long history in ‘smoothing out the city’ via technology,” says Duggan. “What’s new is that these mobile technologies (ie smartphones) offer so much in one place - the palms of our hands - and this often seems like a revolution because we no longer have to go searching very far for information that makes life easier: we just reach into our pockets.”Having a map in your pocket at all is relatively recent development. “In the medieval period right the way through to the 19th century, people could live perfectly happily in their locality without ever having knowledge of or care for the wider world,” explains Tom Harper, curator of antiquarian mapping at the British Library. As maps became cheaper to produce they became important public tools, able to take the mess of new urban metropolises and make them comprehensible. Pocket maps were designed to fit in gentlemen’s coat pockets, and this cheaper production signalled a revolution in mapping. As digital technology becomes more readily available the shifts are just as enormous.“The other day I started writing a list of where location-based services could be used in the next 10 years, and within two minutes I quickly realised that the list could go on forever,” says Duggan. “People use them to find food, entertainment, post pictures, videos, for politics … There are maps in more and more aspects of our lives, and now it’s us generating the maps for ourselves. They’re becoming more personal than collective.”As directions become more automatic, the barriers between navigating real and virtual cities are becoming thinner.Photograph: Alex Segre / Rex Features/Alex Segre / Rex Features“You are here” no longer needs to be said. We are by default the centre of the world. Our surroundings emanate from us, from a little blue dot that sits on the screen. It’s perhaps the single most important change in how we view the city. Around this blue dot stem not only cafes and banks but our own experiences, our pictures and tweets; past moments pinned to their places of origin. Harper explains that the earliest maps weren’t navigational plans but rather objects of symbolic pride. Sixteenth century rulers would hang maps in their palaces to represent the might and power of their cities. There are echoes of this in the way we are encouraged to spatially integrate our social personae, as if we too have ownership over the frothy coffee shops around us.But is this sense of ownership illusory? Are we in fact losing grip of the city as a collective entity? Flicking through the pages of an atlas or struggling to unfold a tourist map gives a physical sense of scale: here is the city and the edges of the pages are its limits. Zoomed in on the user that scale is lost. We no longer pore through maps, we trace from A to B while the world outside the line of direction falls away. “Removing that need to find out where you are is huge,” says Duggan. “It’s an important generational change. I personally can’t use co-ordinates to find out where I am anymore; I could do when I was younger. Now I don’t have to so I don’t bother doing it and people brought up with these services rarely think about that process at all.”As directions become more automatic, the barriers between navigating real and virtual cities are becoming thinner. Whether it’s a case of art imitating life or life imitating art, maps in games have changed alongside their real-world counterparts. Ten years ago, games would come with paper foldout maps but navigating the world of a modern game like Skyrim or GTA V is as simple as following lines on the mini-map or walking towards waypoint markers projected on the horizon. These immersive techniques are slipping into the real world. Google’s turn-by-turn navigation software, for example, lets you plug in a pair of headphones for direction. Using it is a strange experience. As you approach an intersection and the robotic voice permeates the personal bubble normally reserved for music and radio chatter the open city instantly becomes reduced to a corridor. It feels like a game.An English tapestry map of London, from the mid 17th century.Photograph: Henry Guttmann/Getty Images“This restrictive feel ties in very strongly to maps produced in the 17th century by John Ogilby,” Harper points out. “They’re the first maps to focus on the roads, called strip maps. They take the road as a series of strips. All you saw on the map was the road. Nothing on either side was of importance unless it was a feature to help you navigate. It’s an incredibly narrow corridor of the world, very claustrophobic.”If the past few years have seen maps narrow their attention to the individual’s position, the next few could see maps narrow their sights further in on the individual’s own point of view. With the advent of Google glass, it’s easy to imagine a yellow path projected from King’s Cross to Trafalgar Square, mentally reducing the space between the two places into one of Ogilby’s maps; an efficient path from here to there, but one which loses the sense of the city as a whole.So it’s only natural to expect a reaction. While the 19th century saw the rise of the urban map, it also saw the rise of the urban drifter. A mapper and an anti-mapper, the flaneur would explore the city in order to experience it, leaving him or herself open to chance. In the face of greater prescription of movement, the idea of drifting through the city may witness a revival. It already has, to some extent,in the virtual world of games.In the end, maps are empty. For the poet Charles Baudelaire, the importance of a city wasn’t in the structures themselves but the people who fill them. “The lover of universal life enters into the crowd as though it were an immense reservoir of electrical energy,” he wrote in The Painter of Modern Life in 1863. While there may be a whole new reservoir of electricity in my phone battery, it’s still nothing compared to the energy of a surging crowd. And while we may be encouraged to chart our pictures and words to maps, actual memories are a lot harder to pin down. People, and memories of people, are harder things to map than streets and alleys.
We’re increasingly familiar with the “dark web” through technology like Tor, but how about “dark social” – sharing that happens outside trackable social networks like Facebook and Twitter?Online advertising firm RadiumOne has beentrying to quantify the scale of dark social sharing(PDF), with a survey of more than 9,000 people plus data from their online sharing tools to understand how they share through tools like email and instant messaging, which are much less trackable through traditional web analytics.Among its findings: “Sharing activity through email, instant messaging and forum posts, aka Dark Social, is three times larger than the sharing activity on Facebook, globally. 69% of all sharing activity takes place via Dark Social globally versus 23% via Facebook.”32% of people who share onlineonlydo it via dark social channels. The theory here being that anyone analysing traditional social networking traffic alone is missing up to a third of activity.This being a white paper from an advertising company, of course part of the reason for publishing it is to tell advertisers that RadiumOne can help them analyse that dark social traffic. But it’s an interesting study, reminding us that while the data from the big social networks can be fascinating to crunch, it’s not the whole story.What else is on the tech radar today? Here are some links to think about:Apple iTunes antitrust lawsuit gets underwayIn 2014, Apple has been mulling how to respond to the threat posed to iTunes by streaming music services like Spotify. Yet the company is also in court for an antitrust lawsuit first filed in 2005 over its response to another (then) rival: RealNetworks. The focus: DRM software that locked iTunes purchases to iPods, complete with a 2011 deposition from late CEO Steve Jobs.How 3D printing is used for facial transplantsA reminder that 3D printing is more than just a novelty in the medical sector: it’s being used by surgeons to prepare for facial transplants for patients who’ve suffered traumatic injuries. “This is a complex surgery and its success is dependent on surgical planning. Our study demonstrated that if you use this model and hold the skull in your hand, there is no better way to plan the procedure...”Flickr under fire for selling users’ photosWell, it’s photo-sharing service Flickr’s parent company Yahoo that’s fielding criticism, after it emerged that it was selling prints of photos that had been made available on the site under Creative Commons licences. What’s controversial is that Yahoo isn’t sharing revenues from the canvas prints with the original photographers: it’s legal, but is it fair?Obama to provide funding for police body camerasOne of the results of recent events in Ferguson is a step up in the intensity of the campaign to get more police wearing body cameras in the US, recording their work. Now the White House has announced $263m in new funding for law enforcement agencies to buy these cameras – up to 50,000 – and train police in their use.Google’s Santa Tracker returnsFinally, it’s December, so Google’s annual Santa Tracker site is back, promising a new project or game each day – children are the main target – leading up to Christmas Day. “the reindeers need training and the presents need packing. They’re studying up on Santa’s upcoming stops with candy cane cartography, holiday tradition tests, and even jolly JavaScript courses...”What else? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the stories above, and your recommendations for other links worth checking out today.• This article was amended on 3 December 2014 to clarify that the study findings come from a survey of more than 9,000 people plus data from RadiumOne’s online sharing tools.
Genetic testing company 23andMe is launching its personal genome service in the UK after it was banned in the US.The service allows people to send their saliva in a testing kit to have their DNA screened for genes associated with certain inherited conditions, such as cystic fibrosis or sickle cell anaemia, and other genetic markers relating to parts of their lives and ancestry.“We can take complicated genetic information and distill it in language that people can actually understand,” the 23andMe chief executive Anne Wojcicki said.“The genome is fascinating, and it’s the most exciting scientific revolution of our lifetime. The goal is to keep people engaged with their own genome, so that they know what it means for them and then keep them abreast of the scientific discoveries as they unfold.”The spit kits cost £125 and are sent to the Netherlands before testing in the US. The results, which take approximately six to eight weeks, allow users to both browse the raw code of their genome and use tools to investigate their genetic makeup.‘DNA isn’t something scary or all about disease’The data is used to generate reports explaining common genes and genetic differences, such as how people metabolise caffeine to why some respond better to exercise. It also produces ancestry reports and further information as new research is published but does not advise on health matters. People could take the data to a doctor, however.The data is stored encrypted and separated from identifying details on 23andMe’s servers, accessible only to the subject. People can share their anonymised genetic data with researchers as part of a 600,000-strong genetic database, with their doctor or family, or remove it from the servers entirely.“DNA isn’t something scary or all about disease, which is why we try to celebrate the long-tail of humanity – why is it some people like coriander and other fun things – rather than DNA is just about cancer or Alzheimer’s,” said Wojcicki.Genetic data is made available via a genome browser interface on the 23andMe website for the curious to poke through their results.Photograph: 23andMe“There is a division between the people who wear the white coats and those who don’t,” she said. “Science has a reputation of being inaccessible, for the super smart or the elite, but I want to make people realise that science is accessible to everyone and anyone can understand their genome and it is fascinating.”‘Understandable concern that this type of genetic testing’23andMe said it does not share the genetic data with insurance companies or any other interested party without a person’s explicit consent.“The science is soundest behind 23andMe’s ancestry reports, which are good, but the majority of the rest of the reports are generally based on very small shifts of risk, which are better served by simply living healthier and getting more exercise,” said Dr Ewan Birney – associate director of the EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute in Cambridge and unconnected with 23andMe, although he has used one of its kits.“Despite 23andMe’s careful use of language and explanation, there is an understandable concern that this type of genetic testing could cause inappropriate harm simply through people worrying excessively or becoming neurotic over these small increases in risk.”In the UK, 23andMe is not the first to launch genetic testing. TheNHS’s 100,000 genome projectconducts full genome sequencing as opposed togenotyping, which compares common differences in known genes. The NHS’s project, which is set to complete its pilot stage by 2017 as part of analysinghow best to use genomic data in health care, is “world leading”, said Birney.“This government is developing the use of genomics for patient care within the NHS,” a Department of Health spokesperson said. “We welcome initiatives that help to raise awareness of genomics and those which enable people to take more interest in their personal health but we urge people to think carefully before using private genomic services as no test is 100% reliable.”“For the curious and the scientists, 23andMe is fine, it’s fun and you can have a ball with your ancestry, but for the general population the NHS is truly working out how best to use this in a way that is world leading,” said Birney. “If you’re waiting for the technology to catch up with you, the NHS will deliver.”‘Learned a lot over the last eight years’The firm launched in the US in 2008, with Google one of its investors, but its personal genome service wasbanned by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2013under medical guidance reasons and the accuracy of the data gathered. The company was allowed to continue to selling its separate ancestry service and raw genetic tests without analysis.Since 2013, 23andMe has hired a dedicated regulatory team and is currently working on obtaining FDA approval. Wojcicki said that the ban was part of a shift in regulation and the company has changed for its UK launch.“We’ve learned a lot over the last eight years. We’ve been heavily involved with the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), obtained a CE mark and they have determined that we’re not a medical product, more an information product,” said Wojcicki.“Products used in personal genome services are regulated by MHRA to meet minimum standards. People who use these products should ensure that they are CE marked and remember that no test is 100% reliable so think carefully before using personal genome services,” an MHRA spokesperson said.•23andMe admits FDA order ‘significantly slowed up’ new customers
While the Amazon founderJeff Bezosdreams ofdrones carrying out deliveries, the online giant has revealed that a horde of robots is already in action in 10 of its US warehouses.Orange, oblong and squat, the wheeled robots roll beneath shelves of goods, which they then lift and ferry around the warehouse, navigating by barcodes on the floor. Amazon is employing more than 15,000 of the robots, each of which weighs 320lbs and is able to carry as much as 750lbs, at 10 of its 109 global “fulfillment centers”.The robots could be harbingers of a new era, vastly simplifying the jobs of Amazon’s human workers and coming in particularly handy during the hectic holiday shopping season. In unequipped warehouses, employees must trek through miles of stacks to shelve and pick goods. In warehouses with robots, machines now bring those goods to stations where people pack boxes for storage or shipping.Amazon’s senior vice president for operations, Dave Clark, told reporters the robots cut one warehouse’s operating costs by 20%. He explained that with the robots, shelves can be stacked closer together and warehouses can hold more of the books, specialty keyboards, hot sauces, patio furniture and assorted esoterica that Amazon ships in massive quantities around the world.Because “the majority of the aisles disappear”, as Clark put it, the robots significantly shorten the time it takes to deliver packages. In some instances, he said, Amazon can ship packages in as little as 13 minutes from a customer’s order. It previously took more than an hour for an employee to compete such a task alone, he said.“It’s always faster to have inventory in one place … we’re dramatically more efficient than we were,” Clark said. A robot-boosted warehouse can ship as many as 700,000 items a day during peak periods.In 2012, Amazon bought the robotics company Kiva Systems for $775m, and began installing the robots and necessary equipment in California, Texas, Florida, New Jersey and Washington. Company filings made in June 2013 estimated that at one Florida warehouse, installation cost about $46m. Clark said the acquisition was “certainly proving out that it’s justified itself”.The company also hopes to prevent the mistakes of the 2013 shopping season, when winter storms and a surge of orders swamped Amazon’s warehouses and delayed deliveries.Clark insisted the machines would not threaten jobs at Amazon, which plans to hire80,000 short-term employeesfor the holiday season. He told reporters increased efficiency meant growth, which increased hiring, and said he saw a “virtuous cycle”: “I see that cycle continuing for a long time … we continue to add employees, and no employee has been negatively impacted by Kiva coming on board.”Some fulfillment center employees havecomplained of a brutal pace, which Kiva bots could mitigate substantially. In 2011, for instance, workers at a Pennsylvania warehousedescribed debilitating heatand distances, saying the company kept ambulances outside for employees who suffered heat stroke, exhaustion or collapse. (Amazon has since installed air conditioning.)Criticsalso saymandatory overtime and temporary employment perpetuate the ills of long-term unemployment. Writing for the Guardian, former worker Nichole Gracelyaccused the company and its temp agency contractorsof offering ruthless terms. But whilelabor disputes have increasedin recent years, they have so farfailed to produce results.Robots could ease such pressures – or they could displace some jobs entirely. Nearly 2,000 artificial intelligence and economics experts agreed that machines will continue to displace work, but they were split as to whether this means more or fewer jobs, according toa report by Pew Research.About 52% thought automation will create more jobs than it displaces – and a new economic boom will value “uniquely human capabilities”. The remaining 48% foresaw a future with growing unemployment and inequality, as only the most wealthy and educated people retain control over economic levers.Similarly, an Oxford Universitystudy foundthat 47% of the US labor market is at risk of displacement by machines.
Kim Dotcom has successfully fought off an attempt by the US government to have him remanded in custody after a New Zealand court ruled he had not broken bail conditions and posed no flight risk.Dotcom, the founder of the file-sharing site Megaupload, has been on bail since February 2012 while fighting an attempt by US authorities to extradite him over copyright infringement, money laundering and racketeering charges.Auckland district court rejected claims from the US government that Dotcom, a German national with permanent New Zealand resident status, had stockpiled a large amount of money before an attempt to flee the country.“Mr Dotcom cannot prove he has salted away money, and nor should he be required to do so,” Judge Nevin Dawson told the court.BREAKING NEWS:&#10;Court rules that I&#39;m free to go home. Justice is alive in Auckland. Not so sure about Wellington.&mdash; Kim Dotcom (@KimDotcom)December 1, 2014“He has made a substantial investment in money and time in his efforts to stay here. The court is not satisfied Mr Dotcom has hidden money for the purposes of escaping New Zealand.”In fact, Dotcom argues that a freeze on his assets has left him unable to pay for legal representation. Shares from his company Mega – Megaupload’s successor – have also been seized by theMotion Picture Association of America (MPAA), which is bringing a separate civil case against him.Though he avoided being remanded, Dotcom had his bail conditions increased, banning him from travelling in his beloved helicopter or in “sea-going vessels”.Speaking outside the court, Dotcom said: “I think this is another case of harassment and bullying by the United States government in concert with the New Zealand government.“The crown and the US government have used this opportunity in a weak moment to make up the bogus case for me having breached my bail conditions.“I have been probably the most compliant, exemplary candidate of bail in New Zealand.”Helater tweeted: “Justice is alive in Auckland.”The tech tycoon, who lives on a 60-acre estate in Auckland, also founded the music service Baboom, butsevered ties withit in October.More recently, Dotcom hasentered the world of politics, establishing and funding theInternet partywhich entered into an agreement with theMana partyto contend September’s New Zealand elections. The alliance failed to win a seat.His extradition hearing is due to take place in June 2015.
Dennis the Menace and his dog Gnasher have been playing pranks in print form since 1951, but now they’ve found a new, entirely digital playground: Minecraft.The Beano publisher DC Thomson has collaborated in an official “mod” for the popular game, replacing default characters and items with Dennis and Gnasher, as well as catapults, rotten tomatoes, stink bombs and Dennis’ nemesis Walter.The mod is initially being released for the PC version of Minecraft, and was created by Canadian games developer Frima Studios, working with The Beano, which says it may bring other characters to Minecraft if the mod proves popular.“The Beano has always been about great storytelling, imagination and creativity. Minecraft is a perfect match for us, providing an amazing sandbox for kids to take our characters, tell their own stories, prank their friends and build out Beanotown,” said DC Thomson’s Mark Cotton. “We’d love to expand the pranks and incorporate other Beano characters.”The mod will be promoted through a review by Minecraft-focused YouTube channelChooChoosGaming, which has more than 240,000 subscribers:Mods have become a key ingredient in Minecraft’s popularity, with players able to download – or create for themselves – mods to add new characters, scenery and items to the game.Many have been shown off in the burgeoning scene of nearly 150,000 Minecraft YouTube channels, with online video firm Octoly recently estimating that Minecraft videos have beenwatched more than 47 billion times on YouTube.The new Minecraft mod is the latest element in DC Thomson’s strategy to reimagine The Beano – which sold two million print magazines a week at its peak – as a digital brand.In aspeech at the Bookseller Children’s Conference in September, the company’s head of commercial Tim Collins admitted that “we’ve made a balls-up of digital” with initiatives like PDF replicas of print comics, but stressed The Beano’s willingness to experiment, particularly around Dennis and Gnasher.So far, that has included a TV show, aphoto-sharing appand thelaunch of a YouTube channelthat, besides hosting the demo video of the Minecraft mod, also features live-action pranks and animation.•YouTube Minecraft star The Diamond Minecart launches app•Tate Worlds turns real artworks into Minecraft maps
The BBC has launched a “digital maker kit” for children to create their own games, as a spin-off from its CBBC channel’s Technobabble show.Available from the CBBC website, theMake It: Technobabbletool works on smartphones and tablets as well as computers and can be used to create platform, racing and Flappy Bird-style action games, among other genres.Children can edit the rules, physics and background of their games, using assets including imagery based on the hosts and animations in the show.“It’s a starter kit. It requires no technical knowledge, no download and works just as well on mobile and tablets as desktop,” wrote BBC Future Media’s head of digital creativity Martin Wilson in a blog post.“The only requirements are access to the web, a willingness to experiment and an idea. In minutes a child can create a game.”The BBC has been testing a prototype version of the tool during its CBBC Roadshow events in Gateshead and Birmingham, with Wilson saying that the broadcaster was surprised at how quickly children picked it up“Young children were producing games even the developers hadn’t considered. It’s wonderful to see how children were willing to have a go, try again if it didn’t work, share their creations with friends and collaborate to make better games.”Make It: Technobabble is not a programming tool, but Wilson wrote that the BBC hopes it will encourage children’s skills in “collaboration, experimentation, computational thinking, confidence” as a precursor to them learning “higher order skills” like coding.“The underlying technology enables us quickly to make changes and add new features, allowing us to easily explore ways we might expand this component-based system into to other areas in future, and potentially with other BBC brands,” he wrote.The tool is part of the BBC’s widerMake It Digitalscheme, which will be the broadcaster’s key education project in 2015, following its focus on the first world war in 2014.The new initiative has already kicked off, including a web game based on Doctor Who –The Doctor and the Dalek– which launched in October as a way for 6-12 year-olds to play, but also practise some early programming skills.“This is about have-a-go digital literacy: making, creating. It’s not all just about programming: it might be having a go at a robotics challenge, or 3D printing, or experimenting with digital design or animation,” the BBC’s head of strategic delivery Kerensa Jennings told the Guardian at the time.•Coding at school: a guide to England’s new computing curriculum
It revolutionalised the games industry and brought us classic titles such as Gran Turismo, Tekken and Resident Evil – and this week the original Sony PlayStation turns 20.The machine hit Japanese shelves on 3 December 1994, barely a week after Sega’s rival Saturn console. But with its powerful hardware, geared toward real-time 3D graphics, and imaginative marketing, it was the Sony machine that triumphed.To kick off a week of coverage, here are 20 facts about the first PlayStation that you may not know (or can argue about the accuracy of in the comments section). Enjoy!1. Widely known as the father of PlayStation, Sony engineer Ken Kuturagi kicked off his video game career designing the revolutionary SPC700 sound chip for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES).2. In 1991, Sony revealed that it was working on a new version of the SNES, complete with a CD-ROM drive - it was to be called the “Play Station”. However, Nintendo pulled out of the partnership, and Sony’s enraged president Norio Ohga instructed his engineers to keep working on the technology. The resulting PlayStation console was announced in 1993, under its working title, PS-X.3. In the early ‘90s, Sony also discussed the possibility of developing a console with Sega of America, mostly because its US software development team, Sony Imagesoft, was already making games for the Sega Mega CD console. However, Sega of Japan’s managers refused to consider the deal.4. In the 80s and early 90s, most consoles came with flat joypads. However, Teiyu Goto, the creator of the iconic two-handled PlayStation controller, felt that the three dimensional design matched the 3D visuals of the games. Many managers within Sony were resistant to the concept, but Goto had the support of Sony president and keen pilot Norio Ohga, who liked the device because it reminded him of an airplane control wheel.5. Goto also abandoned the traditional practise of labeling joypad buttons with sequential letters. He instead used four symbols: the triangle represents the player’s view point, the square represents a piece of paper (for menus or other in-game documents), and the O and X buttons respectively represent “yes/right” or “no/wrong” options – this was reversed in Western territories, so that the X button became the de facto “move ahead/action” option.6. Sony updated the PlayStation hardware several times over its lifespan, removing defunct or expensive features to cut down on production costs. The earlier SCPH-1001 model featured seperate RCA output jacks for video and sound and some reckon it isone of the best audio CD players ever made.7. The PlayStation saw a number of novelty controllers during its lifetime, including the hugePlayStation Analog Joystick, released in 1996 to accompany the mech battle game Armoured Core, and the official PlayStation mouse for strategy games. Officially endorsed third-party peripherals included Agetec’s Bass Landing fishing rod (which adventurous playersalso used with fighting games) and the bizarreNamco NeGconcontroller, with a twisty middle section designed for racing titles.8. The PlayStation launched for 37,000 yen and only 100,000 units were distributed to 4000 stores throughout Japan, selling out instantly. A further 200,000 were sold before the end of the month. At the time, however, Sega’s rival Saturn machine outperformed the Sony console, shifting 200,000 units on its 22 November launch day.9. There were eight PlayStation games available on day one, including two mahjong titles, a train simulator and the genuine killer app, a version of Namco’s arcade driving sim Ridge Racer. The game ran a playable version of classic shooter Galaxian while it loaded, an idea suggested by producer Yozo Sakagami who once worked on - yes - Galaxian. Players who managed to shoot all the aliens, wererewarded with extra cars to drivein Ridge Racer itself.10. The first major Sony-developed game was Motor Toon Grand Prix by a small team called Poly’s. It would go on to become Polyphony Digital, creator of the legendary Gran Turismo series.11. In 1994, Namco also developed an arcade board named System 11, which was based on the prototype PlayStation specifications. The first major title to use the board was the fighting game Tekken, which originated as a test program to experiment with texture-mapped polygonal characters. It would later become a key PlayStation hit.12. The PlayStation was the second major console to offer external memory cards for game saves – the first being SNK’s Neo Geo machine launched in 1990. However, while the Neo Geo’s card offered just 2k of storage, the PlayStation’s had 128k, separated into 15 “save” blocks.13. Before the US launch of the PlayStation in 1995, head of Atari, Sam Tramiel, threatened to report Sony to the International Trade Commission if it launched the console for less than $300. Seeking to defend his own Jaguar console, he said “You can’t have the Japanese consumer paying a fattened dollar price, then subsidise the product and dump it in the United States for $249 and kill the U.S. manufacturers. It’s against the law.” Sony launched for $299 anyway.14. In 1997, Sony released the Net Yaroze, a programmable version of the PlayStation, which allowed users to create their own games. Many current developersgot their first break with the machine, including Mitsuru Kamiyama, whose homemade role-playing adventure Terra Incognita led to him working on the famed Final Fantasy series.15. There were other rare variations on the PlayStation including a blue “debug” machine available only to game developers and a white version released in 1997 for the Asian market, which allowed users to play the VideoCD movie format. Later came a limited editionMidnight Blue editioncreated to celebrate 10m sales. An incredibly rare Men In Black version also exists, complete with the MiB logo on the disc lid.16. Even rarer than that, in 2013, Sony sent a gold PS One to Minecraft creator Markus Perrson as an invitation to its VIP event at the E3 games conference.Got a vip invitation to an e3 event from sony in the form of a gold colored psone. Wow. :Dpic.twitter.com/d8kZQRxgyg&mdash; Markus Persson (@notch)May 27, 201317. The classic PlayStation TV advert “Double Life”, created by ad agency TBWA, was accepted into the prestigious Clio Hall of Fame in 2007. Writer James Sinclair came up with the stirring monologue on the late train home from a lengthy brain-storming session. The ad was directed by Frank Budgen who would go on to make the hugely ambitious “Mountain” advert for PlayStation 2.18. Launched in July 2000, the PSone, a substantially smaller and cheaper version of the PlayStation, went on to sell 28m units. It became the most successful console of the 2000 holiday season,easily beating the new PlayStation 2.19. The best-selling game on PlayStation was the racing sim Gran Turismo shifting just over 10m units, followed by Final Fantasy VII, Resident Evil, Tekken 3, Tomb Raider and Crash Bandicoot.20. PlayStation reached sales of 50m units by 1998, and doubled that figure within ten years of its Japanese launch, becoming the first ever games console to sell over 100m units. Launched in Japan in March 2000, PlayStation 2 reached 100m sales within five years.Our thanks toEdge Magazinefor making its archive of images available for our PlayStation features this week.
Four leading UK entrepreneurs have called for better travel links to help expand the technology cluster beyond London to the “golden triangle” between Cambridge, Oxford and the capital.Areportcommissioned by the Cambridge-based entrepreneurs, which includes the UK semiconductor industry founder Hermann Hauser, angel investor Sherry Coutu, biotechnology head Andy Richards and telecoms businessman David Cleevely, claims that poor infrastructure connecting the south-east region is holding Boris Johnson’sgolden triangle visionback.“Drawing lines between places on a map does not make them connected,” said Cleevely. “We need to connect people and ideas and back this with infrastructure to match.”‘Exist in relative isolation’Having twice as many technology startups per head than any other city in the EU makes Cambridge Europe’s leading technology cluster, according to the report. However, current connectivity inhibits Britain from competing with Silicon Valley or Shanghai.“Unlike their counterparts in Silicon Valley, Cambridge, Oxford, London, and their neighbours exist in relative isolation,” wrote the authors, who said that it was easier to work with people in Manchester, Amsterdam or Paris than between cities in the south east.“As well as connecting people and ideas within a single city, we need to be thinking about connecting nearby cities with a modern and effective infrastructure,” they said. “We do not have the concentration of humming, continuous, multidirectional, and mutually reinforcing corridors of innovation, spilling-over with people, ideas, investors and promise. That is what it would look like if the fabled ‘golden triangle’ were a reality,”The report points to King’s Cross as a suitable rail “mega-hub” connecting London, Oxford, Cambridge and the surrounding areas including Stevenage, Stansted, Milton Keynes, the Thames Valley and Martlesham.‘Integrated scale of Silicon Valley’More people, 744,000, according to recent research by former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg, are employed in the technology industry in the golden triangle than work in Silicon Valley. Foreign investors see London, Oxford and Cambridge as broadly the same area. “Greater integration across the south east to achieve the integrated scale of Silicon Valley would spur the economy and accelerate inward investment into the UK,” the authors state.But to do that the authors insist that transport links must be enhanced to ensure travel time between the south east, Oxford and Cambridge is reduced to less than 40 minutes within 10 years. Current travel times can be between two and three hours, which prevents the chance encounters that foster innovation within clusters.In the short term, the authors suggest that more hubs, like Google’s Campus in London, which provides space and expertise for startups to get a foothold, are needed to provide a safe place for companies to take risks on projects and innovation. They also provide space for developing ideas through informal meetings, the kind of innovation that isn’t found in the boardroom, according to the authors.“Hubs don’t need to be in fixed places; let’s have special carriages on trains designated as informal meeting places, and start with Oxford-London and Cambridge-London,” the authors said.Technology in the form of giant interactive screens could also aid informal mingling.“Walking past such a screen, you might see someone you know (and had been meaning to have a chat with). You attract their attention – wave and say hello,” the authors speculate. “The system should then allow you to talk as if you had met in the street or cafe, and to transfer that conversation seamlessly to your own smartphone or tablet.”•British government urged to support ‘scale-ups’ not just startups
Monday!
Given how richly comprehensiveSuper Smash Brosproved in the recent 3DS version, you may be forgiven for thinking that the big-screen offering would have few surprises to offer. And, while it is true that the core cast of characters and moves are identical to the portable game, the Wii U title arrives crammed with more than enough exclusive content to warrant a separate release, and maybe even sufficient to tempt the double dip.In boosting the multiplayer maximum to eight players, Nintendo has pushed the very limits of carnage that can be displayed on a single screen, while the 3DS’s smash run mode has been traded for the all-new smash tour, which is essentially aMario Party-esque affair that has you power up your fighters on the board before a decisive smash bout. Complementing the series’ encyclopaedic penchant for figure-collecting are Nintendo’s real life Amiibo smart figurines – place them on to the Wii U GamePad and they bring your fighter to life onscreen where they can learn and level up.SSB for Wii U is loaded, polished and mischievously fun. It is also hands down the finest game on the machine and a real contender for game of the year.
Yahoo and Microsoft’s Bing search engine have begun responding to “right to be forgotten” requests for search result deletions in Europe, joining Google.Bing published its request form in July, but the first removals have now taken place according to reputation management firm Reputation VIP’s Forget.me site, which helps people submit requests.“There have been 699 demands for ‘search engine result’ removal requests on Bing handled via Forget.me since the 23rd of July, representing a total of 2 362 URLs. So far, 79 requests have received an answer from Bing,”explained the company.Microsoft is responding to theMay ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Unionrequiring search engines to delete “inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant” data when requested to by a member of the public.Google wasthe first company to publish a formto make such requests, and has so farreceived more than 174,000 requestscovering more than 600,000 URLs, removing 41.5% of them from its search results. Now it has been joined by Bing and Yahoo.“We’ve begun processing requests as a result of the court’s ruling and in accordance with the guidance from European data protection authorities,” a Microsoft spokespersontold TheNextWeb. “While we’re still refining that process, our goal is to strike a satisfactory balance between individual privacy interests and the public’s interest in free expression.”Yahoo’s spokespersonprovided the Wall Street Journalwith a similar statement on how that company is dealing with right to be forgotten requests. “We will carefully evaluate each request with the goal of balancing the individual’s right to privacy with considerations of the public’s right to information.”For now, such removals are taking place within Europe on the local versions of search engines. However, European data regulators are expected to tell Google – and by extension, its rivals – toapply these search deletions outside Europe too.The original ruling continues to spark heated debate in Europe. In November, the UK’s culture secretarySajid Javid claimed that “unelected judges” had created “censorship by the back door”, while suggesting that criminals and terrorists were making use of the ruling.•Right to be forgotten poses more questions than answers•The right to be forgotten – the road ahead
With its ambitious open-world environment and labyrinthine narrative, the newest title in Bioware’s respected role-playing adventure series was always going to be a major challenge. After four years in development, the game has attracted a strong critical response and plenty of attention amid the crowded Christmas release schedule.To find out more about how such a huge game is developed in the modern industry, we spoke to creative director Mike Laidlaw who told us about the writing process – and the future of the series.How does a quest make it into the game? Is there a Dragon Age historian who vets each new entry for content and references?Kind of. We have an internal wiki which is divided into public knowledge, which has shipped, and the hidden knowledge stamped with an inquisition seal. The wiki will check your login and if you’re not in the writing team, or me, you can’t see it.Every time we release a new game, the editing team – we keep four on staff – pile through it and that becomes our internal reference for names. The editors act as arbiters as they know the world inside and out, which is why they’re involved in the creation of The World of Thedas books we’re publishing with Dark Horse, of which volume two is due next year.Also the writing team work as a unit, so they sit together and call out “has anybody done anything with this name?” and someone will remember. Plus, a lot of our team have been with us all the way back to Origins so they know it in their bones.As with previous games, a huge part of the experience is talking to your party and getting to know them. But there’s an interesting innovation in Inquisition in that there’s no bar telling you how your party feel about things – you have to intuit it from their reactions to your decisions. What’s your thinking behind scrapping that gauge?The presence of a bar to me implied there was a win/loss condition. It encouragedminimaxingthoughts. We still want to give the player cues because sometimes characters react to things off screen, and we want you to know if they approve or disapprove to get a sense of their changing moods. But this has moved from a bar of “you are warm with this person” to noticing how they greet you, whether they open up about their past or trust you enough to ask for help.We also made the conscious decision when we were designing the characters to have them be more interactive with the core story. So their stories aren’t separate, instead it’s a case of “now we’ve done this ancient temple I feel conflicted about something and I need to pursue something triggered by that”.With the bar, a player would reach a seeming milestone on it and be asking why a character isn’t talking to them or why there isn’t more content, because it wasn’t just driven by approval. Making it seem like a simplified mechanic when it’s actually far more complex seemed a little disingenuous or overly gamey. Now we make sure approval and game events work together. We put work into reactions: the difference between Sera saying “hey you!” or “what?” when you walk up to them is pretty clear. It adds a sense of reality.In tandem with that, at times Inquisition feels like an online RPG with its open world of smaller side quests that feature very little interaction. You meet an NPC and he tells you he wants 10 pieces of ram meat. You go get it and return with little fuss, earning some XP. Do you feel there’s a balance between those two things in the game?There is. Having small quests means you aren’t constantly under pressure to make massive decisions. And yet what we tried to do is tie those into the larger concepts of the inquisition, its power and the overall space. I’ve seen a fair number of people mention ram meat, thinking it’s the most classic fetch quest. But here’s the thing, completing that quest is part of a larger chain of quests, and if you complete all of those you can recruit a new agent who speeds up your time for all soldier operations on the war table.I did not know that.Yep. So making it part of a larger system, while it may seem very simple, an emergent sense of complexity comes out of that. If you never fetch the ram meat you never get to see that, and I’m okay with players potentially missing it, but I think the folks that do stumble across it are going to think it’s kinda cool.Taking it beyond fetch quests, the Hinterlands or Storm Coast have themes running through them and you can explore those themes as part of a larger structure, even if the individual moments themselves are quite simple.Do you have a particular quest you’re most fond of?There’s a bunch of story beats I think are really cool. There’s one around the breach that is nice because it does a good job of making the villain more active than we’ve done in the past.When it comes to side-quests, probably my favourite is the quest for Lord Woolsley. He is a ram kept by a farmer and he’s gone missing. A big part of Lord Woolsley’s charm is I’ve seen so many emergent things happen because he’s not what he seems. Once in a while a bear goes to attack him while you’re on your way to send him home, and calamity ensues. I find that hilarious. The best part is, as people stumbled across Lord Woolsley, his legend grew. Someone on the team would say “I had a bunch of bandits go after him” and so on. There are usually set predators and prey, but this has a rather different conclusion.What do you see as the future for this series and RPGs more generally? Are you going to keep pushing towards emergent content, story-driven quests, or both?We’re going to continue to explore the mixture. Dragon Age needs to have big story moments. It is a game about character first and the party is an absolutely central part of that. I want to keep pursuing interactivity with the world: taking crowds to the next level or having things catch fire because you indiscriminately cast a fireball into a wheat field. There’s an old D&amp;D trope about how fireballs go off too fast so you can’t light things on fire, but it would be more satisfying if you could.I want more environmental interaction and realistic systems you don’t have to tutorial, that are in the world for obvious reasons. If we can get there we’ll have a world that feels even more vibrant, living. That’s my next goal.And is a sequel definitely happening?At this point no, nothing is ever definite. That said, I’m never allowed to sit back and say “whatever man, I don’t even know”. Story wise, we’re looking at least two games ahead and gameplay wise I’m always looking at the horizon: where could we go next and what prototypes should we be doing? It doesn’t really matter if another game is coming or not. The thing that keeps a team moving is the thought that there is still unconquered land, mysteries waiting to be solved, for us as developers and for what we can deliver to players.Dragon Age: Inquisition review – a truly monumental game
Telling the story of a young girl and an Arctic fox teaming up to stop a blizzard that’s destroying their Alaskan home, puzzle-platformerNever Aloneallows players to switch between the two characters at will, or play locally with a friend, to deal with the light teamwork required by most of the tasks. Most of the game isn’t taxing, but its beautiful, cartoony presentation keeps it engaging.The story is based on an Iñupiaq myth, and narrated in the language to a pleasingly immersive effect. The option to find and watch short “cultural insights” about the Iñupiaq adds a fascinating layer of documentary. There’s nothing really new in here, andNever Aloneis not always very taut, with rougher, buggy edges appearing at times. What it does have is a quietly charming story told with passion and abundant respect for the culture from which it came. In this, it rises well above the sum of its parts.
Google, Apple and other technology companies areveryinterested in education, including getting their hardware and software into schools around the world.The Financial Times has an interesting piece onthe competition between the companies named above, in the US.It cites IDC figures claiming Apple shipped 702,000 iPads into US schools in the third quarter of this year alone – but that this was outstripped by Google’s 715,500 Chromebook education shipments.“Chromebooks are really gaining traction. The growth of Chromebook is a major concern for Apple’s iPad,” IDC’s Rajani Singh tells the FT, citing heavy promotion of Chromebooks from Samsung, HP, Dell and Acer, as well as the fact that these devices all have keyboards – “very important” as pupils grow older.The story made me wonder what’s happening elsewhere in the world: what kind of hardware are children using in British schools for example, and how is that changing? Are keyboards still important for kids, despite the “post-PC” chatter in recent years?What are your thoughts on how schools could and/or should be negotiating the technology market? The comments section is open.What else is on the tech radar this morning? Some links to think about:Peter Sunde: ‘We need to demand our rights back’Former Pirate Bay spokesperson Peter Sunde is out of prison, and talking to TorrentFreak about internet dangers. “We, the people, use the systems that enslave us to try to kill the beast. We click ‘like’ on Facebook when we see a group trying to stop Facebook from violating our human rights. We need to wake up out of that stupidity and demand our rights back. The past decades we all saw the internet being free. We can’t imagine a non-free network today. But it will become locked up, closed down, segregated, if we’re still this naive further down the line.”Who built Google’s first self-driving car?Mark Harris has a great story for IEEE Spectrum about 510 Systems, a startup that Google quietly bought in 2011, and which “largely built” both its Street View camera technology and its first self-driving cars. “When 510 really got folded into Google, we did a major hardware spin and got everything much more to a production style rather than a college research project...”Apple Pay could be a billion-dollar businessTech industry consultant Horace Dediu, of Asymco, has been trying to work out how big Apple’s payment technology, Apple Pay, will be. “Mostly dependent on how quickly card payments will overtake cash... The hurdle isn’t going from a card to a phone but from cash to card.” His answer, currently: a billion dollars of annual revenue for Apple by 2020. “Perhaps sooner.”The most popular YouTube channels in OctoberThe 10 biggest YouTube channels in October: Minecraft, music, nursery rhymes, TV and toys. Or, to break it down: Diamond Minecart, Jimmy Fallon, Stampy, Katy Perry, Enrique Iglesias, Little Baby Bum, Blu Toys, Spinnin’ Records, PewDiePie and at the top DC Toys Collector.Read this story for more on her.Ambulance drone will defibrillate in minutesDrones: not just about rich people shooting aerial selfies of their houses. Check this Dutch drone developed by Alex Momont: it’s an “airborne defibrillator-delivery system” that can reach people who’ve collapsed on the street within minutes, with a phone connection for an expert to explain how to use the equipment.And finally, the Star Wars trailer...No, not the one we all watched on Friday. A shot-for-shot Lego remake.What else? The comments section is open for your recommendations of stories worth reading, and also your thoughts on the links above.
The aim of this game is certainly to create fear, but the innocent bystander who catches sight of someone, phone in hand, earphones in, wheeling around in circles, alternatively cursing and screaming in the middle of a room was probably not the intended target.Audio Defence: Zombie Arena(Somethin’ Else, iOS, £2.99) is not just another run-of-the-mill, living-dead mobile title; coming from the developer of the excellentNightjar, it utilises audible rather than visual clues to terrify the player.You listen as zombies approach – their location given away by groans, gaseous expulsions, even chainsaws – and then, using the iPhone’s screen and in-built compass, face in their direction and fire. The difficulty increases as different forms of animated corpses crop up, zig-zagging towards you in greater numbers. Weapons can be upgraded but the one tool you’ll never gain access to is your sight, making for a frighteningly frustrating experience.
One can’t help but sense a feeling of deja vu about Pokémon, perhaps unsurprisingly given its sheer longevity.Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphirehave familiar gameplay: pick a Pokémon, build a team, train them, beat eight gym leaders, defeat some bad guys and become the ultimate champion. Yet beneath this structure is an RPG of surprising depth and charm that has kept Pokémon on top for almost two decades.These titles are remakes of the 2003 Gameboy Advance games, Ruby and Sapphire, but by incorporating the features (including the delightful 3D visuals) from last year’s X and Y, they feel like new adventures. The biggest feature that’s migrated across is Mega Evolution, where gamers can temporarily super-power a Pokémon during a fight. This works once per battle, so adds a layer of strategy to the easy-to-use but hard-to-master mechanics. There are a handful of new touches, namely the ability to discover if you’ve caught all Pokémon in an area. And you can now creep up on rare creatures to fight them.These are minor changes but, with a lack of great 3DS games out this year, these stand out as real gems.
It’s Christmas list season and it’s possible that if you have children or a tech-loving adult in your household, one of them will have cheekily requested a new games console. You may even be thinking of buying one for yourself so that you can steadfastly avoid festive television.But which should you go for?In this generation of machines there are three contenders: the two-year-old Nintendo Wii U and the Xbox One and PlayStation 4, both launched last November. All have their positives and negatives, and all appeal to different types of gamer, so it’s really not just about working out which one has the biggest processor and fanciest visuals.Here, then, are some of the things you should be thinking about before you make your decision.The technologyAt a basic level, the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 are very similar machines. Both have eight-core AMD central processing units (CPUs) working in conjunction with AMD Radeon graphics processors (GPUs), and both offer 8GB of system memory.However, while the Xbox One CPU ismarginally faster, the PS4 has a speedier GPU and a more advanced form of onboard memory – or RAM – (GDDR5 as opposed to DDR3). At the moment it seems that the Xbox One may allocate slightly more RAM to games and less to its operating system (though thePS4 allocation is flexible) and its memory performance is boosted by additional ESRAM, which Microsoft says gives amore efficient memory allocation.Phew, okay, what does all this mean in practise? Well, right now, developers seem to be getting slightly better visual performance from the PlayStation 4. A lot of games available for both systems – including Call of Duty: Ghosts, Assassin’s Creed IV and Dragon Age: Inquisition – run in the full native resolution –1080p– on PS4 but on 900p or less on Xbox One (IGN has a handynative resolutions chart). However, the recently re-released Grand Theft Auto V seems to show visual parity between Xbox One and PlayStation 4, althoughsome sourcesare reporting better draw distances and more dense foliage on the PS4 version.It’s likely however, that as developers become more accustomed to the slightly different way that Xbox One handles memory, we’ll see the visual performance improving.“Resolution-wise, the gap has closed on a great many titles,” confirms Rich Leadbetter, a performance analysis specialist atDigital Foundry. “While disparities remain – Call of Duty Advanced Warfare for example – many of this year’s biggies like GTA 5, Destiny and Assassin’s Creed Unity are all very close indeed. They run at the same resolution on each machine with only minor differences separating them. Games that really push the CPU (as opposed to the graphics) are thin on the ground at the moment, there’s evidence here that Xbox One can actually pull ahead in some scenarios, as its eight cores run faster than their PS4 equivalents.“My take on it is that key developers are targeting the common ground, but that extra graphics power on PS4 is always going to be helpful to developers and tends to outweigh Xbox One’s particular strengths.”As for Wii U, its three-core PowerPC-based CPU and 550 Mhz AMD Radeon GPU are much less powerful than the PS4 and Xbox One set-ups – but then Nintendo never competes on raw system performance. Instead, the key feature of this machine is its unique GamePad controller, which features its own touch display. The console also supports the standard Wii Remote and Nunchuk devices from the Wii days.“In terms of hardware design and processing power, Wii U cannot be compared with PS4 or Xbox One,” says Leadbetter. “Nintendo invested in the innovative touchscreen GamePad controller instead of the core tech, but it’s really difficult for multiplatform game developers to scale back PS4/Xbox One titles to less capable silicon, and also to invest time and resources into gameplay modes that it cannot deploy on the other systems.”Conclusion:Basically, if your choice is between PS4 and Xbox One, maybe don’t make it on technical performance.Although there are differences, these are likely to be ironed out as developers learn to exploit the hardware – it’s only the system exclusives that will really test and explore the specific strengths.Technically, the Wii U is behind its rivals, but it offers very different gaming experiences, most of them likely to be provided by Nintendo itselfOnline functionalityAll three consoles offer online multiplayer gaming as standard, allowing you to hook up to your broadband (either via Wi-Fi or wired connection) and compete against other players. Both PS4 and Xbox One charge a subscription for online play however, the former through itsPlayStation Plusservice, the latter throughXbox Live Gold– both are around £40 a year, and offer regular free games which are yours for as long as you subscribe.Historically, Xbox Live has always been the more stable of the two options, thanks to Microsoft’s vast experience with online infrastructures. PlayStation Network was subject to ahuge hacking scandalin 2011, though its system has been improved since then.However, continuingtechnical issueswith its online-focused racing title DriveClub have alarmed many players and pundits. “There’s no two ways about it – DriveClub is a disaster from an online perspective,” says Leadbetter. “The fact that it is Sony’s key exclusive title for the holiday period is a real problem for them. There’s the perception that Xbox Live is more reliable and it certainly seems to have fewer “maintenance periods”, but it’s important to point out that an equally important game – Halo: The Master Chief Collection – has also experienced issues, though not to anything like the same extent.”The Wii U online gaming service is free, but the console offers fewer multiplayer titles; only a fraction of Nintendo’s own in-house releases offer the ability to play against others across the internet. If regular online multiplayer sessions are your thing, this probably isn’t the console for you – but it is great for local multiplayer, especially with the GamePad, which offers interesting “asymmetrical” multiplayer experiences, such as Nintendo Life and Game &amp; Wario.All three also offer web browsers.Conclusion:PS4 and Xbox One are stronger than the Wii U in terms of online multiplayer functionality, and Microsoft offers the most stable performance. However, if you or your lucky gift receiver is really into online multiplayer, the most important question becomes: what console do all your mates have?Video and TV optionsBoth Xbox One and PS4 allow you to play Blu-ray and DVD discs, while the Wii U does not natively support either. All three machines also offer access to a wide range of video-on-demand apps and services.Right now, both Xbox One and PS4 offer access to Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, Twitch, Crackle, and Demand5. Xbox One adds the likes of YouTube, Blinkbox, Now TV and 4oD, while PS4 has iPlayer and BBC Sports and News. Most current exclusives are likely to be available on both machines eventually, and both Microsoft and Sony offer their own video and music apps. Wii U has Netflix, Amazon and iPlayer as well as its own modest channels.On top of this, Xbox One allows you toplug in your cable or satellite boxso you can watch through your console. It also has adigital TV tunerfor £25 which offers access to free digital channels, a decent electronic programme guide (EPG) and the ability to “snap” a TV window next to your gaming window, so you can watch Downton Abbey while blasting mutants in Sunset Overdrive.Sony, meanwhile, offersPlayStation TVfor £85 – it’s not a TV tuner, it’s a streaming device which lets you play your PS4 games on any television in the house, as well as gain access to hundreds of retro PSone, Vita and PSP games. The company is also currently testing itsPlayStation Nowservice, which will allow both PS4 and PS3 owners to stream games and movies to their consoles. 2015 will then see the launch ofPlayStation Vue, a subscription-based digital TV service offering around 70 channels without the need for a cable or satellite service, and cloud-based storage for recording programmes. No pricing has been revealed.Conclusion:all three machines offer a variety of video-on-demand apps, but Microsoft has made a huge deal of Xbox One’s multimedia facilities and is really going for the “set-top box” sector. PS4 meanwhile, may well offer better access to retro titles through its cloud-based PlayStation Now service.Next part: social connectivity, pricing and, of course, the actual games!
Price £29,495MPG 54.3Top speed 112mph“Have you got shit for brains?” shouts a fellow road user. It’s raining hard and the traffic is at a standstill, but the man questioning my neurological make-up clearly thinks I should move forward anyway. He carries on shouting in fluent Anglo-Saxon. I decide to crack my window open an inch or two to give him a bit of my own mind (shit or otherwise) while, of course, staying safely in the locked car. But the one-touch electric window drops open completely, leaving us face to face. It surprises us both. The opening seems huge.He stares at me, raindrops running over the dome of his shaved head. Should he thump me or not? I could almost see his synapses sputtering and misfiring in the wet. He swears some more then trundles back to his car. I press the auto button and the window silently closes. He was frightening and depressing. But it was also ridiculous – being stuck in one of the most technologically sophisticated cars on the road next to a motorist permanently stuck in the dark ages.The car in question isLexus’s new NX. It’s the luxury Japanese carbuilder’s first foray into the hugely popular compact SUV market. The NX is here to break up the cosy cabal dominated by the likes ofAudi’s Q3,BMW’s X3andRange Rover’s Evoque. Like the mean girls who run school playgrounds, these vehicles are chic, stylish, popularandruthless. The NX has its work cut out to break into their sorority.It certainly has the looks to do it. The NX is one of the most eye-catching cars of the year. Its designers seem to have taken their inspiration from Toblerone. From the creased panels to the sculpted lights, it’s triangles, pyramids and pointy angles everywhere. Curves are out; folded-paper corners are in. The front end is dominated by a vast spindle grille which sits between a set of squinting LED headlights and L-shaped daytime running lights. With its tiny eyes and pleated nose, the Lexus looks a bit like a Shar-Pei. When the Evoque landed on our streets it was both ridiculedandrevered for its outlandish design. The same fate awaits the NX. But after so many years of boring, homogenous, yawn-making Mogadon motors, it’s brilliant that we are once again getting some distinctive vehicles on the road.The small “h” in the name stands for hybrid – a combination of a 2.5-litre four-cylinder petrol engine and a powerful electric motor. The entry-level S version is front-wheel drive only; all the other versions get four-wheel drive. As you’d hope with a hybrid, the NX has the skimpy appetite of a lady who lunches – a gallon of fuel will take you almost 55 miles down the road. No matter how often you sit at the wheel of an electric hybrid, the eerie silence is unnerving. In a big car like this, it seems even weirder. A monastery on wheels. Gently squeeze the throttle and off you waft.Despite all its unforgiving angles, the NX’s interior is a warm, hushed place. A bubble of calm. The beautifully finished cabin is packed with a dizzying array of gizmos and gadgets – adaptive cruise control, LED auto-dipping headlights, bird’s-eye parking camera, lane and blind spot assist, rear-cross traffic alert and a slightly irritating touchpad control for the infotainment screen.It’s a remarkable feat of engineering – its cleverness a tribute to the men and women who build it. Shame they can’t do anything about my fellow drivers…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
The composer and aestheteLord Bernerswas a famous eccentric who hated sharing railway compartments with strangers and developed a sure-fire way of ensuring that he travelled alone. He would stand at the door of his chosen compartment, maniacally beckoning people in. This being England, no one ever entered.Nowadays, the same effect may be achieved by telling people that you wish to engage them in a discussion about net neutrality. You get the glassy smile, the sideways glance checking the location of the nearest exit, the sudden remembering of things that have to be done at that very moment, and all the other evasive tactics deployed by those who find themselves in the presence of a madman.And yet, net neutrality is important. In the US four million people got so fired up about it that theywrote to Tom Wheeler, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), because they suspected he was about to renege on the sacred principle. Recently, even President Obama got in on the act,making a speecharguing that the FCC should create “a new set of rules protecting net neutrality and ensuring that neither the cable company nor the phone company will be able to act as a gatekeeper, restricting what you can do or see online”. Neutrality, Obama said, “has been built into the fabric of the internet since its creation – but it is also a principle that we cannot take for granted”. The FCC should “implement the strongest possible rules to protect net neutrality”.To understand this you need to know something of how the internet works. Basically it does so by breaking every communication into small pieces called data packets. Think of them as electronic envelopes: inside each is a small segment of an email, a photograph, a music track, a telephone conversation, whatever. So an email might be broken into dozens or hundreds of packets. These packets are dispatched across the net towards their destinations, often travelling by different routes and arriving in a different order from that in which they were dispatched. On arrival they are reassembled into their correct order by TCP (transmission control protocol) software.The early internet treated all packets as equals and gave none privileged treatment. The network was, in that sense, truly neutral. For applications such as email and file transfer, that was fine, but once people started coming up with new applications, such as streaming media or voice over internet protocol, strict neutrality came to be seen as sub-optimal. After all, if the successive packets of a video or a voice conversation have to be painstakingly reassembled at their destination, then the quality of the communication starts to degrade: videos and audio recordings stutter; voice communication breaks up. So to deal with this, the original strict neutrality principle had to be pragmatically weakened: all bits might be created equal, but some bitstreams needed special handling. The important thing was that erosions of the neutrality principle happened for engineering rather than commercial reasons.As an organising principle, net neutrality explains why the internet has enabled such an explosion of creativity over the past 30 years. It meant that if you were smart enough to invent something that could be done with data packets, then the internet would do it for you with no questions asked. What that meant was that the barriers to entry for innovators were incredibly low – which is why Tim Berners-Lee was able to launch the web and a Harvard sophomore named Mark Zuckerberg could unleash Facebook on an unsuspecting world. Net neutrality created what the Stanford scholarBarbara van Schewickcalls “an architecture for permissionless innovation”.The current hoo-hah in the US was triggered by the decision of some ISPs (such as Comcast) to charge content providers such as Netflix to provide fast lanes to get films to subscribers. This was seen as a threat to net neutrality, because it means that those with the deepest pockets get priority for their bitstreams. This seems to me to be a bad idea – ultimately raising the barriers to entry, privileging corporations over other users and reducing the disruptive potential of the network.On the other hand, net neutrality needs to be treated more as a pragmatic aspiration than as holy writ. It needs to be reinterpreted from time to time to stay relevant to changing technological conditions – which is why it made sense once to accept that packets carrying streaming media or voice calls should be handled differently from those carrying email or web pages. If the FCC is looking for a principle, it is that technological changes should be made for engineering, not commercial, reasons. Will the agency’s chairman, who used to be a telecoms lobbyist, see it that way? Is the Pope a Protestant?
From2001: A Space OdysseytoBlade RunnerandRoboCoptoThe Matrix, how humans deal with the artifical intelligence they have created has proved a fertile dystopian territory for film-makers. More recently Spike Jonze’sHerand Alex Garland’s forthcomingEx Machinaexplore what it might be like to have AI creations living among us and, as Alan Turing’s famous test foregrounded, how tricky it might be to tell the flesh and blood from the chips and code.These concerns are even troubling some of Silicon Valley’s biggest names: last month Telsa’s Elon Musk described AI as mankind’s “biggest existential threat… we need to be very careful”. What many of us don’t realise is that AI isn’t some far-off technology that only exists in film-maker’s imaginations and computer scientist’s labs. Many of our smartphones employ rudimentary AI techniques to translate languages or answer our queries, while video games employ AI to generate complex, ever-changing gaming scenarios. And so long as Silicon Valley companies such as Google and Facebook continue to acquire AI firms and hire AI experts, AI’s IQ will continue to rise…Isn’t AI a Steven Spielberg movie?No arguments there, but the term, which stands for “artificial intelligence”, has a more storied history than Spielberg and Kubrick’s 2001 film. The concept of artificial intelligence goes back to the birth of computing: in 1950, just 14 years after defining the concept of a general-purpose computer, Alan Turing asked “Can machines think?”Jude Law as Gigolo Joe (and pals) in Spielberg and Kubrick’s 2001 film AI.Photograph: Allstar/Warner Bros/Sportsphoto LtdIt’s something that is still at the front of our minds 64 years later, most recently becoming the core of Alex Garland’s new film,Ex Machina, which sees a young man asked to assess the humanity of a beautiful android. The concept is not a million miles removed from that set out in Turing’s 1950 paper,Computing Machinery and Intelligence, in which he laid out a proposal for the “imitation game” – what we now know as the Turing test. Hook a computer up to text terminal and let it have conversations with a human interrogator, while a real person does the same. The heart of the test is whether, when you ask the interrogator to guess which is the human, “the interrogator [will] decide wrongly as often when the game is played like this as he does when the game is played between a man and a woman”.Turing said that asking whether machines could pass the imitation game is more useful than the vague and philosophically unclear question of whether or not they “think”. “The original question… I believe to be too meaningless to deserve discussion.” Nonetheless, he thought that by the year 2000, “the use of words and general educated opinion will have altered so much that one will be able to speak of machines thinking without expecting to be contradicted”.In terms of natural language, he wasn’t far off. Today, it is not uncommon to hear people talking about their computers being “confused”, or taking a long time to do something because they’re “thinking about it”. But even if we are stricter about what counts as a thinking machine, it’s closer to reality than many people think.Blade Runner’s ‘Voight-Kampff’ test, designed to distinguish replicants from humans based on their emotional response to questions.So AI exists already?It depends. We are still nowhere near to passing Turing’s imitation game, despite reports to the contrary. In June, a chatbot called Eugene Goostmansuccessfully fooleda third of judges in a mock Turing test held in London into thinking it was human. But rather than being able to think, Eugene relied on a clever gimmick and a host of tricks. By pretending to be a 13-year-old boy who spoke English as a second language, the machine explained away its many incoherencies, and with a smattering of crude humour and offensive remarks, managed to redirect the conversation when unable to give a straight answer.The most immediate use of AI tech is natural language processing: working out what we mean when we say or write a command in colloquial language. For something that babies begin to do before they can even walk, it’s an astonishingly hard task. Consider the phrase beloved of AI researchers – “time flies like an arrow, fruit flies like a banana”. Breaking the sentence down into its constituent parts confuses even native English speakers, let alone an algorithm.Is all AI concerned with conversations?Not at all. In fact, one of the most common uses of the phrase has little to do with speech at all. Some readers will know the initials AI not from science fiction or Alan Turing, but from video games, where it is used to refer to computer-controlled opponents.In a first-person shooter, for example, the AI controls the movements of the enemies, making them dodge, aim and shoot at you in challenging ways. In a racing game, the AI might control the rival cars. As a showcase for the capabilities of AI, video games leave a lot to be desired. But there are diamonds in the rough, where the simplistic rules of the systems combine to make something that appears complex.TakeGrand Theft Auto V, where the creation of a city of individuals living their own lives means that it’s possible to turn a corner and find a fire crew in south central LA having a fist-fight with a driver who got in the way of their hose; orDwarf Fortress, where caves full of dwarves live whole lives, richly textured and algorithmically detailed. Thoseemergent gameplaysystems show a radically different way that AI can develop, aimed not at fully mimicking a human, but at developing a “good enough” heuristic that turns into something altogether different when scaled up enough.So is everyone ploughing money into AI research to make better games?No. A lot of AI funding comes from firms such as Apple and Google, which are trying to make their “virtual personal assistants”, such as Siri and Google Now, live up to the name.It sounds a step removed from the sci-fi visions of Turing, but the voice-controlled services are actually having to do almost all the same heavy lifting that a real person does. They need to listen to and understand the spoken word, determine how what they have heard applies to the data they hold, and then return a result, also in conversational speech. They may not be trying to fool us into thinking they’re people, but they aren’t far off. Because all the calculations are done in the cloud, the more they hear, the better they are at understanding.In the 2013 movie Her, lonely Theodore Twombly (Joaquin Phoenix) falls in love with an operating system.However the leading AI research isn’t just aimed at replicating human understanding of the world, but at exceeding it. IBM’s Watson is best known as the computer that won US gameshowJeopardy!in 2011, harnessing its understanding of natural language to parse the show’s obtuse questions phrased as answers. But as well as natural language understanding, Watson also has the ability to read and comprehend huge bodies of unstructured data rapidly. In the course of theJeopardy!taping, that included more than 200 million pages of content, including the full text of Wikipedia. But the real goal for Watson is to expand that to full access to the entire internet, as well as specialist data about the medical fields it will eventually be put to work in. And then there are the researchers who are just trying to save humanity.Oh God, we’re all going to die?Maybe. The fear is that, once a sufficiently general-purpose AI such as Watson has been created, its capacity will simply scale with the processing power available to it. Moore’s law predicts that processing power doubles every 24 months, so it’s only a matter of time before an AI becomes smarter than its creators – able to build an even faster AI, leading to a runaway growth in cognitive capacity.But what does a superintelligent AI actually do with all that capacity? That depends on its programming. The problem is that it’s hard to program a supremely intelligent computer in a way that will ensure it won’t just accidentally wipe out humanity.Suppose you’ve set your AI the task of making paperclips and of making itself as good at making paperclips as possible. Pretty soon, it’s exhausted the improvements to paperclip production it can make by improving its production line. What does it do next?“One thing it would do is make sure that humans didn’t switch it off, because then there would be fewer paperclips,” explainsNick Bostrom inSalonmagazine. Bostrom’s book,Superintelligence, has won praise from fans such as SpaceX CEOElon Muskfor clearly stating the hypothetical dangers of AI.The paperclip AI, Bostrom says, “might get rid of humans right away, because they could pose a threat. Also, you would want as many resources as possible, because they could be used to make paperclips. Like, for example, the atoms in human bodies.”How do you fight such an AI?The only way that would work, according to some AI theorists such asRay Kurzweil, a director of engineering at Google, is to beat it to the punch. Not only do humans have to try to build a smart AI before they make one accidentally, but they have to think about ethics first – and then program that into it.After all, coding anything simpler is asking for trouble. A machine with instructions to “make people happy”, for example, might just decide to do the job with electrodes in brains; so only by addressing one of the greatest problems in philosophy can we be sure we’ll have a machine that understands what it means to be “good”.So, all we have to do is program in ethics and we’ll be fine?Well, not quite. Even if we manage to not get wiped out by malicious AI, there’s still the issue of how society adapts to the increasing capability of artificial intelligence.The Industrial Revolution was characterised by the automation of a number of jobs that previously relied on manual labour. There is little doubt that it represented one of the greatest increases in human welfare ever seen. But the upheaval at the time was momentous and something we could be about to see again.Elon Musk on the dangers of AI.What steam power did for physical labour, AI could do for mental labour. Already, the first casualties are starting to become clear: the minicab dispatch office has little place in a world ofHailoandUber; the job of a stockbroker has changed beyond all recognition thanks to the introduction of high-frequency trading; and ever since the construction of the Docklands Light Railway in the 1980s, the writing has been on the wall for train drivers.And the real changes are only just beginning. In November, Goldman Sachs led a $15m funding round forKensho, a financial data service that uses AI techniques to pump out financial analysis at a rate no human analyst could match. And it can do it while taking stock of the entirety of the huge amount of financial data available, something humans simply can’t cope with.Kensho’s analytical notes could then be passed on to a high-frequency trading firm such as Athena, which will use the insights to gain an edge of milliseconds on the market – that’s enough to make money, if you’re trading with billions of dollars. Once the trading has affected the market, it might be written up for Forbes byNarrative Science, which uses algorithms to replace financial journalists. After all, most business stories follow a common template, and the data is already available in a structured format, so why waste time getting people involved at all?On aggregate level, these changes are a good thing. If the work of millions of people is covered by algorithms, then output goes up, hours worked go down, and we move one step closer to aJetsons-style utopia.In the end, it will be OK?Assuming we avoid the superintelligent AIs wiping us out as an afterthought, manage to automate a large proportion of our jobs without creating mass unemployment and societal unrest, and navigate the tricky boundaries of what personhood entails in a world where we can code passable simulacra of humans, then yes, it should be fine.
The National Museum Of Scotland is hosting Game Masters (Fri to 20 Apr), a retrospective that starts in the medium’s formative years with Space Invaders and Asteroids, working its way up to more contemporary fare such as Minecraft and Angry Birds. There will be more than 100 games available to play, showcasing the work of at least 30 different games designers. Elsewhere, new releases includeAdventure Time: The Secret Of The Nameless Kingdom(Xbox 360, PS3, PS Vita, PC, 3DS), a modest little Zelda clone with Adventure Time’s gaggle of misfits grafted on to it; frenzied shoot-’em-upGeometry Wars 3: Dimensions(Xbox 360, PS3, PS4, Xbox One, PC) which adds depth to levels previously flat; and dungeon explorerPersona Q: Shadow Of The Labyrinth(3DS) that brings together characters from the last two episodes of a role-player that’s complex, humorous and as Japanese as sushi.
Super Smash Bros is a fighting game that lets you pit the Wii Fit trainer against Pac-Man, Pikachu, a villager from Animal Crossing, Sonic The Hedgehog and weird pink marshmallow thing Kirby. Never mind the insanity of this match, it’s the wild abandon with which you go about it that matters. The game’s collection of challenges, mini-games and multiplayer options feels like a toy box; there are even demos of dusty old classics such as Pilotwings and F-Zero, which inspired Smash Bros’ level design. It’s refined, subtle and extremely silly.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKGrand Theft Auto V, PS4, Xbox OneThe series’ hallmarks are all here: gangsters, mordant satire and ultra-violence, much of it perpetrated accidentally on pedestrians. Looking even more beautiful than it did on Xbox 360 and PS3, the updated Grand Theft Auto V comes with a few new tricks. GTA Online now caters for 30 players at a time, ratcheting up the level of chaos both in races and when simply tooling around looking for trouble. You can also switch to a first-person view to immerse yourself in the game’s gleeful larceny, although it’s not terribly useful for driving or cowering behind walls during shootouts. You’ll even find doses of peyote to turn your character into a very surprised chicken.Rockstar, £44.99-£54.99Mario Kart 8 DLC, Wii UNintendo is sparing with its downloadable extras for games, but on the odd occasion the games giant decides to release some, they tend to be pretty great. The first of two add-ons to Mario Kart 8 – the next due in May 2015 – offers three new characters: Princess Peach in a pink cat outfit; Mario in his raccoon-style Tanooki suit; and a sword-waving Link from The Legend Of Zelda. It also adds two new championships, four karts and eight tracks, the best of which is the Zelda-themed Hyrule Circuit, which swaps collectible coins for gem-shaped rupees and comes with a Mario Kart-ified remix of the Zelda theme. It’s a generous and polished addition to an already brilliant game.Nintendo, £7
Over the past 10 years, much of my driving has been done in America. I’ve driven roads that run the length of the Mississippi, beside railways, through cotton fields, over theSmoky Mountains.These drives have always found me at my happiest. In the saddest, bleakest moments they have restored me to myself. There’s such a bond between America and the automobile, some of which is to do with individualism, and a lack of decent public transport, and, of course, sheer space – the simple pleasure of driving wide, straight roads. Some of it is to do with the mythology of both driving and the American car, this land of drive-ins and drive-thrus, gas stations, truck stops, cheap motels; the miles bound with the feeling that here is a land where you can truly get lost.A few weeks ago I drove a 1965 Ford Mustang from San Francisco to Los Angeles, and then out to theMojave desert. TheMustang was introduced in 1964, and its popularity (it sold 100,000 in the first three months alone) inspired the Pony Car revolution – the craze for cheap, stylish, sporty cars that also spawned theChevrolet Camaroand thePontiac Firebird, among many others.My Mustang is one of the first generation, a Fastback GT restored and refitted byBlacktop Candy’s, a company that specialises in American classic car hire for lengthy road trips. This Mustang usually travels Route 66, navigated by a pre-programmed GPS. While it still looks like the original Mustang, its interior has been upgraded, so that it now has automatic gears, air conditioning, seat belts and power disc brakes.She is a beautiful thing to drive. It’s hard to describe the pure, simple pleasure of her steering wheel beneath your hands – broad, wooden, wholly different to the thin, light feel of most modern steering wheels. And she loves corners, hugging them closely, dearly, but without effort.A car like this takes energy to drive. The retrofit is highly impressive, though there are quirks – the lack of room between the firewall and the shock tower leaves very little space for a power brake booster, which means you have to learn to brake hard (very hard when negotiating the slopes of San Francisco and the curves ofBig Sur).You also have to keep a more vigilant eye on the gauges than with a modern car – she guzzles petrol (around 15 to 16 miles to the gallon), and her temperature can rise steeply. She also emits a deep-throated rattle wherever she goes.You’ll need a certain amount of stamina to shoulder the attention she gets – huge smiles of approval, thumbs up, waves, beeped horns, offers to buy; and (at least for the female driver) a large number of men who, instead of expressing their admiration, take to dispensing advice whenever you stop to refuel.It is out in the desert that she really comes alive. We lie the back seats down flat, the better to let her speakers roar, and roll down the windows to let the warm air in. I don’t know if I have ever felt happier at the wheel of a car, my friend in the passenger seat, the warmth of the engine wrapping round our ankles, and the night lying open before us.Ford Mustang FastbackRental price$249 (£158) a dayOn the stereoBruce Springsteen, Born To Run• Follow Laura onTwitter.
