2010 is shaping up to be a potential classic year for gaming. The first three months of the year are already jammed with what look like must-have games. Mass Effect 2 I've alreadydrooled over– and played for an hour, impressions soon - and Bioshock 2 is looking similarly enticing. But there is one other title due out in the first part of next year that looks equally tasty –Heavy Rain. The PS3 exclusive is nearing completion and judging by what I saw a few months ago and by the latest previews this is looking very impressive indeed.Developed by French studio Quantic Dream, Heavy Rain is a heavily narrative-driven title that should appeal to gamers who want a slower paced, deeper gaming experience. That's the theory anyway. I played throughFahrenheit– the developer's previous title – and found it enthralling and exasperating in equal measures. The absorbingly atmospheric opening sequence in the diner sticks in the memory. Sadly so does the repetitive and often random deaths later in the game. Which way will Heavy Rain go? Judging byEurogamer's previewthings are looking good.Heavy Rain isn't a mature game because it has unhappy families and moody lighting, it's a mature game because it anticipates an adult response from the player and is prepared to receive it.But how does it actually play?It's impossible to dismiss Heavy Rain as a sequence of "quick-time events" once you begin to play it; the extraordinary visuals, intriguing activities and mature way the game interprets and anticipates your actions transcend the traditional relationship between, say, Lara Croft and the pendulum blade the X button is designed to propel her away from during the heat of an in-engine cut-scene.The conclusion suggests Heavy Rain is must-see at the very least.Heavy Rain is racing through virgin territory before you have even finished learning how to steer it, and whether or not it proves to bea great success, it already stands apart.What do you think then? Excited by Heavy Rain? Buying a PS3 just to play it? Or are there already just too many good games being released in the early part of 2010?
I remember 2002 pretty clearly: it was the year I left my job at the Evening Standard and started working full-time for the Guardian (I was a low-ranking sub-editor on the Media desk back then).The dotcom doldrums were beginning to fade, and a series of familiar arguments were cropping up in the stories we published about the technology world: online crimes of all sorts were hot, while tales about the disintermediation of information kept coming back for more (you can blame blogging, which began making an impact on the lives of many journalists around this time).But what else was the big news then? It's time to take a look at third of our 10 years of technology: 2002.(Oh, but before I go, a couple of missing moments from yesterday'sroundup of 2001: CommenterCorkerspointed out that I didn't mention the launch of the iPod - though, the reason is that I couldn't find a reference to the device on the Guardian site before 2003 (this is meant to be about how we reported the decade; read into that what you will). The other thing I missed?The decision by a US court to shut down Napster... but more on that in a moment.)2002&bull; One of the big stories in Britain that year was thearrest of hundreds of people in the biggest internet paedophile raids ever seen.Operation Ore, as it was known, used credit card records obtained from a website selling images of child abuse to track down alleged criminals, many of whom were subsequently convicted. But only as time went on did peopleopenly question whether the police had got it right, and whether that credit card evidence could have been the work of fraudsters. This year an appeal against the sentenceswas launched, amid claims that it was one of the biggest miscarriages of justice Britain has ever experienced.&bull; The marriage betweenAOLand Time Warner looked to be in trouble very early on, as the carpet was pulled from underneath the internet giant's feet by the continued difficulty in both the internet and media businesses. In March, the companyannounced a write-off of $54bnto reflect the tumbling value of its empire - and it was no surprise a month later when the conglomerate announcedstunning lossesof (guess what?) $54bn.&bull; It was a year of ups and down - but mainly downs - forNapster. Less than a year after the service was effectively blocked and then bought by German media company Bertelsmann, itrelaunched as a legal, members-only service. But within months,top executives quit. By the end of the year, the rights to the company's name and technology weresnapped up by software company Roxio.&bull; We'd already reported on the rise ofGooglein previous years, but coverage started growing during 2002 - includinga row over the search engine being censored in China. In these early days of Beijing flexing its repressive muscles on the web, it wasn't clear how things would pan out - but given that Googlelaunched its officially censored Chinese engine in 2006, the play seems to have worked.&bull; And the rise of blogging continued apace - with political bloggers claiming their first big scalp towards the end of the year. US Senate majority leader Trent Lottresigned after bloggers picked up on his comments at the 100th birthday celebration of fellow Republican Strom Thurmond. Lott had said that he voted for Thurmond, who had run for president as a segregationist in 1948 - and that if others had done so too, "we wouldn't have had all these problems over all these years". The move was welcomed by the blogospherewhich saw it as a victory for bloggerswhen the mainstream press had missed the story.Tomorrow we'll take a look at 2003. If you've got any recollections of what was happening to you in 2002, or suggestions for things we could include for the forthcoming years, leave a comment below.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The publishing industry has got plenty of worries about the ebook market - just witnessSimon &amp; Schuster's decision last weekto delay electronic publication of new titles by several months - but perhaps the biggest threat is now materialising: best-selling business author Stephen R Covey hassigned an exclusive deal to letAmazonsell digital versions of two of his books, sidestepping the publishers completely. Covey, author of the massiveThe Seven Habits of Highly Effective Peoplehas signed a year-long, experimental deal which should give him a higher cut of the profits and bypasses his publisher (which is, perhaps not coincidentally, Simon and Schuster).&bull;Microsoftis in hot water after it was accused of stealing from Canadian startupPlurk. The service (think of it as a bit like a version of Twitter that's popular in Asia) claims that a new MSN China service, Juku, uses not only a very similar design -but the code too. "Imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery," they wrote. "But blatant theft of code, design, and UI elements is just not cool, especially when the infringing party is the biggest software company in the world".&bull; Oh, and if that wasn't enough... for several years,Microsofthas been making something called COFEE - a suite of forensic tools for law enforcement agents, that helps them grab encrypted or password-protected data. But a group of hackers have given the company a virtual wedgie by releasing a program thateffectively makes COFEE redundant. It's not the biggest of deals, given that the tools themselves are not the most complex on the block, but it's not good news for Microsofties.&bull; Oh yes, and just in case you didn't notice the absolute flood of promotion we did yesterday...the Guardian now has an iPhone app, with which owners of Apple's handset can get the news delivered in a nice little package. It took a while, but hopefully it's worth the waitandthe price - £2.39 in the UK, and $3.99 in the US. Other countries should be coming soon.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
You always have to be slightly wary of franchise tie-in games releases. More often than not, the licence used is little more than attempt to paper over the fact that the game itself, despite featuring an iconic character or setting, is generic rubbish. Games like Batman: Arkham Asylum that don't follow this trend are always seen as a bit of a surprise.Lord of the Rings actually hasn't fared too badly as these things go – this coming from someone who's played through heaps of mediocre Spider-man games – and while I'd imagine there aren't many people out there still playing games like theThe Third Ageor the movie tie-in releases, they were well received at the time and would have certainly given some satisfaction to the series' legions of fans.From the looks of this trailer, Aragorn's Quest should carry on this trend – and the continuing success of Lord of the Rings Online and dearth of quality hack-n-slashers for the Wii could well mean the game is a surprise hit (it's also available on the PSP, PS2 and DS). We've got a first look at the trailer, featuring a decidely spritely looking Viggo Mortensen.•Lord of the Rings: Aragorn's Quest is due for release in 2010
Go toGoogle.co.ukorGoogle.comand, with a blank search box, click the "I'm feeling lucky" button to see the Google Countdown in operation.It looks as though it is counting down to New Year 2010. However, New Year happens at different times in different time zones, soGoogle.com.myshould show a different number of seconds fromGoogle.co.uk, and it doesn't. I've not tried all the local versions, but the ones I've tried have all shown the same time.This kind of feature, in software and games, is called an Easter Egg, but this one isn't going to last that long.What happens when it gets to zero? There's probably not much you can do with a JavaScript timer, but Google still has a couple of weeks to come up with something….Update: D'oh! As nevali points out in a comment: "It's implemented in JavaScript, so will almost certainly be based on whatever your computer says the time is."
So here we go then. This is the day one of our Gamesblog Top 50 Games of the Noughties countdown. Today we're listing 50 to 31. Remember this is a games of the decade list so even getting in the top 50 is an achievement. Having said that I expected Halo 3 to do a little better. And LittleBigPlanet too. I should have argued louder about the latter but I was saving my effort for higher up the list. Plus, of course, the titles and where they got placed are heavily based on your votes. Anyway, on with the show..50 - Call of Duty (2003, PC)– the original in the series that eventually morphed into the Modern Warfare juggernaut. Best remembered, by me anyway, for the excellent Stalingrad level and the general feeling of chaos throughout. The visceral combat and panic-inducing battles set the tone for the rest of the series.49 - Timesplitters 2 (2002, PS2, GC, Xbox)– A first person shooter from the days when space marines and grey urban decay were not the only design choice. The time travel setting was one thing but it was the split screen multiplayer – this was back in the pre-broadband daysremember - that really made Timesplittters 2 shine.48 - Team Fortress 2 (2008, PC, Xbox 360, PS3)– Inventive character classes and masterful level design are the highlights of this online shooter. The lively art design helps too.47 - Metal Gear Solid 2 (2001, PS2)– was this really 2001? I actually thought it was older. My initial impressions of MGS2 at the time were disappointing. After the sublime Metal Gear Solid on PS1 the sequel felt too bloated and reliant on cut-scenes. But once things got goingthe sneaky action took over. It also looked *astonishing* for the time too.46 - Gran Turismo 3 (2001, PS2)– The petrolheads gaming series of choice, Gran Turismo has always felt rather unwelcoming to me. Possibly because I have no interest in tinkering with engines, virtual or otherwise. But more likely because my memories of this game consist of spending around five hours of strenuous racing one afternoon only to earn enough virtual cash to buy the equivalent of a Fiat Punto.  I gave up but millions didn't.45 - Final Fantasy XII (2006, PS2)– Gran Turismo may be unwelcoming but it is a Wii party game compared to the Final Fantasy series. Number XII was even more impenetrable to newcomers but for many fans this was the best since the iconic – and still very playable – FF VII.44 – Bejeweled (2001, everything)– The classic match-3 game was originally a browser game but soon spawned a genre that is still going strong today. Just check out new releases on the iPhone or genre-mixers like Puzzle Quest for proof. Tweaks have been made but essentially Bejeweled (and its sequels) are the Tetris of the noughties.43 - Zelda Twilight Princess (2006, GC, Wii)– Hands up who was ever so slightly disappointed by this? I stuck with it and got sucked in by the classic Zelda action at the time but in hindsight it was Ocarina nostalgia that kept me hyped. Judging by recent releases on the DS this may be the last we see of the more "mature" art style in the series. A great game yes, but not a Zelda classic.42 – LittleBigPlanet (2008, PS3)– Along with Uncharted 2 this is my favourite game for the PS3. Yes the controls are floaty and yes it can take far too long to create a decent level but honestly, just look at it.41 - Halo 3 (2007, Xbox 360)– Derivative design, nonsensical script – say what you like about Halo 3 but when it comes to FPS multiplayer this is – Modern Warfare aside – as good as it gets on a console.  The online innovations – such as the Forge - are worthy of mention too.40 - Rock Band (2007, Xbox 360, PS3, Wii)– The music game that isn't Guitar Hero. Rock Band is all about the instruments. Get the drums, guitars and microphone and you have the perfect party game. Assuming your front room is big enough of course.39 - Prince of Persia: Sands of Time (2003, PS2, Xbox, GC)– An excellent reboot of the PoP series, Sands of Time was simply an excellent platform adventure. The jumping and leaping felt satisfying but the real winner was the time control mechanic. Only the repetitive combat let things down but this is still worth checking out today.38 - Medieval Total War (2002, PC)– Superceded by the sequels for sure but this was the first in the excellent series of historicalstrategy games. Medieval Total War is best remembered for the battle scenes. Shame my PC at the time could barely cope.37 - God of War (2005, PS2)– Released when most gamers were looking forward to Xbox 360, God of War was a visceral treat on the PS2. The Greek mythology setting helped but God of War was all about hacking and slashing enemies in an ever more exhilarating manner.36 – Okami (2007, PS2, Wii)– A beautiful adventure in the Zelda mould, Okami is probably best played on the Wii. Here the "celestial brush" mechanic that is integral to the game is best controlled. By "drawing" with this the player creates numerous beneficial game effects. A must play.35 - Metal Gear Solid 3 (2004, PS2)– More stealth, more cut-scenes – yes Metal Gear Solid is back for its second appearance in this chart.  Actually MGS3 was tighter than its predecessor with a tighter plot and less fluff. Still one for the fans only.34 - Gears of War (2006, Xbox 360, PC)– A bold brash statement on the Xbox 360, Gears of War was, along with Halo 3, the signature game for the Xbox 360 before Microsoft decided to broaden the appeal of their console. Personally I think the series is hollow, heartless and way overrated. The co-op is better than most, mind.33 - Wii Sports (2006, Wii)- Oh come on. Does this really need any introduction? Included with the Wii console, Wii Sports is the main reason that most people bought one in the first place. Still the best example yet of the Wii's inclusive gaming potential even if the novelty does wear off.32 - Mario Kart Wii (2008, Wii)- For a more challenging Wii experience than Sports, Mario Kart hits the spot. The wheel accessory is hit and miss but this is one of the few titles that gamers and non-gamers can play together and still enjoy.31 – Advance Wars (2001, Game Boy Advance)– This splendid game was stuck in my GBA for about 2 years. The turn-based combat/strategy was nigh-on perfect, allowing a large amount of freedom in how to win the maps.  Still hugely enjoyable today.There we go then. What do you think? Surprised at the ranking of some games?Tomorrow:The Gamesblog Top 50 Games of the Noughties - 30-11
If you peer out over the painstakingly rendered Venetian skyline in Assassin's Creed II, or watch a car being convincingly torn to pieces during a high speed crash in Forza Motorsport 3 one thing is abundantly clear. Videogames are beautiful now.It's not the figurative beauty of yore – the iconic charm of Pac-Man, the elegiac simplicity of the vector-mapped space craft in Elite. Modern games are edging toward photo-realism; indeed, through technologies like mimetic interfaces and augmented reality, they are encroaching on reality itself. And at times they are breathtakingly close.But here is the minor tragedy at the heart of modern games: no matter how astonishing they look, players will never see one of the most beautiful components: the 3D engine.This vast chunk of programming code powers everything we see on screen, it renders the universe, calculates the trajectory of every object and ensures the player moves smoothly through it all. These are the major engineering projects of our age – the digital era's Forth Bridges and Eiffel Towers. TheUnreal Engine, created byEpic Games, has been in production since 1994 and contains a breathtaking 2.5 million lines of code; as Epic co-founder, technical director and engine coding guru Tim Sweeney, points out,  "That's roughly comparable to the complexity of a whole operating system a decade ago."Nowadays, developers spend several years developing one engine which then powers all of their games. These technologies are so important; they have become brands in their own right. They're given exciting macho names like EGO, RAGE and OGRE and whenever a new title is announced, the 3D engine will be there listed among the key selling points.Building them is a major team discipline. UK publisherCodemastersis fairly typical with its team of 30 technicians working full-time on maintaining the company's EGO engine, which is used in everything from racing titles to shooters. Down the road atBlitz Game Studios, they've put ten years into the creation of the BlitzTech engine: "That's well over a 100 years of man hours to date," says technical director, Rich Hackett. "And it has cost literally millions of pounds…"This sheer investment of time and manpower doesn't apply exclusively to the big commercial projects. The community-built 3D engineOGREhas been in constant development and iteration since founder Steve Streeting began work on it in 2001 – he reckons over 200 people have contributed in some way to the engine over its lifetime.One of the most intriguing elements of the process is the range of skills and experiences that go into engine production. It's not just C++ coders, straight out of computer science degree courses – it's physicists, mathematicians, architects…. one of the staff atRealtime Worlds, for example, wrote the software powering the New York stock exchange, Joe Graf at Epic Games helped design the bill paying system used by most online banks, and in the mid-nineties, Moscow-based flight-sim specialist Eagle Dynamics employed several ex-military programmers who once created the guidance systems for Russia's nuclear missiles.Sweeney is also keen to point out, however, that the diversity necessary to produce a cutting edge 3D technology goes beyond high-end academic backgrounds. There are plenty of ex-hobbyist programmers at Epic, the guys who learned their stuff coding and hacking hardware at home. And that's not the end of it, "Mike Buck formerly toured with a heavy metal band," says Sweeney. "I used to mow lawns and Cliff Bleszinski once worked at McDonalds…"How these diverse disciplines mesh together on a single technology is one of the major organisational headaches in game production. Here's the thing – everyone codes differently. It's easy to overlook this if you're not a programmer, but there are many different ways to achieve the same ends with a piece of programming code; in some ways it's like getting 30 authors together to write the same story. "People always have a different style and also a different design philosophy," confirms Bryan Marshall, chief technical officer at Codemasters. "We try to encourage common standards throughout the codebase, but we have so many people working on these things it's never quite the same. The computer scientists tend to be more like code engineers – they are a bit more precise, whereas the mathematicians and physicists will be more interested in the algorithm itself and a bit less concerned about the actual code layout and design. But as they get more experienced they tend to iron out all those bad habits…""This is something that can generate some pretty strong feelings - and discussions," adds Hackett. "Coding standards are a way of trying to deal with the inconsistencies and make it easier to work with larger teams on big codebases by agreeing on a broad set of sensible compromises. Getting 100% agreement is next to impossible though. In years gone by this was less important and it was easy to tell who had written different code. One notable example was one of our most senior programmers who became known for what was dubbed 'Scottish indenting', which refers to the unique way he laid out his code on the page…."There is a constant friction between attempting to flatten idiosyncrasies in order to attain efficiency and clarity, and recognizing that individual flourishes are a vibrant element of the design process. It can never be resolved, because really, it's part of the process. It is creativity, after all. "There's definitely an art to programming," agrees Sweeney. "You can learn a lot about a programmer by reading a little bit of code. A funny illustration is the 'Epic programming test', which we use when considering job applicants. One of its questions calls for writing a program to convert a number into a text representation of its digits. This seems simple, but I've seen solutions ranging from five lines of code to 50 lines of code; some produce perfect results and some suffer numerous bugs. Some of the code is beautiful, some is ugly; it ranges from mathematical in style to procedural and sometimes even schizophrenic!"3D engines then, are architectural marvels, created by some of the finest minds of our generation. Or at least that's how it seems to me, an ardent gamer. I was interested though, to find out from the creators of these technologies, how engines rank in terms of other envelope-pushing technical endeavours. Are games at the forefront of physics and computer science research or forever lagging behind academia?Sweeney reckons it's a bit of both: "Game development is at the cutting edge in many disciplines. The physics in modern games includes rigid body dynamics and fluid simulation algorithms that are often more advanced than the approaches described in research papers. Over the past 15 years, games have caught up with 40 years' of graphics research and are now leading the charge in some domains, such as practical lighting and shadowing techniques."In other areas, we're still stuck in the Stone Age due to ingrained technologies. The C++ programming language, used in all modern games, was hastily conceived in the 1980s as an extension to the 1970s C programming language. Many of the problems that plague computers today - security vulnerabilities, viruses, and so on, can be traced to problems in this language."Marshall meanwhile, recognises that games need to be somewhat economical – and playful - when it comes to employing advanced areas of maths and physics. "In the academic areas everything is more precise, it's more accurate – a lot more work goes into the fidelity of the simulation. At Codemasters we tend base all of our physics on good fundamental principles, then we simulate within the limitations of the consoles in mind. Sometimes, too, we need what's best described as 'Hollywood physics'. When a crate falls from a height, if you accurately simulate that, you can look at the screen and think, 'well, that doesn't look right'. But then you start tweaking the numbers and changing gravity, making things accelerate faster – it's almost like this Hollywood expectation of motion simulation - and that actually looks correct. You have to remember games are an entertainment after all…""It's a feedback loop actually," argues Streeting. "a lot of visualisation researchers now use engines like OGRE to test out their ideas, and then sometimes we might implement some of those ideas in OGRE at a later date. Because you're always pushing up against the limitations of modern hardware, I would say engine implementations follow research as the technology becomes available, more than directly pushing research forward, although certainly some of the implementations are academically interesting in their own right simply by coping with those limitations in a clever way."Importantly, these technological marvels are creeping out of the world of gaming into other sectors.TruSim, the 'serious games' division of Blitz Games Studios has used the company's engine to create Triage Trainer,  a prototype simulation that helps  medical first responders to correctly prioritise victims at an accident scene. "Studies have shown that responders who have used this training tool perform significantly better in further training tests than those who have not," says Hackett. "TruSim is also working with medical teams to simulate patient reactions to serious organ failure again using computer generated human characters to show cause and effect in a way that is not possible through conventional training."Elsewhere, game engines are being used by young architecture and urban planning firms to visualise new projects. "Realtime is the key," says Dr Andrew Hudson-Smith from UCL'sCentre for Advanced Spatial Analysis. "Before the rise of the game engine visualizations had to be pre-rendered which is slow - perhaps as long as a week for a two minute clip. Now it is possible to do 'what if' type scenarios and run lighting simulations to determine the impact on available sunlight, shadow analysis, wind flow, etc."Apparently the latest iteration of the Crytek engine, has become a favourite. "Crysis comes with a 'sandbox' mode which allows anyone to strip out the main game and insert their own models," explains Hudson-Smith. "So any model from the Google 3D Warehouse, for example, can be imported. As a research tool it has changed things massively, high-end VR setups are no longer necessary, we can do better visualization with software costing £49."The problem is, actually licensing a commercial game engine for a major design project (rather than just roughly visualising a concept in its early stages) is expensive, and with the economy in the state that it is, it's seen by a majority of firms as an unnecessary luxury. As Jeff Mottle, editor-in-chief ofCGarchitect.comexplains, "By far the most widely publicized usage of a true game engine was done by HKS for thedesign and visualisation of the Dallas Cowboys' stadium. I believe they used the Unreal Engine. HKS had that expertise on staff in their visualization department and the budget. Last I heard, though, most of those people were let go earlier this year with the massive redundancies that happened across our industry when the economy fell out."However, there are alternatives to the major console engines out there, and they're getting more powerful all the time. One example isUnity3D, developed by San Francisco company Unity Technologies and aimed mostly at small studios working on casual PC, handheld and iPhone game titles. The tool is free for non-commercial use (and considerably cheaper than major console engines for professional users.) Hudson-Smith reckons it could prove to be a useful architectural tool: "It is extremely impressive with a built in physics engine, and again it allows quick and easy visualisation for either design teams or to communicate ideas to the public at large."Game technology can also be mashed up with other packages to help with urban design – and may even prove useful to those who want to protest at developments in their area. "The rise of technology is allowing the people on the street to design and share things themselves," says Hudson-Smith. "Google SketchUpis a prime example. It is a free 3D modeling tool that can be 'plugged into' many game engines. This makes it a democratising tool, if people don't like what the council is doing in terms of urban design or street furniture they can re-design it themselves and put it online to raise awareness of the issues. SketchUp is the most used 3D modeling tool by the public and many activist groups turn to it to illustrate their designs. Combine this with Google Earth and the reign of the 'urban planner' knowing what's best is now being questioned..."Meanwhile, Streeting sees OGRE as a multifaceted tool rather than just a games engine. "it's designed for any real-time 3D use and our community reflects that," he says. "We've obviously had game developers, researchers in fields from the fairly obvious (molecular visualisation, medical imaging) to the rather obscure (virtual spiders learning to walk), automotive designers, defense contractors, processor &amp; GPU vendors…" So where else will we find OGRE? "Submarine ROV operators for oil pipelines, interactive kiosks, Windows desktop / browser replacements (BumpTop/Flaii), virtual museum exhibits (Ogre has been used in museums all over the world in various projects, including at least at the Science Museum in London), sports TV coverage, golf training centres, interactive public art projects - pretty much you name it, it's turned up at some point!"With the rapid evolution of game technology in mind - there's an obvious final question for our panel of 3D engine luminaries: where are games engines going next? What are the key new areas development? Marshall thinks that the incremental steps toward photo-realism will continue: "certainly for graphics it's all about mathematically correct, realistic radiosity lighting, where the banks of light from one surface on to another is correctly simulated and also the actual surface qualities of the material is simulated as well. That's one area we're seeing more advances in."Streeting, however sees some major changes in terms of our interactions with 3D worlds. He reckons new handheld technologies like the iPhone 3GS will bring high-end 3D visualization out of the age of the home console and into the street. The future is PS3 visuals wherever you are, and with new interface technologies such as motion controls, 3D technology will become truly pervasive."Augmented reality is one of a number of very interesting areas which is still mostly in the lab or in fairly limited use so far," Streeting continues. "Bringing virtual 3D content and overlaying it on the real world in useful ways is a big growth area I think. Imagine a civil engineer being able to point their phone camera at a street and overlaying that with information of existing water pipes/electricity cables or visualising the changes that they're due to make, and update in real time as they move it around. People are working on that sort of application already but I'm sure as devices become more powerful it will be a lot more common. There are huge numbers of applications for this kind of technology."For us, it's all about the games. I've seen plenty of augmented-reality titles – the likes of Mosquitoes, the old favourite for Symbian camera phones, which has just beenupdated for the iPhone. But the overlay of Unreal Engine-style 3D performance on the real world? Will this be the game engine's defining moment? Will this be the point at which mass consumers appreciate the beauty of this hidden art form? Time and technology, as ever, will tell.
Sitting here at the tail end of a vast, sweeping recession, it may feel grim out there. There's a good reason for that: it is. But for the technology industry, few collapses cut deeper than the dotcom bust that really hit crisis point in 2001.That year was a defining moment for so many reasons: the attacks on September 11th were not only horrifying to witness (as millions of us did) but they have also warped the world's political outlook ever since. Not only that, but thousands of people lost their jobs as the economy plunged, struck by the double whammy of the bust and the general climate of fear.Personally, it was a time of transition. I got my first national newspaper byline (Ithinkit wasthis article about a cancer-stricken blogger who turned out to be fake). It was the kind of story that told me something fundamental about the web: that the evolution we were seeing online was one that mirrored human nature, even at its most avaricious... and that meant it was where real life was starting to happen.So, continuing ourlook back at a decade of the Guardian's technology coverage, it's time to cast our eyes over the top stories of the second year of our round-up.2001&bull; Barely a day went by without news of one dotcom company or another going bust. Literally:by the end of 2000, closures were happening at the rate of more than one every 24 hours.Thedotcom crashwas documented not only in our pages, but also in magazines like the Industry Standard -which itself went under in 2001. One article in March described the climate as"widespread start-up slaughter", while Duncan Campbell took to the streets of San Francisco towitness the phenomenon of the pink slip party.&bull;Applewhich had been in the doldrums for some time, started finding its way out of the woods once itannounced the launch of Mac OSXearly in the year. And how the company needed it: US sales had already fallen by 40% and Steve Jobs was struggling to make profit with its iMac and Cube computers.&bull; Early in 2001, the knives were out forMicrosoftin a big way. The judge who ordered the breakup of the company labelled Bill Gates"dinosaur" and "miscreant", while. A long serialised profile of Gates by Ken Auletta described him as a'chilly messiah with a mission to blank out the competitive world'. And yet the Microsoft juggernaut continued:the relentless acquisitions continued(listed in an article with the eerily prescient title of "Vista expands for Bill's window on the world") and by the end of the year the company had stretched out into yet another field bylaunching the Xbox console.The company ended upsticking together, thanks in part to Auletta's reporting, and we scanned over thepotential competitionwhich appeared to exist in the form of Linux, RealNetworks, AOL and Netscape. My, that wasn't how things turned out, was it?&bull; With internet access and mobile phones beginning their incessant rise in the public's consciousness,a poll looking at the way British people were dealing with these new-found technological richesdiscovered that 41% of us were regular texters. A survey by Oftel later that yearfound that 40% of households were now online(dial-up access, of course).&bull; And whileSeptember 11was responsible for a lot of horrific things, theenormous outpouring of grief and astonishment onlinewas among the most stunning. A number of bloggers documented the strikes on the World Trade Center - and a brand of hawkish political tirade began to establish itself as a recognisable force in blogging. In the US, politicians pushed through a series of draconian monitoring and enforcement laws known asPatriot Act, while Britain began to realise the breadth of things that the recently-enacted Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act granted.Tomorrow it's time for 2002 - but if you've got any memories of the crash, or anything else you were doing in 2001, then leave them in the comments.
One of the creators of a technology that underpins millions of websites is asking people to protest against Oracle's attempted takeover Silicon Valley rival Sun Microsystems.Finnish entrepreneur Michael Widenius - known as Monty - says that the European Commission must block the $7bn deal as a way to protect the future of MySQL, the database company he helped found in 1995."I just don't buy it that Oracle will be a good home for MySQL," he wrote in apost on his blog.MySQL is "used in many of the world's largest companies and they use it for an increasing number of purposes" he added."This not only scares but actually hurts Oracle every day."MySQL itself is an open source technology, but the company behind it wassold to Sunby Widenius and his investors in 2008 for $1bn. Following a series of financial difficulties, however, Sun became vulnerable and is nowthe subject of a takeover bid by Oracle, one of the world's most powerful software companies.European regulators have said they are concerned whether the deal would give Oracle an unfair hold over the massively lucrative database market, worth approximately £12bn a year. Bringing MySQL under the same roof as the Oracle Database product would give a single company control of a majority of the market, something competition commissioner Neelie Kroes said she intended to "examine very carefully".Now Widenius is urging people to contact their representatives to help block Oracle's purchase, saying that it is imperative for the future of competition - and for MySQL itself."I have spent the last 27 years creating and working on MySQL and I hope, together with my team of MySQL core developers, to work on it for many more years," he said."With your support there is a good chance that the European Commission (from which Oracle needs approval) could prevent this from happening or demand Oracle to change the terms... Without your support it might not. The EC is our last big hope because the US government approved the deal."Oraclerecently lobbied officials in Europeover their concerns, having already won approval from the US justice department - wholast month saidthat the merger is "unlikely to be anti-competitive".Because MySQL is open source software - meaning that anybody can get access to the code that underpins it, and can therefore theoretically "fork" a new project spinning off the old one - some have argued that Oracle would gain little from its takeover.However Widenius says he thinks that Oracle could easily find a way to shut down or kill off MySQL because it competes with the company's own proprietary database system."A fork is not enough to keep MySQL alive for all future, if Oracle - as the copyright holder - would at any point decide that they should kill MySQL."
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Hard to move this weekend forchat aboutGoogleselling its own phonedirect to customers. While nothing is confirmed yet, the independent reportsall seem to point in the same direction: an HTC-built, Google-designed device that's sold, unlocked, direct to customers through the Big G. Big whoop? Perhaps not, given that there are other Android HTC devices and there are plenty of unlocked phones in the market. But it could be a big signal that the internet giant doesn't fancy playing nice with mobile networks forever.&bull; Talking of Google - and barely a day goes by when we don't - the trial in Italy of four executives accused ofinvading the privacy of a 17-year-old boy with Down's syndromestarts this week. The prosecutors argue that the company should have done more to prevent a video of the child being harassed from hitting its Google Video service. If found guilty, the quartet could face year-long prison (though they wouldn't actually serve jail time if found guilty). The New York Times trails the event byinterviewing one of the accused, privacy counsel Peter Fleischer.&bull; Just days after it parted ways with Time Warner,AOLcould beready to sell off instant messaging service ICQ. The purchaser? Well, the suggestion is that Russian investment group DST - yes, the same companythat took a $300m bite of Facebook. That's a chin scratcher.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Google is developing its own branded phone to sell directly to customers, in the internet company's latest attempt to make headway in the lucrative mobile market.Google engineers around the world are covertly testing a new handset  - known internally as "Nexus One" - that has been built in conjunction with Taiwanese manufacturer HTC and could go on sale next year over the internet, in a move that would bypass the mobile phone networks.According to numerous reports over the weekend, the company is eschewing a deal with major mobile operators - the approach it has used in the past - in favour of selling the unlocked handset itself online. Though sales would bypass the networks, customers would still need to have a contract or pay-as-you-go agreement if they wanted to use the handset's ordinary phone functions.Silicon Valley news blog Techcrunch - whichbroke the first news of the device last month- said that the handsetwill go on sale in the US in January, while the Wall Street Journalsuggestedthat Google could link up with a partner at a later point, despite its decision to act alone so far.The move could allow Google to more some of its own experimental ideas - such as internet calling service Google Voice,as well as the possibility that it could subsidise phone calls with advertising revenue.The handset runs the company's Android operating system, an attempt to create a new platform with which Google can tackle more established rivals such as Nokia, Apple, Microsoft and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion.The software - which is available for free - is part of an aggressive strategy Google hopes will help it force its way into the mobile phone market, which is widely seen by many in the technology industry as the next major frontier.So far Google has been building the Android software, but leaving the design and sales of phones to the mobile operators - a strategy which mimics the model used by Microsoft. But sales of Android handsets have yet to take off, despite moderate success achieved by the recent US launch of the Motorola Droid (which will be marketed in Europe by T-Mobile as the Milestone).With the continued success of the iPhone and BlackBerry - which are more tightly controlled by Apple and RIM - it appears that Google is testing whether taking a greater degree of control could help it make a significant breakthrough.In ablog post published on Saturday, one of the executives working on the project said it was an "experiment with new mobile phone features and capabilities", but refused to divulge further information."At Google, we are constantly experimenting with new products and technologies, and often ask employees to test these products for quick feedback and suggestions for improvements in a process we call dogfooding," wrote Mario Querioz, the company's London-based vice president of product management."Unfortunately, because dogfooding is a process exclusively for Google employees, we cannot share specific product details."Rumours of a so-called "Googlephone" haveappearedwithregularityever since the internet company bought a Californian mobile software startup, also called Android, in 2005. Two years ago, the speculation began to reach fever pitch following: it emerged, however, that the company was instead building a new mobile operating system.Google first unveiled the Android software in November 2007, but the first handset running the system did not go on sale until the following autumn. That device,the G1, was also manufactured by HTC, but sold through T-Mobile.The new device, which was previously known as the Dragon, is a thin with no keyboard and a touchscreen display. Picturespurporting to show the handsetindicate that its screen is slightly bigger than the iPhone, with a small trackball - similar to that used on many BlackBerry handsets - at the bottom.It is far from the first time that a company has sold an unlocked handset - indeed, it is standard practice in most countries for manufacturers to offer customers the option of buying a device without going through a mobile network. The practice largely appeals to high-end customers who are comfortable with technology and are happy to spend time negotiating deals with their operator of choice.
The Google Phone or Gphone has been rumoured for a long time, and while many of us have doubted its existence until now, the evidence is mounting up. Numerous Google staff are actually using an unbranded Gphone, and pictures of it have been posted via Twitter. It's called the Nexus One, it runs Google Android, obviously, and it's being manufactured for Google by HTC, which is already well known for making Android and Windows Mobile phones.Google's Mobile blogsays staff are "dogfooding" the device (a term that has long been standard at Microsoft). It says: "We recently came up with the concept of a mobile lab, which is a device that combines innovative hardware from a partner with software that runs on Android to experiment with new mobile features and capabilities, and we shared this device with Google employees across the globe. This means they get to test out a new technology and help improve it."And I'd bet one of the things they're testing is Google Voice, which was the application Apple refused to allow on the iPhone. It remains to be seen whether Apple will back down, because freedom from that kind of control could be one of the Gphone's attractions.Reproducing an image posted toTwitpicby Cory O'Brien (coryobrien.com),Engadget notes:the image above is an exact match to that leaked HTC Passion / Bravo image from October, only this time lacking the HTC logo on the top-side bezel. Besides the pic, O'Brien tweets that the "Google Phone = iPhone + a little extra screen and a scroll wheel. Great touch screen, and Android."It's not clear how the sales pitch is going to go, but the idea is that the Gphone will be sold direct to consumers, not via a network contract. This could make it look expensive, because the hardware will not be subsidised by overcharging for mobile phone calls. (Quite why a smartphone with a 3-4 inch screen costs roughly twice as much as a netbook with a 10 inch screen and a hard drive is still a mystery to me, but it does.)However, network operators will be able to get around this problem very easily by offering contracts with discounted minutes on "Bring your own Gphone" deals.Google could also make the Nexus One available reasonably cheaply because it will make money from the Google advertising that users will see when they use Google "properties" such as search, Gmail, YouTube, and so on. There could also be plenty of money-making opportunities in location-based services, such as directing users to the nearest eatery, bank, or whatever. It would be interesting to know what the lifetime value of a Gphone user might be, but Google must have done some calculations.Although some blogs and magazines have confidently suggested the Nexus One will be launched in January, bear in mind there has been no official announcement, just a lot of speculation. But it is starting to look as though Google might be serious.Update:InfoSynchas noted that "FCC's database today revealed that the HTC Nexus One, the smartphone Google Mobile currently uses for internal development of upcoming mobile features and capabilities, only sends and receives 3G data at 1700 MHz. In other words, the U.S. version of the HTC Nexus One is going to T-Mobile USA, and T-Mobile USA only." (The US uses two incompatible wireless standards on three different spectrum bands.) It concludes:Oh well, the Google Phone hype was fun to follow while it lasted.
American officials have been holding secret talks with Russia and the United Nations in an attempt to strengthen internet security and rein in the growing threat of cyberwarfare.The effort, first reported in the New York Times, is a virtual version of the nuclear arms talks being held between the two nations in Geneva – but rather than focusing on bombs and missiles, the discussions are aimed at curbing the increasing level of attacks taking place online.With a rising tide of strikes by hackers on major institutions – including banks, businesses, government agencies and the military – diplomats are attempting to forge an international consensus on how to deal with cybersecurity problems."Both sides are making positive noises," James Lewis, a senior fellow at the centre for strategic and international studies and a cyber security expert, told the Guardian. "We've never seen that before."The potential for online warfare has become a hot topic in recent years, after a string of major incidents. Large-scale cyberattacks took place during last year's conflict betweenRussia and Georgiawhile the Estonian government came grinding to a halt afteran internet assault in 2007.Critics have said the scale and impact of such incidents may be overstated, but experts accept there are serious dangers from criminal gangs operating online – as well as the rapid growth of state-sponsored espionage conducted over the internet.Earlier this year, some of the plans for a new £2bn fighter aircraft being developed by the US, UK, Netherlands and Israel were stolenwhen hackers broke into American computers. Two years ago, it was revealed that hackers thought to be linked to the Chinese People's Liberation Army hadbreached computer security systems at the PentagonandWhitehall.The latest discussions are thought to be an attempt to broker some sort of cross-border agreement over a number of issues related to internet security. Russia is said to be seeking a disarmament treaty for cyberspace, while the US hopes to use the talks to foster greater international cooperation on cybercrime.Lewis confirmed that a Russian delegation met with officials from the US military, state department and security agencies in Washington about five weeks ago. Two weeks later, the White House agreed to meet representatives from the UN committee on disarmament and international security, the New York Times reported.There are numerous sticking points however, not least the fact both the US and Russia – as well as most advanced militaries around the world – have sophisticated cyber warfare capabilities they are reluctant to document. Although the dangers of virtual conflicts are recognised, neither country is keen to hinder any future deployment by revealing the technologies they have developed, Lewis said.Despite that, the talks mark a distinct turnaround from the approach of the Bush administration, which had resisted engaging with Russia and the UN over the prospect of a treaty on cyber weapons. Instead, it focused on dealing with cyber threats by economic and commercial means, rather than through the military.Earlier this year, however, President Barack Obama identified cyber attacks as a "national security priority" andpledged to appoint a top-level White House adviserto co-ordinate responses.."Cyberspace is real, and so is the risk that comes with it," he said in May. "From now on, our digital infrastructure will be treated as a strategic asset."However, the post remains unfilled six months after the announcement., with disagreement inside the administration over how to coordinate the appropriate level of response. While some presidential advisers want the White House to take oversight of the issue, other top Obama aides prefer to let the commercial market handle cybersecurity. The US military and intelligence officials, meanwhile, prefer to pursue their own security programmes without direction from the White House.Many American experts are more concerned with the financial threat of cybercrime and internet-based fraud, particularly since international enforcement efforts have been weakened by an inability to track and arrest the hackers responsible, many of whom are based in Russia and China.Online crime is now a multibillion pound business worldwide, with criminal gangs across the globe conducting sophisticated cyber attacks to steal money from banks and disrupt commercial websites.Last year, hackers broke into the Royal Bank of Scotland, using information gathered from to create cloned bank cards that were then used to withdraw more than £5m from cash machines in dozens of cities.This August, an American man, Albert Gonzalez, pled guilty to his role in an attack that netted millions when an international hacking ring – largely based in Russia and the Ukraine - stole 130 million credit and debit card numbers from some of America's biggest retailers.Despite knowing the identities of several individuals linked to Gonzalez, however, the lack of international cooperation means that the other culprits remain beyond the reach of US prosecutors.
PORSCHE PANAMERA£72,266MILES PER GALLON: 22.6CO2PER KM: 290 GRAMSGOOD FOR: FAT CATSBAD FOR: COOL CATSBeing a Porsche driver is a tricky business. On the one hand you are the owner of thene plus ultraof performance cars – a Richard Wagner in a carpark of Louis Walshes. On the other, you are derided as a jumped-up boy racer, a vulgar pillock and an arrogant "porker" – and that's if you're in your 20s. In your 40s, the insults focus on your lost virility and your shiny head. But you don't care because you are doing the one thing you love above all else – driving your Porsche.But what, I wonder, will this group of obsessives make of the Germanic marque's latest offering – the Panamera. It goes where few Porsches have gone before. It hasfourdoors andfourseats – four proper seats, not those pathetic folding jobs that most 911s come with. It has a boot, too. And it has an engine at thefront! As you may know, Porsches are always rear-engined – it is a defining part of their perverse uniqueness and an act of faith that has imposed endless technical rigours on its engineers. But not the Panamera…This car is clearly aimed at the more mature buyer, at the family man (who, let's face it, is clearly in deep denial over his responsibilities). Manufacturers always try to broaden their potential sales net by claiming their cars are multipurpose. So the Panamera is a "luxury saloon", a "superfast hatchback" and a "sports car". And like those all-in-one multi-tools, it makes a brave fist in all categories, but it never quite excels in any.At first glance the Panamera looks like a beefed-up 911. Designer Michael Mauer has stuck with many of Porsche's trademark cues, but the sense of heft about the car is off-putting. While the great four-seaters from the likes of Ferrari, Maserati and now Aston Martin conceal their bulk with long, elegant lines, the bulky Panamera looks like a teen bodybuilder who's been slurping synthetic growth hormone.Inside it is, naturally, exquisitely finished. The seating is sporty rather than luxurious. It is also crammed with technology – from controllable air suspension to a button that mutes the roar of the engine. However, the rear visibility is appalling and its vast width makes parking tricky. Still, this car isn't about parking spaces, it's about the open road.To better sample its wares I asked a couple of chums if they'd like to come for a Sunday drive. It says everything about the brand that this was seen as a perfectly reasonable thing for three middle-aged men to do. Both are true Porsche men. One has owned two in his time, the other – incredibly – still owns four.As the three of us sped into the autumn countryside, the car seemed to become itself. It felt nimble, purposeful, rewarding. Like a lumbering sea lion sliding off its iceberg, the Panamera was finally in its element.There are two to choose from, the £72,266 "entry-level" Panamera S, its 400bhp delivering 62mph in 5.6 seconds, and the £95,298 turbo, which is a second quicker.I asked my two Porsche judges what they thought. Does the car have the X factor? "A classic in the making," said Porker 2. "Definitely through to the next round," replied Porker 4.★martin.love@observer.co.uk
PS3, Xbox 360, PC (EA)Many of the old-school titles that have pitted player against Fatherland (Medal of Honor, Brothers in Armsetc) are currently receiving open-world overhauls in a bid to emulate archetypal free-runnerGrand Theft Auto IV.The Saboteurattempts to bridge this gap with an engaging, non-linear storyline that also delivers heart-pounding gun battles, car chases and stealth missions through 1940s occupied Paris. Playing an Irishman seeking to exact vengeance upon the Nazis, the task is simple: dispatch as many of the Führer's field-grey and Gestapo goons as possible. Despite clumsy controls, particularly evident when driving, there are well-conceived elements to the game – going undercover by stealing uniforms, a wide array of weaponry and, most noticeably, while roaming through Parisian districts under Nazi control, the screen turning black and white except for the blood of your enemies splashing around (colour returning as each area is reclaimed). It's an interesting and novel comic-book interpretation that elevatesThe Saboteurover the standard Reich-bashing shooters.
PS3, Wii, XBox 360 (Activision)Here, the king of skateboarding sims reaches what one can only suppose is its logical conclusion: standing atop a skateboard-shaped controller – foot movements and shifts of bodyweight controlling the on-screen character. In theory, all that is missing is concrete. And pain.What it means in reality is twitching about with flailing arms – the balletic grace of real boarding lost to a chaotic balancing samba – and a sense that Activision's plastic plank is primed to toss contenders to the floor. It all feels rather ludicrous, but makesRideterrific fun. It's hard to stifle a smile as you progress through a generous collection of levels and challenges. Curiously compelling, despite occasional stylistic shortcomings,Rideowes much of its appeal to the unique nature of its robust controller. Hardcore fans will not see it as the best skateboarding sim, but as a playful and enjoyable tribute to carving concrete it's an overwhelming success.
FOR MUCH OF the 20th century, the world's premier industrial research facility was Bell Labs, research wing of the giant AT&amp;T telephone corporation, in Murray Hill, New Jersey. From it came many key technologies which define the contemporary world. All of modern electronics, for example, stems from the invention of the transistor by three Bell scientists, John Bardeen, Walter Brattain and William Shockley.Bell scientists also were responsible for the laser, many of the technologies used in radio astronomy and mobile phones, wireless local area networking, information theory, the Unix operating system and the C programming language. Seven Nobel prizes have been awarded for work done at Murray Hill.The latest of these (for physics) was presented in Stockholm last week to Willard Boyle and George Smith, who on 17&nbsp;October 1969 were trying to come up with an idea that would stop their boss's boss switching resources from their work to another department working on sexy new kinds of computer memory. In a discussion that lasted "not more than an hour" (as Smith later recalled) they came up with a device that changed the way we see the world. They called it a charge-coupled device or CCD, and it developed into the sensor at the heart of most digital cameras in use today.If you want to see the fruits of their work, log on to Flickr.com, the world's leading image-hosting site. Launched in 2004, it was bought by Yahoo in 2005 and now holds more than 4bn images. Since you began reading this column, more than 600 pictures have been uploaded to it, automatically resized and each assigned a unique URL. It is one of the wonders of the modern world.Of course you could view Flickr as a giant shoebox, in the sense that shoeboxes were traditionally the place where analogue photographs were stored. But that would be to underestimate its significance. For one thing, most images on Flickr are tagged by their owners, and one can then search for pictures tagged with a given word. A search for "Ireland", for example, brings up more than 2m images.Most, as you would expect, are pretty banal – holiday snapshots, stag nights in Dublin, beach scenes, photographs of grandma with the statutory telegraph pole growing out of her head, family groups cut off at the knees and so on. But the search also reveals hundreds of terrific pictures, and a few images of staggering originality or beauty. And all are available for viewing by anyone, anywhere, with an internet connection.To appreciate what this means, you have to think back to film photography. Then, most of us took a camera on holidays and came back with a half-exposed roll of film which languished in the camera until Christmas, when it would be finished off with a dozen festive pictures of family, friends and uncles befuddled by drink. The film would then be taken into Jessops for processing, after which the resulting prints would be handed round whatever social circle was present  – after which they would find their way into a shoebox and thence to the attic. Compared to Flickr, this wasn't just a different world: it was a different universe.Our present universe was made possible by what Boyle and Smith cooked up in that magical hour in October 1969. Of course it took a great deal of technical and manufacturing ingenuity to get the CCD from the crude prototypes knocked up in Bell Labs to the mass-produced sensors that now record the images that feed Flickr's insatiable appetite. But it happened, and cameras went from being expensive, delicate pieces of equipment to cheap add-on facilities for virtually every consumer device. We've moved from when you only carried a camera when you intended to take photographs to an era in which almost anyone with mobile phone also carries a camera.The big question, of course, is whether this is improving our general level of photographic skill. One would expect that it is, given that craft skills are acquired by trial and error, and digital photography enables one immediately to spot – and correct – errors. The evidence of Flickr is that the general standard of photography is improving, even when one discounts the fact that digital cameras make it difficult to take badly exposed or out-of-focus pictures. The world may be going to the dogs – but at least we are taking better photographs.
The Legend Of Zelda: Spirit Tracks, Nintendo DSThe Legend Of Zelda's back in time for Christmas with its latest incarnation, Spirit Tracks. Our hero, Link, starts the game as an apprentice train engineer, which sounds more Job Centre Plus than magical adventure, albeit one where the monarch of the realm administers his graduation ceremony. It means that – rather than travelling by boat or horseback – you now get around by train, although what then unfolds is the exact usual mixture of dungeons, puzzle-solving and exploration, underpinned by an expanding inventory of equipment, mostly well known from past outings, but as ever featuring new twists. From the music and sound effects to the continual background urn-smashing and treasure chest-pillaging, everything is comfortingly familiar. While there are moments of mild irritation with the stylus control mechanism, this is Zelda on excellent pint-sized form.Nintendo, £39.99Orbital, iPhoneOrbitalApple's App Store, with its terrifying profusion of software, is the home of both superb throwaway entertainment and absolute unmitigated tripe. Based on online game Gimme Friction Baby, Orbital, at 59p and offering tough yet strangely compelling gameplay, is undoubted value for money. Aside from multiplayer modes – which, for most iPhone users, are at most an occasional distraction – its single-player game comes in two flavours: gravity and pure. In pure mode you fire circular pucks from a swinging nozzle at the bottom of the screen in such a way that they don't rebound below the game's baseline. You then hit each of those spheres three times to make them vanish and score a point; it's a process that makes far more sense when playing the game itself. Gravity mode is identical, except each orb exerts its own miniature gravitational pull, making the game slightly more accessible.Bitforge, 59pWe Sing, Nintendo WiiWe SingThe fact that Nintendo's Wii (the king of casual gaming devices and demystifier of interactive entertainment for those who normally wouldn't bother) has never had a karaoke game is an anomaly now rectified by the release of We Sing. It differentiates itself from Sony's SingStar and Microsoft's Lips in a couple of ways: you can use up to four microphones rather than the usual two and it has no online functionality whatsoever. This latter feature means you're stuck with a paltry 30-odd songs, so – even if you're happy with cheese like Aqua's Barbie Girl, Chesney Hawkes's The One And Only and a variety of 80s throwbacks among newer rock and pop from Lily Allen and Kaiser Chiefs – you'll find your patience sorely tested after a few hours. With almost any continuous noise picked up by the mic giving you full marks every time, it's not so much a game as a crap karaoke machine.Nordic Games, with two mics £49.99, game only £29.99
Making OfConcerning itself with the nitty gritty of the movie craft, Making Of's weirdly silent set visits to recent movies – including the Coen brothers' A Serious Man and Wes Anderson's Fantastic Mr Fox – reveal the tedious reality of the process. Among trailers and clips are the much better video interviews with stars like Eric Bana and Ben Stiller, plus proper insight into the industry in a series of exchanges with costume designers, casting directors, screenwriters and stuntmen all discussing their work. The site, co-founded by Star Wars pin-up Natalie Portman, could do with an injection of humour to go with its access to the inner echelons of Hollywood. If only Dennis Pennis was still available.Bad Menubadmenu.comWho doesn't love a catastrophic spelling mishap? Especially if it involves an attempt to tease your taste buds but instead triggers your gag reflex. Taken from menus, billboards, ads and signs the world over the delights on offer include "Stuffed Eggplant with shrimp and crap filling" (yum), a family pizza that comes with a topping of "40 to 60cm of sheet metal" (mmm) and "roast lamp" (delicious). A common error appears to be in translating a menu – or maybe antipasto really is a "copulation of daily meats". But there can be few excuses for the American establishments whose "vegetarian option" is chicken or for the Lebanese restaurant that insists on hiring a "lesbian chef".Blog Roll: ChristmasLast ChristmasPop noir, 8-bit, Swedish and choral covers of Wham's 80s classic.Aluminum Tree MuseumPreserving vintage aluminium trees in all their tinselacious glory.Ship Of FoolsThe magazine of Christian unrest including "Gadgets for God" and the 12 Days of Kitschmas.Big Balls Of HollyChristmas tunes on YouTube, DIY decorations, album downloads and a 30ft spruce.Put On A Panto At HomeAll you need to stage your own panto in the comfort of your own living room.Santas Working OvertimeLinks galore including novelty advent calendars, vintage adverts, kids books and festive playlists.What we learned on the web this weekSinger Adam Lambert gets up close and personal with one his fansRock's infamous"crotch moments"Think beforeyou textThe economicsof pinballPop starsaregetting youngerWho's the bestboat captainSuperheroeswhoare arseholesThe worst portrayalsof technology in filmHow to makeGoogling safer for kidsWhere Nicolas Cage'smoney wentCurb Your Enthusiasm'sformula
Apple has hit back at Nokia, as the spat between the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer and its most recent rival becomes increasingly acrimonious.In October, Nokia - which makes almost four out of every 10 mobile phones sold worldwide -sued Apple in the US courts, alleging that its popular iPhone infringes 10 of its patents. The case is unlikely to come to court until the end of 2011.On Friday, however, Apple hit back. In a terse statement the Californian technology group said it had filed a countersuit claiming that Nokia is infringing 13 of its patents, singling out theE71 handsetas being particularly egregious."Other companies must compete with us by inventing their own technologies, not just by stealing ours," said Bruce Sewell, Apple's general counsel and senior vice president.In its79 page lawsuit, Apple accuses Nokia of refusing to license its intellectual property - which is crucial for the functioning of a mobile phone - "on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms"."In dealing with Apple, Nokia has sought to gain an unjust competitive advantage over Apple by charging unwarranted fees to use patents that allegedly cover industry compatibility standards and by seeking to obtain access to Apple's intellectual property," it goes on to complain.Until Nokia filed suit, the two companies had spent two years trying to agree a deal that would see Apple pay a licence fee to use technology developed by Nokia already in the iPhone.There is no doubt in Apple's mind what Nokia is trying to do. It is trying to make up for the fact that it failed to produce a compelling 'converged' device - that brings together a mobile phone, digital media player and web-browser - of its own, so has had to copy the iPhone.Apple's claim quotes Anssi Vanjoki, the Finnish company's executive vice president and general manager of multimedia from the firm's GoPlay event in 2007 at which he said "if there is something good in the world, we copy with pride".The suit also quotes aGuardian story from Septemberin which Kai Oistamo, the Finnish company's executive vice-president for mobile phones, admitted "if you go back a few years, the market changed suddenly and we were not fast enough changing with it.Certainly Nokia has lost its commanding lead in the market for so-called smartphones since the iPhone was launched in 2007. Nokia reckons its share of what it terms the 'converged mobile device market' was 35% in the third quarter of the year, down from 41% in the second quarter.Apple, meanwhile, is only just getting started. It has shipped over 34m iPhones since the device was launched in 2007, and analysts estimate it could selling at least that many again next year and as many as 80m annually by 2012.Just before it launched its case,Nokia announced its first quarterly loss for more than a decadeas a host of rivals, including the iPhone and new consumer-focused BlackBerry handsets, invaded the market for smartphones. By contrast, Apple announced a recession-defying 46% rise in profits for the same period."Having suffered losses in the marketplace, Nokia has resorted to demanding exorbitant royalties from Apple for patents that Nokia claims are essential to various compatibility standards for mobile wireless telecommunications and wireless computing that Apple practices," the Apple lawsuit alleges.In May this year, for instance, Apple alleges that Nokia demanded a royalty payment that was three times the figure it had been suggesting the previous year.As part of the deal, Nokia also tried to force Apple to counter-licence some of its own technology, which Apple maintains is not essential to any standard - in stark contrast with the Nokia technology which Apple was trying to licence.The patents which Apple alleges Nokia has infringed include one relating to the ability to plug a mobile phone into a computer with a USB cable, one that relates to teleconferencing applications, one connected with the iPhone's energy saving features and several relating to the technical workings of mobile phone software.Apple also alleges that Nokia has infringed one of its patents that covers the way that the iPhone allows the user to scroll through documents, enlarge documents by touching the screen and flip between landscape and portrait modes when the phone is rotated.
The technology business tends to advance in waves as new ideas are adopted. For an example, there were successive waves of mainframes, minicomputers and then personal computers, with thefourth wavebeing networking, mobile, or whatever. But people don't always agree what the "next wave" is, or will be, and some technologies never become as important as people might have imagined. "Natural user interfaces" such as natural-language speech and handwriting, for example, have been touted for decades without getting much traction. And despite all Bill Gates's efforts, Tablet PCs have never taken off.For a company, picking the wrong trends to follow can make life difficult or lead to disaster. If, at the start of this decade, you invested in strategies based on using fax machines or standalone videophones, DAT, WAP or DAB, "push technologies" or paperless offices, then you might not have done as well as if you'd chosen blogging, social networking, or a user-generated content strategy.With the end of the decade approaching, you've been invited to a meeting to decide what will be the most important technology for your company in the next five to 10 years. What do you pick, and why?Note: we pose a query every week, and the best comments are excerpted and published in the Guardian's Technology section, which appears on Thursdays. It's up to you to avoid making any comment that you'd be embarrassed to see in print.
In an internet defamation case that lawyers say could set an "extraordinary precedent", an American games company is suing a British blogger in the Australian courts.Evony, an online games company registered in the US state of Delaware, is suing Coventry-based blogger Bruce Everiss for libel over a series of allegations made on his website. In a bizarre twist, however, Evony has decided not to pursue its case in Britain or America, but 10,000 miles away.A hearing in Sydney on Monday will determine whether or not the supreme court of New South Wales has jurisdiction – with the potential to set a precedent for the way defamation laws are applied to the online world.Evony's owners, who boast that the game has more than 11 million players worldwide, have accused Everiss – a 30-year veteran of the computer games industry – of damaging their reputation with a series of claims made on his blog. Among the allegations that Evony is objecting to are claims that the game is exploitative and has links to another company that is already being sued for fraud by Microsoft.Evony – which has also threatened legal action against the Guardian for similar claims made in an article published in July – says that the assertions made by Everiss are completely untrue and damaging to its business, and that neither the company nor its owners are associated with fraud or implicated or involved with the Microsoft case.Before the case against Everiss reaches court, however, Evony must first argue why a company registered in the US should use the Australian courts to take action against a British citizen."It would be quite an extraordinary precedent," Damian Sturzaker, a partner with Sydney-based law firm Marque who is acting for Everiss, told the Guardian."It is a great stretch of the Australian court's jurisdiction to require Bruce – an individual with limited, if any, means – to defend a claim here in Australia by a multinational company."Evony's lawyers did not respond to a request for comment, but have previously said that the company intends to seek worldwide damages – a move believed to be a first in a case of this kind."[Everiss's] actions bring an enormous discredit to all online journalists internationally and have substantially impacted Evony's reputation in Australia," said the lawyer acting for Evony, Dean Groundwater of Warren McKeown Dickson, at the time.The blogger himself, who does not intend to make an appearance in Sydney, has responded angrily to the action and accused Evony of libel tourism.He has suggested that if the case is allowed to proceed "it will create a precedent and open the floodgates for anyone to litigate anywhere against anyone they don't like".Australia has proven a testing ground for online libel cases before – most notably in 2002, when local mining magnate Joseph Gutnick used the high court in Victoria to sue American publisher Dow Jones over a series of allegations made in its financial magazine, Barron's.Although the printed magazine was only for sale in the US, the article was also published online and available to readers worldwide – leading Gutnick to claim, successfully, that his reputation had been damaged in his home country.Evony first came to prominence earlier this year, when it launched with a spurt of online promotion – including a risqué advertising campaign which drew widespread condemnation. The adverts, which feature women in various states of undress beckoning players to "save your lover now" and "play secretly", led to an outpouring of criticism on the web.One blogger called the campaign the "absolute rock bottom" of online advertising, while prominent video games blog Kotaku said that the "boobs smorgasbord" was a "pathetic attempt at enticing people to play".Sturzaker suggested that a victory for the US company could mark a major shift in the way laws around the world applied to the internet."It's about whether an Australian court can say that the simple fact that something can be posted on a blog and downloaded in Australia is enough."
Fusion Garage is launching the JooJoo web tablet today, but the device -- formerly known as TechCrunch's CrunchPad -- has already prompted a lawsuit. TechCrunch bossMichael Arrington says in a blog post: "Thursday afternoon we filed a lawsuit in against Fusion Garage in the Northern District of California Federal court. The causes of action include Fraud and Deceit, Misappropriation of Business Ideas, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Unfair Competitition and Violatioins of the Lanham Act" (sic).TechCrunch had been writing about the development of its CrunchPad webpad for 18 months and then, on 30 November, just before launch,announced it was cancelled. Arrington said "the entire project self destructed over nothing more than greed, jealousy and miscommunication".But then it turned out that a small company called Fusion Garage was launching its own touch-screen tablet instead. It announced that it would start taking orders for the device, now calledJooJoo, at midnight PST on 11 December (today).Fusion Garage founder and chief executive Chandra Rathakrishnan explained his position ina webcast "press conference" via Viv-u("the browser-based OS was developed solely by us"), and has been showing the JooJoo to the US press in New York. PC Magazine has put up a number of videos inHands On Video with the JooJoo. Information Week also publishedHands-On With The JooJoo, with a video, and numerous other publications covered the story. The video above is from Engadget'sJoojoo tablet hands-on.Lawsuits aside, the main problem with the CrunchPad/JooJoo appears to be the $499 price, which is mainly due to the cost of the touch screen. Arrington had a $200 target price for this limited function device, but clearly that's impossible for a 12-inch system with a capacitative screen. Still, for most people, $499 is outside the geek toy category that would attract casual purchasers.Whether there's much of a consumer market for a tablet computer remains to be seen. AMD tried to popularise its WebPad design a decade ago, and I saw more than a dozen of the things from different suppliers. However, I never saw anybody buy or use one. Tablets based on Microsoft's Tablet PC edition of Windows XP and earlier Windows CE operating system also failed to find consumer buyers, as have touch-screen computers going back through the Apple Newton to the GridPad, which ran MS DOS. (There's a bit of history inKeep taking the tablets, which I wrote in 2002.)But the fact that touch-screen tablets have failed so far does not mean they will never succeed. Apple has shown with the iPod and iPhone that you can enter a market late and still be hugely successful. In this case, however, the company that looks most likely to redefine the tablet marketplace is not Fusion Garage but Apple with the iTablet. And that's going to cost more than $499.Also see:The CrunchPad – the greatest tablet there never was?by Charles Arthur
What was the greatest game of the last ten years? Next week, Gamesblog will be running its essential list of the decade's most treasured interactive entertainments. And you may be surprised by what you find...Importantly, unlike other features of this ilk, this is not the result of several chin-stroking culture critics sitting about in Starbucks nominating their personal faves. Two weeks ago, we asked you - yes YOU - tonominate your suggestions. And fortunately almost 500 readers did just that - either posting comments online or sending us suggestions via email. I've spent the last three days recording every vote, and from a list of over 300 eligible titles (some of you seemed to have misunderstood the whole 'Noughties' concept...), I've produced a fully democratic Top 50. Obviously, the Guardian's staff of videogame writers have had their say, too, but mostly, this list will represent the will of the people. So don't blame us that Ikuruga isn't on there. Blast it, that's some of the tension blown already...Okay, so you probably have a good idea of the top ten (don't go by the message comments alone though - the email votes, and our own in-house suggestions, were rather different, and had a decisive role to play). But this is all about the sub-plots. Which fared better, San Andreas or Vice City? Ico or Shadow of the Colossus? God of War or Gears of War? The answers will be with you from Monday.Prepare for the mother of all 'I can't believe X is not on the list!' indignation-fests...
In little more than a decade, Google has conquered the technology industry and become one of the world's most powerful companies. Its latest undertaking, however, may be one of its most ambitious: a giant undersea cable that will significantly speed up internet access around the globe.The Californian search engine is part of a consortium that confirmed its plans to install the new Southeast Asia Japan Cable (SJC) yesterday, the centrepiece of a $400m (£245m) project that will create the highest capacity system ever built.Google is undertaking the scheme with a number of Asian telecommunications companies, including Japan's KDDI and India's Reliance Globalcom. The agreement to build the submarine cable was first proposed three years ago, but negotiations finally came to a close on Wednesday as officials signed what they promised was a groundbreaking deal."We will now be uniquely positioned to provide our customers voice, internet and data services across the entire Asian continent," said Punit Garg, the chief executive of Reliance.When it opens for business in 2012, the SJC will run 3,000 miles from Singapore to Japan - with branches reaching out to Hong Kong, the Philippines, Thailand and Guam. In total, it will consist of more than 5,000 miles of cable, sunk deep under the seabed.The move is intended to boost the amount of capacity available for phone calls and internet traffic by bringing new. In turn, this should ease any potential congestion and make it easier for communications traffic to route around the world.The SJC is set to break records by allowing up to 17 terabits of data to be sent every second - the equivalent of around 250m telephone lines, and large enough to allow the contents of every single book in the British Library to be transferred 20 times per second.And as if that was not enough, the line is also upgradeable and could eventually run as fast as 23Tbps - space for another 88m phone lines.It is not the first time that Google has made significant investments in the physical infrastructure that underpins the internet.Recently, the company took a leading role in developing a parallel project to build the $300m Unity cable, which will run a high-capacity line from Japan to Los Angeles.Demand for connectivity has grown drastically in recent years, thanks to increased internet traffic. Research company TeleGeography pinned annual growth between 2002 and 2007 at around 63% per year, and expects demand to double each year until 2012.Earlier this year anew line running into east Africa was finally completed, promising to bring improved broadband to countries including Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and South Africa.
The news that theNintendo DS has sold over 10 millionunits and so beating the PS2 to become the highest selling console in the UK ever – yes, it has even sold more than the Dreamcast – was not entirely unexpected. After all, this is the console that has really broken down those gamer/non gamer barriers. The stylus interface, sleek design (not including the plastic monstrosity that was the first iteration of course) and celeb-friendly marketing have all helped. Less happily for Nintendo piracy and the widespread use of R4 storage cards has also contributed. But it has been the software, as usual, that has really driven the DS' success. Brain Training and its sequels alone have probably accounted for half of those 10 million sales. Along with Sudoku, crosswords and puzzle titles – Professor Layton in particular – the DS has become the handheld games console for everyone.  Well, nearly everyone.Hardcore gamers have often been turned off by the barrage of puzzle party minigame releases and there is no doubt Sony's PSP is the better bet for this audience. But recent titles like the latest Zelda game will appeal to veteran gamers while the marvellous Korg DS-10 music software proves the DS is far from just a toy.So to celebrate the success of the DS, or even just because it's a Friday and we haven't had a list since, er Tuesday, let's have your top 3 DS games.  To get you started here are mine:1.Scribblenauts- (the unique gameplay is perfectly suited to the DS and while it is occasionally rough around the edges this is a game that has to be sampled)2.Zelda: Spirit Tracks-  (not exactly Christmas 1998 and Ocarina of Time but this is the perfect seasonal gaming event and easily the best DS game of the year)3.Korg DS-10(ok, this sonically powerful synth software is not a game but I've had more fun creating music on this than playing 90% of DS games)What is your top 3 then? And are you happy that the DS is the most successful console of all time in the UK?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
I started writing about technology and the internet for the Guardian back in 2001, when I was pretty much fresh out of university and working my day job as a low-level editor on the Evening Standard'sThisIsLondonwebsite.Of course, the Guardian had already been reporting about the world of technology for a very long time by the time I got in on the act - a tradition going back explicitly some 20-odd years.If anything defines the past decade, it has to be the importance of the internet, a technology that is now central to the lives of so many of us. 2000 was only a handful of years after I'd really found out about the internet - at that point I'd been a low level geek for a long time, and the web felt to me like the most exciting thing I'd ever seen. It was a fresh, undiscovered country where the strangest things took place. You could talk to anyone, find out anything, make friends or enemies with a few keystrokes. It was wild.While the web felt new to me, some other things were already familiar, even then: I toted an MP3 player around with me, I had a mobile phone and I had a blog. The details have changed a little over time - my Rio could store about an hour's worth of music and my Nokia 3310 now seems like a museum piece - but not everything: I'm still blogging, one way or another.Thinking back, it's easy to look at both how much has changed and how much has stayed the same.So, as we come to the end of a decade - whether you call them the naughties or something less tittersome - I thought it was worth taking a tour through some of the great moments in technology from the past decade and looking at how we covered them.In the run up to Christmas, I'm going to take a moment each day to pick five important episodes from each year from 2000-2009. You're free to share your own reminiscences or offer up other things you think should be remembered - just leave a comment.First up: the year 2000.2000&bull; In January,AOLand Time Warner came together in a $350bn marriage that looked like.In an editorial, the Guardian questioned whether this move - for all the business benefits - was a good thing. Indeed, the editorial said, "at issue is whether the world wide web - whose founding philosophy is free access and empowerment of the individual - should be dominated by huge media conglomerates or whether plurality is to be the ethos". Today, of course, thecompany has just spun out again.&bull; In April, the US government made a brave call: thatMicrosoftshould bebroken up into two separate companies, one responsible for Windows and another in charge of all the rest of its businesses. The proposal was eventually put to one side when George Bush came into power, but some of the damage had already been done: Bill Gates hadannounced his decision to step down from the chief executive's role in January.&bull; Japanese electronics giantSonyhad seen big - and surprising - success with its PlayStation console in the 1990s, but few expected what was to come when itlaunched the PS2 in February. "It will not only be the world's most advanced games console, it will also play DVD movies," wrote Jack at the time. Over the coming years it managed to secure Sony's dominance for that generation, though obviously things are tougher now with stiff competition from Nintendo and Microsoft.&bull; The arrival of the year 2000 also proved a turning point forNapster, which had sent the music industry apoplectic with its cunning implementation of peer to peer filesharing.A Guardian editorial in July of that year pointed out that an injunction brought by a judge in America "is the modern equivalent of putting a digit into the dyke to prevent the dam from bursting" - adding that "this case has no heroes", with money-hungry record companies up against copyright infringers.&bull; And how could you ignore the dotcom crash? Throughout the course of 2000. The Nasdaq exchange hit its highest level in March 2000, and from thereon internet stocks - which had swollen to giddy levels - began to plummet.Big losses from Amazonwere followed bya string of profit warningsmeant the writing was on the wall - but it would still take a while before the depth of the crash became clear.Tomorrow it's time for 2001, but if you've got any memories of 2000 then leave them in the comments.
The founder of classified advertising website Craigslist says he felt betrayed by eBay soon after the auction giant took a $32m stake in his company five years years ago.Craig Newmark, who started Craigslist in 1995, told a court in Delaware on Thursday that he would have blocked the deal that saw eBay acquire more than a quarter of his company if he had known how the relationship would pan out.Newmark said he had initially been told that eBay shared his outlook on business, but that he began to worry about the relationship shortly after eBay acquired the 28% stake from a former employee.In particular, he said, former eBay chief executive Meg Whitman reneged on a number of agreements and used confidential business information gleaned from the relationship with Craigslist to launch a rival classified advertising site, Kijiji, in 2007."She insisted that she was very happy at that point in time," Newmark told the Delaware court on Thursday of his early dealings with Whitman. "She insisted convincingly that she shared our values and what she said was real - she'd follow through on that.""EBay, specifically Meg Whitman, made commitments and broke them," he added.The internet auction site is taking action against Craigslist for what it says was an unfair decision by Newmark and Jim Buckmaster, the Craigslist chief executive, to dilute its shareholding to the point where the company could no longer claim a seat on the board.Craigslist has filed a separate lawsuit against eBay in California, alleging that a series of legal agreements were broken when eBay used the information to launch Kijiji.Newmark told the court that the measures taken to reduce eBay's shareholding were a legitimate defence against potential danger."We feared that if eBay retained its seat on the board, it would continue to acquire proprietary information that could be used in a bad way," he said. "We feared that people might be nominated to the board who might not have the interest of the community and the company at heart, so we wanted to make it harder for them to be on the board."Whitman, who stepped down as the head of eBay after 10 years,gave evidence on Mondayin which she said that she initially wanted to buy Craigslist outright."We knew there was no path to control unless they sold us the shares," she said.The case continues on Friday.
&bull; With its $7.4bn purchase of Sun Microsystem tied up amid objections from the European Union,Oracleis taking the offensive to Brussels. In a closed hearing, the company is suggesting that the claims that the buyout is anti-competitive are false. The FT says Oracle thinks regulators"cherry-picked"their evidence, while the Wall Street Journal says thattwo customers whose responses were used as evidence to block the deal actually support it.&bull; Plenty of publishers have jumped on the iPhone bandwagon, but the latest isPlayboy- a surprise, given that a ban on nudity seems to be about the only rule that Apple seems to enforce consistently. That means the Hugh Hefner is having to make do without the naked women for the iPhone edition of his monthly magazine. Spokesperson Theresa Hennessey toldKrapps.comthat "the pictures are all non-nude or cropped".&bull; And don't miss our gaming special today - an attempt to explain to the world what's so good about games, featuring commentaries fromCharlie Brooker, the lovelyNaomi Alderman, notably quiffed film criticMark Kermodeandmany more.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
From the evocation of renaissance Italy inAssassin's Creed 2to the depiction of the world's most desirable cars inForza Motorsport 3, the visuals of modern videogames can be breathtakingly beautiful. But players never see the most awe-inspiring component: the 3D engine. This vast chunk of programming code powers everything we see on screen, creating  and animating virtual environments.And they are major engineering projects. UK publisherCodemastershas a team of 30 technicians working full-time on maintaining the company's Ego engine, which is used in everything from racing titles to shooters. The Unreal Engine, created byEpic Games, contains a breathtaking 2.5m lines of code – as Tim Sweeney, technical director:  "That's roughly comparable to the complexity of a whole operating system a decade ago."Today some of the most brilliant minds in the world – physicists, mathematicians, architects, aerodynamics experts - are working on videogames. One of the staff at Scottish developerRealtime Worldswrote the software powering the New York stock exchange, Joe Graf at Epic Games helped design the bill-paying system used by most online banks, and in the mid-90s, Moscow-based flight-simulator specialist Eagle Dynamics employed the ex-military programmers who created the guidance systems for Russia's nuclear missiles. "Game development is at the cutting edge in many disciplines," says Sweeney. "The physics in modern games includes rigid body dynamics and fluid simulation algorithms that are more advanced than the approaches described in research papers."Now these technological marvels are creeping into other fields.Blitz Games Studioshas used its engine to create a simulation to teach paramedics to correctly prioritise victims at an accident scene. While young architecture and urban-planning firms can use a cheap PC and a £50 computer game to visualise new projects – an endeavour that would have once cost tens of thousands of dollars.Game technology can also be mashed up with other packages to help with urban design. "Google SketchUpis a prime example," says Dr Andrew Hudson-Smith at University College London's Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis, "It is a free 3D-modelling tool that can be 'plugged into' many game engines. It is a democratising tool, if people don't like what the council is doing in terms of urban design or street furniture they can re-design it themselves and put it online to raise awareness of the issues."Meanwhile, John D Carmack, the programming legend behind theDoomandQuakegames runs an aerospace company as a relaxing diversion from his role as technical director at games developer,id. Which goes to show that 3D engine design isn't rocket science – it's far more complicated than that.
Nintendo WiiWith its TV remote-style controller that can be wielded like a bat, sword or even a gun, the Wii offers a perfect introduction to videogames. But the graphics aren't as pretty as its two more technologically advanced rivals, and really ground-breaking Wii games come along very infrequently.Microsoft Xbox 360(pictured)If you fancy something more heavyweight with the best games portfolio and aren't scared of using a "joypad" to control the action (primarily with your thumbs), the Xbox has the edge over Sony's PS3. But the £150 Arcade version is all but useless without a hard disk – go for the £200 Elite model.Sony PlayStation 3Whereas the PlayStation 2 once dominated its rivals, the PS3 is a disappointment for gamers. Former PlayStation exclusives such as Tomb Raider and Grand Theft Auto are now available for rival consoles from the day of release and, at £250, PS3 is still too pricey.  An attractive purchase only for  those with an obsession with the PlayStation brand.PC/MacMany consol games are available on the PC, but the best require a powerful 3D graphics card. Because few Macs have these, most publishers ignore them.
Ever since my band the Dumb Waiters (we were dreadful) split acrimoniously in 1982, I've had too few chances to rock out or get funky. But Steve, Graeme and I have only had Guitar Hero 5 out of its box for five minutes and already I'm fulfilling one of my minor childhood dreams – I'm playing Jeff "Skunk" Baxter's guitar break from Steely Dan's Do It Again.Or rather, I'm not. Instead, I'm trying to match the notes that are scrolling on a virtual fretboard across the TV screen in front of me to six coloured buttons on the pretend fretboard of a small plastic "guitar". What is coming out of the TV speaker is pure Skunk, but what I'm doing is so easy that it reinforces my prejudice about computer games: they are created for lame-ass invertebrates who can't hack the real world (no offence). Admittedly, I've selected the beginner's level, but still. The experience flatters my ego for a moment, but leaves me with the nagging sensation that I'm cheating. And that I'm cheating nobody as much as myself.My case against computer games runs like this: we don't have the dedication any more to do difficult things such as learn Arabic, cure cancer, read War and Peace in the original Russian, understand quantum physics or boss tricky early 70s MOR West Coast guitar solos. But handily, capitalism makes it seem as if we are achieving things when really we aren't. The ease with which I play Steely Dan's lead guitar on Guitar Hero 5 seems of a piece with the barmy fact that the worldwide market for virtual goods for online computer gaming is expected to hit $5bn (£3.08bn) by the end of the year. This, incidentally, is the sum that Morgan Tsvangirai estimated would be necessary to rebuild Zimbabwe. But we don't want to rebuild Zimbabwe, not really: we'd prefer to spend our money on things that don't really exist, such as a 9mm computer simulation of a pistol for Facebook's Mafia Wars game (cost $10).Actually, we're worse than I feared: we can't hack it in the real world, and we can't hack it in the virtual world either. Recently, a 23-year-old hacker was arrested for stealing players' identities, skills, weapons and virtual money in RuneScape, a medieval fantasy game played by more than 100 million gamers worldwide. If there is a better symptom of the decline of civilisation, let me know.Don't give me that innocent look. We're all doing it – playing BlackBerry BrickBreaker, iPod Parachute, Facebook Scrabble,and pre-ordering Winter Sports 2010: The Great Tournament for the family Wii as part of a pitiful new year's resolution to get fit.Even our greatest sports stars are happier winning in cyberspace than in the real world. It was reported that Andy Murray and his girlfriend split up because he played PlayStation 3 for seven hours a day. "I have played a lot of tennis on PlayStation 3 games," he said earlier this year. "I've won all the tour events and Wimbledon a few times. Unfortunately, it's a bit easier on a computer than winning Wimbledon for real." Here's a prediction: Murray will never win real Wimbledon, not with that mindset.But perhaps these ill-founded prejudices need to be exploded like a (frankly offensive) stereotypical Arab terrorist in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2. After all, billions of people around the world play videogames and not all of them – surely – can be acne-ridden sociopaths who will post intemperate responses to this article in the blogosphere lickety split (again, no offence).Steve Boxer, a computer games journalist, is helping me to think again. "This is such fun!" he says, as we play Nirvana's About a Girl. I'm Kurt Cobain biffing out dismal chords, Graeme the photographer is gamely struggling to keep pace with Dave Grohl's lolloping stick technique, while Steve is Nirvana's bassist. When we manage to hit 86% of the right notes I feel a glow of  achievement. Then we're Blondie playing One Way or Another, and it all goes wrong. The virtual crowd is booing and the Debbie Harry on screen is looking at my on-screen guitarist with contempt. I've been here before: in 1982 during the Dumb Waiters' gig at the Cape of Good Hope pub. Virtual boos, it turns out, hurt as much as as real ones.It was fun. Not something I'm going to repeat but, you know, quite diverting. Now to shoot some bad guys. We strip the cellophane off Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2. Soon, I'm tooled up with rifle and sidearm and I've murdered several innocent children in place of the Arab-looking terrorists who were my targets. A virtual American sergeant major is giving me GBH of the earhole. There doesn't seem to be a way to turn either of those weapons on him or my virtual self, though it would be better for the wellbeing of everyone in this virtual world if I did.Next, having told the game that I'm not easily offended, I receive another mission: I am a CIA agent tasked with killing civilians at an airport. I didn't realise until that moment how accurate a simulation of real war Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 could be.Ever sinceBaudrillardwrote The Gulf War Did Not Take Place in the early 1990s, it has been commonplace to suggest that wars will be fought like videogames. In this context, perhaps it's no surprise that the Royal Navy is issuing PlayStations to sailors to encourage them to study at sea.Inadvertently killing children in cyberspace has been a challenging experience, but again this immersive shoot-'em-up isn't something I want in my life for more than a morning. So I try a different computer-game challenge: I spend an evening with Kate, a work colleague, who shows me how to play World of Warcraft.WoW – as it's known – is the world's most most-subscribed massively multiplayer online role-playing game, with 11.5m subscribers worldwide. If you pay £9 a month  you can join them – and if you buy expansion packs the experience can be even richer.I've not met Kate previously and, such is my ignorance about the demographic of WoW's devotees, I'm worried she'll cut off my face and wear it as a trophy once I get round to her place.To make that less likely, I offer to bring snacks. But what snacks should one buy for a woman who has a level 36 WoW fire gnome mage? (She seems happy enough with M&amp;S stollen slices.)Hold on, you say. What, is a mage? It is a caster of spells, who can teleport, conjure up food and drink, and lots of other stuff. You find mages all over Azeroth, the virtual world that teems with feuding sub-Tolkeinesque critters. Bet you wish you'd never asked.But World of Warcraft seems expressly designed to contradict my "videogames don't need dedication" theory. "It's easy to learn but difficult to master," says Kate. She lends me WoW's official strategy guide, which is as thick as a phone directory and only slightly less baffling than my guide to German idioms.WoW is light years ahead of the games that blighted my youth. Black and white Tetris, Frog Crossing, the blip! blip! blip! of Binatone TV Master tennis! Remember Maelstrom? I do: I shot at space boulders through most of the late 80s to earn points so I could go to the next level and shoot more space boulders. Talk about Sisyphean. Happy – though spiritually worthless – memories.Sam Leith wrote in this paper recently that WoW resembled Chartres cathedral. It is, he argued, "a supreme work of art that is, on a brick-by-brick basis, the creation of hundreds of artisans and craftsmen, many of whom will be long gone by the time it comes to completion". The parallel – in terms of the vast collaborative, often anonymous, artisanal enterprise that is WoW – is well made, but a supreme work of art? "It is very beautiful," agrees Kate, directing me to a snowy landscape where her mage is slaying a tiger. I'm not sure: to me it is clunkingly rendered characters in a landscape you'd laugh at if it appeared in an art gallery. But I've been wrong before.There's more to this WoW than alleged beauty. It offers a communal experience and a chance to meet like-minded real people. "One of the attractions for me is that WoW's a great social-networking site as well as a great role-playing game," says Andrew, my IT consultant friend. "I know so much about people in my World of Warcraft guild. [Guilds allow members to go questing in groups, strategise about how to collaborate on a slaying a giant and chat about real-world stuff.]"One guy in my guild and I sat in a WoW pub and he told me all about his divorce. We really bonded. I don't know what he looks like or what he does in the real world. But in WoW he's a warlock who throws frost at his enemies."Kate helps me create a WoW character. Daph is a rogue blood elf named after Kate's cat. We tried Daphne, but somebody else had already taken that name. Don't mess with Daph, WoWsters, yeah? She may sound nelly, but she's got an eviscerating knife with your name on it. Daph's first task is to slay eight mana wyrms (note spelling), which she does with aplomb.Daph collects things from her victims' corpses (tiger meat, tools, food) to trade at the virtual pub later on. I could buy Daph goods on eBay to use in WoW (cheat codes for example), but I don't roll that way. And the virtual economy isn't, as I'd thought, just aimed at making it easier to cheat, but actually enriches the experience. Kate readily agrees that WoW is as immersive an experience as a good novel or film. But she gets a kick out of something that novels and films don't offer – killing pretend adversaries and completing quests. The appeal of the latter, is something I don't get yet. "Some evenings I'd sit down at 10pm and think I'll just do one quest and then I get sucked in and it would be 3am and I'd have completed five or so overlapping quests. It's very satisfying."What other games does Kate enjoy? "I loved Grand Theft Auto IV." Isn't it violent and sexist? "Running over prostitutes and taking money from them is fun," says Kate. "It's just a game. I'm not violent or sexist in real life."In the future, computer and video-gaming is likely to be even more of a pernicious time-suck for more people than ever before because of two developments. This time next year you'll be able to play videogames on television thanks to Playcast, a British company that plans to offer up to 20 games on a channel that you subscribe to as you would with a film channel.But that development dwindles into insignificance beside the release next year of Project Natal. It is a 9in box of tricks being developed by Microsoft that uses several cameras, plus a microphone and lots of software, to track the gamer's body and interpret their voice. You move your hand, and the character – who will look like you – moves their hand. It's similar to the motion-capture technology that the Hollywood director Robert Zemeckis has been using on the films Beowulf and A Christmas Carol.More importantly, it delivers the dream that gamers have fantasised about since the 1982 film Tron, in which the hero hacker (Jeff Bridges) was digitally broken down into a data stream and reconstituted into the 3-D graphical world of computers. Thanks to Microsoft, we may soon be able to choose a similar fate. Project Natal will, quite possibly, be the next step on the road to transhumanism and further demonstrate our decadent desire to get away from the real world.But, like most of the games I've played, it will probably give us a lot of unjustifiable fun too. Already I can see one application for Project Natal. I'll be able to reform Harold Melvin and the Blue Notes by digitally reconstituting myself in Teddy Pendergrass's place and singing The Love I Lost before a booing crowd of virtual fans. Clearly this would be another symptom of the decline of civilisation but, truly, it would be the fulfilment of a dream.
Nintendo rules the roost as far as pre-teen gaming is concerned: its family-friendly Wii console and DS handheld are the obvious ones to buy for youngsters. But Microsoft and Sony, with the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3,  are keen to appeal to all ages, so you  can find plenty of child-friendly games to play on them. Here is our pick of  five classics.Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic  Winter Games(Sega, Wii, DS)Great family entertainment in which the plumber and hedgehog – once deadly rivals – team up with their mates to compete in several events from the forthcoming Winter Olympics in Canada. Nice-looking, satisfyingly diverse and up to four people can play on it.Lego Indiana Jones 2(LucasArts, all formats)In which everyone's favourite whip-wielder, reconstructed in virtual Lego, adventures his way through parts of  the four Indy films. Brilliantly conceived and constructed: just as much fun for adults as kids.Mario Kart(Nintendo, Wii, DS)This cute driving game is nothing  short of seminal, and is the perfect primer for setting youngsters  on a path to becoming the next Lewis Hamilton or Jenson Button. Parents beware: your offspring will soon be lapping you.Boom Blox Bash Party(Electronic Arts, Wii)This clever game, conceived by the  film director Steven Spielberg, takes Jenga as its starting point, but adds explosions and pirates, as well as  a program that lets children design their own levels.Wii Sports Resort(Nintendo, Wii)The classic Wii game, in which you wield the remote-style controller, complete with the Motion Plus  add-on (which makes for more accurate play) as if it were a sword,  a paddle or a Frisbee. So intuitive  that grandparents and very young  children alike will instantly be  able to grasp it.Also recommended:Professor  Layton and Pandora's Box(DS); LittleBigPlanet(PS3); Eye Pet(PS3); Lego Rock Band(Wii, Xbox 360, PS3); Dr Kawashima's Brain Training(DS); New Super Mario Bros(Wii, DS); MySims Agents(Wii, DS); Wii Fit  Plus(Wii).
Last month, perfectly timed for the start of the Christmas shopping season, Leicester Square hosted a red carpet premiere. In keeping with the theme of the launch,  actors dressed as soldiers mingled with the celebrity-studded crowd.Business as usual – except that this glittering event didn't celebrate the launch of a Hollywood movie but a  videogame,Call of Duty: Modern  Warfare 2. The show of confidence marked the moment that gaming claimed its crown as the largest entertainment industry in the world.For the first time last year, sales of videogame software topped $40bn; making the global cinema box office takings of around $28bn look rather puny. And it's not just about size,  it's trajectory. Game sales have grown at a rate of at least 10% a year over the last two decades, while the movie  market is stagnant by comparison (it grew by only 1.8% in 2006-07) – and the music industry is contracting.There is real excitement over the release of new games. Andrea Phillips, who designed the promotional game for the film 2012, and writes the Deus Ex Machinatio games blog says,  "People are waiting in line outside their local games store to pick up the new hot game when it goes on sale  at midnight." The 2008 midnight launch of aWorld of Warcraftexpansion pack at HMV Oxford Street was the biggest the store had ever seen – 2,500 people.But this ascent to global dominance has happened quietly. Radio 4 doesn't have a regular games-discussion slot. Game-creators don't sit on Jonathan Ross's sofa to chat about their latest project. When I asked Kirsty Lang, presenter of Radio 4's arts and culture programme Front Row, why computer games don't feature more at the  forefront of media coverage of culture, she was candid: "I think it's because  the people who are making and  commissioning these programmes are still too old. Those of us in our 40s  and 50s, who are making the  decisions about what will feature in the programmes, don't really play  computer games. When we've had ideas put forward about gaming, they've tended to come from the younger members of the team."Adrian Hon, co-founder of London-based games company Six to Start, agrees games are still seen as being "for young people" even though many now carry 18 certificates. "People seem reluctant to talk about the fact that they're gamers," he commented. "It's perfectly fine for an MP to say that they're into noir movies, or crime fiction, or Coldplay – but  if they said, "Yeah, I'm a big Modern Warfare fan," they'd come off looking bad."Yet this is changing. James Wallis, lecturer in game design at the  University of Westminster, says that the traditional "twitch" game, with its need for fast reflexes and its casual violence, is no longer the key growth market for computer games. "Lots of people out there have never played a computer game. Well, you will! All the advertising for Nintendo's DS and Wii consoles has been aimed at non-game-playing demographics. Young women. The over-60s. Families – not just the boys. Casual gaming is also a vast market: the Facebook game Farmville has 60 million players worldwide. That is more people than live in the UK. The people who sit down in front of a  console to play Modern Warfare 2 are  in the minority of gamers."Female gamers are certainly  on the rise. Research earlier this year by the NPD group found that the proportion of female console gamers went from 23% in 2008 to 28% in 2009, while figures from Nielsen suggested that women aged between 25 and 54 now make up the largest group of PC gamers. As a lifelong gamer myself (starting with Skool Daze on my 48K Spectrum, and currently obsessed with the atmospheric faux-Victorian online gameEcho Bazaar), I'm  certainly glad to feel that I'm no longer in such a small minority.Tom Chatfield, arts and books editor of Prospect magazine, is hardly a sterotypical gamer. And in his forthcoming book about the games industry, Fun, Inc, he explains, "Games aren't standalone any more; they increasingly overlap with other things people like doing. Music, for instance –Guitar HeroandRock Bandare each worth well over $1bn. No big movie now is without its gaming counterpart. When talking about his new movie Avatar, James Cameron describes the filming process as being like in a videogame."In fact he says, console games are now just a small fraction of the worldwide gaming industry. "Boxed and mainstream games come out of the US, mostly the west coast and Texas, from Japan and some – including the Grand Theft Auto series, which was originally created by a Scottish game developer – from the UK. But other markets are also crucial, including free, micro-payment-based online gaming that has hundreds of millions of people involved, especially across Asia. The biggest example isMaple Story, a role-playing game with more than 100 million subscribers – these games are free or very cheap to  play, but allow players to pay very small amounts of cash for a huge  spectrum of in-game items, abilities and advantages."He suggests that it's the very playfulness of games that makes them seem juvenile: "We are programmed on a very deep level to want to play, but with our Protestant work ethic, play is viewed as pretty subversive. We still think that we have to put play behind us as part of what the adult and working worlds mean."This is a fascinating thought. Non-gamers often think of gaming as a "pointless" pastime, but perhaps that pointlessness is really the point:  instead of constantly having to be  productive, why can't we spend time on activities purely because they're  enjoyable? As games continue to grow in size and strength, as they are played in greater numbers by women, by  older people and by people who can't afford expensive equipment, the playful way of approaching the world may also spread.If Chatfield is right, it might be in breaking down the boundary between work and play, and in encouraging us all to play more, that games will end up making their greatest contribution to our culture.
Try as they might, video games still don't seem to really register in the mainstream "old media". Newspapers and television still largely report on the gaming world as though it is something mildly amusing that happens overseas. Statistics about how many billions the industry is worth, or how many billion players there are worldwide, tend to be recited with an air of amused disbelief. It's almost as  if video games only exist in the imagination of a few friendless dreamers.It's not just wilful ignorance on the part of rusty old media. It's hard to make games interesting in print or on TV, especially to non-players. Compared to other popular artforms, there aren't many "personalities" in games; no George Clooneys to interview or Britneys to pap. What's more, when addressing a casual audience, it's incredibly hard to describe what a game actually consists of. The majority of people don't speak the lingo. Everyone understands terms such as rom-com or thriller, but mention first-person shooters or MMORPGs and you might as well be speaking Gaelic. And when it comes to explaining even rudimentary game mechanics – well, that's like trying to recount an abstract dream you once experienced.End result: for all the talk of just how many trillion units Modern Warfare 2 has shifted, games strike around half the population as utterly inaccessible: a peculiar situation for a mass- market industry.It's partly an image thing. The lack of mainstream coverage means an exasperating number of non-gamers persist in the assumption that all video games consist of either laser beams and bleeping noises or unrelenting graphic violence. But it's also because, to the layman, many games are still off-puttingly complex. This can be frustrating for seasoned gamers, who just want to spread the love. Take Grand Theft Auto IV. It's amazing: one of the most impressive satirical works of the 21st century (I'm not exaggerating). If you're a gamer, you'll naturally want others to share the experience. So you try to introduce the game to your flatmate, your girlfriend, your boyfriend. But they're wary and intimidated. From their perspective, even the joypad is daunting. To you it's as warm and familiar as a third hand. To them it's the control panel for an alien helicopter.But you persevere, press the pad into their unenthusiastic hands, and offer to talk them through a few minutes of play. And almost immediately you have to bite your tongue to avoid screaming. They run into walls or hit pause by mistake. They swing the camera around until they can see nothing but their own feet, then  forward-roll under a lorry. They try to put the controller down, complaining that they're "no good at this". You force them to have another go, but within minutes you're behaving like  a bad backseat driver."You're in crouch mode," you sigh,  as their character waddles comically up the street. "Take it out of crouch mode." Instead they throw a grenade at their own feet, killing themselves and several bystanders. They moan that it's too hard. You force them to try again. Their character respawns. They run against a nearby door and jab at the buttons. "You can't open that door," you offer helpfully. "Why not?" they ask, "I opened another one a minute ago." "That one's just scenery," you sigh. "How do you know?" they say, jabbing all the buttons again. "It just is. Stop it." "Maybe it'll open in a moment," they suggest, jabbing. "It won't."But they stay there, running against the door. And then, apparently just to annoy you, they start spinning the camera round and round and in and out, going "wheeee!" as they do so. And then they blow themselves up with another grenade, say they can't see the appeal, drop the controller, and leave you sitting there alone, impotent and furious.Veteran players have years of experience. We're schooled in the way games work. It's as if we have learned a new man-made language, like Esperanto. And games are the equivalent of Esperanto-language movies – except they're better than movies. They're engrossing and exciting, playful and challenging, constantly evolving, constantly surprising. They're interactive and, thanks to the rise of modern multiplayer, infinitely more social  than mere television. But because they're in Esperanto, it's hard for  non-speakers to appreciate them.If you don't play games, you're  not just missing out, you're wilfully ignoring the most rapidly evolving creative medium in human history. And they're not all high-level Esperanto-fests. What follows is a list of recommendations for people who haven't tried a game in years, either because they find them too complex, or consider them mindless, or have simply assumed that games just aren't their bag. I've tried to avoid the usual Wii stick-waving efforts (currently promoted by Ant and Dec  in a series of ads that feel a bit like meetings for some kind of support group; I keep expecting someone to break down). The games here are all relatively simple and incredibly surprising. Some are available free online: you can try them out right now.Where to startCanabalt(Mac, PC, iPhone)adamatomic.com/canabaltGames don't come much simpler than this. There's only one button, and you can play it online for free, right now. You're a bloke escaping from an unnamed catastrophe. He runs automatically; you just have to hit the spacebar each time you want him to jump. Also available for the iPhone.Peggle(PC, Mac, iPhone, DS, X360)The one thing on this list that might ruin your life. The Peggle phenomenon had passed me by until literally a night or so ago. I was up till 5am. Simple and almost unbearably addictive, even though it sounds incredibly dull: you drop balls into a sort of surreal pinball table (or pachinko machine, to be more specific). The idea is to hit all the orange pegs. Like I said, it sounds tedious, but within seconds of picking it up you'll be stuck in a helpless trance, like a lab rat repeatedly nudging a button for a tiny shot of heroin. Ever played Tetris? It's simpler and more addictive than that.Flower(PS3)Available for download via the PlayStation network (look, just get a gamer to do it for you). Here is a game that may very well make you cry for reasons you can't quite put your finger on. The gameplay almost defies description: you control a breeze buffeting a bunch of petals around in a field. There's only one button; you control movement by simply tipping your hands in different directions. Again, it sounds dull, but in practice it's captivating, beautiful and strangely heartbreaking. Anyone who dismisses games as violent or soulless needs to experience this as soon as possible.Professor Layton and the  Curious Village(DS)Don't be fooled by the children's book presentation: this is essentially an interactive detective story, although the story is just an excuse to present you with a series of increasingly challenging puzzles, some of which could cause even the most sophisticated brain to overheat. If I had children, I'd force them to play this on the basis that it would almost certainly turn them into geniuses.Those are some pick-up-and-play examples. The next few require a bit more investment, but not much. All  of the games below will ease you into things gradually, showing you the ropes as you play, entertaining you as you go.Portal(PC, X360)An astounding accomplishment; part abstract brainteaser, part sci-fi thriller, part black comedy. Imagine being stuck inside a 3D puzzle with a playfully cruel sense of humour. Something that simply couldn't be replicated in any other medium.Grand Theft Auto IV(PC, PS3, X360)Yeah, yeah: the game where you shoot cops and kill innocent bystanders. What 99% of the coverage of GTA fails to note is that a) NONE OF THIS IS REALLY HAPPENING, and b) IT LOOKS LIKE A CARTOON . . . but most importantly c) THIS IS A WORK OF SATIRE. Incredibly dark satire at that. Adjust your filter, view it as a black comedy, and once you're past the outrage you'll come to appreciate what a staggeringly realised piece of entertainment it is.Left 4 Dead(PC, PS3, X360)A brilliant introduction to the world of multiplayer gaming. You and three other players (real ones) try to survive a zombie apocalypse together. A  co-operative, bonding experience and, again, a very funny one. That's something else that's rarely commented on in the mainstream media: games are funny.Fallout 3(PC, PS3, X360)OK, so this isn't simple, but it's so rewarding that it's worth dangling in front of you as a carrot. It's a role-playing game without a dwarf or an orc in sight, set in a satirical post-nuclear US wasteland that's part 1950s Pleasantville and part Hiroshima. Funny and horrible in equal measure.Other games definitely worth trying:Bioshock (a lushly stylised thriller with digs at the cult of Ayn Rand); Modern Warfare 2 (think of it as an interactive Bond movie); any of the Burnout titles (impossibly exciting racing games); Picross (for the DS; twice as moreish  as sudoku); and Braid (like a platform game designed by Kurt Vonnegut).You've got a list now, so there's no excuse. Get stuck in.From January …Game reviews will be published every Thursday in G2.
You know your gaming habit has got out of hand when you start wearing a nappy to allow you precious extra minutes at the screen. So says Brian Dudley, the director of Broadway Lodge in Weston-super-Mare, which earlier this year became the first addiction clinic in the UK to welcome gaming addicts."We are now seeing some people devoting their whole lives to gaming," says Dudley, who offers a 12-step abstinence programme to those suffering from a wide range of addictions, including alcohol, drugs and sex. "Some spend 18 hours a day playing on their computers. Immersive role-playing games such asWorld of WarcraftandCall of Dutyhook people and let them live in a fantasy world. The online element to the game lets them falsely believe they have lots of friends. Some people were reported to have taken a week off work just to play Call of Duty when it was released recently."Dudley's sense of frustration about the lack of action over excessive gaming is palpable: "We're just at the tip of the iceberg in our understanding of this subject. There's been very little in the way of meaningful research. Some research in the US has shown that 8-10% of gamers show signs of addiction, and in places such as South Korea there are now over 100 gaming addiction treatment centres. The industry is in denial about it at the moment and politicians are just not interested."Ever since videogames became a fixture in our homes in the early 1980s, there has been panic about their effect on our increasingly sedentary population. But with the arrival of broadband earlier this decade, multiplayer, fantasy role-playing games such as World of Warcraft have become hugely popular."It's the games with no end that are the worst," says Dudley. "They can help people develop eating disorders, such as binge eating. We're also seeing cross-addiction, where gamblers start to also get addicted to gaming and alcohol. There are many triggers for addiction such as bullying and family problems. But sometimes it can be just that the person really enjoys the game."But are computer games just a hook for addictive personalities? Without extensive research, it's unlikely we'll ever get a definitive answer, says Dudley. And the gaming industry is dismissive of the notion that gaming could be harmful. The Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (Elpsa) says: "Playing videogames is simply another daily activity that can give people pleasure. It is not a physical addiction."Addiction is not the only worry. Since the launch in 2006 of the Nintendo Wii, there have been regular reports of people suffering from injuries during gameplay. But it is injuries caused by repetitive actions – "cumulative trauma disorders" – that seem most likely to manifest themselves during excessive gaming. "It has been shown in the US that kids playing computer games can develop symptoms in their arms and fingers, especially when using a joystick," says Professor Stephen Tyrer, emeritus consultant in psychiatry, pain and neurorehabilitation at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary. "Kids that really enjoy a game can also develop more symptoms, but after two to three days of not playing, the symptoms tend to go. Aggression and pain have also been strongly related in studies, which might raise questions about there being a link when playing certain games. The most affected part of the body is likely to be the hand and arm, but the tension created when playing could lead to symptoms in the neck, shoulder and elbow. As with any screen-based activity, the advice is to take as many breaks as possible, ideally at least five minutes every hour."Mike Rawlinson, director general of Elpsa, says that the "industry believes that videogames should be enjoyed as part of a healthy, active and balanced lifestyle". And he points to the fact that in October, the Department of Health's Change4life programme chose to endorse Nintendo'sWii Fit Plusfor its health benefits.It marks quite a departure from a Change4life poster that was distributed across the country back infrom March that . It showed a young boy slouched in front of a screen holding the controller to a games console with the headline: "Risk an early death, just do nothing."
The sound of whining from the other room had become tediously familiar. Our three-year-old son was frustrated: his seven-year-old brother either would not play with him or, when he did, inflicted merciless defeat in the bizarre mushroom-raddled world of Super Mario. His spiral of despair – it sounds so like a drugs cliche, doesn't it? – finally persuaded my wife and I to limit their time playing videogames.  If they were playing them, they were unhappy. If they weren't playing them, they were unhappy.That doesn't mean games are altogether evil: we definitely enjoyed playing Super Mario Galaxy (no guns, no killing – well, some stomping) in which we all had certain skills that  we used in turn to triumph. But we reached the end of the road when the children wanted to spend a glorious summer's day at a friend's house inside, with their noses two inches from the screen.Our solution: no games except on Fridays and limited parts of the weekend. To two boys who had been used to playing their Nintendo DS consoles or Nintendo Wii pretty much whenever they liked (or when their parents were too exhausted to prevent them), it  was a shock. It led to a lot of moaning  and pining; car journeys became so intolerable that we had to make an exception for those lasting more than 45 minutes. (This led to some surprise journey requests: "Can we go and  see Grandma?")A year later, the benefits of limiting our children's game time are much clearer. They know that between Sunday evening and Friday afternoon, games do not enter the equation.  They know that when we go on  holiday their DSs are only for the journey there and back. And they actually seem to have embraced it: Friday afternoon is the time of week they most look forward to.Proponents of games point out that they promote kids' problem-solving abilities. I can vouch for this: the (now) eight-year-old has discovered that you can play games on all computers, and will sidle off to find a spare one given the chance. He also sucks up every  last bit of information he can from newspapers and magazines about forthcoming games releases – sometimes before me, which, as the Guardian's technology editor, is more than a bit disconcerting.Still, we're settled – and when  Super Mario Galaxy 2 comes out some time next year, we've got Fridays booked out.
Matthew Turk is enthusing, recalling happy afternoons. His chosen subject isThe Sims. "It gives me the opportunity to live an imaginary life," he says. "You can go to the park, play football, interact with other people. They are only computer people but I can do things in my head that I can't do with my body."Isn't it all about perspective? I have ordered my children to shut down this game many times. Why become absorbed in a fantasy life when you are supposed to be having a real one, I tell them. I didn't know it could be a window into the real world, a lifeline. But then I didn't know Matthew.He is 23 and has spinal muscular atrophy; his mobility is limited to a slight movement in both hands and a little head movement. His right hand and thumb control the movement of the mouse; his left hand and index finger operate the buttons. He won't tell you so because he hates complainers, but everything about his life is a battle with adversity. Computer games represent a temporary truce.He can motor into the lounge and, with a mouse adapted using an Allen key and Blu-Tack, lose himself in theHelicopter Game, flying high and low, dodging brick walls. OrSpore, creating a personal universe. His daily escape isFifa Manager, buying and selling players, picking the right team. Arsenal lift most of the trophies.His limbs are inert, but Matthew's mind is sharp as a needle and he's a fighter. A bank that mistreated him found itself paying compensation. Games manufacturers take note. "What really annoys me is that I end up buying these games with no guarantee that I will be able to play them. I gotStar Trek: Legacy, installed it, couldn't play it. The box says keyboard or mouse and then I find you can't do much at all with the mouse and the shop won't take it back. For me, the game is&nbsp;useless."The worst, he says, adjusting a player's salary on Fifa Manager, are games "improved" with complicated features that render them unusable.Demolition Derbylet him down like that. "I don't think they even think of us," he says, without rancour. If they knew how much it mattered, they might.
Getting children to cross the road safely has never been easy. In the seventies, we had David Prowse dressed up as the Green Cross Code man, desperately cashing in on the popularity of the Superman films (and Prowse's role in Star Wars, of course) to grab the attention of parka-wearing youngsters. More recently, there was the phone video ad, which showed realistic footage of a teenager's road accident seemingly recorded on a friend's mobile.These measures have been reasonably effective. According to the Department for Transport, which has an ongoingTHINK!road safety campaign, the number of children killed on Britain's roads has fallen by more than 50% since the mid-1990s. However, there is still work to be done, especially with the 'tweenager demographic: in 2008, 17 children aged between 10 and 12 were killed on roads while more than 2,500 were injured.So how do you talk to these kids? Increasingly, the answer does not seem to be television. Over the past decade we've seen toy and fizzy drink manufacturers increasingly moving their marketing online, with ever more effective interactive offerings. Public services, charities and other benevolent organisations are learning that if you really want to engage a young audience, forget the idiot box - make them a game.On November 19, the Department for Transport launchedCode of Everand, an MMORPG designed to help children learn, and understand the importance of, safe road crossing. The fantasy-themed game takes place in the land of Everand, which is criss-crossed with 'spirit channels' - dangerous lanes of energy where monsters lurk. Players take on the role of Pathfinders who must safely traverse these lanes by looking left and right, spotting creatures and defeating them with a range of attacks and spells.It's an ingenious device, effectively equating road crossing with the random battles that happen throughout traditional RPG environments. Players must also accrue Concentration Points, which aid in the defeat of enemies - a reference, of course, to the importance of paying attention when crossing busy streets.Although it sounds overtly didactic, this is an impressively rich RPG in its own right. There are dozens of attacks to collect, each more effective on different types of enemy. Talking to NPCs opens up quests, just as in a standard role-playing game, and once you've completed them you earn cash which can be spent on on an array of clothing, armour and weaponry options. The inventory is impressively complex, providing a wealth of customisation possibilities, and progress is auto-saved so you can pick up the game whenever you're in front of a computer with a web browser.Frank Lantz and Kevin Slavin of Area/Code, the developer behind Code of Everand.There's a social element too. Inhabitants can communicate with each other via a series of set conversational phrases, and can accompany each other on quests - apparently some tasks can only be completed in this way.Based in New York, developerArea/Codeis an experienced operator in the casual, social and pervasive gaming sectors. More used to working with advertising agencies and media firms on campaigns for the likes of Nike, Nokia and MTV, this is a cutting edge operation. And it has certainly taken the project seriously, as managing director Kevin Slavin explains, "A team of 27 people worked on the game, and that's not including subcontractors. It was about a one-year development period. Some of that time was spent building the game, but it's not a linear development process. The finished product reflects a lot of testing, evaluation, and iteration, all to make sure that the game does everything we want it to do."But wouldn't it have just been easier to bung out a quick Frogger clone with the amphibian road hopper replaced by a hapless teen? Didn't they feel the need to communicate the message more explicitly? "Our underlying philosophy regarding is that good games are implicitly educational," explains Slavin. "Chess can teach you about logic, football can teach you about teamwork, real-time strategy games can teach you about planning. All games can teach you about how interactive systems behave, about succeeding through discipline and practice, and about creative problem-solving."The opportunity is to harness the ways that games build, influence and reinforce cognitive skills, and apply that to a particular problem or subject domain. First, the heart of the game addresses the subject. What is the player actually doing when they engage with your underlying game system? This moment-to-moment experience does the heavy lifting for pedagogical goals; they're not simply in the game's representational surface."The aim then, is an almost unconscious assimilation of the underlying skills, and it's something we're seeing in other approaches to pedagogical gaming - for example, the experimental projects created by the Singapore-MITGAMBIT Game Lab. Indeed, the experience of playing Everand will be hugely familiar to anyone who's experience a browser-based RPG likePardusorFallen Sword. And according to lead developer Frank Lantz, it is from these, and more tradition RPG titles, that the company drew inspirations, rather than from the 'serious games' sector. "We looked at a lot of the kid-focused MMOs, including RuneScape, Maple Story, Dofus and of course we are influenced by World of Warcraft and other high-end MMOs. I would also point to J-RPGs like Dragon Quest and Etrian Odyssey as influences on our turn-based battle-system."Two weeks after the launch there were over 20,000 subscribers. Within 48 hours, users were making YouTube videos of the game (surely as reliable a barometer of approval as you're going to get these days). "What we've seen in the data is that most players spend a half-hour or so playing at any given time, most commonly when school lets out," says Slavin. "There are extremes... one kid spent over 31 hours playing in a week - we don't recommend that, but we think it speaks well to the power of games to engage players. If they are going to be playing something that much, better that it's a game that produces cognitive changes around real-world safety..."
One of the hot sites back in 1992 wasFriendster, a social network that let you connect with people around the world. What seemed like a bit of a bizarre idea at the time has gone on to become very influential: MySpace was originally conceived as a clone of Friendster, and it was clearly the proto-Facebook.If you haven't taken a look at the site for a while, you may have imagined that the site had been closed down or mothballed - a sort of FriendsReunited situation. In fact, it's been growing healthily in unexpected places - largely south-east Asia.There are 75m users of the site across countries such as Malaysia and the Philippines, which is what has led MOL Global - an internet company based in Kuala Lumpur, tosplash out and buy it. The price hasn't been disclosed,but the FT suggests it might be around $100m.It's not the first social network to get bought back by people in the communities who dominate it - LiveJournal, which was (perhaps even moreso than Friendster) a pioneer of so many aspects of the social web, wasbought by Russian investors back in 2007.Seven years is a long, long time on the internet and I doubt many users in the west will be sorry to see Friendster go. But it marks a neat little coda to the life of a website that is indirectly responsible for a lot (good and bad).
So. You know when you're playing Jenga. And it falls over. And you have to build it again. Pretty annoying, right? And you know when you're playing Connect 4, how sometimes the circular discs sort of chafe your fingers a bit? Don't you just hate that?Hasbro Family Game Night 2 is a difficult game to take seriously. The premise – playing board games on your TV – skirts so perilously close to farce that I wouldn't be surprised to see the game attacked in some "what's the world coming to?" Daily Mail comment piece before the month is out.The simple problems, as if they need stating, are first that the five games featured could probably be picked up from a charity shop or car-boot sale for less than a tenner all in, and second that the tangible experience of playing a board game around the family table is in no way improved by huddling in front of a television.For what it's worth, the game is fairly well presented. Playing Jenga is impressively lifelike, and the alarm bells that sound as the tower wobbles make for a genuinely tense experience.Still, none of the games are made more fun by playing them on the Wii than they would be in real life. And for a game that retails at just under £30, released on a console in 2009, to feature just five games, all of which would be called "mini-games" were they to feature in a proper video game, is pretty much inexcusable.There's a half-arsed attempt at an achievements system, as you collect items to put on a virtual Mr Potato Head. Again, it's probably more fun to do this with an actual Mr Potato Head. The character acts as the "host" of the game, though disappointingly he never speaks.And as for the games themselves; Jenga is fun, though the physics don't quite feel right. Pictureka is nigh-on impossible to play unless you have a very large television. Connect 4 is, well, Connect 4. And Operation bears little semblance to the board game, as you guide small objects through shaped holes using your Wii remote. Bop-it, meanwhile, doesn't really work properly as it doesn't always recognise your wrist flicks and twists in time.The fact that this game is a sequel suggests that there is in fact a market for it – and I'm sure it is in fact possible to have a certain amount of family fun with it. But a Wii disc could fit dozens of such simple games on it. And even if it did, it would still be better to play them in real life.Sure, it looks nice, and I understand that certain concessions should be made for "casual" gamers. But Game Night 2 is simply the lazy execution of a deeply flawed concept. Avoid.
Microsoft has moved its Azure cloud-based operating system to a new Server &amp; Cloud Division (SCD), which is part of the Server &amp; Tools division. This makes sense in programming terms because Azure is basically an online version of Windows Server (along with SQL Server, .Net Services etc). It also makes business sense, because Microsoft's strategy is to offer cloud-based services as an extension to, and a continuation of, the in-house servers and private clouds run by its corporate customers, rather than as a replacement for them.TheAzure team's blog postsays:As SCD, together with our colleagues in Windows Server, we'll ensure that customers get the full benefit of Microsoft offerings that span Microsoft's public cloud, on-premises solutions, private clouds, and clouds that our partners host.Previously the team had worked under Ray Ozzie, Microsoft's chief software architect, who has also spearheaded the development of Windows Live. Ozzie's earlier efforts included Lotus Notes, for which IBM bought Lotus, and Groove, which was bought by Microsoft.It's intended that Microsoft's online businesses -- Windows Live Mail (Hotmail), SkyDrive, BPOS (Business Productivity Online Suite), the Office Web Apps etc -- will run on Azure. This will justify the high cost of building a series of giant data centres to provide cloud-based applications. Rivals such as Google and Amazon similarly benefit from the economies of scale created by running their main online businesses.One of Microsoft's scenarios is that a customer can develop a Windows Server application to run locally or in a single country, and then move it to Azure to handle a high volume of traffic or to reach a global audience. To make that a really effective sales pitch, the transition needs to be as seamless as possible.At the very least, Microsoft has to make it more attractive for companies that have in-house Windows applications to move them to Azure than to rewrite them for a different platform, such as Google's cloud-based service.At the moment, Azure is available free to customers who want to experiment with it. However, customers will start paying from February 2010.
It's the end of the year again, a period that seems to come around with a depressingly increasing frequency. Along with shopping, office parties, and Jesus, our thoughts are turning to lists. If you haven't judiciously ranked some experiences you've had this year until you've drained any joy you once had out of them, you really aren't making the effort.On the face of it, these sorts of lists are pretty banal and harmless. It's easy copy for writers to produce, it generates discussion (especially in the age of comments and hits) and it's come to be what people expect from cultural digests from November onwards.For games, however, they acquire some extra significance. The lists you may find dotted around national newspapers this Christmas reflect an increasing slice of cultural cache for a still emerging medium. For a lot of people, arts critics especially, video games are still very much a poor relation to their more well-established siblings.Games also seem to lend themselves more to objective assessment. Discussions of music taste, for example, are so skewed by ideas of self-image and one-upmanship that saying what your album of the year would be becomes more about posturing than honest judgment. Films come framed within a structure of film criticism, theoretical analysis and study, so that it's often films that seem "accomplished", rather than those you simply enjoy, that receive the plaudits.Games, thankfully, are relatively free of these hangups. Never would someone claim that their game of the decade was BioShock despite not really liking it, just to impress a certain community. Neither does games criticism have a legacy of a cultural baggage weighing it down. One of the advantages of participating in a medium in its infancy is the that we can enjoy it on simple, unprejudiced terms. We should enjoy it while we still can.It's in looking at the way these three mediums are reviewed and discussed that you come to notice how different they really are. A good film needs story, acting, presentation. Great music needs to demand attention, be original and honest. An enjoyable game can lack in all of these areas, as long as it's fun.To be great, however, a game needs to juggle all these, and then some. It's like taking a classic film, then asking you to play cup and ball for 15 minutes in between every scene. And have glitch-free online play. No matter how good a game looks or sounds, or how riveting its story, it lives and dies on how much you enjoy the simple mechanics of it. People talk about the plot of Final Fantasy 7, or the humour of Portal, but you'd never get a chance to appreciate it if the act of progressing through levels wasn't such a pleasure.It's for this reason that games deserve just as much respect as their much-vaunted peers. And although parity between the media is still some way off, it's clear that progress is being made. Modern Warfare 2, for example, eclipsed any DVD or music release, both in terms of units shifted and, arguably, in cultural impact. This once-niche pastime is becoming harder and harder to ignore.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Facebook has outraged civil liberties campaigners after introducing new privacy settings that could dramatically increase the amount of personal information people expose online.Privacy groups including the American Civil Liberties Union railed against the changes to the world's largest social network yesterday, calling the developments "flawed" and "worrisome".The changes –first announced in July, and trailedagain last week- finally began taking place on Wednesday. The site's 350m users are now being given the chance to alter settings on items they upload to the site, such as photographs and videos, but all of their status updates are now automatically made public unless specified otherwise.The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a group that campaigns for the rights of internet users, said that while some of the changes were beneficial to the site's worldwide audience, others were "plain ugly"."These new 'privacy' changes are clearly intended to push Facebook users to publicly share even more information than before," Kevin Bankston, a senior attorney with the EFF,wrote on the organisation's blog. "Even worse, the changes will actually reduce the amount of control that users have over some of their personal data."Nicole Ozer, the ACLU's technology and civil liberties policy director, said that the"discourage or eliminate"certain important privacy settings."Before the recent changes, you had the option of exposing only a "limited" profile, consisting of as little as your name and networks, to other Facebook users—and nothing at all to internet users at large," she said."Now your profile picture, current city, friends list, gender, and fan pages are 'publicly available information', which means you have no way to prevent any other Facebook user from viewing this information on your profile".Facebook said that the changes were intended to give users more control over their information and not to endanger their privacy."You will have the opportunity to customise even individual pieces of content when you upload a picture or a video," Elliot Schrage, the company's vice president of global communications, said."If you want to share a photo with just your family, you could do that as well. It is much more straightforward."The privacy changes were themselves spurred bycomplaints from Canada's privacy watchdog.The move comes just days after Google announced that it would be includingsome updates from the social network in its search index, with plans to incorporate more information in the future. Facebook already shares more information with Bing, the rival search engine operated by Microsoft – which in turn owns around 1.5% of Facebook.It also comes after thousands of users were invited to join a $9.5m class action settlementover privacy breachesrelating to the company'scontroversial Beacon advertising programmethat surfaced two years ago.The company has not commented directly on the accusations, but Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg had previously said that the company realised different users had different requirements."The best way for you to find the right settings is to read through all your options and customize them for yourself," he told usersin a message last week, "I encourage you to do this and consider who you're sharing with online."
