As a website and database designer, it is very helpful to be able to go back over past weeks or months on my PC and see what files I was working on at that time. This gives me an idea of how much time I spent on each project. I have used the Journal feature in Microsoft Outlook, but it only records Office programs. Ben MangoThere must be something suitable; the problem is finding it. There are of course, dozens of time-recording and timesheet programs for project management and for billing the time used by accountants, lawyers and so on. The main appeal of Journal is that it can keep records without users being aware of it.AllNetic's Working Time Trackerlooks like your best bet. You could also tryTaskBlaze, which is free, or the more sophisticatedTime Panic, available in a free 30-day trial version.There are also web-based systems such as Harvest (www.getharvest.com) and Time Tracker (http://www.formassembly.com/time-tracker/).Any other suggestions?
Got into the office this morning to find an email from Mozilla awaiting me, telling me that the new Firefox 2 beta 1 is nowready for download. Though the pointy-heads point out this isn't for everyone ("Firefox 2 Beta 1 is intended for web application developers and Firefox's testing community only") but new features include:Built-in Phishing Protection Better support for previewing and subscribing to web feeds Inline spell checking New microsummaries feature for bookmarks Automatic restoration of a browsing session Changes to tabbed browsing behaviour Search suggestions now appear with search history Search plugin manager for removing and re-ordering search engines New combined and improved Add-Ons manager for extensions and themes Support for JavaScript 1.7 Extended search plugin format Updates to the extension system Support for client-side session and persistent storage Support for SVG text using svg:textPath New Windows installerI haven't tried it out yet, but if you do - normal caveats apply - then let us know what you think.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Do you recommend unplugging machines during thunderstorms? Chris KeatsMany computers have been fried by a power surge from a lightning strike, so it can help. However, you should also unplug the PC's internet connection, because phone lines may be more susceptible to surges than the mains. It's a better idea to use a multiplug extension lead or power strip that includes surge protection, always checking that it is rated to cover lightning strikes. Many also include phone sockets.
Captain Jack Sparrow and friends might be making a great success of sailing the seven seas, but it's not just the public's fascination with Johnny Depp that has created problems for the anti-piracy industry. It has been a difficult few weeks for those campaigning against copyright infringement and unlicensed software.Just as the music labels launched a series of initiatives aimed at punishing filesharers, questions have once again surfaced about Microsoft's Windows Genuine Advantage programme. And - more importantly, say some - questions are being asked about two of Britain's biggest anti-piracy organisations.In the past two weeks both the Business Software Alliance (BSA) and the Federation Against Software Theft (Fast), which between them represent hundreds of British IT businesses and users, have been wounded by criticism of their practices.First, Fast was accused of bullying companies into buying corporate advisory services, from which it reaps a profit. One IT manager was quoted as saying that a visiting Fast officer had said his firm could be "raided, audited and prosecuted" unless it signed up for the federation's corporate membership. The accusation highlighted what some believe is a dangerous tension between the group's non-profit work and its profitable advisory business.Then, earlier this week, the BSA was reproached for increasing the financial rewards available to those who blow the whistle on unlicensed software being run inside their companies. Legal experts questioned whether a cash incentive of &pound;20,000 had encouraged employees to go directly to the BSA with accusations of piracy, rather than asking their employers to fix the problem first.Both organisations have vigorously denied the accusations, made by computer trade magazine IT Week.John Lovelock, director general of Fast, was quick to reject attacks on his organisation. Claims that the federation was trying to pressure companies were inaccurate, he said. "There has to be a carrot and stick scenario where we offer to do a risk assessment and then give solutions."But despite denials that there were any conflicts between the different arms of Fast's activities, Lovelock added that any individual sales representatives whose behaviour proved cause for complaint would be investigated.Meanwhile Siobhan Carroll, regional manager for the BSA, said it was necessary for her organisation to encourage whistleblowing."This has put the risk of being reported higher on executives' priority lists," she said.Although few dispute the value in allowing people to turn in unethical employers, the fact that the BSA saw tip-offs increase by 175% when it doubled its payments to &pound;20,000 has raised a few eyebrows.And while observers point to much bigger payments being made to whistleblowers overseas - American IT workers can receive as much as $200,000 (&pound;108,000) for turning in their employers - some say that the BSA could be encouraging unethical behaviour."Obviously there are some instances of disgruntled employees," added Carroll, "but not everybody requests the reward."Lem Bingley, editor of IT Week, says that the response from the industry has been quieter than expected, considering the incendiary nature of some of the accusations his magazine has put.Perhaps this is because such claims come at a time when the software industry is preparing for what could be a key moment in its development, as the government prepares to publish a review into intellectual property (IP) rights.The Gowers Review, a Whitehall voyage into the murky waters of IP under the command of former Financial Times editor Andrew Gowers, is expected to be published over the summer. Both the BSA and Fast are among the high-profile groups lobbying for a tightening of Britain's laws to reflect what they say are the needs of the software industry - and with research by IDC suggesting that piracy runs at something approaching 27% in Britain alone, potential assistance from Downing Street's cannons could not come soon enough for them.But IT Week's Bingley says that the focus should now be on technological solutions to the piracy problem, not on persecuting those who use it. "Computers and licensing are so complex these days that it's very difficult to lay your hand on your heart and say I am 100% sure that everything we have is licensed," he says."In fact, I think the technology is there already to eradicate piracy, so the ball is in the court of the software publishers: if they really have a problem then they should stop whining, stop putting the onus on the user and sort the problem out at their end."Ultimately, it seems, the quandary facing anti-piracy organisations is that they must take it upon themselves to be whiter than white. Organisations take on a special responsibility when they mark themselves out as "software police". Even the merest whiff of bad behaviour could see them walking the plank.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Raphcovers a detailed study of how to improve game marketing, citing many of the quotes from the pdf like "Positive word of mouth is a key purchase requirement for all games," and "Graphics, price, gameplay, and features were the top factors contributing to a customer purchase decision whereas buyers are barely concerned with the publisher or developer." His post is worth a look, as isthe original research(pdf).One of the things he points out, which we've beensort-of discussing herefor a while, is the potential of social networks for spreading information about products. Already, many purchasers do rely upon formal or informal social networks for their game-related information (via magazine/online reviews or friends and family), but, as Raph suggests,It's actually rather surprising that so few attempts at social network marketing have been done in the games space, outside of occasional one-shot "invite a friend" promotions.I'd argue that at the minute most of the advertising and marketingisbeing directed at a social network - one made up of gamers. The problem is that it's not going beyond that to the rest of the population.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..What this generation's watchingAfter 42 years, the final Top of the Pops will be broadcast at the end of the month. Adam Webb explains why the show has become irrelevant in the digital world.Who will address the postcode mess?The government's policy of encouraging state-owned bodies to use addresses as an asset to exploit has created confusion. Michael Cross reports.Windows XP users put at a genuine disadvantageOne in five computers labelled as counterfeit are running legitimate operating systems.Moral minefield awaits those in search of piratesThe software industry is unsettled by allegations that anti-piracy groups are overstepping ethical lines in their search for culprits.Newly Asked Questions:How much has Microsoft paid out in anti-trust fines?Want to have a go? My guess was "well north of $5bn," but Todd Bishop of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, a Microsoft local paper, has done the sums, and the score so far is $6.83bn (£3.7bn) and counting.Who is Amanda Congdon, and should I care?Until last week she was the host of Rocketboom - a daily technology "videoblog" started on October 26 2004, which by this month was attracting up to 300,000 viewers each day for a five-minute show that brought in varying amounts of advertising revenue.Board games will help you rediscover true controlAleks Krotoski: This week I was up to my armpits in slag, covered in coal and exposed to noxious fumes. I went to Coalbrookdale and learned how to cast iron - and all in the pursuit of art and self-discovery.Games reviewsGrand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories | LocoRoco | Micro Machines V4This time, it'll be a Wikipedia written by expertsLarry Sanger, co-founder of the free encyclopedia, is now launching a web guide based on its first principles.Office opens its doorsPreviously an enemy of free-to-use programs, the decision to develop open software for Office 2007 has shocked users.Vista has to stop people from following their natureCharles Arthur: We have all had the experience where an essential piece of software has crashed, taking with it a ton of work, upon which the computer throws up a dialog box saying something like "That application has unexpectedly quit" and a little box for you to click, marked "OK".Can a crowd really edit our daily paper?Victor Keegan: One of the most fascinating questions is what, if any, future there is for newspapers as the creative destruction of the internet gathers pace. What is happening to the media is merely a high-profile version of what is going on in almost every other activity from politics to film-making.TechnobileKate Bevan: Using Internet Explorer at work can be a nasty shock if you use Firefox at home.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesDone phishing, gone vishing | Private Folder 1.0 for XP | A word to your mobile | Jumping on bandwagons | Firefox keeps growing | From Pong to Oblivion | Tech talking | I want my mobile TV | You get it back, maybe | When data goes abroadLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Larry Sanger seems to have a thing about free online encyclopedias. Although his main claim to fame is as the co-founder, along with Jimmy Wales, of Wikipedia, that is just one of several projects to produce large-scale, systematic stores of human knowledge he has been involved in.Sanger's love of philosophy and epistemology - the study of the nature and scope of knowledge - began around the age of 16. His PhD, from the University of Ohio, concerned "epistemic circularity", and it was as this was nearing completion that he started thinking about less abstruse matters - like earning money.In 2000, he drew up a business proposal and sent it to a few people, one of whom was Wales, whom he had known from philosophy mailing lists in the mid-90s. "He saw that I was essentially looking for employment online and he was looking for someone to lead Nupedia ... Nupedia wasn't there at all, in fact it was just the vaguest of ideas. Jimmy was frustratingly brief in his instructions, he simply wanted an encyclopedia that everyone could contribute to and that would be released under what he called an open content licence."The basic concept came from the open directory project Dmoz (http://dmoz.org), short for Directory Mozilla. This volunteer effort to create a free version of Yahoo's hierarchical listings began in 1998 under the name Gnuhoo - which was inspired by GNU/Linux - before turning into Newhoo. It was acquired by Netscape and released as open content.One of Sanger's tasks was to recruit academic volunteers to write, edit and organise entries. All the information was carefully peer-reviewed - creating an entry was a seven-step process. This ensured rigour but also throttled the rate of production. This problem was evident as early as the summer of 2000, a few months after it had been designed.Community solutionWhile casting around for a way to speed up article production, Sanger met with Ben Kovitz, an old friend, in January 2001. Kovitz introduced Sanger to the idea of the wiki, invented in 1995 by Ward Cunningham: web pages that anyone could write and edit. "My first reaction was that this really could be what would solve the problem," Sanger explains, "because the software was already written, and this community of people on WikiWikiWeb" - the first wiki - "had created something like 14,000 pages". Nupedia, by contrast, had produced barely two dozen articles.Sanger took up the idea immediately: "I wrote up a proposal and sent it [to Wales] that evening, and the wiki was then set up for me to work on." But this was not Wikipedia as we know it. "Originally it was the Nupedia Wiki - our idea was to use it as an article incubator for Nupedia. Articles could begin life on this wiki, be developed collaboratively and, when they got to a certain stage of development, be put it into the Nupedia system."Things didn't quite work out that way. "The editors and peer reviewers of Nupedia, mostly professors and other professionals, looked at the wiki tool and didn't want anything to do with it." The idea was too revolutionary. As Sanger points out: "It actually took the success of Wikipedia" - as Sanger later baptised it - to make the idea plausible to a lot of people."Wikipedia grew quickly - perhaps too quickly. There was an influx of visitors driven by two postings on the Slashdot news site who were not clued in to the Wikipedia culture, recalls Sanger. "They tended to be quite a bit more anarchist and egalitarian" than the original Wikipedians. This led to vandalism of pages, and increased bickering about issues such as control and quality. Then, in 2002, Sanger left Wikipedia. In the wake of the dotcom crash, the company that owned and ran Nupedia, Bomis, was suffering too, and Wales had to lay off most of the staff, including Sanger. Wikipedia was henceforth run by Wales and the Wikipedia community.Sanger began teaching philosophy at Ohio State University. But he kept a close eye on Wikipedia. He saw the same problems he had observed in the early years, but now writ large. Although an outsider, he felt compelled to offer his thoughts in an essay, Why Wikipedia Must Jettison its Anti-elitism. As well as provoking a rebuke from Wales - who wrote "Larry's comments betray a complete ignorance of the project" - it had another, unexpected consequence: a job for Sanger on a new online encyclopedia.Expert guideTwo people who read Sanger's article were Joe Firmage and Bernard Haisch, respectively founder and president of the non-profit Digital Universe Foundation. Firmage made a fortune during the dotcom boom from a web consultancy, before becoming notorious for his self-published book The Truth, in which he described his encounter with aliens. Haisch is an eminent astrophysicist.As Sanger explains, the Digital Universe project, funded in part by Firmage, hopes to become "a non-commercial competitor of the big web portals such as Google, MSN and Yahoo. It would essentially be a [free] expert-selected guide to the best of the web in every subject. Unlike those other portals it would focus on the reliability of the information it was linked to." In a way, it is a throwback to the Dmoz directory that inspired Nupedia.The main Digital Universe portal (www.digitaluniverse.net) is made up of many subsidiary portals. Each portal categorises weblinks by type, and there will be related content such as video and audio streams. Potentially, each portal will exist in multiple versions for different languages.There will be an encyclopedia for each portal, and that's where Sanger comes in. The encyclopedias will be built collaboratively using MediaWiki, the software that runs Wikipedia, although the presentation will be different. The wiki will be run by acknowledged experts - the "elite" that Sanger feels Wikipedia has turned its back on.Sanger recognises that non-specialists can also make useful contributions, perhaps through parallel wikis. "The public can work in a workspace and the results ... are made available" to the main encyclopedia - similar to the approach used in the days of the Nupedia wiki.Sanger is also starting a collaborative project called Textop (Text Outline Project), which aims to create "a central outline of human knowledge based on specific details of definition, explanation and argument contained within scholarly texts". He believes this "will facilitate research and learning in a way never before possible", because it can be used "to organise all sorts of textual information, such as a dictionary, a guide to debates and summaries of recent events".Textop is not part of Digital Universe and is running on a server space that Sanger pays for. This highlights perhaps Digital Universe's biggest challenge: finding the money to sustain its vision.Curriculum vitaeAge37Education1986-1991BA philosophy, Reed College;1992-1995MA philosophy, The Ohio State University;1995-2000PhD, OSU.Career1992-1996, 1997-1998Graduate teaching associate, OSU;2000-2002Editor-in-chief, Nupedia; Co-founder and "chief organiser", Wikipedia;2002-2004Instructor, Columbus State Community College;2004-2005Instructor, OSU;2005-January 2006Director of distributed content programmes, Digital Universe;2006-Director of collaborative projects, Digital Universe.HobbiesTraditional Irish fiddle music&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the most fascinating questions is what, if any, future there is for newspapers as the creative destruction of the internet gathers pace. What is happening to the media is merely a high-profile version of what is going on in almost every other activity from politics to film-making. The digital revolution is turning ordinary people into both creators of content (whether videos, online journals or books) and arbiters of the process that decides what gets published and how it is rated.Some people are familiar with automatic newspapers of the kind provided by Google, which trawl the world's media and assemble stories in merit order according to the number of links they have to other sites. You can also design your own paper by typing in the topics you want to appear on your customised page. It is often too slow to display important news because of insufficient links but the miracle is that it does it at all - and is free. Most newspapers rightly believe that the benefits of being linked to Google's search engine, with its increasing global reach, outweigh the disadvantages - that they can't charge.But now a new generation of news sites such as Megite and Reddit, which enable readers, not algorithms, to decide the prominence of stories is gathering force. The biggest by far is Digg.com, which has upgraded its service to embrace world and business news as well as technology. People press a "Digg" button when they like a story or blog they have come across. These are aggregated so that the most popular rise to the top. Improvements just announced enable you to read stories that your friends consider "diggworthy" and to access subjects that interest you but are buried beneath the 2,000 stories processed daily.Later this month, Digg will let you watch real time graphic representations of stories as they arrive. Digg is still pretty small by web standards, ranking 78th on Hitwise's news media sites and fourth behind the Register, PC World and Computer Active in a sub-category, but it clearly has huge potential. It is all awesome, but it won't necessarily kill off newspapers. News selection based on the "wisdom of crowds" may be brilliant when applied to technology stories but could easily turn into the madness of crowds and the death of serious news if applied to everything that happens.A journal in which all content is judged by readers runs the danger of making the Sun look distinctively upmarket. The survival of newspapers will depend on how quickly they absorb new technologies. Services such as Google News need newspapers because without them they would have nothing to recycle. This raises a paradox: the more successful they are, the less successful they will be because they will kill the golden goose that has been feeding them.Blogs and sites such as Digg are more dangerous because they generate their own views and have a different notion of what news is. But, just as Old Media crushed the upstart Eddie Shah's hi-tech newspaper, Today, 20 years ago by adopting the technology themselves, so they can do the same with the social websites. Newspapers may yet turn out to have a comparative advantage in becoming "trusted sites" at a time when an explosion of blogs not only makes it impossible to read even the best of them regularly but also to decide what is true.The need to be the first blog on the block to spread a bit of regurgitated news, complete with your own spin, isn't obviously a way to become a trusted brand. Speed is the enemy of depth. Newspapers still have a vital role in generating trusted content. Whether it then appears on printed paper, on a portable screen, on a website complete with video (making it converge with television) or a mobile device (where the potential has only been scratched) remains to be seen. At least newspapers, unlike the music industry, aren't trying to deny that a revolution is taking place.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A new front in the eight-year war between the European commission and Microsoft opened yesterday when the EU fined the world's biggest software group &euro;280.5m (&pound;194m) and threatened to impose even stiffer penalties in future.The fine comes on top of the record &euro;497m levied in March 2004 for Microsoft's abuse of its dominant position in the market. Neelie Kroes, competition commissioner, said the group had come "not even close" to complying with the EU's demand for complete and accurate information enabling inter-operability between its Windows operating system and rivals' work-group servers.Ms Kroes can now fine the group &euro;3m a day from July 31 if the non-compliance continues and can levy a further daily fine of &euro;0.5m backdated to mid-December 2005 if Microsoft's royalty fees for using its technical information are found to be too high. Ms Kroes is also threatening legal action and fines over the group's new operating system, Vista.Microsoft immediately said it would appeal against the fine, heralding further months of disputes, and insisted that "any fine, let alone a fine of this magnitude" was inappropriate given the "lack of clarity" in the commission's original decision.Ms Kroes riposted that the March 2004 ruling by her predecessor, Mario Monti, was crystal-clear and Microsoft had had more than two years to comply but had chosen not to.The new fine is the first time the EU has levied a penalty for non-compliance and could have been even higher since Brussels has the right to charge up to 5% of a company's global daily turnover - or &euro;4.28m in Microsoft's case.Ms Kroes made plain that, following personal contacts with Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, the company was devoting substantial resources to compliance. More than 300 employees are working on technical documents and the group has promised to deliver by July 24.Attacking "an arbitrary and capricious competition policy," one of the group's supporters, CompTIA, representing 20,000 information and communications technology companies, accused the commission of "unilaterally jettisoning" an agreement to give Microsoft until July 18 to comply.Ms Kroes said Professor Neil Barratt, the Microsoft-approved independent trustee, had reported that almost 50% of the documents were now in place, but her advisers said there was still no guarantee that, even in full, they would meet the required criteria for compliance.Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, said the group "remains totally committed to full compliance" and the record "will show that Microsoft has acted in good faith to comply"."The real issue here is not about compliance, it is about clarity. Having received a clear definition of the documentation requirements this April, we already have met nearly all of these."Condemning the fine as unjustified, he said it was larger than those the commission had imposed for even the most severe competition law infringements such as price-fixing cartels.Ms Kroes indicated she was dovetailing her investigations with the US department of justice, which settled a similar case in 2002 but has since taken issue with Microsoft over inter-operability. The group, founded by Bill Gates in 1975, has also been fined by South Korean regulators.Its appeal against the original ruling was heard in March this year at the court of first instance, Europe's second-highest court, which is due to give its verdict early next year. The latest appeal prefigures further legal rows throughout 2007.Alan Riley, reader in law at City University, said the commission could be accused of "case management failure" because, while Microsoft had dragged its feet, Brussels had been slow to get hold of the complexities and set clear guidelines for Prof Barratt and his team."It's very hard to say there was absolute non-compliance ... and I think the commission could find itself in very serious trouble in defending these fines in the court ... It should have got all the information in within another month or so, assessed it and then hit them with the mother of all fines," he said.Mr Smith struck a conciliatory note, saying "we hope to put this behind us very soon" and explicitly calling for good relations with Brussels in other fields."I am disappointed that the decision was taken before the deadline arrived but there is some progress emerging and we do have a constructive process," he said.But he made plain that the appeal, due to be lodged by October, would go ahead for three main reasons: the lack of clarity about the requirements, that US firms were already using the group's technical documents and the fact that the group had met every deadline and demand.
ePostal privacyCan you point me to an email service that is free, intended for general purposes, functional and promises to protect email from prying, including the governmental sort? I just want to support servers who wish to protect users' data.Matthew LinaresJack Schofield replies:The only way to make email really private is to encrypt it yourself, and that means it doesn't matter which mail service you use. You could try a system such as PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) or Gnu Privacy Guard (GnuPG), which is free software to replace PGP. The recipient then has to decrypt your email. The system is sufficiently cumbersome that few use it. Microsoft tried to simplify things by building secure mail features into Outlook and Outlook Express - go to Tools, select Options and click the Security tab.Protecting plain text email from prying eyes is a different issue, but if that is the aim, I wouldn't use a service based in the UK. London-based Confinet Ltd offers a secure and anonymous - but not free - MuteMail service, and its servers are based in the Bahamas. MuteMail uses SSL encryption (which is what puts the lock on the bottom of your browser window) and also hides your Internet Protocol address and other things that are a giveaway in the headers of encrypted messages. You might find something in the Secure and Encrypted Email Providers directory on Yahoo (http://tinyurl.com/bssup). This includes HushMail and KeptPrivate.com, which offer encrypted web-based mail services.Lightning protectionDo you recommend unplugging machines during thunderstorms?Chris KeatsJS:Many computers have been fried by a power surge from a lightning strike, so it can help. However, you should also unplug the PC's internet connection, because phone lines may be more susceptible to surges than the mains. It's a better idea to use a multiplug extension lead or power strip that includes surge protection, always checking that it is rated to cover lightning strikes. Many also include phone sockets.BT switcherI have just taken out a new contract for broadband with NTL and am out of contract with BT, but I don't want to lose this email address. I have had it for many years and it's important for business purposes. I would be happy to pay a small fee - but not &pound;35 a month!Tim RickettsJS:Usually if you change your internet service provider then you lose that ISP's email address - a good argument for taking out your own domain name. However, you can switch to a BT Yahoo! Premium Mail account within 90 days. This has 2GB of storage and costs &pound;1.50 per month. Go tohttp://tinyurl.com/q9hneand click "Change product".Time trackingAs a website and database designer, it is very helpful to be able to go back over past weeks or months on my PC and see what files I was working on at that time. This gives me an idea of how much time I spent on each project. I have used the Journal feature in Microsoft Outlook, but it only records Office programs.Ben MangoJS:There must be something suitable; the problem is finding it. There are of course, dozens of time-recording and timesheet programs for project management and for billing the time used by accountants, lawyers and so on. The main appeal of Journal is that it can keep records without users being aware of it. AllNetic's Working Time Tracker (http://tinyurl.com/mm2ud) looks like your best bet. You could also try TaskBlaze (http://tinyurl.com/bhds6), which is free, or the more sophisticated Time Panic (http://tinyurl.com/q7nhg), available in a free 30-day trial version. There are also web-based systems such as Harvest (www.getharvest.com) and Time Tracker (http://tinyurl.com/pumhr). Any other suggestions?Backchat&middot;I have mentioned "slipstreaming" before, but it was clearly a mistake not to mention it last week. Kevin Mansell wanted an updated version of Windows XP that included SP2, and many readers pointed out that he can create one for himself by slipstreaming the two together. There are several guides online. In the mail, there were nine mentions of the Windows Supersite guide (http://tinyurl.com/4n7y5) and four mentions each for The Elder Geek (http://tinyurl.com/5yvdw) and nLite (http://tinyurl.com/enzfu). J A Dean gets a plug for mentioning all three.
In the carnival of absurdities that is government policy on public sector information, few performances are more bizarre than that surrounding postal address data.Nearly everyone has a postal address and most householders assume they "own" it. Unlike in France, say, no law stops us removing our number and calling our home what we like. But as usual with cases highlighted by Guardian Technology's Free our Data campaign, the truth is not so simple.During the past seven years, disagreement between different state bodies and state-owned companies over who owns intellectual property has blocked the creation of a definitive national list of addresses. As a result, says geographer and local councillor Robert Barr, emergency responses get sent to the wrong place, council tax goes uncollected and government plans are put in jeopardy.This chaos arises directly from the UK government's policy of encouraging state-owned bodies, which are usually monopolies in their fields, to treat information as an asset to be exploited commercially. Free Our Data argues that this resource should be funded by taxation and made available for free to all takers, to stimulate a vibrant knowledge economy.In the case of addresses, a crucial resource is the Royal Mail's database of 1.7m postcodes, the Postcode Address File. Postcodes, usually matched to around 15 addresses within a geographical area (the number depends on the density of housing), were introduced between 1959 and 1974 to make mail delivery more efficient. However, they turned out to be such a handy indicator of location that they are now used by everyone from health statisticians to web mashups, as well, of course, as telesales operators.Royal Mail says that postcodes are freely available to all comers: its websitewww.royalmail.comallows individuals to look up a code, and find addresses from a postcode. Individuals are allowed 12 free searches a day. However, as a government-owned company required to trade as a business, Royal Mail also treats the file as an asset for commercial exploitation. It charges commercial firms and government agencies to license the database. The company is coy about how much the Postcode Address File costs to maintain and how much it receives from licensing, or even whether it runs at a profit.Last month, it alarmed some users of the file by announcing proposals for new licensing terms, involving charging by transaction rather than the number of users. The spokesman said that the changes were aimed at making codes more widely available. But members of the postcode user group say the changes would have the effect of removing the &pound;12,000 ceiling that Royal Mail charges any one user. This would be a heavy blow to firms in the web-mapping business. The Royal Mail said that is not proposed.Richard Pawlyn, chairman of Locus, a body representing users of public sector information, called for transparency and fair play: "Unpredictable changes to the cost or basis on which addressing data can be used in e-commerce discourages private sector investment."Licensing arrangements for the Postcode Address File are only one part of the addressing imbroglio. Even if the Royal Mail were to give the database away to all comers, addressing would still be messy.For a start, the postcode file has big gaps. According to Barr, it holds only 60% of buildings in England - the Royal Mail is not interested in structures such as churches, which do not receive mail. Because of the purpose for which they were set up, postcodes may bear little relevance to reality - the initial component, the "post town", relates to the nearest sorting office rather than the nearest town.For practical purposes such as making maps and running public services, several other agencies have databases which are supposed to fill the gaps. For example Ordnance Survey has an address layer to its maps database. Local authorities, responsible for approving naming and numbering of properties, have their own gazetteers, most of which are linked to the National Land and Property gazetteer, a database run for local government by a private company. HM Land Registry, like the Ordnance Survey, is a trading fund required to generate a return to the Treasury, and runs the register of property titles in England and Wales. All claim intellectual property in their databases .Over the years, the government has tried several times to create a standard address set for use across the public sector and the wider economy. The latest attempt, called the national spatial address infrastructure, collapsed last year when the parties involved could not resolve questions over who owns what. Barr blames the agencies concerned for "putting their own institutional and sectoral interests ahead of those of the nation".His solution is for the government to create a "national address registry" by buying outright the addresses held by its various agencies and companies. The registry would be freely available to all comers. The cost of keeping it up to date would be met by a fee for anyone wishing to create or change an address. Barr also suggests than an "addressing levy" be applied to every new road scheme, proportional to the length and class of road.The government says that the question of addressing may be considered in a new national strategy on geographical information, due to be published next year.In the meantime, Royal Mail's use of the postcode is under scrutiny by the regulator Postcomm, which says it wants the database to be made available equitably to competitors and other users.In a letter to Ruth Kelly, the new secretary of state for local government, Barr said: "The advantages of resolving the national addressing problem can bring benefits for the country which far outweigh the meagre income over which the current protagonists are squabbling."The Free our Data campaign agrees.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A spam filter that only correctly identified 80% of spam while mislabelling 20% of legitimate email as junk wouldn't be very popular. How much worse, then, when the product that's making such a poor fist of identification isn't a spam filter, but a Microsoft program that is meant to identify whether you are running a legitimate copy of Windows.Worse still, the program - Windows Genuine Advantage, usually known as WGA - was forced on Windows XP users as part of the regular software update scheme, but now threatens to disable the machines of users it deems are using illicit copies of the operating system.WGA has two elements: a validator (which checks the activation key for the version of Windows XP against that held on Microsoft's servers) and a notification tool which, together with the validator, will bug you with popups if it judges your version of Windows to be pirated.The program was rolled out in February 2005 and became obligatory in July last year - when an XP machine connected to Microsoft for security updates, WGA was installed as part of the download.People soon noticed odd things about WGA, such as it connecting to Microsoft's servers every day without their explicit permission. Ad-hoc tools to prevent this (such as RemoveWGA) quickly appeared but people were annoyed that WGA did not ask for their permission to connect.Microsoft's motive? Of the estimated 600m Windows installations, about 219m are pirated, according to Will Poole, a Microsoft executive.By May, there was an interesting graph showing WGA failure rates in the US where the Windows product "keys" did not match those in Microsoft's database (seehttp://tinyurl.com/qlep3). But the ire over WGA didn't abate. In the past few days more unsettling data has emerged from Microsoft itself, which said that 80% of computers which failed WGA's check were using pirated versions of Windows.That almost sounds good, until you consider it - as Ed Bott, a Windows expert, did. He said: "Turn that statistic around: Microsoft said that 20% of all Windows users who fail the WGA validation test are not using leaked or stolen keys." (Seehttp://tinyurl.com/n6xza.) So why did those one in five fail, he asked Microsoft? Cori Hartje, director of Microsoft Genuine Software Initiative, responded: "While we don't have specifics to share on other forms [of] counterfeit installations, they mostly result from activities such as various forms of tampering and unauthorised OEM installations."That left Bott fuming. He called the response "woefully imprecise", noting it did not give any breakdown, nor any admission that some might be false positives, except that the number of legitimate Windows users who have had problems indicates that the program isn't working.And that's where the WGA fiasco descends into farce. For a while WGA was listed as a critical update and installed at once if you had automatic updating selected - its purpose is really to fight piracy, which means that it's not about security at all. The program itself is described (in its end user licence agreement, or EULA, which barely anyone reads) as "pre-release" - that is, beta, or in Microsoft's preferred adjective, "pilot".More importantly, Microsoft hasn't shaken off the suggestion, repeated widely online, that in the autumn WGA will start to shut down versions of Windows that have not been validated after 30 days.The problems grow for anyone who is now being told that WGA has been unable to validate their copy of Windows. Was it because it was reinstalled? Or because their supplier installed it wrongly? Or because the computer went in for repair and had some component changed? All could cause an innocent user to spend money on "purchasing" a copy of Windows to replace the perfectly good one that was working until Microsoft imposed a piece of beta - sorry, "pilot" - software with a confusing licence on them.The latest version comes with an EULA that reads, in part: "Installing this update is optional". But it's unclear whether, if you opt not to install it, you can still get anything more than critical security upgrades from Microsoft.Microsoft was asked for a response, but none was received by press time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Lewis Carroll had a problem: how could he get the protagonist in his new book to voluntarily enter a world where both bad and good things might happen to her? Should he get Alice to drink a bottle with the label "Contents will cause you to shrink uncontrollably to a size enabling entry into a strange landscape which does not adhere to normal rules"?No, of course not. He simply presented Alice with a bottle labelled "DRINK ME". The result: her entry ticket into Wonderland. I'm surprised that no marketer of alcopops has tried the same, since the imperative of the name is hard to ignore. It's clever, because it doesn't make any promises, just tells you to do something. And human nature makes you think: "Well, someone labelled it, so I can probably trust them..."I fell to musing about this while considering the problem facing software developers who want to help people understand their products, and on how you make them - the products, and the people - offer and press the right buttons at appropriate times.We have all had the experience where an essential piece of software has crashed, taking with it a ton of work, upon which the computer throws up a dialog box saying something like "That application has unexpectedly quit" and a little box for you to click, marked "OK".To which the response is: no it's definitely not OK. What you want is an alternative box marked "Rewind time 5 minutes so I can save my work".How about the situation where someone clicks a button to close a window containing an unsaved document? Obviously, you ask if they want to save the document first - the familiar "Yes/No/Cancel" dialog.Next there's the trickier one, in which someone is opening an application for the first time, via a document. Put your suspicious mindset on, and you might ask: is the application really a piece of spyware or something malicious? Does the user know they want that program to open? Do they care?Apple's OSX asks if you knew you were going to open that program, and offers to show you the actual program, or stop opening it, or go ahead. Which should be the "default" - the one you allow people to do without thinking by just hitting the return button?Each has a price. If stabbing a button will reveal where the program sits on your hard drive, you'll probably - as an average user - just be perplexed. If an absent poke stops the operation, that'll annoy people who wanted to carry on. And if it lets them glibly click through to operate the program, they might be open to malware.Apple's solution? There is no default. The machine will patiently sit there waiting forever until you choose one.Questions like those are plaguing Microsoft's Vista developers working on its User Account Control (UAC) systems, which police what applications are allowed to be installed and run on the forthcoming version of Windows. And Vista testers, it seems, are so unused to the issue of deciding what they should or shouldn't do that they have been turning off UAC wherever they can - which led to a plea by Jesper Johansson, one of Microsoft's senior security strategists, to "Please don't disable security features, at least while we are testing them" (http://tinyurl.com/j5z7x).The problem for the Vista developers is that spyware and adware vendors - at least, the ones who go through the pretence of getting peoples' "permission" to install their stuff - are leaving little bottles of software marked "DRINK ME" all over the place.And people are grabbing them and descending into Wonderlands that are rather more hostile than they expect. I don't envy the Vista people. Their problem is far greater than Carroll's ever was: they have to find ways to stop people following their human nature. That, I'd suggest, is beyond even Redmond's ken.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft? Paying to develop open source software so Office 2007 can hook up with the standardised Open Document format (ODF)? With its reputation? As hard as that might be to believe, last week the world's biggest software firm did just that (http://tinyurl.com/huxfb).Microsoft is often seen as an enemy of free-to-use-and-adapt open-source software. In 1976, the general partner of a recently formed firm called Micro-Soft (sic) - Bill Gates - wrote An Open Letter to Hobbyists saying that free sharing of programs was in fact theft which would prevent good software from being written. Over the following three decades, the firm has stuck to proprietary software - paid-for programs where the source code is hidden or closed from users.Microsoft has also in its software tended to prefer its own document formats, such as Word's .doc and PowerPoint's .ppt, leading to charges that it tries to "lock in" users as their document archives would stop being fully accessible if they replaced their Microsoft software.Open standardsBut last week the firm announced that the open source development website SourceForge was hosting a prototype adapter for Word 2007, part of the new version of Microsoft Office to be released next year, allowing the word processor to work with ODF. This is an open standard accredited by the International Standards Organisation and used within software including OpenOffice, an open source rival to Microsoft Office.Microsoft says the Word adapter should be finished by the end of this year, with adapters for its Excel spreadsheet and PowerPoint presentation software ready early next year. The adapters, which Microsoft is paying other software firms to write, will not distributed within Office 2007 but will be easily downloadable through a menu option, joining a previously announced adapter for Adobe's portable document format (http://tinyurl.com/kzjk4). They will also be included with a compatibility pack for users of other versions of Office."We're doing this in response to what customers have told us," says Darren Strange, UK product manager for the Office 2007 system. "Governments especially need to [use] all forms of documents. At the same time, we still think that Open XML will be the one that is rich enough for people to use."Open XML, not ODF, remains Microsoft's replacement for the likes of .doc and .ppt in Office 2007. "We need to see in productivity suites [such as Office] what we see in imaging software," says Joe Wilcox, a senior analyst for Jupiter Research and writer of the Microsoft Monitor blog (www.microsoftmonitor.com/archives/016375.html). Imaging software has common formats such as the Joint Photographic Experts Group's .jpg, but this is not what Microsoft is offering.Instead, it is seeking to make Open XML itself a standard through Ecma International and has already published its details with a covenant not to sue users. "ODF is a bit of a lowest common denominator," explains Strange. "It doesn't do things like workflow or digital signatures, and it's not as fast. Also, we have a great record on disability. These are things we feel we just can't do with ODF."As for building the adapters as open source software, "if we had done this in some other way, we would have been accused of subverting the standard," he says. "Given the context, we need to be transparent and open about it."Supporters of ODF say the move shows Microsoft bowing to governments including those of Massachusetts and Belgium, which have demanded use of open document standards to avoid future lock-in."It's purely a question of customer demand," says Bob Sutor, vice-president of standards and open source for IBM, which uses ODF within its Workplace software. "For a year and a half, [Microsoft] were somewhat in denial on governments standing up and saying that they would implement policies on open standards. It became inevitable in their minds that this would need to be supported."Winning movesAs to whether the move will win back concerned governments, Jupiter's Joe Wilcox says some may be swayed, but that they would be well advised to wait until the translators are available before making a decision.Bristol city council, which is moving 5,500 staff to Sun's StarOffice which uses ODF, sounds unrepentant. "Our decision was very much driven by cost," says Gavin Beckett, the city's IT strategy manager. Escaping manufacturer lock-in was "a fairly minor part of the decision" - Bristol was to adopt StarOffice before its formats became approved as an open standard.But he is pleased by the move. The city is keeping a few employees on Microsoft Office, because they need specific spreadsheet and accessibility functions that are not available in StarOffice. "What will be great is that we will be able to exchange ODF documents with them completely transparently," he says.Leaving aside the politics of open source and standards, for those who simply want to exchange documents regardless of software, this looks like good news.&amp;#183 OpenDocument history1985:European governments define an open standard format called Open Document Architecture (ODA). It receives support from institutions including the European Commission, and becomes an ECMA and ISO standard. It fails miserably because it has no industry backing - the format is complex, and companies prefer SGML (Standard Generalised Markup Language, a superset of HTML) and Rich Text Format1992:Adobe introduces its Portable Document Format (PDF)1996XML (Extensible Markup Language) standards introduced2000:OpenOffice.org creates the OpenOffice.org 1.0 suiteNovember 2002:Oasis founds OpenOffice XML format technical committee2003:The European Union commissions Valoris to report on open file formatsMay 2004:Valoris (now Sopra Group) releases first study comparing existing Microsoft formats and OpenOffice XML. EU recommendations include submitting OpenOffice XML to the International Standards OrganisationOctober 2004:OpenOffice XML officially becomes "ODF" file formatJanuary 2005:Microsoft publishes XML reference schemasMay 2005:Oasis formally approves the ODF file formatAugust 2005:State of Massachusetts stipulates that applications used in local government from January 1 2007 must be able to use ODF "natively"October 2005:The format is submitted to ISO and changes its name to the OpenDocument formatDecember 2005:ECMA Microsoft Office Open XML technical committee formedMarch 2006:City of Bristol says it will move to ODF from Microsoft OfficeJune 2006:Belgium decides to adopt ODF documents from September 2007Charles Arthur&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City StoriesPlayStation 2, &pound;19.99Rockstar Games, 5 starsA PS2 conversion of a handheld PSP title may not be the best gaming offer you get this summer, but a quick glance at the brand and price will stir your interest. Yes, Grand Theft Auto is back, complete with all the carjacking and mayhem you may expect. Veterans of GTA 3 will enjoy visiting Liberty City but even newcomers will quickly become familiar with the streets and back alleys. Unlike the bloated San Andreas, Liberty City Stories is a focused affair, with objectives never too far off the beaten track. Sadly the graphics and substandard radio stations - usually such a strong feature of the GTA games - betray the game's PSP roots. What worked so well on a handheld is less impressive on the big screen. But even a below-par GTA game has more than enough appeal, especially when you throw in the low price.Greg HowsonLocoRocoPlayStation Portable, &pound;29.99Rockstar Games, 4 starsThe most common criticism of the PSP - that it lacks distinctive, custom-designed games as opposed to versions of PS2 games - may be about to evaporate. This puzzle/platform game combines the cute-yet-surreal attitude and simplicity of gameplay offered by Katamari Damacy with clever use of physics and more than a whiff of pinball. Despite resolutely two-dimensional graphics, it feels fresh and modern. Its principle couldn't be simpler. You guide space-hopper-like LocoRocos through a succession of stages, using just the trigger buttons. Eating fruits increases the size of your LocoRoco, which can be split up when needed, and stages are studded with things such as owls that swallow you and spit you out, temporarily changing your shape, and airstreams that carry you around. Surfaces with varying textures and elasticities suck you into the game, but it has a glaring drawback: it becomes repetitive once you have played it for a while. Essential for PSP owners, though - no matter their age or gender.Steve BoxerMicro Machines V4PS2, &pound;29.99Codemasters, 3 starsThe first Micro Machines game, which came out in 1991, created fast, racing action at a time of relatively primitive graphics cards. By today's standards, tiny cars racing round kitchens and gardens looks childish. Luckily, they still play extremely well, particularly in multiplayer mode where ramming your mate into a steam iron while negotiating a tricky left-hand turn jump on to an ironing board never seems to get old. To compensate for the simplicity, there are more than 750 cars, with around 25 weapon icons to collect. Races are completed in short bursts, with each stage victory counting as a point. Get to the required total before your rivals and it's on to the next room of the house (or supermarket, garden or farm) for more racing. Intriguing stuff with mates around, far less so for solo players but, after all these years, it's still one of a kind.Mike Anderiesz&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week I was up to my armpits in slag, covered in coal and exposed to noxious fumes. I went to Coalbrookdale and learned how to cast iron - and all in the pursuit of art and self-discovery.For one week I forswore all computer games and, bar my intractable connection to my laptop and mobile phone, was techno-free in a world of technophobes.I and the three burly men who joined me on the Coalbrookdale Open Air Museum of Steel Sculpture cast iron workshop spent much of the time I usually reserve for computer gaming playing traditional pub and board games. During the evenings spent soaking sore muscles in a mixture of warm ale and Shropshire water, I realised again that non-electronic games are often a lot more challenging than computer-based ones.Take Werewolf, a game that forces rifts between friends and makes allies of enemies. Each player takes on a role - werewolf, villager, seer or narrator - and the goal is to stay alive until the next day. The game involves trying to decide who among your friends is a potential threat. At the end of a round the least successful person is sacrificed and exposes whether he is a man-eating werewolf. All the action takes place in a perfectly reasonable setting: next to a fire in a country pub with a pint of something warming on the table beside you.The gameplay of Werewolf relies upon the subtle social cues that artificial intelligence in computer games don't pick up on. Bar a few examples, AI in games tends to be rather stupid and part of the time is spent learning how to get around it. This is much easier than negotiating the vast library of rules that go unnoticed when being accused of eating a villager by a lynch mob. Ultimately, you can teach AI code the rules, but you can't teach it how to read a situation.We also played the puzzler Tantrix, in which players match three different coloured lines on flat hexagonal pieces to create the longest solid piece of "string". It's easy to get confused, particularly because there's no invisible hand that will remove an incorrectly placed tile or a help menu to give you hints and tips. So the onus was on me and the other players to keep track of each manoeuvre. There's no way you can play and not be cognitively active.Playing offline games reminded me again that the sense of control I'm led to feel when in front of the console is a facade. Unlike in pub games, the rules are enforced by a machine.Since coming home, I have picked up my DS again, but the only game in it is Dr Kawashima's Brain Training. It's eased me back into the techno-way of life, but I'm careful not to spill ale on it. I don't think it would fare as well as the slips of paper we used to play Werewolf.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Limiting TV access shuts out the common marketIt happened with satellite TV and it did not work. Technically, you can install UK's Sky or Spain's Digital+ in other EU countries (France and Germany), but companies will not sell to consumers because of copyright and licensing issues (It's TV, but not as we know it, July 6). There are no physical limitations to receiving the service, but you are not "allowed". For example, with internet radio, if you try listening to Classic FM over the internet from outside the UK you have to enter a UK postcode. Limiting the service to the original country is shutting out the common market; companies are missing out on demand and consumers are not receiving what they want.Alberto Figaredo MartinDusseldorf, GermanyOffice 2007 restrictionsBesides subjecting you to a complex procedure of validation, the beta of Office 2007 changes all your Word documents' icons without prompting you (Don't get lost on your way to the Office, July 6). If you click on them, they open with Word 2007, not with the current version. To do this you must launch the file through the application. This is impractical if you merely want to test Office 2007.My attempts to change this got nowhere. The "open with" command did not work. Uninstalling Office 2007 left bits hidden in the wrong places. Whenever I launched Outlook 2003, it attempted to install a non-existent Office 2007, and re-started when cancelled. What a shame Microsoft issued such a badly behaved beta. No one else would dare.Robert MarchenoirParis, FranceFlat-screen TVsBill Taylor (Fat profits from thin TVs, July 6) wants everyone to have a flat-screen TV. Will they be like the current ones that are rendered unusable if tuned to a single digital channel for too long so the channel logo burns into the screen?George LillingtonReigateAccess to health recordsThe concept of who "owns" electronic records isn't useful (Patients, not the state, own medical records, says GP, July 6). It's more useful to consider who has a right to access. If you are going to use the NHS you need to accept that it has to use your information to run the system. To pretend otherwise is ingenuous.Dr Rod MuirEdinburgh&middot;What patients don't realise is that when ticking a box for consent for access to their medical records when making an accident injuries claim, for example, patients are allowing their "agent" to have a copy of their "whole" medical records, not just the events around the accident. Most are shocked that "everything" is usually asked for.Dr David J PlewsRotherhamFlimsy inkjet printersPaul May's article (Technobile, July 6) may have a ring of truth about it with recent flimsy inkjet printers. However, my Epson Stylus Colour 600 and print head survived seven years of heavy use, six of which were using cheap non-Epson ink cartridges, costing as little as &pound;1.99 each.Peter CheesemanSloughHard drive or web?Victor Keegan (Bypass the hard disk and head for the web, July 6, highlights a lot of the web-based applications that many believe have a great potential for learning. I can see a lot of financial gains for schools moving to this approach - cutting out the cost of Microsoft Office licenses alone would save several thousand pounds, but schools could move towards open-source equivalents.http://tarannau.ethink.org.ukProgramming problemsNo wonder programming is being seen as uncool - a low-paid job that leaves you on the scrapheap at 40 - and these days requires a relevant degree, which has no use in any other industry. Overall, salaries don't seem to be going up: many jobs advertised these days offer less than I was earning in the late 1980s.http://lowlyseer.blogspot.com
Done phishing, gone vishingThe latest scam is to get users to dial a phone number, via the net, and use the keypad to enter their credit card details, according to Secure Computing. It's called vishing.http://tinyurl.com/gk3qoPrivate Folder 1.0 for XPMicrosoft has released Private Folder 1.0 for Windows XP, which lets users add a password protected folder to store personal data. It is available free as a Windows Genuine Advantage download.http://tinyurl.com/ze9ooA word to your mobileOxford University Press and Frizzle Media have launched a service that lets you look up a word in the Concise Oxford dictionary by texting from your mobile phone.www.askoxford.comJumping on bandwagonsBandwagon, the UK's music and social networking portal, has launched an Irish version.www.bandwagon.ieFirefox keeps growingMozilla has released a free beta version of its Firefox 2.0 open source web browser with spell checker and phishing filter.From Pong to OblivionHeadline will publish Game On, a guide to the 50 greatest games, this autumn.Tech talkingFuture Publishing plans to launch "the UK's number one website for consumer electronics and computing enthusiasts" atwww.techdaily.co.uk.I want my mobile TVJuniper Research predicts that broadcast mobile TV will be an $11.7bn (&pound;6.4bn) market by 2011. Japan ($2.9bn) will lead the way, but the US ($1.8bn) and UK ($989m) will also be significant markets.www.juniperresearch.comYou get it back, maybeA new website hopes to increase your chances of getting your lost property back, using security tags. The launch offer is to tag two devices for three years for &pound;6.99.http://yougetitback.comWhen data goes abroadThe Information Commissioner's Office has updated its guidance to organisations that transfer personal information outside the European Economic Area.http://tinyurl.com/enlla&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Want to have a go? My guess was "well north of $5bn," but Todd Bishop of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, a Microsoft local paper, has done the sums, and the score so far is $6.83bn (&pound;3.7bn) and counting (http://tinyurl.com/lhleg).That's the total since Microsoft was found guilty in a US government anti-trust case, which made its position almost impossible to defend. Companies such as Sun Microsystems, AOL Time Warner, Real Networks and IBM duly lined up to collect their winnings.Technically, Bishop is wrong to include the whole amount paid to Sun. Only $700m related to anti-trust issues, with Microsoft paying Sun $900m to resolve "patent issues" and $350m in advance royalty payments under a technology collaboration agreement. Whether Sun would have got that much cash, or as easily, without the anti-trust decision is open to considerable doubt.But while Microsoft has generally settled with its US opponents, the company may still be fined large sums by the European Union. As this section went to press, the deadline came for Microsoft to hand over documentation for server interoperability; it says it has devoted 259 staff to the job, some facing 18-hour working days, partly because the EU has made Microsoft rewrite documentation.The EC is poised to punish Microsoft for its defiance and, according to Reuters, it could raise the ceiling on fines from &euro;2m (&pound;1.4m) to &euro;3m a day. If the fine is backdated, this would be around &euro;400m on top of the &euro;497m fine the commission imposed in 2004. In ball-park terms, it's another $1bn.But while that would cripple most firms, it won't hurt Microsoft. The company has $33.5bn in cash and is making $1.3bn a month in profits before legal charges. So $1bn is basically one week's wages. The cost of the EU conflict to Microsoft's image and its other operations may be higher, which is why Microsoft needs a settlement.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Until last week she was the host of Rocketboom - a daily technology "videoblog" started on October 26 2004, which by this month was attracting up to 300,000 viewers each day for a five-minute show that brought in varying amounts of advertising revenue.But now Congdon has left the "show" after being presented, she told us, with an ultimatum under which she would no longer write, but would only be "the face of Rocketboom"."It was totally unacceptable," Congdon, 24, told us. "I had been writing it and producing Jet Set [another videoblog]. I wasn't going to be demoted." And so Rocketboom, in which she owned 49%, but crucially her business partner Andrew Barron owned 51%, imploded.Judging by the groans from around the blogosphere, many geeks can't imagine life without their hit of daily news about robot wrestling, today's cool gadgets and some amusing video footage spotted on the web. Of course, it helps if such items are fronted by someone young, female, with an infectious laugh and nice teeth who looks good even when constrained to a window 180 pixels across.Rocketboom's crash has thrown an intense spotlight on the emergent area of "vlogs", or video blogs, which even had their own conference recently (seewww.vloggercon.com). As an obvious outgrowth of text, audio and picture blogging, video blogging only has one problem: it's exceedingly easy to do badly and very difficult to do even slightly well - making even podcasting (which has surely brought more of what professionals call "dead air" to listeners' ears around the world than a century of radio) look like a cakewalk.Thus it helped that Congdon had experience from New York's comedy clubs to lend some pizazz to her online act. (Arguments rage about who suggested she should spin in her chair to link items.)Big budget it wasn't; the site featured in the New York Times last December, under the headline "TV stardom on just $20 a day". Congdon says that the site "periodically" made money, which would come in chunks and then dry up.Still, making it only required a desk, a map of the world, a digital video camera, and some cheap or free video editing software. And it did manage to garner as big an audience as some niche broadcast TV shows; certainly there are plenty of British cable channels that would kill for some of Congdon's ratings. Or indeed Congdon herself.The disappearance of the site has led bloggers to cast around for anything comparable and you can expect that the coming weeks will see plenty of videoblogs declared as "the new Rocketboom" - only to be dismissed as "last week's new Rocketboom" just as quickly.Meanwhile, Congdon's ambitions now lie on the other side of the US, in Los Angeles; earlier this week she said that she was sorting through hundreds of offers presenting shows in different formats. "In five to 10 years ... I'd see myself doing some kind of hybrid show that crosses TV with videoblogs," Congdon told us."I'd like to bridge the mainstream media to the internet, if I can find a partner that's financially stable."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
As a freelance journalist, I mostly work at home, on a computer set up just the way I like it. And I use Firefox, the browser that's eaten into Internet Explorer's market share.So it's only when I work in an office that I am exposed to the full horror of Internet Explorer. Businesses, particularly newspaper offices, have yet to join the Firefox revolution. Corporate IT installations are like ocean liners: vast, not updated often enough, slow to respond and bloody difficult to turn around. So not only do most companies still use IE, they tend to have old versions, on ancient operating systems.Firefox is wonderful. It's up there with chocolate and sex on the grand scale of great things about being alive. Tabbed browsing, extensions that mean you need never see another advert, extensions that tell you what the weather is in Paris, extensions that tell you you have Google mail, even extensions that give you the latest football scores. It has more extensions than Chantelle's hair.So being dumped in front of a computer that insists on using IE is a nasty shock. For starters, only the beta of the very newest version - IE7 - uses tabbed browsing. Command-click on a link in any other version and it opens a new window. One office I regularly work at deploys ancient iMacs running a five-year-old operating system. Open more than two IE windows and it crashes. Bashing the keyboard or mouse won't work - you have to go nuclear and pull out the power lead.Older versions of IE and older computers don't like Flash, either. Those nodding iMacs can't run the latest versions of Flash but you still get a dialog asking if you want to install it. Try clicking "Yes". As in: "Yes, please crash hard, and eat all my unsaved work."And the pop-ups! Firefox has a pop-up blocker. Corporate IE doesn't. I discovered recently that one site I have stumbled across is infested with pop-ups and ads that track across your monitor while you frantically try to click them away. One had me howling with rage as its close button didn't, at least not until it had played itself out.Who is at fault? First, advert designers and those who sell advertising on websites. Flash-heavy design makes for a poor user experience for those with IE.Second, IT departments who won't get with the Firefox programme. Please, think of your users. They don't want to call you to restart a computer that has collapsed under the weight of a dozen IE windows any more than you want to be there. There is a way forward. Deploy Firefox. Please. Especially if you're one of the offices I frequent.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dear Matt,I am taking part in a sponsored cycle ride this month over three days (for Christian Aid: seewww.justgiving.com/wendyclow). The first two days are 70 miles long. I have only ever cycled 55 miles in a day and I am dreading the last 15 miles each day. Do you have any psychological strategies that will get me through those final painful miles?Wendy Clow, via emailThis may not be exactly what you want to hear, but the first suggestion is to get out on your bike now and ride 70 miles. Not because it will make you magically fitter (although it will do you good, as long as you have time to rest before the event), but because it will give you confidence. You do not want to set out on this ride with a nagging question in the back of your mind about whether you can make it.Second, pace yourself carefully during the event: do not set off too fast, and do drink and eat throughout ("little and often" is the rule). Finally, enjoy it: find a companion who goes at the same speed and make it sociable. The miles will roll by without you even noticing.
Rocketboomhas returned with a pretty funny epidode featuringJoanne Colaninstead ofAmanda.Amanda who?At least for now, it's turned into a better soap opera than it was a vlog....Update: Amanda has done a short "mainstream TV interview" which is worth watching to the end for the side-by-side clip of Congdon and Colan...
On Monday, the British Phonographic Institution (BPI) sent us a press release about how it was asking Tiscali and Cable &amp; Wireless to disconnect a total of 59 customers, accusing them of illicit file-sharing. (You can see the letteron the BPI site.)BPI Chairman Peter Jamieson said, "We have demonstrated in the courts that unauthorised filesharing is against the law. We have said for months that it is unacceptable for ISPs to turn a blind eye to industrial-scale copyright infringement. We are providing Tiscali and Cable &amp; Wireless with unequivocal evidence of copyright infringement via their services. It is now up to them to put their house in order and pull the plug on these people."What - by suing the ISPs? Oh, no, you misunderstand us. The BPI simply wants the ISPs to cut their customers off.Quite some front on the BPI's part, we thought: get the ISPs to bear the responsibility for cutting people off, without accepting the legal burden of proof. Had something gone wrong with the BPI's strategy of suing alleged file-sharers into oblivion? If it's so confident that the ISPs are closing their eyes, why not sue the ISPs?Unsurprisingly, Tiscali wasn't amused. (It's been having an unamused year with the record industry, havinghad last month to withdraw its Juke Box, a legalised peer-to-peer music streaming service, because "it's virtually impossible to work with [the European Recording Industry] in the promotion of legal music online".It snapped back:You have sent us a spreadsheet setting out a list of 17 IP addresses you allege belong to Tiscali customers, whom you allege have infringed the copyright of your members, together with the dates and times and with which sound recording you allege that they have done so. You have also sent us extracts of screenshots of the shared drive of one of those customers. You state that such evidence is "overwhelming". However, you have provided no actual evidence in respect of 16 of the accounts. Further, you have provided no evidence of downloading taking place nor have you provided evidence that the shared drive was connected by the relevant IP address at the relevant time.We suspect that providing the evidence that Tiscali is asking for (such as screenshots of the users' systems) might just infringe the Computer Misuse Act - you'd have to prove that you'd been invited into their computer to take the picture. (If you're a Tiscali customer who likes the occasional bit of p2p, it might be worth seeing if you can find a pro bono lawyer on that one.)All that would be fun enough, but today into our mailbox plonks the next piece of the chainsaw:Music Industry Proposes ISP TaxA music industry coalition (1) today proposed a reform of UK copyright laws which, according to their press release, would see "Internet Service Providers (ISPs), mobile phone companies and device manufacturers" paying a levy or licence fee to the music industry for any illegal file sharing that their services or products enable.This new right, which they have called the Value Recognition Right, would "allow the music industry to create a commercial relationship with any company deriving value from either the sharing or storage of music".Mm, this will likely go down with all the alacrity of a cup of cold sick with both ISPs and the people who pay their bills - hmm, that's you and me. Why precisely should my father or grandmother or aunt have to pay a "levy" for something which they don't actually do? A blank tape levy you can almost understand - if you buy blank tapes, you pay a little. But a levy on all ISPs, which you just know will get passed on to the customers?Only conclusion: the record labels have started, collectively, to lose their minds. Or perhaps they've *finally* lost them - because if you're going to line up a rogues' gallery, it will be a long time before people will rank ISPs as nastier than record bosses.

Dell, the world's biggest PC supplier, has launchedone2one, it's new corporate blog. That's a welcome development, and while it hasn't been as warmly-greeted as Dell might have hoped, the blog says: "Real People are Here and We're Listening".But it's not Dell's first blog. The Linux engineering team blogs at theDell Linux blog.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
ModelMercedes-Benz ML 320 CDIPrice&pound;37,220Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.6secsConsumption28.8 mpg (combined)Emissions260g/kmAt the wheelJames BluntThey'd rather walkOzzy OsbourneOn the stereoCorinne Bailey-RaeEn route forKyotoFor a significant, and increasingly vocal, portion of the nation, the Mercedes M Class is the devil's motor. Were Lucifer to emerge among us now, it is widely reckoned that he would be straight into the showroom, plumping directly for a silver one and asking about the optional satnav package.We are talking sports utility vehicle, obviously, but much more than that. Mercedes claims, a mite contentiously, that, via the M Class, it single-handedly blazed the trail for the luxury SUV or, as it is more familiarly known these days, Chelsea Tractor. So it is not just (as some would claim) a plague-bringer's car - it is the original plague-bringer's car.And just look at the thing. Does any other five-seater vehicle so noisily announce to its fellow road-users, "Stuff you and the car you came in"? And is any other car so gallingly comfortable in its patently anti-social skin? The M Class does not so much seem intent on guzzling gas as on gargling with it and then spitting it in other, smaller cars' windscreens. And is that a deliberate stylistic allusion to razor wire in the radiator grille's hostile chrome grin? Nice.And then there is the bewilderingly thoughtless, road-hogging hugeness. Come up behind an M Class and, like the bear-hunting family in the children's picture book, you're in trouble. You can't see over it, you can't see round it and you certainly can't see through it, although, on the plus side, if you get up close enough, you may just about be able to see under it.In the promotional literature, Mercedes refer pointedly and repeatedly to the M Class as an off-roader. And one would not dispute for a moment that the car is sufficiently armoured to ford canals, drop from quite high cliffs with impunity and hunt goats across rocky terrain. It is, after all, German, and people go to war these days in vehicles less solidly constructed than this.At the same time, why is the image of the M Class being used as a farm vehicle so hard to summon, while the idea of the M Class waiting obediently in a Waitrose car park rises to the mind effortlessly? That would be the luxury factor, presumably - the coating of prestige that turns the M Class into a status symbol and means that it is about as rural, in the end, as an Oyster card.And it is, of course, like the very best, devilish things, utterly seductive. Aloft in the leather-bound cabin of an ML 320, one feels like some latterday knight of the A604 - only more secure than that. The ostensibly haunting notion, frequently produced in exultant anger by the anti-SUV lobby, that cars this shape are fundamentally unstable and therefore more likely than normally shaped cars to end up upside down at the bottom of embankments is, one finds, quickly banished by the exhilaration of driving the thing. (See the book High And Mighty: SUVs - the World's Most Dangerous Vehicles and How They Got That Way by Keith Bradsher for a fuller exploration of these theories.)It is not easy to account accurately for the comfort levels experienced in the ML 320's electric seats, nor for the ease of its steering and the smoothness of its acceleration. (The M Class has a seven-speed automatic gearbox. Why seven gears? Because most other cars only go up to six, would appear to be the chief reason.) Suffice it to say that the car appears to be brilliantly positioned at the place where A-grade suspension engineering meets the posture-pedic mattress. At 50mph on an uncomplicated stretch of road, the ML 320 is as comfortable as any bed I have ever slept in.Plus it comes with the entirely brilliant Mercedes gear-stalk - a work of user-friendly genius, mounted on the steering column, after which all other stick-shifts come to look no more sophisticated than a set of reins. Push up for reverse, push down for drive, and tap it on the end for park. As a contribution to the betterment of human life, it is a technical development fit to rank almost alongside the Sky+ box.The new model adds a few millimetres of leg room to the back seats, but as it was already all but possible to hold a village fete in there, the trouble seems a little unnecessary. It also has, allegedly, a "more effective four-wheel drive system", for those tougher school runs, and benefits from the addition of an "anticipatory occupant protection system", which will take the precaution of pre-tensioning your seatbelt and closing the sunroof if you scream up to the school gates more quickly than the car thinks you should.So, there it is, the new M Class - completely hateful and utterly compelling. See how the devil, having long since cornered the best tunes, has now gone and bagged himself one of the best cars? Makes you weep.
WiredandWired News- the magazine and the website - are reuniting again after a prolonged period apart. As MediaGuardian.co.uk's Julia Dayreports[reg reqd], "We're bursting with ideas and can't wait to put them into practice," the Wired magazine editor-in-chief, Chris Anderson, said in a statement issued by Lycos." In fact, I wouldn't mind betting that it be news to a lot of readers that the two publications have been separate. The fact that the site publishes and promotes material from the magazine under licence has always maintained the relationship between the two --- but it could mean a lot in terms of how the two go forward.
I'm just heading back to London after a quick visit to theDevelop in Brightonconference, where some of the gaming industry's biggest developers are banging their heads together.I was there to hear Mark Rein ofEpic(they make games like Unreal Tournament) railing against Intel's dangerous influence over the PC market - and in the most extraordinary manner."I'm concerned about the level of growth in the PC games business," he told the audience, pointing particularly to the strategy of rolling out integrated graphics in computers rather than dedicated ones. "A $900 PC is nowhere near as capable as a $299 XBox 360 console: we're losing PC gamers in record numbers."Rein placed the blame firmly at Intel's door, for an approach to the computer market that tended to go for the lowest common denominator . He suggested that the lack of graphical power was holding back further developments in all kinds of software, not just games, and claimed Microsoft had "capitulated" to Intel by not enforcing 3D power on the desktop. Such a change would cost very little - he suggested between $5 and $8 - but the result is that the gaming industry is now thinking of abandoning PCs completely in favour of consoles."The high end is getting higher and the low end is getting lower," he said. "But even if somebody spends $1,000 on a graphics card, we're still only making $25 from them."The audience response was mixed - certainly many people took issue with what they saw as a high-end games developer spitting out sour grapes when the consumer market didn't really care about graphical capabilities. Rein's answer was clear: "It sickens me that Intel's going to sell a four-core processor next year, with *this* much graphics."What do you think? Are you a PC gamer? Have you given up playing on your computer? Are you a developer who thinks he was talking nonsense?
After the - let's face it - justifiedfurorelast week over the "racist" PSP ad, Sony have withdrawn the campaign. Speaking togamesindustry.bizSony admitted that the ad may have caused offence. "May"?"Whilst the images used in the campaign were intended solely to highlight the contrast between the different colours available for the PSP, we recognise that the subject matter of one specific image may have caused concern in some countries not directly affected by the advertising. As a result, we have now withdrawn the campaign. We further recognise that people have a wide variety of perceptions about such imagery and we wish to apologise to those who perceived the advert differently to that intended. In future, we will apply greater sensitivity in our selection of campaign imagery, and will take due account of the increasingly global reach of such local adverts, and their potential impact in other countries."Clearly an attempt to deflect some attention from the DS Lite launch the ad campaign certainly did the job. When DS Lite 2 (or whatever) launches in about 3 weeks (knowing Nintendo's annoyingly hasty handheld redesign strategy) it will be interesting to see what ads Sony reply with. After race, what's left to shock with? Religion? Personally I'd prefer a half decent new PSP game.
Internet search giant Google is rolling out eight country-specific versions of its video-sharing community website, Google Video, to widen its appeal and compete with runaway market leaders YouTube and myspace.Google Video, which has so far existed solely as a US-based site, will today roll out targeted services for the UK, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain and Canada.With the rapid rise in penetration of broadband, video content has become a key battleground for attracting user traffic on the internet.The localised approach, which will offer users a site in their own language and with more targeted content than the generalised US site, is designed to attract more users and be more relevant to advertisers.In April, myspace launched a UK-focused site to create a more relevant offering for its 3.3 million UK users and advertisers.Google Europe has signed up a number of commercial partners that will provide, free of charge - mostly clips at this early stage - for promotional purposes.Launch content partners include ITN, IMG Media - the sports company that handles events such as Wimbledon - A&amp;E, which owns The History Channel and Buena Vista International Europe, and Premium TV, the digital rights and broadband company with clients including UKTV, Cartoon Network, World Rally Championship, and the Football League."Initially, it is a trial to see the size and scale of the opportunity to drive promotional traffic to our subscription services," said Oliver Slipper, the chief executive of Premium TV.However, the US site offers pay-per-view and pay-per-download services from commercial partners.Joanna Shields, Google's European director of partnerships, said that future advertising opportunities might include video ads, trialled in the US, and "partner pages" - similar to those seen on the likes of myspace - where an advertiser takes a branded page.For example Buena Vista has taken a branded page for the upcoming Superman film.So far, Google has failed to dent the popularity of video-community offerings from YouTube and myspace.A recent study from online research company HitWise study showed that the video web search market is dominated by the two start-ups - YouTube accounts for almost 43% of the market, and combined with myspace the two account for almost 65% of share.Established online media players - Google, Yahoo!, MSN and AOL - have failed to significantly tap the phenomenon.Each of the firms already has a video search service but, according to the recent Hitwise study, none of them holds more than 9% of the market.YouTube users regularly spend up to 30 minutes on each visit viewing and sharing videos, and with the average session at almost 15 minutes.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Bambino_Tostare has sent in his thoughts ona recent article from the BBC, suggesting that a round-up of the continuingwarinAfghanistanis awfully similar to the design and format of real-time strategy games. Indeed, upon consideration Auntie Beeb has reduced the five-year "conflict" to a list of the factions, their weaponry, their vehicles and the country's terrain. Sections include "mobility" (with sub-categories including, defences, strengths, weaknesses and cost), "key weapon" (with subcategories including year of development, caliber, magazine capacity, loaded weight and range) and "manpower" (with subcategories including, main weapons, strengths and weaknesses). Creepy.apologies - I forgot to include the link
Recent press coverage of a mobile phone with built-in breathalyser has been attributing the gizmo to Samsung --- which led to therealmanufacturer,LG, putting out an anguished statement yesterday. "LG Mobile would like to confirm that the LP4100 is an LG handset contrary to features in The Sunday Times (09.07.06) and The Sun (10.07.06) which suggest the handset is manufactured by Samsung," went the missive. News that the device would stop you making drunken phone calls to inappropriate people were also off the mark - and I can't work out whether that's bad news for all you angry people with Technology Blog's number on speed dial, or for us.
Confirmation, if needed, that World of Warcraft is the master of the Massively Multiplayer Online (MMO) market. On the surface the figures make depressing reading for Blizzard's competitors, with big names like Everquest II and Star Wars Galaxies languishing in the lower reaches. But WoW has expanded the market to such an extent that MMO virgins make up a lot of its audience. Competitors that have sprung up since WoW's launch have, with the notable exception of Guild Wars, been low key niche affairs. Lord of the Rings andWarhammer Online- MMO's geeky you say? - will offer more a threat when they launch next year. But can they stop the WoW juggernaut? Possibly, but the real challenger will be an MMO which mixes WoW's polish and scope with a non-fantasy setting. As yet this game doesn't exist, but you can bet it will arrive within the next five years.
America's ABC News has a news report of Microsoft chairmanBill Gates meeting kids at the final of the Imagine Cup, which is now available as VOD (video on demand). This includes an interesting flashback showing a very young Gates.The Guardian's Bobbie Johnson went to the event and reported it in this week's Technology section inGates' way to a healthy future.July 11 update from Bobbie:Audio snippets of my chat with Gates are included as one of the features in the latest Guardian Science Weekly podcast -listen to the MP3 here- the show also features the fantastic science writer David Bodanis. If you haven't picked up on the show yet, take a listen -here's the archiveand tell uswhat you think.
After I wrote a story at the weekend about problems withWindows Genuine Advantage, I heard from a reader who said the story "falls into the 'it would take a man with a heart of stone not to laugh' category".The concern was over a line which said that our case study, a charity fundraiser who was forced to pay £92 to upgrade his Windows XP, had bought his "from a high street retailer". From the email:He bought a (presumably very cheap) operating system from a street trader and was surprised to find it wasn't entirely legitimate? Amazing. In other news, £10 Rolexes are all fakes or stolen, I think. What's his excuse for being so naive?Lest this be the impression that other readers have garnered, "high street retailer" does not mean a market stall - our complainant had bought his apparently illegal version of XP from one of the UK's biggest computer sellers. Is this a problem with language - if so, we could change it - or reader perceptions?
The DS Lite has achieved European sales of 200,000 units in its first ten days on sale. Yes, these aren't as impressive as the PSP's launch but while sales of Sony's handheld have slowed, the DS has gone from strength to strength. Trade mag MCVreportedthat the DS (in both formats) has now outsold the PSP in the UK. Anyone surprised? While the DS has Nintendogs, Animal Crossing and Brain Training the PSP has been left with lacklustre PS2 brand retreads that have singularly failed to excite. Aside from inventive platformersDaxterandLocoRocothe recent PSP release list has been a disappointment. So is it simply down to the games? Nintendo certainly think so, arguing that they are main driving force behind the expansion of the videogame market. Nintendo of Europe's European marketing director Laurent Fischer has been chatting to the shopkeepers."During Nintendo DS Lite launch weekend, retailers across Europe said that they had never seen such a vast array of different people buying the product, everyone from business men to young women to grandfathers."So is the DS the only handheld worth bothering with or will the PSP strike back?
A resourceful blogger's quest to trade up on one red paperclip until his bartering produced a house has paid off. Tomorrow Kyle MacDonald will be owner of a home on the prairie after the small town of Kipling, Saskatchewan, decided to turn over the keys to a three-bedroom property as a way to stem its population loss.Mr MacDonald, 26, from Montreal, first offered to swap his paperclip on Craigslist a year ago, starting a trading sequence that produced offers of a snowmobile, a record contract, a movie, and a year's rent on a house in Phoenix, Arizona. The last was tempting, but he swapped the rent money for an afternoon with Alice Cooper. Then, confounding a blogosphere tracking Mr MacDonald's trades, he gave up his audience with Alice Cooper for a vintage snow globe showing the band Kiss.At that point, the people of Kipling, population 1,100, made their move, with a house on Main Street and a giant red paperclip at a highway rest stop.Town officials hope it will attract tourists. Mr MacDonald just wants a place to settle down while he writes his book. "This is such a cool community project. It feels right," he told the Associated Press.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Last week, The New York Times carried rumours aboutMicrosoft's "portable music player", and it seems they may have been just a touch misleading. One of Microsoft's local papers, The Seattle Times, has it differently.Columnist Brier Dudleywrites:What's being developed is actually a complete line of Xbox-branded digital-media products, including a device that plays media, a software media player and an online media service.It has Wi-Fi capability so it can connect wirelessly to home and public networks and other players.Wi-Fi sounds like a big deal if you're comparing the player to the wire-bound iPod. But this is more than just another MP3 player. It will also compete with game players from Sony and Nintendo that have long had Wi-Fi and work as media players, Internet terminals and communication devices.In other words, this sounds more like what we expected fromDean Takahashi's story in The San Jose Mercury Newsin March -- seeHandheld Xbox could take on Sony's PSP, below.Microsoft would be inherently wary of competing directly with partners who use its software in portable music and video players. However, it's perfectly normal for games console companies to produce related portable devices, and an Xbox-branded device probably wouldn't create problems, even if it didn't play games....
Today is the second day of the third annual UKWomen in Games conference, held this year at the University of Teesside. I was unable to go, having PhD duties to attend to, but by all accounts the first day was a stormer. Anyone out there at the conference? What do you think of it? Send links!There's plenty of women in games action this year, with more sessions at more conferences than ever before. This week'sDevelop conference in Brightonwill have a gathering on the subject, and there's rumour to be more in the UK by the end of 2006. Meanwhile, theWomen in Games International grouphas been hosting some well-received seminars throughout the US.
"At some point you have to be the benevolentdictatordeveloper," notes Gus Mueller, developer ofVoodoopad(which is a Mac OSX shareware product that is sort-of a DIY wiki, or todo list, or web content controller, or - in my own case - section planner).In aninteresting post, once you follow the links to the (not inline) images, he explains how he moved from the previous version to the latest, which uses tabs. You know, like browsers, and the new version of Office, and (it isrumoured- though so far it's all just fakery) the next version of the OSX Finder.Early on my goal was to make VoodooPad 3 like one of the iApps with blue source lists on the left ala iTunes or iPhoto. I also really wanted tabs. And a 3d fly view with all the connections between the pages. And a pony. At least we got tabs.However life for an independent developer trying to guess what things are going to look like in a version of the operating system thatwon't even be previewed until August, but which will influence the look of everything that runs on it, also had to be considered:At some point I decided that the dark windows you see in iTunes are going to be the way things are done in Leopard, and if I didn't adopt it now then VP3 would look dated when it came out (see what you're doing to us Apple?! Why am I wasting time thinking about future window styles?).The best way to see the evolution of Mueller's thinking about the interface is to open the various links to the images from his post, and tab quickly between them. Which is better? Which is best?One thing that I think is becoming clearer, as we start to spawn multiple documents while reading a parent one (eg clicking links in a web document that are opened in separate tabs), is that the "multiple window" method that worked well in early versions of the Mac OS just doesn't anymore. Right now, I've got more than 50 windows open (from 21 visible applications); but that's not close to the number of "documents" that are open, because three of those windows are my browser, and each of those windows has more than 10 tabs open. That means that I've got nearly 80 document windows available.Having those sorted using a single window for each document just won't work. You have to have tabs, or the level of complexity becomes befuddling. It's hard enough as it is. (And OSX tweaks likeExposédon't help very much; mentally, I tend to organise what's in a window, and what I'm working on, by application. Exposé just puts all the windows randomly around the screen, not organised by application, so it becomes a game of hide-and-seek to find the one you want. Far quicker just to switch application.)This profusion of windows does mean, I'd suggest, that gradually, more and more applications that used to offer multiple windows as their basic way of working (including VoodooPad) are moving towards tabs. Browsers first; iTunes already does;Office (the PC version) is doing something like it; and I think that it's pretty obvious that it would be smart for Apple to implement this in the "Leopard" version of Finder, because it would stop one having dozens of those Finder windows cluttering up the desktop.It would mean a single window for each application - a victory for theMultiple Document Interfaceover theSingle Document Interface. (The MDI does create problems when you want to drag something from one tab to another, but for that you can always open another window. And the example used at that Wikipedia link for the MDI is possibly the most confusing possible. Think of it this way: a single browser window with multiple tabs is an example of an MDI.)Is that good, or bad? Well, if it means we can find what we want when we want it, it has to be better. Oddly though the development of tabs is going hand-in-hand with the growth of search technologies like Google Desktop Search, Apple's Spotlight, and so on. Too many windows too handle easily; too much information to find easily.
After a week inCoalbrookdale, nearIronbridge, near Telford playing with iron casting, smelting and liquid metal, my thoughts are much more situated in the natural world than the computerised one. To ease back into my technological side,here's a strange structurewhich bridges the gap between the two: ananimal-controlled version of Pac Man, with crickets acting as ghosts (look for graduation projects from 2003/2004).From creator Wim van Eck's colleague's blog:In his project he build a Pacman game, in that the player can play Pacman against real crickets, that controls the ghosts in the Pacman maze. By doing this he analyzes the advantages and disadvantages of real-time behaviour of live animals in comparison to behavior-generating code in computer games.A very clever approach to examining AI in computer games.More of a trawl through the bursting RSS feeder exposes thatRaphwas thinking along similar lines (without the crickets) in an essay he posted about what we need (and should start to expect) from NPC characters. He focuses heavily upon MMOGs, but the points he raises are relevant across the gaming spectrum. Via his blog:Players objected quite a lot to seeing the fictional dressing stripped away from the modern quest dispenser NPCs in SWG, seeing them as actual metallic terminals. And yet, that's how our NPCs act today anyway. We should swing the pendulum back a little bit. I, and I think many other players, would gladly trade some inconvenience for a world that feels a little less like a pellet dispenser.There are still a few issues to work out in Eck's project before crickets become the benchmark for in-game AI, however. At one point, a bug shed its skin thus rendering the colour-detection system completely ineffective. Game over. The NPC challenge still remains, and is one of the hardest nuts to crack in the mainstream acceptance of gaming as an artistic and respectable medium.
"The new iPod will tell you what it is about to play, removing the need for users to look at the screen while selecting music, and making the device safer and easier to use while driving, cycling or in badly-lit locations," claimsThe Scotsman.Apple has flatly refused to comment on the design, but a patent lodged by the company in the United States makes clear the sixth generation of iPods will be able to convert those famous text menus into speech.The ingenious system will rely on home PC processing power and clever software. The computer being used to download tracks will analyse each album title, song name and artist and convert them into sound files. These will be loaded into the iPod, along with the song files.Comment: The Scotsman somewhat exaggerates the difficulty of convertingtext to speech-- we've been doing it for more than 50 years, and the 1984 Mac had it built in. But some modern systems are very good indeed, and if you read the story, this is one application where TTS could save lives.
Business Week has a big piece aboutSpyware developers net huge profits, which focuses on Direct Revenue, a company that has "generated sales of about $100 million since its start in 2002".Direct Revenue's direct customers have included such giants as Delta Air Lines and Cingular Wireless. It has sold millions of dollars of advertising passed along by Yahoo. And Direct Revenue has received venture capital from the likes of Insight Venture Partners, a respected New York investment firm.The travel-booking sites Travelocity and Priceline.com have both been direct customers of Direct Revenue. People who picked up Direct Revenue spyware and then perused flights on Travelocity might find their screens obstructed by a pop-up for Priceline, or vice-versa. The travel sites say they stopped doing business with the company earlier this year.One of the more interesting parts of the story covers the wars between adware vendors who try to destroy each others' programs. Direct Revenue had a team called Dark Arts:Dark Arts crafted software "torpedoes" that blasted rival spyware off computers' hard drives. Competitors aimed similar weapons back at Direct Revenue's software, but few could match the wizardry of Dark Arts. One adversary, Avenue Media, filed suit in federal court in Seattle in 2004, alleging that in a matter of days, Direct Revenue torpedoes had cut in half the number of people using one of Avenue Media's programs. The suit settled without money changing hands, according to an attorney for Avenue Media, which is based in Curaçao. "This is ad warfare," explains former Direct Revenue product manager Reza Khan. "Only the toughest and stickiest codes survive."On a nice note, some of Direct Revenue's investors and staff were also hit by its Aurora program:Even Aurora's creators fell victim as the program froze computers at Direct Revenue. One sales staffer, Judit Major, documented receiving more than 30 pop-up ads in one day, according to e-mails. Her computer crashed four times. "We are serving WAY TOO MANY pops per hour," wrote Chief Technology Officer Daniel Doman in a June e-mail to the company's brass. "If we overdo it, we will really drive users to get us the hell [off] their machine. We need to BACK OFF or we will kill our base."Comment: Direct Revenue is being sued in New York, and "the suit asserts that the company violated New York civil laws against false advertising, computer tampering, and trespassing." But you have to wonder why the world's governments, trade and trading standards authorities have responded so feebly, if at all, to the spyware and malware industries.My recommended action is to write, email or even phone a complaint to every company whose unwanted advertising is served by any malware on your PC. Tell them you object and that you will boycott their businesses, and will tell all your friends to do the same. Customer services and advertising departments and chief executives are good targets. Direct Revenue apparently infected about 100 million PCs. You can bet that 100 million personal complaints to Vonage, Delta, Travelocity etc would get their attention.
"Paige White was surprised when her parents figured out soon after she started driving last year that she'd gone 9 miles to a party, not 4 miles to the friend's house she'd told them she was visiting. It seemed to her almost as if her car was bugged," writes theSan Francisco Chronicle. "It was."The story covers a number of monitoring technologies:SmartWear Technologies in San Diego plans to take GPS monitoring to another level in the fall, offering radio-frequency tags for children's clothing. Already in many items because major retailers use them to track inventory, the tags can be encoded with identification and even a child's medical history. A GPS component will be available next year, said company President Bob Reed.It also includes online tracking:Internet safety consultant and Bay Area police Officer Steve DeWarns particularly likes software that goes beyond Web filters, which keep children off objectionable sites. Newer software allows parents to track their children's Internet use remotely and can copy instant messages and online chats into e-mails that are sent to parents.DeWarns knows a father who was tracking his 14-year-old daughter's online correspondence when he learned, while out of town, that a 24-year-old man she'd met online had bought her a bus ticket to visit him out of state. The father thwarted the plan by calling his wife and telling her not to let their daughter out of her sight.
You may remember a brief frisson when Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, announced that the company was switching from IBM processors and would put Intel processors in Apple Macs. Some devotees regarded this as akin to a religious betrayal; more detached folk regarded it as inevitable. IBM had refused to develop the PowerPC processor line any further and it would have been nuts for Apple to go into the chip business. That left only Intel. QED.Now Apple computers come with Intel's Dual Core processor inside. This columnist is the proud owner of one such machine. For the most part, it is indistinguishable from its predecessor, except that it runs much faster. Naturally, it runs OS X, Apple's operating system. It also runs almost all of the applications created for the earlier processor architecture, so I haven't had to upgrade anything.So far, so banal; now comes the interesting bit. I downloaded a program called Parallels Desktop. It's an example of 'virtualisation' software. When installed, it popped up a window asking if there were any other operating systems I'd like to run on my machine. I happened to have a disk with the latest distribution of Ubuntu Linux, so I popped it in the drive, and lo! It began to install itself on my hard drive. Parallels had created a 'virtual machine' inside my physical machine. And Linux runs on that virtual machine as if it owned the computer. So I can switch instantly between OS X and Linux.At this point, dear reader, I know what you're thinking. However fascinating this 'virtual machine' nonsense may be to geeks, it's of no interest to normal human beings. You may feel as Mrs Dave Barry did when her husband, the Miami Herald humorist, took her for a spin in a Humvee and proudly explained that the vehicle could inflate and deflate its tyres while in motion. Why, she asked, would anyone want to do that?So what's the point of virtualisation? Simply that it provides a vivid illustration of the most disruptive attribute of digital technology - its capability to break the link between an application and a physical platform. Once upon a time, if you bought a PC it ran Windows, and if you bought a Mac it ran Apple's operating system. But now Macs run Windows, and IBM ThinkPads - which have the same processor - can run OS X (though of course Apple is doing its best to head off that possibility). And Linux runs on everything.This disconnection of application/ service from hardware is happening all over the place. For example, 'radio' used to mean a physical device. Now radio has gone digital and can be received on phones, the web and via digital, satellite and terrestrial television receivers. DAB radios have screens. And TV signals are now being streamed to 3G mobile phones.Similarly, telephones were once heavy Bakelite devices tethered to the wall. Then they went mobile. Phone calls can now be made by sitting in front of a computer running Skype and just talking out loud. The same thing is happening to computing. A 'computer' was once a giant mainframe machine tended by legions of white-coated attendants. Then it became the 'personal' computer on your desk. To use it you installed programs that turned it into a word processor, spreadsheet calculator, drawing machine or whatever. The 'platform' was the computer.Then came the net and the web and, later, broadband, enabling the provision of computing services over the network. Why keep your photos on your hard drive when you can store them online? Why run a program on your computer to handle email when you can access your mail anywhere using Hotmail or Gmail? Why buy Microsoft Word when you can do your word-processing online using Writely? The day will come when most people's needs will be met not by buying a computer, but by accessing those services via whatever device they are using at the time. The network is becoming the computer.And the moral? If your business is platform-specific, diversify. Now.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
A loft in New York City. The singer Regina Spektor is performing songs from her new album. People wander in, sit down and discuss the music. Everything seems normal. But then so did life for people in The MatrixLike the world inside the hit Hollywood film, the loft is a 3D computer animation - but in this case it exists only on the internet. The audience is made up of virtual representations of real people. The real people sit at their computer screens around the world, living their lives through avatars, the characters that appear on the screen. Regina Spektor and her music are real people selling themselves in a virtual world. Her company, Warner Brothers, has decided that releasing her album to this 'virtual listening party' is the marketing strategy of the future.This is Second Life, the social networking website now recruiting up to 3,000 members a day, attracting the interest of American politicians and threatening to give MySpace a run for its money. Second Life has more than 300,000 residents, an estimated third of them British. Some demonstrate their talents in designing virtual buildings or fashions. Some form mutual support groups because in the real world they have a disability or are victims of rape. Some run businesses and convert the profits into money in the real world, and some do the same for charity. They do this chatting and trading under an assumed identity - their second life.All this is played out in a sprawling virtual country, with its own simulated cities, streets and red light districts. Participants choose their avatar's identity - potentially changing sex and ethnicity - then guide it wherever they choose: down streets, into nightclubs, gatecrashing weddings. When they meet another avatar they can start a conversation. And so friendships, love affairs and entire subcultures develop.There is nothing new about what are known in industry as MMORPGs: Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Games, in which thousands of people play at once. But the most popular, World of Warcraft, is a fantasy of swords and sorcery, while variants such as The Sims also have a defined endgame. Second Life, however, is not a game. It is an internet community, where people can flirt, do business or go off and build their own virtual Las Vegas. Women make up 43 per cent of the residents, and the average age is 32.'It's the best combination of social networking, chatrooms and a 3D experience,' said Justin Bovington, chief executive of Rivers Run Red, a London branding agency helping to shape Second Life. 'It's such an immersive experience that people get it quicker than anything else. We'd been looking for the broadband killer application, and Second Life is it.'Last month Regina Spektor's album was the first virtual record release by a major company. BBC Radio 1 has 'rented' a tropical island within Second Life for a year, where the world's biggest virtual music festival was staged in parallel with the One Big Weekend event. While people attended the real concert in Dundee, the music by Franz Ferdinand, Pink and others was streamed live into Second Life, where 6,000 avatars crowded around a virtual stage, hosted by an avatar of DJ Chris Moyles and stewarded by computerised bouncers. Each left with a virtual digital radio to carry about inside Second Life.The premiere of X-Men 3: The Last Stand at the Cannes Film Festival was also streamed into Second Life. It is rumoured that a senior US politician - possibly Hillary Clinton - is planning to set up a campaign office within Second Life, using a virtual town hall to address young voters. There is now a virtual Camp Darfur aimed at raising awareness of the real genocide.Second Life is built from user-generated content: its software provides the tools to design a dress, construct a building or sell an avatar's body for virtual sex. Second Life's population includes a wedding planner, pet manufacturer, tattooist, nightclub owner, car maker, fashion designer, jewellery maker, architect, tour guide, and property speculator. There is a detective agency, which can be hired to check whether your virtual spouse is cheating with a virtual lover - such cases are reported to have caused marital rows over whether online cheating counts as real-life cheating.From these services, an entire economy has sprung, based around Second Life's currency, Linden Dollars. This is not so virtual, as Linden Dollars can be converted into US dollars and back again at fluctuating exchange rates. Just as thousands of people now make a living off the online auction site eBay, many are doing the same by trading virtual goods and services on Second Life. Anshe Chung, the avatar of a Chinese-born language teacher living in Germany, has a virtual land development business with holdings worth an estimated &pound;135,000. In January, transactions between residents of Second Life were worth &pound;1.5m.Linden Lab, the San Francisco company which launched Second Life in 2003, has rules against offensive behaviour in public, such as racial slurs or overtly sexual antics. Its punishment is unique. 'If someone is regularly abusive, we have a prison,' said vice-president Dave Fleck. 'They are put in a cornfield and made to watch black and white television Fifties public service announcements in a constant loop.'Alayne Wartell, 42, of Harrogate, met her real-life husband in Second Life and now works full-time within it, earning a living from her virtual shoe and flower shop. 'In the beginning people got involved because they liked making things,' she said. 'But now it's become very social, a place to hang out with your friends.'
