There's a lot of information out there on the internet's many websites, but we're all now becoming adept at using search engines to find it. However, there's one important place where effective search is still hard to find: on your own PC.Effective desktop search has been around the corner for decades. In the 1980s, for example, there were things such as Lotus Magellan and On Location; in the 1990s, Enfish; and this year, X1. Unfortunately, it seems to be a long corner, and sometimes it seems to be getting even longer.The Longhorn release of Microsoft Windows, for example, promised much, with built-in tools to catalogue documents, add meta-data and sort files based on content, not just file names. However, Microsoft recently announced it was not going to include the much-heralded WinFS file system technologies in Longhorn: it is now being integrated into server software, and is expected to arrive along with the promised Longhorn version of Windows Server. But three or more years is a long time to wait for the tools people need today.Luckily, some new desktop search tools are appearing, and could change the way we work with PCs.Outlook users have long complained about its slow and complex search tools, which rarely found the item as soon as you wanted it. The arrival this summer of the free Lookout plug-in changed that. Based on open-source tools from the Apache Foundation, Lookout was Outlook search on steroids. By keeping a local index of all your mailbox data, Lookout could pull up relevant responses in seconds. Its search engine could have been more refined, but that did not matter: Lookout's brute force approach came up with the goods. It also went beyond Outlook mailboxes, and indexed files held in Windows' My Documents folder.Lookout was so good that Microsoft's MSN division bought the company and, it is believed, will be working on a new search bar for Internet Explorer. Lookout has now become an official Microsoft download, ready to help you keep control of Outlook information overload.But Lookout is not the only tool that can search for the files you need. Copernic, a British company, is well known for its meta-search tool, which sits on your desktop and integrates search results from many of the most popular (and most reliable) search engines. Copernic Search has recently been joined by Copernic Desktop Search. Unlike Lookout, Copernic's offering is a standalone application, and it indexes files,   music, pictures and videos along with email and contact information.Copernic's image search tools do not support the metadata information used by most digital cameras. Instead, you are limited to a date search - so you are probably better off using a tool such as Picasa, Google's recent purchase. Like iPhoto on the Apple Macintosh, Picasa is a tool for cataloguing images, though it also has rudimentary editing features. Unlike most image applications, Picasa continuously monitors your PC, automatically adding new photographs to its catalogue.Picasa is Google's first venture on to the desktop (unless you count the Google Toolbar), but it is unlikely to be the last. A Google desktop search tool, codenamed Puffin, is under development, but has been kept under wraps. Leaks have pointed to work being done using the Gecko rendering engine from the Mozilla open source browser project. Since the GBrowser domain name has been registered by Google, there is some speculation that this may be Puffin's final incarnation.Google is not the only company working along these lines. In March, Terra Lycos's HotBot search engine launched a toolbar that offers local-content search features, and in June, Ask Jeeves bought Tukaroo Inc, a San Jose-based desktop search technology company. However, Google is one of the few companies with the power to get its system widely adopted.The key to successful desktop search is the idea of context. Users do not need to be bombarded by information; instead they only want what is relevant to the task in hand. This is where Lookout succeeds, as it focuses mainly on email. However, you may want to see information related to the Word document you are editing, or the browser window you have opened.Drive into San Francisco on Highway 101 and you'll see billboards advertising Blinkx, a tool that mixes contextual information with desktop and web search, and uses technology from another British company, Autonomy. When Blinkx is running, you see a new toolbar in your application's title bar. This contains a set of icons that show whether Blinkx has found any documents on your PC, or on the web, related to the   content of your window. Just roll the mouse over the icon to see a sample of the information Blinkx has found. It is an interesting idea, and when linked to the visualiser tools in Blinkx's web search engine, helps make more sense of how information is related to your query.One key to solving the desktop search problem is the use of metadata in our applications. When combined with standard XML document formats, this will give PCs their own little semantic web. This will put search at the heart of our operating systems - and the sooner, the better.Apple is including Spotlight desktop search tools in Tiger, the next release of its Mac OS X operating system. Apple says Spotlight is going to "search all your stuff", and deliver the information you need quickly, using lessons learnt from iTunes, Sherlock, and iPhoto. Like WinFS, Spotlight will use file metadata to index files quickly, with a deeper content index for more complex searches. As it is an operating system feature, developers will be able to build Spotlight searches into their applications - which Windows programmers won't be able to do until WinFS appears.The Linux desktop is also well on its way to a context-based search environment with Nat Friedman's Dashboard (which predates Apple's use of Dashboard for an unrelated application). This Dashboard is intended to index files, and then display relevant content based on what you are doing. The complexity is in building interfaces to application back-ends, and in building the tools for defining exactly what is relevant. There is no point in deluging users with information - it has the same effect as not giving enough information, or delivering irrelevant information. Users need to trust their search tools to deliver the results they need: no more and no less.The main limitations on desktop search tools are the use of disk space and processor cycles, which has discouraged the widespread use of Microsoft's indexing software. Search tools need to build indexes of the content on your system, and this can be anything up to 30% of the size of the original collection of files. But with a terabyte of hard drive space in desktop systems not far away, that is not as much of a problem as it may seem at first.Also, the arrival of multithreaded and dual-core processors will allow search tools to index things in the background in real time, rather than using cycles when we are away from our desks or, worse, slowing down the whole PC.&#183;Send comment toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so.Useful linksEnfishwww.enfish.comX1www.x1.comLookout for Outlookwww.lookoutsoft.com/LookoutCopernic Desktop Searchwww.copernic.comBlinkxwww.blinkx.comHotBot Desktopwww.hotbot.com/tools/desktopNat Friedman's Dashboardwww.nat.org/dashboard
Google is opening a new chapter, reports this morning's Guardian."Google, the increasingly powerful internet search engine, could overhaul the way books are sold with a planned service that allows users to search full texts and buy titles online."The company founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, are at the Frankfurt Book Fair this week wooing publishers in the hope of convincing them to provide their catalogues for inclusion in the service, Google Print."It has already signed up several big names including Penguin, Houghton Mifflin, Blackwell and Oxford University Press. "Comment:Diversification into established markets is something I'vetoucheduponrecently, but this could be both incredibly useful and a successful move for Google. Is it another step toward Google branching out into sales?
Three good 'unsreviewedthis week inOnline.Mike Anderiesz is in love with the strategy epic Rome: Total War. Approaching a near euphoric state, Anderiesz gushes: "As far as war games go, The Creative Assembly has raised the bar so high other developers must be reaching for the hemlock" Elsewhere Steve Boxer damns Fifa 2005 with faint praise. "Fifa Football 2005 marks a return to form, but it is no undisputed world-beater", he says, casting a knowing glance over at Pro Evo 4. Last up is yours truly, with a review of Peter Molyneux's latest game, Fable. "Despite not reaching all the heights hoped for, Fable is innovative and hugely enjoyable" is how I sum up. Read the full reviewshere.
The big story today is thatUK record labels are to sue music pirates.As trailed in Online article two weeks ago (Just who are the bad guys?), British music industry body the BPI has toughened its stance. From today's MediaGuardian story:"The British Phonographic Industry, the trade body for record labels in the UK, is to announce at a press conference today it will take legal action against those who make their record collections available on the web for others to copy."It is following in the footsteps of US labels that sparked a huge row last year after a 12-year-old schoolgirl in New York was sued for downloading songs and ended up paying £12,000 in an out of court settlement."She was one of more than 200 people sued in America."The BPI hopes that by going after so-called "uploaders" - those who make digital music files available to others via file-sharing programmes such as Kazaa and Grokster - it will be able to win the PR fight as well as the legal battle. "
The British music industry said today it would not balk from following its US counterpart in suing children as young as 12 for swapping tracks over the internet without paying for them.The British Phonographic Industry, which represents more than 90% of UK record labels, said 28 cases against the worst offenders were already pending and it promised hundreds more would follow.Asked if it would stop short of pursuing children - even if it resulted in a public relations disaster - the BPI said: "It is not our intention to target children but &#91;we will&#93; if they are breaking the law on a very large scale."The use of illegal file-sharing networks has fallen in the US and sales have increased since the Recording Industry Association of America instigated more than 200 legal actions last March. However, the body prompted a PR backlash when it emerged that one of the cases involved a 12-year-old girl in New York, who paid $2,000 in an out of court settlement.The BPI's first spate of legal action will target those using file-sharing programmes such as Kazaa, iMesh, Grokster, Bearshare and WinMX. The body said it would target "major uploaders" - the 15% of users who make available three-quarters of the free tracks.It will identify users by their IP address, the code that distinguishes one internet connection from another.The BPI is stepping up its campaign against illegal file-sharing because its promotional campaigns and threats have failed to stop the activity.Peter Jamieson, the BPI chairman, today said lawsuits would become as common as action against shoplifters from record stores and market traders who sell pirate CDs.According to the BPI, about 6 million people are connected to peer-to-peer services, sharing 700 million illegal tracks.The services have proved hard to shut down because they do not store tracks in a physical location but allow individual users to share their CD collections with the world."We have been warning people for months that unauthorised file-sharing is illegal. These are not people casually downloading the odd track. They are uploading music on a massive scale, effectively stealing the livelihoods of thousands of artists and the people who invest in them," said Mr Jamieson.BPI warns file-sharers: 'We are watching you'Today's announcement follows a BPI warning in March threatening music pirates in the UK with legal action. Since then it has sent hundreds of thousands of instant internet messages to computer desktops, warning the most frequent users of file-swapping sites that they were being monitored.The BPI said the 28 file-sharers it was targeting were responsible for making up to 7,000 tracks available at any one time.It expects most cases to be settled before going to court - offenders will be forced to pay thousands of pounds in damages and will be subject to injunctions stopping them swapping tracks over the web.Jay Berman, the chairman of international trade body the International Federation of Phonographic Industries, said ignorance of the law was no defence. He pointed to research that revealed seven out of 10 people were now aware file sharing was illegal."A year ago, maybe, people could say they didn't know - but you'd be hard pressed to say the same today," he said.The industry's case has been strengthened by the emergence of dozens of legal internet download sites such as Apple's iTunes and Napster. There are at least 100 legitimate sites across Europe, offering more than 1 million tracks for about 79p each.Piracy is theft, says minister Estelle MorrisToday's action by the BPI is part of a wider spate of legal proceedings co-ordinated by the IFPI around the world.The federation today said it was launching 459 actions, including some in the UK and France, taking the global total to more than 600.Music sales have been decimated across Europe in recent years. As a result of actions brought in March, up to 80 people have already paid fines of up to 13,000 euros.UK album sales have bucked the global trend but sales of singles have declined by half. The BPI said it feared the increasing popularity of broadband internet connections would hit album sales unless drastic action was taken.The government also backed today's initiative. The arts minister, Estelle Morris, said: "Piracy is theft - pure and simple. Whether it's Jamelia or a jobbing musician, the artist suffers. We owe it to them to make sure they get a fair return for their creativity, flair and inspiration."The government supports the principle of proportionate legal action against the worst offending uploaders. I hope it will stop the habitual offender who uploads to make a quick buck out of other people's talent."&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
To some it is an opportunity to exact revenge from the grave, for others it means delivering a posthumous message to their loved ones.Either way, a service giving customers the chance to send   friends, relatives or enemies an email after they have died is the latest ghoulish offering on the internet."This is a way of adapting the idea of leaving behind a letter in a drawer to modern times," said Alberto Iriarte, the owner of the Spanish company offering the service, The Last E-Mail.Customers can leave messages, photographs or clips of videos."They can leave a few words of love, a secret, or whatever they want," Mr Iriarte said on the telephone from Brazil.About 500 people had signed up to the service since July, he said, most of them under the age of 35."Our idea is that it should especially be for dealing with surprise deaths, to leave things there in case something happens," he said."It shocks some people, but we are trying to change the idea of death as a taboo."Mr Iriarte said he did not know what proportion of the messages he was keeping on a secure encrypted server were loving, nasty or contained potentially explosive secrets."The messages they write are confidential, so not even we can look at them."But some people have told me they have said a last few words to their boss," he said.Messages are not to be delivered until the deceased's   trustees send a death certificate to the company.In a dot.com world famous for ideas that burn bright and die young, Mr Iriarte said his subscription service, which gives its main address as a post office box in Spain, would still be around when those   under-35s did eventually die."Your loved ones will be grateful ... for all the effort you put into easing their grieving," the site's publicity claims.There is no mention, however, of how your bosses may feel if you return to haunt them from the grave.
Plans for a revolution in the way government runs its IT systems are to be set out in a strategy document by Ian Watmore, Whitehall's first chief information officer, later this month. In his first interview since taking up his post as head of e-government last month, Watmore told the Guardian that he hoped to publish a "coherent plan of action ... towards the end of October".Public agencies, trade unions and computer firms - as well as e-government wonks - will want to see how Watmore intends to go about making government more efficient through IT. There will also be much interest in Watmore's strategy for completing the current e-government programme, which requires all public services to be "e-enabled" by the end of next year.Watmore said he is more interested in getting people to use e-services than in dogmatically ensuring that every single service goes online. "What we want to do next is to get a high take-up and high impact of services that really matter and which touch people's lives." But he said the 2005 target is still "business as usual" - and in any case, it is not in his power to change a directive from the prime minister.However, Watmore, who was head of management consultancy Accenture's UK operation, stressed he is open to ideas. "My first priority is to listen to what the world out there wants me to do."Last week, he met representatives from local authorities, who claim to run two-thirds of public services, yet have little formal contact with the Cabinet Office's   e-government programme.One early set of decisions is what to do about the central e-government infrastructure that the Cabinet Office unit has inherited from its predecessor, the Office of the e-Envoy.Watmore revealed he is considering abandoning a key central service, a super-secure e-government nerve centre called "true north". The project has been on hold since Andrew Pinder, the last e-envoy, cancelled an &#163;83m contract with IT services firm ITNET in June.True north, at two secret locations about 100 miles from London, was supposed to host three existing Cabinet Office e-services: the "knowledge network" briefing service, the Government Gateway, which routes secure transactions with and between government agencies, and DotP, a content-management system for government websites.The long-term plan was for government websites to converge around DotP, hosted at true north, for efficiency, security and economy. This collapsed amid a dispute between ITNET and the Cabinet Office over delivery dates and schedules. ITNET told its shareholders last month that it had lost &#163;24m from the abandoned contract and would seek redress.Watmore said he had not decided whether to find another contractor for true north. "We're not re-procuring at the moment. We need to continue to provide these services in a cost-effective way: how we do that is up for grabs." In the meantime, core services will be run by a mixture of contractors such as Atos Origin, which hosts the Government Gateway.Watmore said he was committed to strengthening another centrally run    service, the new e-government portalDirectgov, which the Cabinet Office launched earlier this year. The site's value, he said, is to give an appearance of joined-up government even though most of its content is provided by separate agencies.He conceded that public awareness of the site is still too low, but ruled out a major advertising campaign. "I think it's a brand that will grow over time and, as we get more franchises involved, it will go up its own maturity curve."The debate about the Cabinet Office's role in services such as Directgov and DotP is significant because its outcome will decide whether e-government in Britain is run by Whitehall or local government. Some councils claim that local portals are a more natural starting point for citizens and businesses.However, one of true north's architects, Alan Mather, head of the Cabinet Office's e-delivery team, last week made the case for centralisation. Mather estimated that the government has more than 4,000 websites, containing some 5m pages. "That is costing half a billion pounds a year just to keep them ticking over."The result, said Mather, is that citizens can't find their way around. "There may be room for one 'government' site on a browser favourites list, but the odds are it won't be yours," he told an audience of council IT chiefs. He urged public bodies to take the "Google challenge" - type into the search engine what they do best, and see if it points to their website. "If you're not in the top 10, then why do you have a website? It means that 10 other people are doing it better."&#183;Send comment toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so.
'This challenge to revolutionise the way we provide services is as big as the challenge that EasyJet faced in changing the way people travel. That's what I can tell my team," says Paul Kilner, director of the Planning Portal, a government project run through the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.His goal is for every planning application to be submitted and handled electronically. Already, the portal is fully integrated with one in seven local authority planning departments.Although Kilner was employed by KPMG until 18 months ago, his team understands his unlikely call to arms, because 75% of them are also from the private sector. "When I go out and meet people, I get asked, 'Are you really a town planner?' I take it as a compliment," he says.With aggressive deadlines (not least the target of getting all public services online by the end of 2005), a trend to more manageable and innovative projects, and a closing pay gap, the public sector is in danger of becoming a glamorous career move for senior IT managers."Over the past two to three years, we have seen a lot of our best people heading for the public sector. I've seen several senior IT directors leave investment banks and head for the government sector. They are certainly sought-after as candidates," says Louise Smith, the managing director of jm, a recruitment consultancy, which specialises in placing candidates in the financial community. "A lot of the big ticket work is in government these days. Blocks are getting unblocked. Work gets done."The public sector has benefited from the downturn in the corporate IT cycle: redundancies, budget cuts and cancelled projects have left many aspiring and talented managers with no option but to cast the net wider. Smith has seen another trend, though: high achievers for whom money alone is not enough."Some people are deciding that they would feel good about working on a system that will transform patient care in UK hospitals, rather than another front office trading system for an investment bank," she says. "You get to the age of 40, and if you're good, you've paid off your mortgage and have a bit salted away. You can do something challenging and still see your kids at night. It's not nine-to-five in the public sector, but it's not seven-to-10 either."Gary Nolan, the e-communications manager at the London Borough of   Southwark, admits he is an ex-dotcommer who slipped into public service by accident. Having worked for Digitas, an internet marketing company, on accounts such as American Express and GM, joining a borough where 50% of residents do not own their house was a culture change."It's a lot more interesting than I thought it would be. That's why I stayed. You get the feeling that everyone is looking to change, I'm not held back in any way," he explains. "It's quite similar, but the focus isn't just on getting new customers."Nolan's focus is on adapting IT to meet the needs of ordinary people. He has recently been working on making services accessible for the visually impaired. He probably would not have done that had he stayed in the private sector: after all, there is no return on investment.Working for government has   plenty of downsides: most obviously, you do not get paid as much, and salaries are constrained by rigid pay scales. "The comparison of salaries looks good at the moment, because in the private sector salaries are deflated. When that changes, we can't react as quickly. We play a longer game, and there's more to the job than the headline salary," says Andy Roberts, head of ICT at Leicestershire County Council. He points out the benefits: flexible working, longer holidays and a pension scheme. Another alternative used in some projects is a fixed short-term permanent position of one to three years, with a higher salary, but no benefits.There's also the mess that you might inherit. Guy Hains, president of CSC UK, is directly accountable for some of the largest government IT projects in the NHS and the Royal Mail, and he admits the overall   record of government IT doesn't look good so far. "Public opinion is that government doesn't do this well. So for the senior people who are being brought in to manage the big programmes, it's the challenge of a lifetime. If you can pull it off, what you do has a huge impact on the public." He adds that those managers are teaching the civil service about how to stop projects ballooning or stagnating, achieved chiefly by breaking them down into manageable chunks.The fear of stifling bureaucracy still keeps talented senior IT managers out of the public sector, says Smith. She admits that when placing candidates, she advises them not to take the job unless they are convinced they can really make a difference.It's a criticism that Chris Guest, the president of the Society of IT Management (SocITM), has heard   many times, but he claims the 2005 deadline is forcing employers to hand over responsibility for process change to the IT function as well - giving it influence rarely seen in the private sector."The role of head of IT in a lot of authorities these days is being a change leader. We're expected to lead the change towards e-government, and you can make that happen. Now the head of IT does have influence. It's like a seat on the board. The pressure is on, and e-government has enabled this to happen.'At Southwark Council, Nolan has noticed a dramatic change over the past two years in who is going to work for the government. "There are a few people wearing cardigans, but not many. Instead, there are lots of young people with experience of the private sector. They tend to come along and think, 'It's not bad working at the council after all'."&#183;&#183;Send comment toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so
Rome: Total WarPC, &#163;39.99 The Creative Assembly/ Activision,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;With all the waiting for Doom 3 and Half-Life 2, the final game in the Total War trilogy crept up like the master tactician it is. Well, wake up, because if you're looking for the game of the year, you have  two serious contenders here - for a turn-based and a real time strategy game.The strength of the Total War games was always the battles - panoramic beauties where soldiers fought like you imagine they once did: half stoic bravery, half blind panic. Even so, the new 3D engine is a revelation. The ease with which you can zoom in on soldiers is something others have tried but never pulled off this well. Consequently, the battles - featuring up to 5,000 men on each side - are as enthralling to play as to watch.The weakness was always the boring bits in between, and here's the big surprise, because these too have been overhauled. You now have a proper turn-based strategy game that is as fun to play as Rise of Nations, formerly the best in its genre.On the world map you can run your empire in six-month turns - developing towns, claiming resources, everything short of seizing control of the Senate, which forms the climax of the single-player game. Once you've completed that, there are 10 historical battles, two multiplayer modes and all the online support you want.As far as war games go, The Creative Assembly has raised the bar so high other developers must be reaching for the hemlock.Mike AnderieszFableXbox &#163;39.99 Bullfrog/Microsoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Peter Molyneux has been responsible for such fine games as Populous and Syndicate. So his latest offering, Fable, has been widely anticipated. This is a third-person action role-playing game (RPG) in the mould of the Zelda series.It starts rather slowly with a young boy, then takes off properly when he reaches adulthood. By choosing quests, players can decide what their hero becomes. But while other RPGs, most notably the fabulous Knights of the Old Republic, offered similar freedoms, the beauty here is in the reaction of the world's inhabitants.If you do the right thing - slay hoodlums, escort traders - then everyone will offer admiration, respect and love. Do the opposite and they'll cower in fear from your sword.As you show off your latest trophy to cheering villagers, it is easy to get a feeling for the lifelike world that Molyneux and his team were aiming   for. But the meat of the game is exploration and combat. The latter is satisfying, but exploration is elementary, with obvious signposting and no room to deviate from pathways.The environments are expansive and convincing but the character graphics lack detail. Despite not reaching all the heights hoped for, Fable is innovative and hugely enjoyable.Greg HowsonFifa Football 2005PS2, Xbox, GameCube, PC, &#163;39.99 Electronic Arts Sports&#42;&#42;&#42;Fifa Football 2004 was EA Sports' nadir. Its chief innovation was an unusable "after-touch" gimmick, which it spent so long developing it was not finished properly in time for release. So fundamental features, such as the ability to alter the game's speed, were omitted.Happily, this year's effort is much better - although not good enough to reclaim top spot. The after-touch control has been ripped out and a more useful first-touch control, operated using the right analogue stick, installed.Excellent graphics, an improved, more realistic passing system, a free-kick system that operates in a logical manner and a Pro Evolution Soccer-like press-and-hold shooting system constitute the game's highlights. There is also support for online play across all platforms now that EA has begun to support Xbox Live.A career mode, in which you take the reins of a lowly club and work your way up to the Premiership, or favourite global league, is an intriguing addition, but controlling players who would be more at home on Hackney Marshes proves frustrating.However, there are still areas in which Pro Evolution Soccer remains superior - namely, off-the-ball player movement when going forward, and automatic player selection. This year's Pro Evolution Soccer will also be available for the Xbox. Fifa Football 2005 marks a return to form, but it is no undisputed world-beater.Steve Boxer
Portable PCs are getting as powerful as desktop systems, and Intel is promising even more powerful notebook systems with dual-core processors next year, or the year after. By then, at least a third of notebooks will have widescreen displays and we'll see portables with high-quality graphics and high-definition audio. But when will we get a notebook with a battery that lasts long enough to do a full day's work?Not until 2010, says Mike Trainer, chief mobile technologist at Intel: we need a whole new battery chemistry and that takes time. But three new battery technologies will be available next year, and they all promise better battery life in the long run.Fuel cells are likely to get the most attention initially, because they have been promising cheap, clean power for a long time. And they seem to be on the verge of delivering. Earlier this year, Nokia showed a Bluetooth headset powered by methanol. Millennium Cell has a prototype Hydrogen on Demand fuel cell that can power a standard notebook. Smart Fuel Cell's PowerBoy methanol fuel cell will run for around 12 hours from a single fuel cartridge (manufactured by Bic), but this is an external unit, into which you plug your laptop. The company promises a production model next year, with a smaller and sleeker (but still external) version in 2006.A hydrogen cell is much more efficient, though there are problems putting the pumps and coolers needed for an active cell inside something that can fit in a battery slot. When we do see internal fuel cells, they will probably be passive versions - without the pipes and pumps.Pionics is taking an approach that is less revolutionary but possibly more likely to deliver: improving the lithium polymer batteries used in mobile phones and gadgets such as the iPod, to deliver enough power for laptops. Lithium polymer is very convenient because you can make the battery any size and shape you want, but they have had less capacity than lithium ion batteries.By improving the chemistry used for the anode and cathode, Pionics gives the batteries higher charge capacity and packs more battery into the same space. They offer half as much charge again as existing batteries; by the time they go on sale in 2006, they are aiming for double. The disadvantage is that with twice the capacity, the batteries could take twice as long to charge.Zinc Matrix Power is also taking an existing technology and improving it. Zinc is cheap, non-toxic and produces plenty of power. Zinc alkaline batteries run everything from radios to toy cars, but you can't recharge them repeatedly. When the zinc reforms on the anode, it isn't a uniform layer ready to react with the alkaline again: it forms branching structures called dendrites (like tiny trees), and eventually they grow across to the cathode and short out the battery.ZMP encapsulates the zinc in a plastic polymer so that it can't build up and create a short. It has also improved the way the zinc reforms and recombines with the hydrogen produced while the battery is charging, so there isn't a problem with pressure. Put it all together and you get twice the charge capacity of a standard lithium battery and up to six times the battery life. As a result,   eight cells fit neatly into the same space as an existing laptop battery and run for about twice as long.One disadvantage of zinc is that it will take all night to get a full charge, but recharging for an hour gives you six hours of battery power.It's not just for laptops either: ZMP expects to power PDAs, mobile phones and even military lasers. The only thing they can't replace is traditional zinc batteries in existing products, because the batteries have to be square rather than round.Both ZMP and Pionics will sell their batteries to manufacturers and battery suppliers, and they expect to be producing enough to take serious orders by the middle of 2006.As well as new battery technologies, there is a range of ways to get more working time from existing batteries. Switching to dual-core processors means finer control of the chip, with the ability to lower the voltage of areas that don't need to calculate as fast. That is the way Centrino chips save power, and with dual-core processors, there are more opportunities to slow things down.But with many products, the screen consumes most of the power, and three-quarters of that goes into the backlight. Notebook manufacturers can improve battery life and make the screen look better by tuning the display controls so that the inverters produce a clean sine wave: that gives you just as much brightness for far less power. The next stage is to get the screen to use less power in general: only 4% of the light produced actually makes it to the screen, so developing new materials that let more of the light through would be more efficient.Software developers and makers of peripherals can do their bit, too, by thinking about the increasing number of mobile users and powering hardware down whenever possible. Intel's Battery Life Optimisation Program is designed to share techniques, and there is a new version of the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) specification with more power management options.According to Intel, good battery life has not been a priority with notebook manufacturers because buyers used to complain about it after they had bought a machine, rather than saying it was important while they were still shopping. As usual, technology follows the money.Useful linkshttp://millenniumcell.comwww.pionics-inet.co.jp/e-index.htmlwww.zmp.comExtended Battery Life Working Groupwww.intel.com/labs/features/hw03032.htm
Wired houseI am renovating my house. What, if anything, should I do in terms of networking etc before the walls are plastered, or should I just rely on a wireless system?Adrian MayerJack Schofield replies:The simplest case is where you already have a working Ethernet network with a broadband internet connection. You know it works, and you know where the wires need to go, so it is fairly simple to install them. Companies such asMaplin Electronicssell the bits. Installing a more general home network is a much trickier proposition, and I think is probably still a job for geeks or professional installers. Try reading some of the accounts on the web, such as K-Zone's Installing ahome computer networkandRichard Osborne's Home Automation, to find out what is involved. Good quality shielded Cat5 cable will run faster, be less subject to interference and will be more secure than a wireless network, but Wi-Fi is more flexible and far easier to install.Lossless copiesI want to transfer my music collection to an MP3 player such as an iPod, perhaps with a back-up onto an external hard drive, allowing me to get rid of my CDs. Is there a player out there that uses zero-loss compression software?Stuart BlackJS:There is no universal standard for lossless audio, and not many portable players support lossless formats, apart from Apple's iPod and the Rio Karma. This is not really a problem at the moment as the files are too big, and portable players are not particularly hi-fi devices. The best strategy is probably to archive your CDs in a good lossless format, or even original PCM, then convert to the size and format you need for a particular player. This involves extra work, but it is much less work than having to rip your CDs all over again. Also, you avoid the large drop in quality that often results from "transcoding" one lossy format into another. Have a look atExact Audio Copy, which is free. At the moment, FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec), Monkey's Audio and Shorten are popular lossless encoders for PC users, and theRio Karmasupports the open source FLAC and OGG Vorbis formats. Unfortunately, on portable players, the market battle will probably be between two proprietary systems, Apple Lossless and Microsoft's Windows Media Audio Lossless.Finally, bear in mind that hard drives fail, so you will want to have back-up copies of your lossless files. This may mean you won't save much CD space, unless you have a DVD writer.CD saver?I have a favourite piece of software, Chambers Dictionary, which exists only in a version created for Windows 3.1 but which currently runs on my Windows 98 system. By way of experiment, I loaded this on to a friend's Windows XP system and found that at least one function is no longer operative. Is there an emulator that will allow older Windows software to run with full functionality under Windows XP?Maurice ZeegenJS:Microsoft offers Virtual PC soft ware, which it acquired from Connectix, which allows you to run a separate copy of Windows 98 or another operating system, either on a PC or a Mac. VMware is one alternative. However, these are too expensive and not very convenient for running one CD. Instead, I'd suggest buying the new Chambers 21st Century Dictionary CD-Rom, which costs &#163;9.99 plus delivery on the web fromwww.chambersharrap.co.ukUSB upI have a laptop with two USB sockets. Is there any way of converting them to USB 2?Ian SelingerJS:USB ports are usually part of the motherboard design so you can't convert them. However, most notebooks have a PC Card (PCMCIA) slot, so you can add USB 2 capability that way. You can buy cards with one or more USB 2 ports, and some offer both USB 2 and IEEE 1394 (FireWire) ports.Backchat&#183;Paul Holden has sent a useful correction to my reply to Robert Nisbert on the subject of displaying image files (September 23). He writes: "IrfanView is, indeed, a great bit of software, but it is not free for non-commercial use. Since Mr Nisbert refers to digital photos taken "in my office" he should purchase a licence. At the grand price of &euro;10, I would still say this was a bargain."&#183;Hotmail users are being upgraded, but when? Tom Adams says his inbox was increased to 250MB at the end of last month: "I've had my Hotmail account since early 1999, and believe (from Slashdot) that they are upgrading accounts in chronological order."
Ofcom surprised practically everyone last week when, instead of slicing licence fee income from the BBC, it proposed a new public service broadcaster (PSB) with &#163;300m a year to spend. Critics have already questioned, in an age of exploding digital transmission, whether we need yet another digital channel, let alone one financed out of higher taxes.But hang on. Before dismissing it as a Millennium Dome on digits, think about the opportunities.This is no ordinary television licensing round. Previous ones were pretty simple: bids were invited for one of a very small number of stations delivering analogue signals with little (non-Sky) competition.This time, it will be revolutionary. There will not only be an explosion of channels coming from   digital terrestrial, satellite and cable - but also from the 50-year-old copper wire delivering old fashioned phone calls in your living room and capable of transmitting multichannel television. HomeChoice is doing it and BT, after talking about it for decades, will follow shortly. Combine this with BT's ambitious plans to route all its calls through the internet (Voice over Internet Protocol) and it becomes apparent that the entire infrastructure is changing.One important consequence is that the television paradigm is being inverted. Instead of being a one-way thing - with television coming into our homes - it suddenly becomes a potentially two-way operation, with people able to broadcast from their homes taking advantage of cheaper, more powerful, audio-video cameras.   You think this is fanciful? Bloggers - people operating online journals - are starting to turn them into video blogs. Out of this could grow not only citizen newspapers but citizen television channels.If you are worried about the young shunning serious television news in favour of their mobiles and other diversions, why not bid for money from the proposed PSB to provide a television channel dedicated to transmission to mobiles? Phones capable of receiving television are already coming on the market. In addition to getting traditional channels, they will be capable of receiving "streamed" video from anywhere and anyone (bandwidth permitting). The possibilities are endless, since everyone with a video-enabled phone could be a reporter or cameraperson.But the really interesting thing is   what people might dream up once they realise the possibilities. The winners may not be television companies: they may find it difficult to think beyond their own infrastructures. Remember, no one making slide rules started making calculators: they just stood by as their industry was virtually destroyed.Think of the PSB as a venture capital fund with &#163;300m a year to dispense. It is an opportunity to think in a green field way. It may be difficult to convince ministers in an election year because when they read the word PSB, they actually think PSBR (public sector borrowing requirement). That is why it is important to throw up pioneering ideas so the government will be able to see this as a force for change and a chance to seize a lead for Britain. If nothing else, it will set a catalyst among the pigeons.
Where are we going? The long-term trends are clear. We're heading rapidly towards a world of small intelligent wireless devices ... but not a single type of device.The first and most important trend is for the computer industry to engulf and devour everything else. Serious electronic computing started with ideas such as calculating the trajectories of artillery shells. Processing numbers took us through stock control and payroll, then into word processing. Serious graphics that started with computer-aided design took us through desktop publishing to photorealistic graphics, desktop video and digital television. Speech and music were synthesised and digitised along the way.As Nicholas Negroponte, founder of the MIT Media Lab, has pointed out, the world of atoms is being replaced by a world of bits - the binary digits of computing.The second trend is for speciation. As the computer ecology gets bigger and richer, it can support more types of devices aimed at more specialised niches. For example, you can get Windows PCs in formats ranging from pocketables to mainframe class systems via an incredible variety of notebooks, portables, desktops and deskside servers.The phone industry is being absorbed into the computer industry. Phones are increasingly using computer processors (mainly the old Acorn ARM chip) and computer operating systems from Symbian (Psion), Palm or Microsoft, or Linux, while the old phone networks are   replaced by packets of data being sent from computer to computer (Voice over Internet Protocol, VoIP).This absorption is stimulating a sort of Cambrian explosion of new phones with or without keyboards, cameras, radios, music players and, eventually, built-in TV sets. Similar developments are taking place in the media industries with music and video playback devices that are also, from a technical point of view, just dedicated computers.The third trend is for power to move from the centre to the edge of the network. We used to live in a world were networks were big and powerful and the devices were dumb: think of a TV set, or a black Bakelite phone. Today, the power is in the devices that are attached to the network - the smart phones and TiVo-style television set-top boxes - while the networks are   becoming much less powerful.Indeed, people increasingly want their devices to be physically detached from the network - ie wireless - and able to connect to multiple networks at once. Think of replacing one wire with Bluetooth, GPS, GSM, Wi-Fi, WiMax, DAB and digital television.I think these three trends are irreversible, because they all increase the user's capabilities. People are not going to relinquish their new powers willingly, if at all.Every few years there are campaigns for things like "utility computing", where companies want to move all the power back to the centre, leaving users with the equivalent of dumb terminals. In some ways it is an attractive idea, but I'll believe in it when millions of people start giving up their cars and go back to public transport.&#183;Send comment toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so.
It has been another month of diverse mobile game releases, the industry moving ever further from the days of Space Invaders and Pac-Man clones. Korean publisher Com2Us has released its neat scrolling beat-'em-up Werewolf, set in a weird futuristic city where lycanthropes battle with killer robots and mutants.The set-up is straightforward: you wander through a series of scenes, kicking and punching anything that comes at you while learning more powerful combo moves. The chunky visual style and repetitive, but mindlessly compelling, gameplay will remind late-80s arcade dwellers of   classics such as Double Dragon and Streets of Rage. As usual, the keyboard controls make it difficult to access diagonal movement, which can get frustrating in the heat of battle.Much more cerebral is GameLoft's excellent 1,000 Words, a simple brain teaser where you are presented with six letters and must make a set amount of words within a strict time limit. Achieve this, and it is on to the next round, and a new set of letters. The longer your words, the more points you pick up.Power-ups are awarded for constant success, while forfeits are handed out when you fail to find a word in time. There are various gameplay modes and skill levels to keep the challenge fresh, but sadly, there is no two-player mode. If nothing else, it is great Scrabble practice.However, the piece de resistance is the almost self-explanatory Jumbo Rumble from Sumea, a three-player combat game in which you guide your tiny elephant around a small platform, attempting to knock your opponents into the sea.Three players can take part on one handset as you only need one button to control your jumbo - a cursor revolves around your character and when it is in the position between you and your desired destination, you hit the key to move. It is daft and insultingly simple but easily one of the most amusing multiplayer mobile games we have ever played.Offbeat but instantly entertaining titles such as this are quite commonplace in Korea and Japan, where developers have a real understanding of clever, throwaway entertainment. Hopefully, Jumbo Rumble will prove the first of many attempts to import that eccentricity to the west.Useful linkswww.com2us.com/english/index_e.aspwww.gameloft.comwww.sumea.com
At this year's Photokina, the bi-annual fair in Cologne devoted to imaging, even the traditional photographic companies conceded the mass market camera of the future would not be a compact digital but a mobile phone. It says a great deal about how the industry has evolved, that two of the busiest sites at the show belonged to mobile makers Sony Ericsson and Nokia.And while the enormous growth of cameraphones - 52m at the current time, with 10 times that figure expected by 2007, and two and three megapixel cameras on phones to arrive next year - will lead to a huge expansion of digital photography, thequestion concentrating the minds of photo company executives is: what will happen to all those shots?Hewlett-Packard, which used Photokina as a platform to unveil an impressive photography exhibition of images taken by professionals and celebrities on their mobiles, predicts that as many as 80% of the images taken by phones never make it beyond the handset. Part of the reason is that no one has come up with a satisfactory solution for getting images into prints. It is clear, too, that multimedia messaging (MMS) is not a satisfactory solution for the distribution of images.HP is, however, putting its money on Bluetooth by launching a range of photo printers, such as the Photosmart 375, which work with handsets such as the Sony Ericsson S700 and the Nokia 7610. Images are sent wirelessly from the phones to the printer, which delivers good quality images for around 35p a hit.There remains, however, the possibility that consumers will continue to use traditional companies to print their snaps. Thanks to software such as Cognima's Snap, which is soon to be offered by Bonusprint, camera phone owners can instantly upload each picture taken by their handset to a website, where they can choose which images they want turned into prints.Photokina previewed an array of innovative camera accessories, including the Wi-Fi (802.11b/g) connector from Concord. This small adaptor connects to almost all digital cameras via USB, enabling them to send images wirelessly via email or FTP file transfer protocol from Wi-Fi hot spots. It is expected to retail for around &#163;200.There were also a number of high-profile digital camera launches. Olympus had a range of models, including the Evolt E-300, a high-end eight megapixel digital SLR, and the m:robe, an MP3-endowed camera with a picture viewer. Taiwanese company BenQ expanded its range of compacts with a tiny four megapixel E43, and the five megapixel E53, while Contax displayed the four megapixel i4R, which launches in December for &#163;300.
Get off the lineSo Tony Blair expects every home to have access to broadband by 2008. That's as may be, but will every home be using it? Though the majority of my communications are carried out via email, there's still room for VoIP and the ubiquitous mobile phone.The only phone I have no use for is the one that sits on my desk taking up space and costing me an additional &#163;30 a quarter for no other reason than that BT still has a monopoly on the line and is hanging on to it until I bite the bullet and go wireless. Until BT is forced to separate the need for a phone from broadband use, it seems we are stuck with this extra bill.Every home would probably love to have broadband and use it, but not if a largely obsolete piece of equipment has to be rented along with it.Ketlan OssowskiLancasterOut of boundsSteve Ayers takes Victor Keegan to task for advocating a tax on analogue TV sales (Feedback, September 30) but what of the stealth tax imposed on us for Channels 4 and Five? While BBC is freely available with our satellite dish, we have to pay extra to receive C4 and Five by this means - both are unobtainable in this area via earthbound sources.As I understand the regulations covering the switch to digital, only those channels already available via analogue will, by law, have to provide a digital access. This means we will still be switched off.David P BosworthAbergavennyHold offWith reference to the article by Bobbie Johnson (Digital dilly-dallying, September 30); surely the government should ensure the whole country can receive subscription-free digital television before consideration is given to turning off the analogue signal.I live in a high-density population area but, unfortunately, cannot receive digital television through a Freeview box and have no wish to subscribe to Sky or cable. I would buy a Freeview box today if the digital signal was available. Talking of a switch-off date for analogue television when not all the country can receive "free" digital is surely a case of putting the horse before the cart.Paul BaconAnalogue banAlthough I have a digitally enabled television and a Freeview box, I would be far from unaffected by an early switch-off of analogue services. I have two other TV sets, two video recorders and the ability to view TV on my PC - all of which only contain analogue tuners. In the government statistics, however, I count as a household that has already switched to digital TV. The first step in digital switchover ought to consist in banning the sale of analogue-only equipment. Then, only after the elapse of a reasonable period (say five years minimum), should the analogue signal be switched off.David McBrienBerkshireDigital outsidersMy elderly mother is keen to acquire a Freeview box and "go digital", but she has been told that the communal aerial in her block of flats will not receive a digital signal, and that there are no plans to upgrade it. The cable network in her area stops around 200 yards away, and satellite dishes are not permitted. She lives in the centre of a medium-size city.I don't imagine this is an isolated   situation and, although many households are happily digitalised, others who would be eager to embrace the new technology are being prevented from doing so through circumstances beyond their control.Pat PoyntonBristolMultiple costIn the recent discussions about the analogue switch-off, I haven't read anything about video recorders. Are there plans to produce cheap VHS or DVD recorders with digital tuners?At the moment, people will regularly watch one channel while taping another and think nothing of it. When the only source of a signal is a digital box with a single tuner, as most Sky and Freeview boxes are now, this will no longer be possible. The extra channels available will mean there will be an increased chance of a clash of programs. Multiple boxes will be required and maybe even mutiple aerials. Those with Sky+ boxes and the Freeview equivalent will be laughing, but it seems there will be an ever increasing outlay for electronic products so people can continue watching TV as they do now.Duncan McMinnApple's appealAlthough the tone of Michael Hale's letter (Feedback, September 30) has changed from his previous posting, he still implies that the components used by Apple are of poor quality.Perhaps there are higher specified graphics cards available, and Apple could certainly install more memory as standard, but it is clear to anyone who has owned a Mac that not only are the design, build, software and components of the highest quality, but they are designed and matched to work beautifully with each other. This is the reason so many people are prepared to pay the price.Brian SeaversLancashire
Search for UtopiaWith bigger political hitters such as Boris Johnson joining the blogging bandwagon, it might be time to ask ourselves where politics and the internet are heading.  Describing itself as a four-week online brainstorm, Ideal Government is a blog-cum-conversation-cum-rallying cry dedicated to forming a clear set of ideas about the future of e-government. Brought to you by the loose cabal of bloggers who gave us theyworkforyou.com earlier this year, the debate is well underway but there is still a couple of weeks for you to join in.www.idealgovernment.comwww.boris-johnson.comwww.theyworkforyou.comKlepped outBrighton's the Kleptones are a band which believe that filesharing is yet to have its finest hour. Doing to Queen and early hip hop acts what DJ Dangermouse recently did to The Beatles and rapper Jay-Z, the band has released their debut album, A Night at the Hip-Hopera, entirely free, on their website.Unfortunately, within hours of the release, the site suffered such severe bandwidth problems that the server keeled over. Thankfully, for fans of the mash-up style of remixing that the Kleptones celebrate, a small network of volunteers are currently mirroring the album on their websites.If you are quick, you should be able to download it before lawyers representing Freddie Mercury's estate move in with cease and desist orders, or some clever record company offers the band a contract. After all, the Kleptones might claim they are giving the music away free, but others would argue that it is not theirs to give. Either way, enjoy the musical extravagance while you still can./www.kleptones.com/pages/downloads_hiphoperahttp://klepshimi.blogspot.comwww.djdangermouse.comTouch graphMapping the internet has been a popular pastime since the web's early days, so much so that whole atlases have been published outlining in purely conceptual terms what cyberspace might look like.  But a map of the internet's connections can be a practical tool if you limit its scope to one small area. Step forward Touchgraph.com, a nifty Java   application that lets you run a Google search and has the results represented as a two-dimensional chart rather than the conventional list.Older readers may remember the work of I/O/D, a London-based digital art collective who built an application back in 1998 that similarly traced the connections between different websites. The Webstalker went on to win a clutch of awards for revealing the underlying structure of the web. The widespread use of Touchgraph might finally see their ideas go mainstream.www.touchgraph.comwww.cybergeography.org/atlas/atlas.htmlwww.backspace.org/iodUS agendaAskSam - a popular publisher of text databases and web publishing tools - recently posted a fully searchable version of Agenda for America, President George Bush's book detailing his plans if he is re-elected next month.So what? Well, the askSam version, which is intended for journalists, academics and those who are closely following the election, allows you to search and analyse the text in far more detail than the online version, which is just a straight text file. Bloggers will have a field day. And, to prove political impartiality, askSam has also made Our Plan for America by John Kerry and John Edwards as well as The Patriot Act and the 9/11 Commission Report available.www.askSam.com/AgendaForAmericawww.georgewbush.com/Agendawww.johnkerry.com/planHoly smoke!Mount St Helens in Oregon is erupting. You can catch its progress on the Mount St Helens VolcanoCam.www.fs.fed.us/gpnf/volcanocams/mshMarket forceseBay UK's fifth birthday has been cited as proof that the so-called march of the microsellers heralds a new type of economy. Rather than be scared of it, UK technology journalist Wingham Rowan argues that eBay and its 105m users show the unstoppable desire of ordinary people to trade online. What government should do about it and what it means for the future of economics is detailed on his comprehensive and original website.www.nationalmarkets.comNew &amp; notedChart the geek hierarchywww.brunching.com/images/geekchartbig.gifExperience web zenwww.chaoskitty.com/webzenOptical illusions at the Haywardwww.hayward.org.uk/exhibitions/illusionSix of the best:US presidential debatesCommission on Presidential Debateswww.debates.orgDebate spotter text analysis toolhttp://overstated.net/projects/debatesOpen versionhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._presidential_electionThe Fox PhotoShop controversywww.conspire.com/fox-photoshop.jpgBush: the five-minute super-cuthttp://howbushdid.blogspot.comGuardian Unlimited coveragewww.guardian.co.uk/uselections2004
Scam bustersThe Association for Payment Clearing Services (Apacs) is providing a website to advise internet users on guarding against online scams and threats. The launch is based on research by Apacs that revealed 4% of respondents would reply immediately to an email that appeared to be from their bank. By extrapolation, that would mean almost half a million people could be fooled into revealing their online banking log-on details. More worrying is that less than half follow advice from their bank on keeping their accounts secure - which does not augur well for the website's success.www.banksafeonline.org.ukFingering securityIBM is adding a secure notebook to its PC range. The ThinkPad T42 incorporates a fingerprint scanner on the keyboard wrist rest to allow a user to log-on by swiping a finger across the narrow reader strip. The swipe method was chosen in preference to a glass plate scanner to avoid the risk of a dirty finger leaving a residual print. This could fool the system into reading the imprint as an actual fingerprint. The biometric log-on is backed up by IBM's Client Security Software to manage the log-on process and Rescue and Recovery disaster recovery software. Encryption can be added with the optional Safeware package from Ultimaco.www.pc.ibm.com/usTiger releaseSun Microsystems is pushing out a new release of its Java 2 Platform Standard Edition (J2SE). Version 5.0, code-named Tiger, adds 100 new features to the language. The main ones are aimed at making the graphical interface easier to use and enabling faster loading times while using less memory. In response to corporate demands, J2SE has also added features to allow applications to be managed and monitored more easily. J2SE 5.0 was developed through the Java Community Process in conjunction with 14 other companies, including BEA Systems, Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Oracle.http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/download.jspFast encryptionSSH is adopting software from Cryptico, a Danish encryption company, to speed up the encryption process in its Tectia managed security middleware. SSH says that the CryptiCore engine allows data to be encrypted on the fly rather than using hardware accelerators. This means that data can be backed up and stored much faster.   Both companies believe that data encryption is often ignored because of the conversion overhead and that this could compromise legislative requirements to securely store customer information. Cryptico claims that its algorithm allows CryptiCore to run about four times faster than Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) and 12 times the speed of Triple DES.www.ssh.comwww.cryptico.comSound ideasThe DVD industry is gearing up for a next-generation formats battle along the lines of VHS v Betamax. The two contenders are HD DVD, backed by the DVD Forum, and Blu-ray, backed by Sony and Philips, the inventors of the CD. In the latest round of announcements, the rivals have been choosing audio formats. The DVD Forum has selected Dolby Digital Plus and MLP Lossless as mandatory audio formats for HD DVD, while the Blu-ray Disc Association has picked Dolby Digital. Both formats will support the rival DTS++ lossless audio format from Digital Theater Systems Inc. Both systems will be demonstrated at the 117th AES Convention in San Francisco, October 28-31.http://www.dolby.com/aboutwww.dtsonline.com/companySymbian supportIntel, Nokia and Symbian say they have agreed to co-develop Nokia Series 60 Platform phones based on Intel technology, while Intel and Symbian will co-develop a reference platform for 3G phones. In this case, the Intel technology is the ARM-based XScale, which Intel has developed from the Strong- ARM it picked up from DEC (Digital Equipment Corp). The deals are non-exclusive.Access anxietyA quarter of the British business executives who use mobile technology, such as PDAs and notebook PCs, suffer from "access anxiety", according to research conducted by the International Research Bureau for Citrix. Professor Cary Cooper at Lancaster University has defined this as occuring when executives have constant difficulty trying to access corporate IT resources from their mobile devices. Apparently it takes, on average, 3.8 minutes to get access to email when working outside the office, which wastes 24 hours a year, and is the third most stressful aspect of business travel.
Mobile phonesTV in the handSanyo has delivered more evidence that TV will be next year's must-have feature on a mobile phone by releasing a handset for the Japanese market that features an integrated digital TV tuner. Unveiled at this week's CEATEC consumer electronics exhibition in Chiba, Japan, the EX-DO phone is a prototype that enables viewers to watch up to two hours of programmes before the battery runs out. The phone also features an MPeg4 video decoder, a 2.4in 260,000 colour TFT LCD screen and a two megapixel camera. It measures 102 x50 x28mm. The company has not committed to a launch date.www.sanyo.comHardwareTVs at largeAlso at CEATEC, Sharp unveiled the largest LCD TV so far, a 65in set. The previous largest LCD was 45in. However, Sharp has yet to make plans to bring the new set to market. A spokesperson confirmed it would be possible to build LCD TV sets as large as 100in with existing technology. The company also predicts that LCD TV sets will begin to outsell the long-established CRT TVs in Europe by 2007. The 45in set, the LC-45GD1E, goes on sale in the UK in November for around &#163;6,500.www.sharp.co.ukMusic playersHead startThe Japanese company NHJ looks to have won the race to be the first to offer a digital music player that comes with a wireless Bluetooth headset. While several companies, including Naf Naf and Infinite Range, have displayed similar products, NHJ promises to deliver the VHD-5500, a 5GB hard disk player, to the UK by January. It will retail for around &#163;250. The player, which is compatible with MP3 and WMA files, transmits music to dedicated head phones via Bluetooth over a range of 10 metres. Slightly larger than the iPod mini, the player also features direct MP3 encoding from a CD player/hi-fi and features a USB 2.20 connector.NHJ's new VTV-101 wristwatch TV, which has been a big hit in the US and the Far East, will also go on sale in January for around &#163;200. The new Pal version for Europe will tune into all terrestrial analogue stations and can display two hours of TV on its 1.5in   screen before batteries need recharging. Users listen to programmes via a pair of earphones.www.nhjapan.comExhibitionsProud gamersLondon's Proud Galleries are taking a look behind your computer screen for a new show, Alter Ego, which tracks the lives - and faces - of online gamers. The exhibition of works by photojournalist Robbie Cooper is sponsored by PlayStation 2 and compares the real and virtual identities of a variety of internet denizens. There are more than 100 pictures examining the people behind characters in online games such as Everquest, and the results run from the stereotypical to the surprising - and moving, too. The exhibition opens today and runs until October 28 at Proud in Camden, London.www.proud.co.ukSoftwareCreative copyrightLawrence Lessig, law professor at Stanford University, dropped by London this week to deliver a presentation in advance of the launch next month of a British Creative Commons licence. Creative Commons is a new take on copyright law that enables artists to release their work with "some rights reserved", and is designed to foster creativity on the net. Originally planned to launch this week, the UK licence has been delayed to accommodate further work with the BBC. The system is being translated to work across 60 legal jurisdictions, and Britain will be the 10th country to offer a complete suite of licences when it finally launches on November 1.http://creativecommons.orgStat of the week:Silver surpriseThe web's image as a haven for techno-teens should be ancient history. While an Age Concern survey showed just 20% of over-65s had tried the internet, older users tended to log on daily and used it for a variety of purposes - saying it had given them a new lease of life.
Who are you?I'm an ordinary police constable who works in an ordinary English town. I work as a response officer, providing an initial police presence to requests from the public. I deal with anything from providing a first response to a murder to refereeingneighbour disputes. I have been with the force five years.Why do you remain anonymous?I don't want to feel like I am speaking for anybody but myself. Second, many of my views, particularly on widespread ownership of firearms and the inefficiency of the public sector, are not shared by my senior officers. The service likes to present a united front and takes a dim view of those who differ from its liberal consensus. Third,   there are legal difficulties about disclosing events. I change all the names to protect the innocent (and the guilty).Why did you choose to vent your thoughts in such a way?I was constantly surprised at the difference between what the public thought we did, and what we actually do. The public assumes there are armies of officers just waiting to respond when they start arguing with ex-partners and that we love arresting people or that we are all racist thugs. And so on. All I could find on the internet about the police was government propaganda or websites about police cars. I wanted to tell people about what ordinary officers do all day and the diary format of a blog suited what I wanted to say.What inspired you to start a blog?Salam Pax, the Baghdad Blogger. As soon as I heard about him I thought the   net was of real consequence. Much of my work is confidential and some is unpleasant. The blog is an excellent way of putting things in perspective without boring Mrs C to death or resorting to the policeman's friend: the bottle.Are your colleagues aware of your activities?No. Mrs C, my wife, is my editor. Blame her.Your blog expresses disillusionment, particularly regarding paperwork. Could IT ease that burden?I wouldn't say I was disillusioned: the best thing about being a police officer is being able to work with other officers. The second best is knowing that tomorrow you'll meet someone even funnier than you did today.What use are blogs to public servants?The public sector is a mystery to most of the public. What goes on in   those office blocks? What do police officers do all day? What's it like being a soldier not fighting a war? The government won't tell you how wasteful the public sector is. The public servants could and should. An anonymous blog is perfect for this. Then they would be performing a real public service.Visit:http://coppersblog.blogspot.com
One of the things that really irritates me is when reviews complain that games are too short. I'm playing Fable at the minute and am enjoying it immensely. But reading reviews from the US it seems that the game is great but "too short". And it's not only Fable, most games are critiqued using time. You often read negative comments like how a game offers "only 20 hours gameplay", or can be "finished in a weekend". This sounds great to me. I'd far rather have Ico's focussed intensity than a bloated, drawn-out "epic". Better to burn out than fade away right? Well no, it seems a lot of gamers want their action padded out.Obviously the relatively high cost of games is an issue but that is still no excuse for comparing length to quality. Is Rachel Stevens latest album (65 mins) better than Revolver by the Beatles (35 mins) ?So many games now involve backtracking and other spurious timesinks designed to lengthen the time played. Look atZelda: Wind Waker. You're going along nicely, sailing around, solving puzzles then bang – players are forced to hunt for spurious items to proceed. The plot goes out the window simply to lengthen the time played. You even have to fight previously defeated foes at the end. Bah. Developers, if you've said all you need to say in 5-10 hours then stop right there. We'll love your game and hey, we'll have time to buy another one. And it may be one of yours.Now, don't get me wrong. If I'm playing a great game I want it to go on and on. Harking back to Zelda, but Ocarina of Time took hours to play through, yet was enjoyable throughout. Then there are the likes of Morrowind and Baldur's Gate, great RPGs that entertain for 200+ hours. Or what about the MMORPG's which literally grind on for ever. Obviously multiplayer sports and party games are exempt from this, as they can't be "finished" as such.But the point is clear. Brevity is good, backtracking bad. Let the best designed games last longer if they need to but prune the rest. Quality not quantity has to be the way forward. Right?
"Last week, Apple barred webmaster Robert Morgan [ofBare Featsfame] from using the Macs at his local Apple Store as a performance test lab -- right after Morgan published tests results for the iMac G5 that contradict Apple's claims for the machine," reportsWired News.But there's a happy ending:"After Wired News talked to Apple, however, Morgan said the company has promised to send him an iMac G5 for testing. 'They're making nice with me,' he said. 'It's a lot better than going to the store. I didn't expect this outcome, but I'll take it'."
Earlier this week Tim Rutten in the LA Times wrote a column calledPrivate e-mail is public, which documented the story of Farnaz Fassihi.Fassihi is a Middle East correspondent for the Wall Street Journal, whose regular private email to a group of friends somehow made it into the public domain. In it, she made a rather damning assessment of the situation in Iraq and since the publication of this email, it's been announced that she's going on an extended vacation.(more atEditor &amp; PublisherandNew York Observer, for starters)Whatever the details behind this move, it points to one thing: the emergence of private correspondence into the public domain is getting more common. So how do we deal with it?Do you consider everything you write on email to be public? And if you don't, should you?
1Star Wars: Battlefront2The Sims 23Tiger Woods PGA Tour 20054Burnout 3: Takedown5Pokemon Fire Red6Rome: Total War7Pokemon Leaf Green8Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War9Def Jam Fight For NY10Colin McRae Rally 2005Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
"Evan Williams, who started Pyra Labs in 1999 and later launched the Blogger service, wrote on Monday in hispersonal blog[here] that he has resigned from his program manager position at Google and that his last day will be Friday," reportseWeek."Williams came to Google after the search company purchased San Francisco-based Pyra Labs and Blogger in early 2003. Since that time, Williams wrote that Google continued to give him and the Blogger team much independence, but that he decided of his own accord to move on."
"Sony Corp.'s Japanese music unit says it will no longer sell CDs with built-in copy protection, a technology it had been pushing for two years. Such compact discs, which have sold 20 million copies in Japan, only let consumers copy their music once for free onto a personal computer. A charge is levied for any additional copies. If a PC cannot be connected to the Internet, the CD cannot be copied," reportsAPin Tokyo."The move does not apply to Sony's joint international music venture with German media giant Bertelsmann A.G. Sony BMG Music Entertainment has no plans to eliminate its ongoing copy protection initiatives, the company said."
The Financial Times takes a look at "a new form of technology that allows mobile phone users to disguise their location using fake background sounds"."Whenever he receives or places a call, a window pops up asking whether he would like a sound to play in the background during the call. There are nine sounds, ranging from the useful such as traffic or heavy machinery, to the more bucolic, such as birdsong or a thunderstorm."[Simedia founder] Liviu Tofan says that the application was originally written 'more for fun and as a technical challenege than anything else'."The company is well aware of the uses to which its products might be put. 'Certainly,' says Mr Tofan, 'people do use it to give plausibility to their excuses - both for work and in relationships'."Comment:The software, available only for Nokia phones at the moment, seems to have brought us to a new juncture in our attempts to evade the constant stream of communications: the process of avoiding the truth is becoming more complicated every day.What's next? Fake backgrounds for video calling?
"A new California law aimed at curbing spyware, software applications that surreptitiously collect the keystrokes, passwords, and credit-card numbers of Internet users, will go into effect Jan. 1," reportsInformationWeek."The law, dubbed the Consumer Protection Against Spyware Act, was signed last week by Calif. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. It outlaws software that secretly steals personal information, such as user names and passwords, sends viruses, or takes control of infected systems as part of a distributed denial-of-service attack. The law also requires software companies and Web sites to inform users if their software or sites will install spyware and disclose what the spyware will do and what information it will collect. California consumers who believe they've been the victim of illegal activity under the law can seek attorney's fees and damages of $1,000 for each violation."Others aren't as convinced the law will have much impact on illegal activity. Marne Gordan, director of regulatory affairs for TruSecure, doesn't believe anti-spyware laws will have much impact on spyware activity. "We currently have laws against phishing, spamming, and hacking, but realistically, this kind of activity happens all the time," Gordan says."
As a sub-note to Aleks'posta while back on the importance of narrative in videogames, the Writers Guild of America has justannouncedthat it will be welcoming videogame script writers into its arms, alongside their TV and movie compatriots."There are now three major categories of screen-based entertainment: TV, movies, and games," said WGAw secretary-treasurer Patric Verrone. "We feel that new media writers and writer-designers deserve the same support and recognition that the guild offers other professional screenwriters."Is this final conclusive proof that plot matters? And what kind of rights will guild membership afford to game writers? Will they be able to claim compensation if a piece of dialogue they wrote is axed from a game? Will they be able to go on strike to demand more verbiose cut-scenes? And if there was legal action, would it be like when TV writers go on strike? Would we get dozens of videogames in which the characters just sit around and reminisce about previous episodes?I can picture it now...Resident Evil 5The Scene Claire Redfield is in a hospital bed, recovering after sustaining a zombie bite wound. Leon arrives with flowers.Leon: Hi Claire, how are you?Claire: Oh, hi Leon, I was just thinking about that time back in Raccoon City train station where we had to do battle with Tyrant.Leon: Ha ha, yes, I remember it as though it were yesterday...FLASHBACK to corresponding boss encounter in Resident Evil 2And so on...
...and easily amused, why not sign up forKingdom Of Loathinga really silly online RPG that seems to be steadily growing in popularity. If you haven't already encountered it, KoL requires you to take on one of six different character types including Disco Bandits and Accordian Thieves before entering a daft world filled with booze giants and killer fruits. By now you will have decided whether this is for you or not...
Confusion surrounded ebookers yesterday as a potential American buyer for the online travel agency decided not to bid, but the company refused to clarify whether it was still in talks with anyone else.Shares in ebookers, which plummeted after a profits warning in July, dropped a further 15% in early trading after InterActiveCorp said it would not be making an offer.There has been intense speculation about the future of the company - 41.5% owned by the founder, Dinesh Dhamija - since it in effect put itself up for sale on September 9, saying "preliminary discussions are being held ... with several interested parties".The company, which has not made a profit since its flotation in April 2001, was put into play by a dire profit warning in July. It was the latest setback for a business that has failed to meet City expectations of its profits for four quarters in a row.Yesterday neither ebookers nor its advisers, Credit Suisse First Boston, would comment on whether any talks were still going on. Nor did the company make any comment on the IAC announcement, despite the dramatic fall in the share price.Ebookers' executives are believed to stand by their original statement on September 9, suggesting that the company was still "in talks" with other bidders. It was not pressed, however, by the Takeover Panel to make a new statement and so decided to stay silent. As traders realised that ebookers might still be in talks with another company, its shares recovered to end the day down 17.25p, or 7.5%, at 210p.The online travel sector is in the grip of another round of mergers and takeovers. In June, Amadeus, the travel technology group, bought a controlling 55% stake in Opodo, the travel website set up by airlines including Air France, British Airways and Lufthansa.Last week Cendant, owner of Avis car rental and American estate agent Century 21, paid   $1.25bn (&#163;694m) for the third-placed US operator, Orbitz.There has been talk that the management of IAC, which owns Expedia, Hotels.com and Ticketmaster, is planning a buyout of the business.IAC refused to comment yesterday on whether discussions about its own future had led it to pull out of talks with ebookers. The company merely said that it had "decided not to participate in discussions relating to a possible offer for ebookers and does not currently intend to make an offer".The firm is thought to have consulted the Takeover Panel before its statement and has reserved the right to launch a takeover at a later date.
Silicon.com, which published a tabloid-style account of a round-table with Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer, has changed its headline. In an"Ed note"it says: "Some readers might notice the single quotation marks around 'iPod users are music thieves' has been taken out since we first published the article. We've done this to clarify what Ballmer actually said."The extra clarity comes from the fact that Ballmer didn'tactuallysay what was inside the single quotation marks.The Ed note "reiterates" that "the direct quotes in the article where Ballmer said most music on iPods is stolen were the exact words he used".One example fromthe original storyis: "Ballmer said: "We've had DRM in Windows for years. The most common format of music on an iPod is 'stolen'."Clearly "the exact words" means something slightly different over at Silicon.com, since Ballmer did not actually use the same words in the same order. [What he really said isbelow.] But if you aren't bothered about converting jokey questions into flat statements, it's close enough.Note:the headline above should readWe wuz wrong says Silicon.com, without the single quotes, to indicate that it isn't actually a quote, I just made it up.UPDATE:ZDNet has now publishedBallmer talks tech, which looks like a reasonable record of Sunday's round table, and which has been produced by the same journalists credited in the Silicon.com story. Fair reporting? You decide!
Oh joy, bliss and multiplayer madness!GamespotandJoystiqhave word that the most anticipated game of my life,Halo 2, has left the developer's building and is wending its way to Microsoft HQ for the stamp of approval pre-release on ...11 November 2004 - 2 days after the North Americans get their mitts on it.On the surface the first person shooter may appear to only appeal to boys, but in reality thefirst gamehas droves of female fans as well, primarily because of itsinclusive design. Straight up examples include: The player is free to solve problems in a huge variety of ways (How do I get across this vast space to my target? Do I drive, fly or use my feet?), the controls are easy to pick up, there are in-depth negotiations and tactics to consider (Do I keep hold of the sniper rifle or drop it for the plasma gun? There's no more ammo. How do I deal?), the cooperative play is better than in any other offline title I've put my thumbs to, and getting shot by legions of intelligent comedy aliens doesn't result in instant death.Don't just believe me, askJulia Roberts. She's a famous fan.Credit card at the ready.
Meg Whitman of eBay has been named the most powerful woman in corporate America by Fortune magazine, toppling Carly Fiorina of Hewlett-Packard who had been at the top of the list since it began in 1998.Eight British-based women are listed in a separate ranking of the 50 most powerful businesswomen outside the United States, led by Marjorie Scardino of Pearson in third place. Kate Swann, the WH Smith chief executive, is 10th; Rose-Marie Bravo of Burberry is 13th; Vivienne Cox, executive vice-president at BP, is 15th; Clara Furse, head of the London Stock Exchange, is 17th and Val Gooding, chief executive of Bupa, is 18th.The other British women making the international list are Sly Bailey, the chief executive of Trinity Mirror, at 23rd and Amelia Fawcett, vice chairman of Morgan Stanley Europe, at 40th.The international ranking is led by Anne Lauvergeon of the French group Areva and Xie Qihua who runs the Shanghai   Baosteel group in China. Fortune ranks the women on criteria including the size and importance of a business in its marketplace, the businesswoman's clout within her organisation, her career trajectory and social or cultural impact.In the case of Ms Whitman, 48, there was one over-riding factor, the magazine said. "2004 belongs to Meg Whitman. Here's just one reason: The $60bn market value of eBay, the company she runs, has surged past that of HP."The online marketplace is   one of the fastest growing companies in history. This year it expects to report operating profits of about $1bn (&#163;555m) on revenues of $3.2bn. It began as a meeting place for people selling collectibles, such as Beanie Babies, but has grown rapidly into many other marketplaces, including clothing, electronics, furniture and cars.The online business has become a cultural phenomenon. Some 48 million people are expected to use the site this year, buying and selling $32bn worth of goods.Ms Whitman joined eBay seven years ago. She had been living in Boston and was working at the toy firm Hasbro, where she was running the Mr Potato Head brand and introducing the Teletubbies to America.After being approached by a headhunter, she moved her family to the west coast and by September 1998 guided the business on to the stock market.Ms Whitman is a Harvard MBA graduate and worked at Procter &amp; Gamble and Disney before joining Hasbro.Top five1Meg Whitman, president and chief executive of eBay, the online marketplace2Carly Fiorina, chairman and chief executive, Hewlett-Packard3Andrea Jung, chairman and chief executive, Avon Products4Anne Mulcahy, chairman and chief executive, Xerox5Marjorie Magner, chairman and chief executive, global consumer group, Citigroup
I visited Sony today, to see the sequel to the Getaway. CalledBlack Monday, the title uses the same unique London environment as before, but this time the game on top seems a lot better. I persevered with the original, despite the dicky controls, as there were some inspirational touches in it. The plot, for a start, and the fact that sightseeing in a stolen police car round took a while to get tedious. But with the likes of GTA: San Andreas on the way, Black Monday has some heavyweight competition. Luckily then the controls and feel of the game have been improved considerably. Driving is more enjoyable, while the main problem with the original – the on-foot action – seems more varied and less frustrating. Thecut-scenesare super professional too, and I'm looking forward to getting stuck in come November. Anyone else excited about Getaway?
The hottest video-game battle for years is about to commence in stores on both sides of the Pacific. Nintendo, the undisputed champion of portable game consoles, will launch its latest gadget, the Nintendo DS (dual screen), in the United States on November 21, just in time for the Christmas shopping season, when makers can rake in up to half their annual profits. It will be released in Japan on December 2 and in Europe early next year.Normally, the launch would simply underpin Nintendo's dominance of the portable game console market - it controls 95% - but this year it faces its greatest challenge yet from the biggest name in home entertainment: Sony.After months of pre-release hype and speculation, enthusiasts in Japan now have a better idea of what the two gaming giants are offering.Many of the tens of thousands who flocked to the Tokyo Game Show recently made a beeline for the Sony stand for a preview of its rival for gamers' attentions - the PlayStation Portable, the firm's debut hand-held console. According to the pre-launch blurb, the PSP incorporates all the quick response and image quality of the home-use PlayStation 2.Weighing 270g, the shiny black PSP is 170mm long and 74mm wide, with 32 MB of memory. The layout bears some resemblance to the PS2, which is bound to please Sony's huge fan base. But perhaps its biggest selling point is its 4.3-inch screen, which takes up most of the machine's surface and offers razor-sharp graphics.Although game fans in Japan will be able to get their hands on a PSP by late December, those in Europe and the United States will have to wait until next March, a delay that industry insiders say could blunt its impact. In addition, the firm has yet to say how much it will cost.Young Nintendo fans hoping to nag parents into submission this December will be able to tell them exactly how much they will need to budget for. Although the DS will retail for 15,000 yen (&#163;75) - &#165;5,000 more than its current Game Boy Advance PS - that is at the low end of many analysts' predictions. The firm said it had increased its sales target through to the end of March next year from 3.5m units worldwide to 4m.The appetite for existing Nintendo machines appears just as healthy. Yesterday the firm raised its full-year net profit forecast by 20% to &#165;84bn thanks to a strong dollar and better demand for its GameCube console and software for Game Boy Advance.Sony, meanwhile, is expecting to ship 3m PSPs by the end of March 2005.CompatibilityAs usual, Nintendo shunned the game show, but recent publicity shows a chunkier console, in silver or black, with the user-friendly control panel that is the hallmark of its hugely successful Game Boy series.The machine's two screens, one of which is inside the flip-open lid, can be used to view games from different angles and enable pairs of players to challenge each other via a wireless connection. One of the screens is touch-sensitive, allowing up to 16 players to exchange hand-scrawled messages at once. A major plus with prospective buyers will be its compatibility with the 600 or so existing Game Boy titles.Nintendo is the first Japanese game console maker to launch a new gadget abroad rather than in Japan, a move that is seen as a reflection of the growing importance of the booming overseas market.The Japanese video game industry shrank by 10% in 2003 - the third consecutive annual drop - to &#165;1.1trillion amid competition for the youth yen from mobile phones, the internet and DVDs. In 2001 the market was worth &#165;1.5trillion.Sony executives say the PSP is not simply a rival to the DS, but a long overdue addition to the hand-held market. That will probably mean attracting older, better-off gaming enthusiasts with the PSP's sleek finish and video and audio capabilities. The more modestly priced Nintendo DS, on the other hand, is expected to be at the top of many teenagers' Christmas wish-lists.Aside from splitting hairs over hardware pros and cons, users will be just as choosy about the software on offer. That is where Sony thinks it can make inroads with dozens of new titles, adding to a sector that, according to the Tokyo-based Computer Entertainment Suppliers' Associa tion, accounted for 23% of the &#165;309bn domestic software market in 2003.At the game show in Tokyo, visitors were able to try their hand at 22 games, some of which, like Gran Turismo 4, are mobile versions of PS2 titles.The new machine, however, is not compatible with other PlayStation models. That is a surprising technological shift given that previous PlayStations have been able to handle their predecessors' software, a convenience often cited as a factor in the bigger console's enduring popularity.Then there is the price. Ken Kutaragi, Sony's chief executive, said the firm wanted to gauge reaction at the game show before naming a price. Though a price-tag of about &#165;30,000 - double that of the Nintendo DS - has been touted, Sony officials appear unperturbed. "We expect PSP to create a new market, helping expand the entire game market," Mr Kutaragi said.Sony should also draw strength from its record in breaking into the game console market. Ten years ago its original Play-Station outpaced Nintendo's Famicom family computer, which turned Super Mario and Donkey Kong into household names after it went on sale in 1983.The PS2 has racked up 74m sales since its launch - against 16m for Nintendo's GameCube - making it the most popular console in the world, controlling 47% of the US market and about 80% of the Japanese and European markets.Switching loyaltiesBut Sony will do well to pull off a similar feat in the hand-held market in which Nintendo has sold 150m Game Boys since the machine was released in 1989.Analysts are reluctant to forecast a winner at this early stage, but gamers at the Tokyo show last week appeared impressed by Sony's machine."The screen is superb and the machine itself is quite compact," said Mikio Kato, a 27-year-old who said his fascination with video games began with Nintendo's original Game Boy and who said he was "almost certain" he would switch loyalties. Takayoshi Mikami, 24, said he too planned to buy a PSP, although he was not absolutely convinced by Sony's product. "The screen is nice and big," he said, "but I get the feeling it will be difficult to see everything clearly when playing action games."But the computer programmer, a self-confessed simulation-game addict, added: "People like me will pay more for good graphics and content, so I'm pretty sure I'll be buying a Sony."Although some Sony officials have privately voiced concern that the PSP will miss the US Christmas rush, the firm hopes to compensate with the launch of a cut-price, slimmer version of its best-selling PS2 on November 1. In response, Nintendo is to cut the price of its Game Boy Advance SP by 20%.The game console wars, in fact, have already begun.
The UK's largest videogame retailer, Game, have announcedlosses of £5.9 millionin the first half of 2004. This is up from £800,000 in the preceding 6 months. Game's chairman, Peter Lewis, had warned that a lack of major new titles and no hardware launches would make for tough trading conditions. But even he must be dismayed by the figures. The games industry is notoriously cyclical, with most publishers reserving their biggest titles until the Q4 Christmas rush. This year has been no different, although the likes of Spiderman and Doom 3 helped sales in the normally arid summer months. And then there is increased competition from etailers and, increasingly, supermarkets. But maybe the problem for Game is a little closer to home.Recent visits to the store have shown a company relying more and more on second hand titles, with many placing the pre-owned tray near the entrance. This does little to promote sales of new or recent games. Similarly the dated decor and cluttered layout, combined with the "eau de teenage boy" smell that pervades most stores, makes Game an increasingly undesirable place to shop.However, the company are set to launch more stores soon, and Lewis is optimistic: "As we prepare for the crucial Christmas trading period, we believe we have our best ever offering," he said. What do you think? Am I being too harsh? I guess it depends on what you want from a bricks and mortar games retailer.
In a move that is inevitable due to spiralling production costs but will be met with vocal protest from games consumers across the globe, next generation publishers are expected to hike purchase prices of their software. In future you can expect to pay up to US$5 more per AAA title.The repercussions will surely be felt in mainstream circles, when non-traditional audiences and current non-consumers will be even less likely to shell out for interactive entertainment due to the high cost.You can find out more about this distressing news atCNN Money.viaJoystiq.
The computer games retailer Game today reported widening pre-tax losses in the face of a dearth of new games and consoles.Game - based in Bracknell, Berkshire - said its pre-tax losses had increased from £800,000 to £5.9m in the six months to July 31. The group said turnover had fallen 13.6% as expected because of a predicted lack of major titles in the first half and no new hardware launches.However, Game said it had plans in place to make the most of its traditionally important second half, promising a "very strong" software release schedule in the run-up to Christmas.The group said its trading performance had improved, with like for like sales up 1.6% since August 1, and total group sales up by 9.8%. It added that it was accelerating its store opening programme in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, with 400 stores set to be trading for the crucial festive season.Game's chairman, Peter Lewis, said he had warned in April that the first half of the year would be challenging because of the lack of major new titles and no hardware launches."As we prepare for the crucial Christmas trading period, we believe we have our best ever offering," he said."The group has shown its ability to trade well in an increasingly competitive arena, and there is a very strong software release schedule in the second half. We continue to expect a satisfactory trading outcome for the year as a whole."The group depends on Christmas for its full-year performance, and earlier this year reported record profits of £34.7m in the year to January 31.It said price cuts and new hardware model launches would help the trend of improved hardware volume and related software sales to continue in the second half.In August, the prices of both of the PlayStation 2 and Xbox consoles were cut to around £100 from £139 and £129 respectively, broadening their market appeal, Game said. In the first few weeks after the price reduction, the market saw a threefold increase in total units of the formats compared to the previous few weeks.
Is Nintendo's dominance of the handheld gaming market about to come to an end? Will Sony's much-toutedPSPconsole squish the idiosyncraticNintendo DS? The Guardian's business section examines this very issue today - check the story out righthere.I think there's room in the market for both, but in terms of predicting the biggest seller, this fight is going to come down to five main issues:PlayabilityBoth machines offer impressive tech specs, but technology is nothing without the games to showcase it, and as you'd expect, both Sony and Nintendo are bringing some strong licenses into the ring. PSP will see the likes of Metal Gear Acid, Gran Turismo Mobile and WipeOut Pure. DS gets Mario 64x4, Metroid Prime Hunters and Animal Crossing. Okay, so Sony's is the more instantly recognisable line-up, but the question is, how easily will these brands make the transition to a handheld environment? Nintendo has considerable experience in shrinking its major franchises to mobile proportions. Sony doesn't. But then Sony had no real experience in videogame hardware before launching PlayStation and promptly battering Sega's Saturn to death.ConnectivityBoth consoles feature 802.11b compatibility allowing wireless multiplayer gaming - although the DS also boasts a, 'proprietary communication protocol, which provides low battery consumption'. To counter, PSP adds Memory Stick support (perhaps for storing music and image files) and USB 2.0 so you should be able to attach it to other Sony gadgets.NoveltyPSP is set to be a complete multimedia entertainment solution as useful for watching movies (the console's Universal Media Discs can hold two hours of DVD quality video) and listening to music (7.1 channels and 3D sound support) as playing games. Meanwhile, DS features a touch screen that will give players a new way to interact with game menus and characters, and a built in microphone for voice commands. There are two completely different philosophies at work here. Sony is saying, 'yeah, we do games, but we do other cool stuff as well'. Nintendo is saying 'DS will do games in completely new and interesting ways'. Both are valid and interesting - depending on what you want to get out of your handheld gaming device.PortabilityPSP dimensions are 170mm x 74mm x 23mm with a weight of 260g. DS weighs in at 148.7 x 84.7mm X 28.9mm and 275g (including battery &amp; stylus) making Nintendo's machine slightly shorter and chubbier - the latter due to a clam shell design that harks back to the days of the multiscreenGame And Watch. So, the PSP will fit better in your pocket, but the DS has a protected screen. And a stylus! In terms of battery life, Nintendo reckons you'll get 6-10 hours of gameplay from a fully charged DS battery, while Sony has yet to announce an official figure, although rumours suggest it could be a more modest 2.5 hours of continuous play.AffordabilitySony Europe president Chris Deering recently told trade publication MCV that PSP would come in "closer to £200 than £300." The Nintendo DS is launching in the US at $149.99 which will probably translate to £149.99 reflecting the loveable way in which manufacturers like to charge us more for things for no discernable reason. That's still likely to be £80 cheaper than the PSP though.Okay so I've entirely glossed over elements such as graphics processors, CPUs, etc, but its easy to get seduced by the internals of these machines before you actually get to see the games. Don't be. All we can judge at the moment are the priorities of the manufacturers. And just as in the 'battle' between PS2 and GameCube, Sony's machine has the sex appeal and the big brands, while Nintendo has the quirky ideas and near-autistic focus on game design. It should be an interesting scrap.
Not content with dominating the Premiership, Arsenal are heavily involved with the two main footy games out soon - FIFA 2005 andPro Evolution Soccer 4. Thierry Henry is on the cover of the latter while Patrick Viera adorns the FIFA box. It must be quite amusing on the training pitch, although I doubt either have even seen the games they are paid to endorse. Still at least both are decent titles. Sony's This is Football 2005 is the main competitor, but such was the quality of 2004 that I fully expectGus Ceaserto be on the cover.
Since I was at Sunday's round table meeting with Steve Ballmer -- unlike some of the people writing rubbish about it -- and since I have it on tape, I can tell you whatexactlywhat he said. However, bear in mind that these were small snippets of a long session, and that even transcribing them accurately gives a distorted impression of the tenor and content of the whole meeting.Point Onecame when a journalist asked about DRM in Longhorn, then speculated that the presence of competing music services -- AppleiTunes, Sony Connect, Real Networks etc -- made the EC's ruling on the Windows Media Player "somewhat redundant". (As someone added later, the service dictates the client software.)Steve Ballmer:Let me first talk about DRM. Now we've had DRM in Windows for quite some number of years, there's nothing new about that....Journalist:[interrupting] Having said that, that hasn't stopped, you know, pirates from running rampant....SB:Of course not: nothing does! I mean, what's the most common format of music listened to on an iPod?J:On an iPod....SB:Stolen! Stolen!J:[confused] On an iPod?SB:Yes. Most people still steal music. [laughing] The fact that you can buy it and it's protected doesn't affect the fact that most people still steal [music]. I'd LOVE to say all problems have been solved, whether it's iPod/iTunes -- where Apple has done some nice work, no doubt about it -- but the truth of the matter is we can build these technologies, but as long as there's alternate forms of music acquisition, there still will be ways for people to steal music.My opinion:it's perfectly clear what point Ballmer is making, and it's about users, not about iPods. It also seemed to me obvious, at the time, that Ballmer was joking.Point Two....came later after someone asked about innovation in home entertainment, and mentioned the cable companies and Apple. Ballmer was talking up the slow-selling Windows Media Centre PCs and portable video players, "that will literally let us see an explosion into the millions of units of Media Center Edition PCs over the course of the next year or so."You mention Apple, and with great respect for Apple, I don't think you'll get... there's no way anything gets to critical mass with Apple, because Apple just doesn't have the volumes. They don't have the volumes anywhere in the world; they don't have the volumes particularly in some countries.... [stuff skipped] The critical mass is going to have to come from the PC, or the next-generation video device."Comment:Not only is this true, Apple itself recognises that it's true, as shown by it offering the iPod and iTunes for Windows users, doing a deal with HP, chasing the mobile phone market etc. Or, for earlier examples, putting FireWire up for industry standardisation ... and abandoning Apple-specific technologies such as ADB for PC standards such as USB and PCI.
It's hard to believe now, but there was a time when Richard Branson was cool. I mean really cool. When I was at school you only had to show the slightest aptitude for selling pirate computer games in the playground to be branded "the next Richard Branson". "Yes!" you'd think, "just a few more years plugging away in this playground without getting caught and I'll have my own island, a giant tin-foil balloon and a fleet of transatlantic aircraft. Cool!"Now try to imagine the same scenario today. Describing one of today's school kids as the next Branson would be met with at best bemusement and at worst a fight. Who wants to be likened to a man who spends his days dreaming up ridiculous publicity stunts to keep himself in the public eye? "This time next year, Rodney, we'll be holding up a plastic spaceship and promising to fly rich businessmen to the moon." Thanks, but I'd rather work shifts in Aldi. Which brings me to Sir Rick's latest venture - an online music service called Virgin Digital. That's VD for short. You can insert your own viral marketing joke here.In an already pretty crowded market, the launch of yet another music site wouldn't normally draw much attention. But what's interesting about Branson's VD is its business model. Unlike Apple's iTunes which simply charges a small fee for every song downloaded, VD also allows users to listen to an unlimited number of tracks for a fixed monthly fee via high speed audio streaming. It's this subscription-based "Digital Music Club" that Virgin hopes will drag punters away from more established rivals, and rack up huge profits in the process. The reason? Selling monthly subscriptions is far more profitable than pay-as-you go, especially if you automatically renew subscriptions each month.The only problem is, while the subscription model may be super profitable, it also shows a fundamental lack of understanding of the psychology of the music buyer. When we pay for a track, we don't want the right to listen to it for a month, we want to own it, to have it sitting on our hard drive, to transfer it to our iPod, to listen to it in the car. And if a legal download service allows us to do all of those things then we don't mind paying a small per-track fee to support the poor struggling corporate music behemoths and to ensure that we're getting high quality downloads, with a minimum of fuss. That's why iTunes is doing so well, and why VD's subscription model will do less so."But what about AOL?" you ask. "They've done OK out of music subscriptions". Indeed they have, but then AOL users will buy anything. You could offer to sell them unlimited air for &#163;6.99 a month and they'd snap it up, providing it was guaranteed to be family-friendly.A far better comparison is the eBook market. Downloadable books are the future of publishing - as soon as they invent a portable reader that's as convenient as paper - but at the moment they're struggling and one of the main reasons is that so many publishers insist on making their titles "self-destruct" after a month or so. They say it foils the pirates, I say I'd prefer to go to Borders where they let me own the book I've just bought. And Virgin Digital is entering a much tougher one market than the eBook one - competing as they are with existing legal competitors and easy-to-use piracy networks like Kazaa.But wait. There is one entertainment medium for which a paid subscription model might just work. And that is film. We're already more than happy to rent movies for a few nights and, with the exception of those freaky Matrix fans who wear leather coats and think they're Keanu Reeves, no one wants to watch the same film over and over again. For the vast majority of fans, paying a few pounds to download an unlimited number of films, each of which expires after a few days, would be fine. Great even. And as film downloads take far longer than music ones there's a much greater incentive to use a legal service to ensure that you don't waste five hours downloading two gigabytes of corrupted mess.So why is Branson even messing about with music? Why doesn't he get with the 21st century and launch a decent subscription-based movie service before someone else does? Not only would he make himself another huge sack of money, and give the world something it actually needs, but he might actually reclaim his reputation as the trend-setting maverick playground entrepreneurs want to emulate. He might even become the next Richard Branson.&#183;Paul Carr is editor-in-chief of the Friday Thing (http://www.thefridaything.co.uk)
The management of Lastminute.com was this afternoon locked in a meeting with analysts and shareholders after warning that earnings for its crucial summer quarter would be at the lower end of expectations.Shares in the online travel group initially plunged by around 5% after it admitted trading conditions had been "challenging". By 3pm, however, they had recovered to stand at 134.5p - a fall of just 0.5p.The company said its internet sales were accelerating and it would "demonstrate the scalability of the business model" at today's scheduled day for analysts and investors.It was due to spell out plans during the presentation to more than double earnings during the current financial year, which began last Friday."Despite continued challenging trading conditions in the industry during the summer quarter, we are pleased to see organic growth accelerate for the group," the chief executive, Brent Hoberman, said in a statement to the stock exchange.Lastminute said in August it expected earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda) of between £25m and £30m in its crucial fourth quarter, from July to September.The fact that the company's ebitda forecast for the full year to the end of September was between £26.7m and £31.7m shows the importance of the three months in which it does the vast majority of its business.At the time, the company also said it expected ebitda of between £55m and £65m in the year to September 2005, driven by cost savings from a recently announced 350 job cuts and synergies from acquisitions.But today's statement no longer contained the earnings range predicted in August, forecasting instead the lower figure of £55m.Mr Hoberman said: "Next year's ebitda growth will be underpinned by significant cost savings across our combined businesses."Lastminute said the savings would amount to £13m in the year to next September and £16m annually thereafter.Mr Hoberman and Lastminute's co-founder, Martha Lane Fox, became two of the most recognised faces of the dotcom boom when they floated their company at 380p a share in 2000.Ms Lane Fox stepped down as managing director last November and went on to sell 20% of her shares earlier this year, raising £4.6m at 230p a share.Nine months ago, Lastminute shares were valued at 245p - nearly double their current price - as analysts anticipated a period of further consolidation in the competitive online travel market, and last month Lastminute's rival, Ebookers, said it was in talks about a possible sale.But the broker Bridgewell Securities said in a trading note today: "Despite the recent spate of industry consolidation we do not see Lastminute.com as a take-out candidate for now."Other analysts were more positive, however. Robin Chhabra of Evolution Securities called today's announcement "broadly positive" and said the shares had initially fallen "simply because &#91;the company&#93; used the word 'lower'"."Cost savings are higher than expected," he added. "I think the stock is cheap and we will see it rebounding in due course. This company is definitely growing faster than the overall market."
More than two thirds of parents have banned their children from using internet chatrooms to try to protect them from paedophiles, according to research published today.The government survey, published to coincide with the launch of Parents Online Week, found that more than 64% of parents have banned their children from chatrooms.More than 40% of parents said their biggest concern about their children's use of the internet was the risk of them meeting a paedophile.More than half (57%) of parents have placed their children's computer in a communal area so they can supervise their internet access, with 44% adding that they do not allow their children to use the internet without them.More government regulation of the internet was backed by 52% of the parents surveyed, while 58% called for more education on internet safety.  Yet nearly three quarters (73%) of them believe that the internet is "a great source of information".Throughout this week, child welfare experts and IT specialists will be providing information and advice on the government's Parents Online website.Paul Goggins, the Home Office minister responsible for child protection, said: "We know that many parents are not confident about using the internet and managing the risks to their children, and Parents Online week will help to raise safety awareness. The internet is a valuable tool for communication, education and fun.""Awareness of the dangers posed by paedophiles using the internet is extremely high amongst 11 to 14-year-olds, but we know that despite this some children still put themselves at risk."&#183;The Home Office today launched a new radio and online advertising campaign to increase public awareness of internet safety.
Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer was in London this weekend to let people into the company's plans for the future."Mr Ballmer said that he wanted to expand Microsoft's presence in markets such as music players, mobile handsets and television set-top boxes as consumer technology shifted towards digital content along with internet and wireless distribution," reported this morning's Times.He got a customary dig in at Apple, of course:"Apple Computer has done some nice work with the iPod and iTunes, but that's just the tip of the tip of the iceberg. But there's no way that anything will get to critical mass with Apple because they don't have the volumes."Silicon, however, take a slightly different (more oppositional) approach with their story:'iPod users are music thieves' says Ballmer. Where the justification for that headline comes from, I'm not entirely sure: just a classic piece of over-egging the pudding, I think.
Who is your typical internet user? Time-hungry young office workers looking to enrich their lives? Thrusting young media geeks clad in jeans and T-shirt? Look out, says a new survey byAge Concern, they could be older than you think."A survey of more than 2,000 over 50s found that, in a break with common assumptions, older people are as, if not more, likely to be downloading software, music and games as doing their food shopping."Responses reveal that Silver Surfers are hooked on the net, with 41% of older people who use the internet confessing they log on every day and nearly three quarters of users agreeing that everyone should give it a go. The survey revealed that emailing and socialising is by far Silver Surfers' favourite use of the net, with 68% saying this is why they use the internet."However, it is not all good news for the nation's older internet users. Despite being one of the groups who could benefit most from using it, older people are least likely to have tried the internet. Only 20% of those aged over 65 have ever tried it compared to 62% of the GB population as a whole."Of course, ahead of the secondSilver Surfers festival, this might all be PR guff, but it still makes enlightening reading.
It's been a big week for 3G communication services.Despite the fact that it is four years since the mobile operators spent more than £22bn on 3G phone licenses, we've yet to really see that market emerge.3, who are leading the way (mainly because they don't really have anythingexcept3G to concentrate on) are hoping to take advantage of that situtation. But, as wereported last week, Vodafone have finally plumped for their own 3G services.And that seems to have launched a full-on Christmas battle to get into customers' pockets. T-Mobile have confirmed they will be launching 3G products in time for Christmas, and Orange have just revealed that they will be joining the frayalthough in a limited way. Only O2 have decided to hold off from the rush and will launch their own products in the new year.So what does this mean for customers? Well, it may be a case of "wait and see" - promises don't always turn into product. Hopefully, though, it will see more innovative uses of the technology coming around, and a lowering of prices to make it better for end users.
I attended last night's London-only event onvideogames and filmat the travellingresfest's NFT location, hoping for something that was outside of the regular remit for discussions of this sort. And, to be honest, I was disappointed with the result.The programme was half-"owned" by Sony (quite literally - they set it up) to promote the release of their forthcoming driving-adventure titleThe Getaway 2: Black Monday, and themachinimathat was on display was only marginally interesting.Even the presence of theRed vs Blueboys, all the over from theirRooster Teethstudio in Austin, TX, was lacklustre and ill-prepared. However, it did generate quite a few questions in my mind, both about the nature of narrative in games and narrative in film, and stimulated some good discussion on the way home...The first half of the presentation was dominated by the admittedly-adept skills of a pair of the production team of The Getaway, fastidiously explaining the process of developing a computer game. There were a few comparisons with film-making - only one of the two had any experience with that medium - and the predominant sense was that "making games is harder than making movies. We're great." While this might have sparked dialogue with a mixed audience of games and film creators, the make-up of the crowd was the usual suspects of London games-land and therefore seemed only to remind the gathered that The Getaway's in-house Sony team had big bucks for production, and that others were forced to create competitive products on the producers' less moneyed handouts.The focus was on cut-scene and design narrative, with little to no detail on the game mechanics that may make interactive products more "cinematic", or even what that means. That was a little detail I hoped would have had an attempted answer, and would have set out this event from others that have come before. It also raised the question (in my mind at least) of whether narrative is important for a game experience, or if trying to crowbar it into a medium who's animation cannot compete with contemporary Hollywood visuals (and is therefore distracting) is wasteful and misguided. I don't disregard writer and Narrative Producer Katie Ellwood's contribution to The Getaway and to Getaway 2: Black Monday - and the 9000 lines of script that are included in the game - but if my past actions are anything to go by, I'll probably skip through them in favour of more gaming. Indeed, one of the comments from an audience member as I left the auditorium was "Why are games trying so hard to be like Hollywood? They don't need cut scenes to push the story forward. Look at Half Life." Indeed. There are no animated movies between action sequences there; information is passed on either through direct conversation with other characters or in overheard dialogue.The second part of the evening kicked off with a DVD of machinima offerings that seemed limited in their - wait for it - narrative, and highlighted the difference between creating a product that was designed to be played versus designed to be watched.Perhaps because machinima creators are restricted by the things that one can do in the games or the bugs which they find, they felt like they were made by a bunch of guys who thought "we've got the best multiplayer death matches EVER!" and decided it would be cool to record them, perhaps with a few unoriginal lines of dialogue to pad them out and set the "scene" (ext. daylight. three guys open a treasure chest. fight over who gets the booty). Just like the truly disappointingattemptsto put this kind of thing on terrestrial TV, watching other people "do" multiplayer combat is just not interesting.In contrast, the special Red vs Blue episode created for the event, "London Calling", was superb and featured the three main characters shooting the proverbial, with well-timed witty dialogue. That was what was entertaining, and the viewer actually was able to forget that they were watching in-game animations. Their efforts could easily turn into the next South Park.In light of this, and therecent announcementthat Rooster Teeth are working on a sit-com style series set in EA's The Sims 2, another question is raised. It reflects thedebatethat currently exists over the rights of players of massively multiplayer online games to sell game items for personal pocket money on auction sites like eBay: while Rooster Teeth currently have the blessing of the makers of both Halo and The Sims 2, what happens when this thing starts to grow so big that it creeps into mainstream consciousness? Who'll then own the likenesses, the dialogue and the creative content that's generated by production companies within publishers' products? The boys said EA currently have no editorial control over the forthcomingStrangerhoodseries, but what happens if the machinima treatment becomes more "inappropriate" for EA's worldwide brand?There were quite a few questions left unanswered in both segments of last night's showcase, and it would have fared better primarily if the first part had been more broadly defined. I'd quite like to see a panel discussion with filmmakers who've had the opportunity to make a game and vice versa to highlight the uniqueness of both media, and areas where they may – or may not – learn from each other. That would have been worthwhile, and the audience might have been wider.Otherwise, the resfest rocked.
Here's an interesting question: why is Microsoft's Internet Explorer (IE) so bad? Not only is it outdated and tired compared with the competition, it is also exceedingly vulnerable to attack.On 16 September, for example, it was revealed that IE (in common with a dozen other Microsoft programs) was vulnerable to a novel 'malware' technique in which malicious code is concealed in an image file: IE users who visit a website containing such images could find that their computer would then covertly download a 'trojan' - a program that allows it to be taken over remotely by an attacker.Last Thursday, images with precisely this property were found on the net - and IE users who hadn't downloaded Microsoft's security patch (the 28th this year, by the way) found themselves exposed to it.Because IE comes bundled with Windows, and most PCs run Windows, most of IE's unfortunate users do not realise how bad this is, because they have never seen any of the alternatives. They assume, therefore, that secu rity flaws, exposure to pop-up windows and lack of even elementary facilities such as tabbed browsing correspond to the natural state of things. The moment they see an alternative browser - Mozilla, Firefox, Opera or Safari, for example - is the point at which they understand my point.Here's the puzzle. Whatever one may think of it, Microsoft is a smart, rich, pathologically competitive organisation. It employs very clever people, and prides itself on producing software with more features than the competition. So how come it has allowed its browser - which, after all, is for many users the application they use most - to languish like this? IE hasn't changed much in five years, which is an eternity in the software business. Why?There are two possible explanations. The first is that monopolists don't have to innovate. Microsoft came late to the internet - and therefore to the browser market, which was originally dominated in the mid-1990s by Netscape. Then it embarked on a policy of destroying Netscape, which eventually landed it in court. The policy was crude - to bundle IE with Windows and thus exploit Microsoft's operating system monopoly; and to lean unmercifully on computer manufacturers.It worked: by the time the US Department of Justice got round to mounting an anti-trust suit against Microsoft, Netscape had been obliterated. The market share of IE then rose inexorably, to the point where 96 per cent of all web browsing was done by IE. In such a situation - so the argument runs - Microsoft had no need to innovate. There was no competition.The other explanation is more interesting. It is that Microsoft is trapped. It dare not upgrade its browser and make it more sophisticated in case doing so undermines its Windows and Office monopolies.As web services become more sophisticated and broadband access reaches more and more of the user population, we are getting to the point where most computer users could do most of their 'computing' via their browsers. Webmail is an excellent illustration. Once upon a time, you had to have a special program (called a client) running on your computer in order to access email. Then along came Hotmail, which enabled users to access email using only a browser.Of course webmail was slower and more kludgy than using a specialised email program like Outlook or Eudora; but on the other hand, it was ubiquitous.You could get hold of your mail from any machine running a browser. But the relative disadvantages of webmail are declining - and some people who have trial accounts on Google's forthcoming Gmail service report that, overall, they find it as satisfactory as using a client. You can see where this is heading. We're moving into a world where people want services (applications) and don't much care how they get them. The vast majority of Windows users who use Google, for example, neither know nor care that it runs on Linux. All they want is fast and efficient web searching.The same thing will happen with applications that hitherto have resided on our computers. At the moment, the best way to create text is to run a word-processing program on your PC. But what if the combination of a sophisticated browser and a web-based word-processing service appeared? Would you then be so concerned where the actual application was located - or under what operating system it ran?This, I think, gets to the heart of the puzzle about IE. Microsoft simply doesn't know what to do about it. In the last few months, we have begun to see signs that the paralysis in Redmond is having an effect.For the first time ever, the market share of IE has begun to slip - down 2 per cent in two months. Of course it's only a straw in the wind. But the great thing about straws is that they show which way the wind is blowing.&#183;john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
