The consumer electronics groupAmstradadded zest to its recovery yesterday by delivering a confident forecast of demand for digital television products and a sharp increase in profits.The group, chaired by Sir Alan Sugar, turned in doubled half-year profits at &#163;8.2m on sales of &#163;60.8m, a 34% increase. The company said it had benefited from "strong demand" for set-top decoder boxes used to receive British Sky Broadcasting's digital TV service.Amstrad said it had orders through to the end of this financial year, in June, and "well into the next financial year". The company's performance is also being assisted by higher than expected quality levels, enabling it to release provisions taken against potential warranty costs.A spokesman for the group said, however, that there were no plans to develop higher-specification set-top boxes, contrary to plans being implemented by rival suppliers such as Pace Micro Technology.Instead Amstrad said it intended to launch a telecoms product next month aimed at the mass market and developed with BT's internet and multimedia division. The project, entering the market in time to have an impact on the next financial year, will include email and e-commerce.Sir Alan sought to reward shareholders by more than doubling the dividend to 0.8p a share. He sounded a note of caution, however, by warning that Amstrad would allow its order book for TV sets to fall unless margins improved.The company sells TVs through supermarket chains, often based on short-term sales campaigns featuring special offers. The company said this market was becoming increasingly competitive.The group's push into overseas markets continues with the extension of a sales office in Hong Kong to handle business outside the UK.The office had been used only to oversee manufacture of Amstrad products by Far Eastern producers.It said it sold significantly more cable TV products in the Australian market and noted that a number of new products had been introduced to the region. But "the company's focus is to enhance activities in higher-technology products".
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation yesterday said the merger of Time Warner and internet business America Online had failed to persuade him to link with a similar new media company.Shares in News Corp have increased in value by 50% since the Time Warner-AOL deal in anticipation of a tie-up but Mr Murdoch said the company had put well in place its own strategy for capitalising on the internet. "We have built and are building a global digital platform to deliver multiple services to customers around the world," he said. "In parallel, we are building multimedia, multi-revenue businesses around our core content and business categories, including news, sports, classifieds, health and entertainment."The worldwide success of News Corp's special-effects-laden Titanic during 1998 cast the group's second-quarter results in a poor light by comparison. The company's filmed   entertainment division reported income of $31m (&#163;19m) against $162m in the same quarter of 1998.Anna and the King, the retelling of the story of a Victorian Englishwoman teaching the King of Siam's children, had proved to be this year's biggest disappointment at the box office. Group earnings were $510m, down from $556m, on revenues of $3.9bn for the quarter.Mr Murdoch highlighted double-digit growth in most of the group's businesses, including television, newspapers and book publishing. Its most successful shows made by 20th Century Fox Television include the X Files and The Simpsons.But he described the success of BSkyB, the UK pay-TV business in which News Corp has a 40% stake, as "bittersweet". The launch of Sky Digital has driven strong growth in subscriber numbers which have reached 4m in Britain but acquisition costs, including the free set-top box offer, pushed BSkyB into the red in the first half of the year.
Britain's venture capital industry has struggled to keep pace with the internet revolution. Start-ups with big ideas claim leading investors have kept true to their conservative image, unlike the United States, where venture capital firms are pouring money into e-businesses.But, with more than $10bn (&#163;6bn) of investment funds at stake, British private equity firms have been reviewing their investment strategies.Ronald Cohen, founding partner of Apax, considers that at least half of his firm's $4.5bn in European/Israeli investment funds are backing internet-related companies."The net is revolutionising everything with well over half of our portfolio being net-related and probably a quarter dependent on the existence of the net alone," he said.Apax has been on top of the technology sector since 1981, but concedes that the industry has been doing quite a bit of catching up in the e-commerce world over the past 12 months. He said at least a third of Apax's 130 staff focus on the technology and telecoms sector.Other firms have been setting up specific funds to look at these sectors and splashing about huge remuneration packages to attract expert staff in an area where there are enormous shortages.Martin Gagen, chief executive of 3i's American arm, said: "The venture capital industry is changing a lot faster because of the internet. Internet investing has affected business models and people have underestimated the effect this has had on the globalisation of the venture capital industry."At least 30% of the $1bn-plus a year invested by 3i is in the internet, Mr Gagen said.Executives in the private equity industry agree the emergence of cash-hungry and loss-making start-up internet companies has forced a rethink and change in attitude of traditional venture capitalist investment criteria.The same model by which an engineering or hotel firm is assessed cannot be applied to internet and technology firms which might rack up losses for five years or more before, or if ever, a profit is achieved."You have to really appreciate the future opportunities of these firms as the historic precedent of profit flows on which you may have backed a company don't exist. So you have to look for milestones that have been achieved and judge them on that," said Mr Gagen.The recurring theme that venture capitalists speak of when investing in these new-age companies is management, particularly given that the age of some executives in these businesses can be as young as 15.Ian Oxley, investment manager for European internet investments at Chase Capital Partners, said: "When we are looking at management teams we are looking for a mixture of industry experience and the industry in which they are trying to compete."Mr Oxley is in charge of at least &#163;200m earmarked for European internet investments as well as a further &#163;100m in Britain. The latter is in a fund established earlier this month called Chase Episode 1 and is being managed by Simon Murdoch who was nabbed from Amazon.com.Next on Mr Oxley's investment criteria list is the need for an internet or technology firm to be the first in its chosen market. There is also the requirement for the product or concept to be unique.Mr Cohen offers an example from the 1980s to support the need for a company to be a "first mover" in its market.He said that in the 1980s there were 93 venture-backed companies trying to be number one in the personal computer market. The four to have survived are leading brands in today's PC market."There are more internet companies being funded than eventually will exist," said Mr Cohen. "It's like 100 horses entering a race and each has the same odds as the favourite."Another criterion is speed."The failure may be that somebody did not get there first and not that it wasn't a good idea," Mr Gagen said. "In the end in any market there will only be one or two players of real scale."
'The internet is totally addictive: the more you delve into it, the more possibilities you find," says Roma Gaite. The sprightly 83 year old is seated at the computer in the foyer of Archer Court, a development of self-contained retirement flats close to Salisbury city centre.We are joined by Stephanie Brown, 58, who has come to check her email. Both women are newcomers to the internet and part of the UK's growing army of "silver surfers" - older people who are discovering the wired world.   "I'd never thought of getting online until I came to Archer Court," says Roma. "In fact, I'd never used a  computer until last year.""The internet is certainly not just for the young," says Stephanie. "Why should they have all the fun?"Gabrielle Brooks of the charity Age Concern would concur. "Communications technology can enrich the life of all age groups," she says. "Every forecast predicts the number of British silver surfers will increase dramatically in the next year or two." In the US, the over-55 age group has been the fastest growing sector of American internet users.Stephanie Brown mainly uses the Archer Court computer to keep in touch. "My brother in Belgium is very busy, his phone is usually tied up and he gets little time to write letters. But he always looks at his email at work and finds mine among it," she explains.Roma Gaite's first love, however, is the web. "I find it easier and quicker to pick up the phone than to email," she says. "I am much more interested in exploring the internet. There's so much to learn and it keeps my mind active."  Roma, Stephanie and their fellow residents enjoy free internet access as part of a Bournemouth university pilot project to bring internet skills to older people.The university's history of technology unit has teamed up with Archer Court's builder McCarthy &amp; Stone, Britain's largest specialist provider of retirement housing. Other partners include NTL, the cable company, which supplied the internet service and online-time, and Dixons, which has donated five refurbished computers.The pilot project has been very successful, says James Poxon of McCarthy &amp; Stone. "We have installed computers in five of our developments and dozens of people at each site have used them. The residents are lively-minded individuals and quickly overcome any initial reserve. Once they see that pressing the wrong key doesn't matter, there's no stopping them."Frances Cambrook, a Bournemouth university research fellow, has trained the McCarthy &amp; Stone residents in computer skills, web navigation and   e-communication. "In future, people will carry IT skills from work into retirement. But just now, most older people are having to learn how to use the internet if they are to avoid becoming part of the information-poor."Besides, communications technology can provide productive leisure activity - and that aspect is ideally suited to retired people who have the time to exploit it."  The social potential of communications technology is particularly attractive to older people." There are often four or five of us round the machine," says Stephanie Brown. "We offer one another help, hints and suggestions, and share our experience. The computer has become part of our social life and the sessions are great fun."Roma Gaite agrees: "It's a myth that the internet isolates users. Here it has helped bring people together, to re-inforce the community spirit."  The Bournemouth project is one of several initiatives tailored to older people. Last year, for example. Age Concern set up the UK's first chatroom for over-50s. Its Baby Boomer Bistro is an online virtual cafe where users can discuss everything from politics to poetry. Specialised areas include higher education, a debating forum, the environment and spiritual matters.The charity also runs a network of regional Age Resource Desks giving local information to older people. Linked to the government's IT for All"initiative, many of the desks provide tuition in new technologies, IT training and computer "taster" sessions.The Saga Group, which provides services to the over-50s, offers computer skills special interest holidays.   "These have proved very popular," says Michael Pritchett, Saga's head of digital media, "and the technology and internet column in Saga Magazine attracts more interest among our two million readers than almost any other feature. The internet is increasingly accessible and older people are flocking to it. It's gaining momentum all the time."This would come as no surprise to Roma Gaite. "The internet has a tremendous amount to offer us," she says. "Surfing is exciting, fascinating and fun however old you are."&#149; Further information can be obtained from: Age Concern 0208 765 7610; McCarthy &amp; Stone 0800 919 132; Saga Holidays 0800 0565880www.babyboomerbistro.org.uk
Of the 100 fastest-growing companies in the world, Tesco Direct has the best website (www.tescodirect.com). At least, that's the conclusion of a survey by the London School of Economics, which liked its customer service, ease of use and product range. So far, the service is predominantly geared to London and the south-west, but the whole country should be covered by the year's end.Sainsbury's service (www.sainsburys.co.uk) is also limited, servicing those inside the M25 only.Asda may be leading the way on discount prices, but is lagging behind when it comes to online shopping. You can't order atwww.asda.co.uk, but there is a home delivery service available that uses a CD-rom. Call 0845 300 7777 for details.Iceland's online shopping service (www.iceland.co.uk) is the most extensive, reaching 97% of the country. There is a minimum   order of &#163;40 but the delivery is free.Last week Waitrose extended its e-business, offering organics and flowers atwww.waitrose.com. Fruit and vegetables can be ordered online Tuesdays to Fridays, and delivered anywhere in mainland UK in 48 hours.Somerfield (www.somerfield.co.uk.) plans to launch its e-business next month.
Buy a house over the webLast week we saw a rash of medical sites emerging on the   web. This week we have a spate of estate agents - or at least two new sites - joining them.Launching on Monday iswww.easier.co.ukThe site will act as a property marketplace, where neither buyer nor seller pays fees. Estate agents normally take a fee of between 1% and 2%. According to Easier, that means sellers are coughing up on average around &#163;2,100, including VAT, on the sale of their home. Getting rid of the fees, says Easier, will revolutionise the domestic property market.When homes go on sale in Easier's searchable database, potential buyers can make   contact with the sellers via fax, email and soon by pager and mobile phone messaging. Easier will make its money by passing its users' details on to other companies involved in the house buying and selling process - from mortgage vendors to removal companies.Colchester businessmen Matthew and Simon Jackson have a similar idea and plan to launchwww.homefreehome.co.ukThey claimed to have launched the site last week, but when Online visited on Tuesday, there was nothing but a pre-registration page. Let's hope the site runs more smoothly after the launch.Find your US cousinsOccasionally you find a single web page that proves more interesting than anything in the big, expensive, super-hyped portals. Here's one of them.Hamrick software's surname distribution pageshows you how many people per 1,000 share your surname across each of the US states. Type in your name, find out where your kin have settled, and curse when you find it's somewhere hot and sunny.QuickTime with SpicesThose of us still boring disbelieving friends and colleagues with details of just how great the Spice Girls   were on tour last year have a new weapon in our armoury.  The whole of their final London gig at Earl's Court was recorded for posterity, and now the full QuickTime video is available for downloading at theSpices' website.  The pictures might be matchbox-sized, and potentially ruined by the sight of gyrating geek journalists, but otherwise it's still a spectacular show - if a little expensive to download in full, I found.Creds and credibilityThe concept of online cash is nothing new, and one which has yet to really take off - why bother when you can use your existing credit card?  But if you're under 18, and don't have your own flexible friend, e-cash might offer a welcome alternative to raids on the folks' wallets. That's certainly the hope ofY-creds, yet another e-payment system that hopes to become the online currency of choice for teenagers, despite its desperate-to-be-cool-vicar name.The idea is simple: parents use credit cards to buy credits, which teenagers then use to buy stuff at participating websites (the current exchange rate is 1,000 Y-creds to &#163;10).  The crux, of course, lies in how many - and which - retailers sign up to take Y-creds. There were only two shops when we looked earlier this week, but we're promised at least five more soon.Wearing wellLondon Fashion Week kicks off this Sunday. Find details of the events at the festival's predictably trendy website atwww.londonfashionweek.co.uk
You've overdone it, haven't you? That new year's resolution to take more exercise seemed like such a good idea. For a few weeks you managed to keep going, and you saw the turkey fat begin to melt from your waistline.Then your ankles swelled, your ligaments tore, your shoulder gave out, your tennis elbow returned, your knee popped or - as happened to me -your shins splintered.  Well that's what it felt like. Walking upstairs became agony, walking down again was worse. I have developed a bandy gait in order to try and keep the weight off my calves. Too much well-intentioned tennis, football and jogging, and now someone seems to be sticking needles through my legs.Friends told me to go to a sports injury clinic or physiotherapist, but either option will surely cost more money than I want to spend (my body is a temple without an offering plate). Maybe an online check-up, for the price of a local phone call, would be a sensible first option?I started atMedisport. It couldn't be simpler: you click where it hurts. Each area of the site's body map leads you to description of symptoms and details the possible cause of injury. Then you get advice on managing and treating the problem. They recommend the RICE method - rest, ice, compression and		 elevation - for managing a low grade injury in its early stages (not that mine is low grade, of course). There are illustrated details of exercises, biological information about what's going on with your body, and advice for helping it heal: vitamin C, surprisingly, is one tonic.Atwww.fitnessfind.comthere is a huge array of topics, easily accessible from the opening page: no map, but almost every part of the body seems to be covered, as well as different kinds of sport. It has also collated links to a vast array of articles and information available at other sources.   Titbits include how to avoid overtraining, arthritis hazards, excessive sweating, and 101 ways to stay fit when you're injured.AtThrive onlinethere is a searchable database of injuries and treatments, as well as direct access listings for the more common problems, like decompression illness and twisted testicle.It is, of course, the season for recovering from winter sports injuries. If the slopes have knocked you about, trywww.zyworld.com/aviemedThese are the web pages of a six-strong medical team based at the foot of the Cairngorms. As well as the obvious ski injury advice, it also has some interesting statistics on the newer dangers of snowboarding.Snowboarders, it seems are almost twice as likely to injure themselves as skiers, and twice as likely to fracture their bones. The typical profile of an injured boarder is (unsurprisingly) a young, inexperienced male. He will no doubt be gratified to learn that he boasts a pattern of typical injuries very different to those incurred by skiers.Some US ski sites offer something extra: tips on suing your fellow skiers when they have knocked you from your feet. James Chalat has a law practice in Colorado that specialise in skier on skier collision caseswww.skisafety.com. One client won $2.4m from another fumbling skier. Be warned: skiing in the US might hurt your wallet even more than your body.Of course, you may have opted to start the year with a safe, impact-free sport, such as swimming, and then been shocked by the onset of "swimmers ear".Help is at hand atwww.sinuscare.com, where you can learn how to combat the fungi and bacteria that can cause infections in the ear canal.There is advice on making your own eardrops with rubbing alcohol as the base. It also tells you about larger biological hazards: of the many types of insects that can get into the ears - gnats, moths, and cockroaches are apparently the most common. Gnats need special attention: they get tangled in the wax and cannot fly out.One thing I failed to find was a directory of UK sports injury clinics willing to take away my money and my pain.The National Sports Medicine Institute of the United Kingdomhas a site, but with little useful information. It does at least give a telephone number, which would help those needing to find local care.My particular torment, it seems, is caused by shin   splints. On the web I have found sound advice: rest (can do, no problem), and a series of exercises to help prevent a recurrence when I start training again.I plan to start the exercises as soon as I've per  fected my resting technique. After all, I should heed the advice given atwww.drugbase.co.za"Common sense, and the self-discipline of knowing when to stop, or when not to start, a session of physical   activity are two essential factors in avoiding any kind of injury."  I'm sure they're right. I should find the self-discipline to be able to listen to what my body is saying. Pass the peanuts.
British Sky Broadcasting yesterday staked its claim in the internet with plans to spend &#163;250m on the development of online services which build on its television brands over the next 12 to 18 months.The company also confirmed the establishment of a joint venture with telecoms company Kingston Communications to pump pay-TV and internet services down telephone cables in a further departure from its core satellite distribution business.Investors reacted enthusiastically to the plans, along with unexpectedly high subscriber numbers during the past six months, which nudged 4m for the first time. BSkyB shares ended the session 18% higher at &#163;19.15p, continuing a rise which has seen the price almost double since the beginning of the year.BSkyB chief executive Tony Ball said the &#163;250m would be invested in building up sky.com and skysports.com as well as developing new portals around news and entertain ment. Mr Ball said he aimed to make the sports site Britain's most popular from its present third place by the year's end."We see the convergence of media as a huge opportunity," he said. "I want to leverage Sky brands on all devices, whether PCs, broadband, TV or on mobile handsets." The company is close to a deal with BT Cellnet to provide content for its internet-enabled mobile phones.The cash will also be used to buy stakes in existing web businesses which can provide   content for the Sky services. Among the announcements yesterday was BSkyB's investment in books and music e-tailer Streets OnLine and Static, an interactive TV design consultancy. The company also launched a Sky branded online sporting goods retailer.BSkyB experienced record subscriber growth in its direct to home service during the last three months of 1999 of 384,000, taking the total to just under 4m, of which 2.1m were digital. Mr Ball said the total could feasibly reach 5m by the end of the year. Another 4.4m people subscribe to Sky channels through either cable or terrestial rival ONdigital.The increasing costs of acquisition, including the price of the free set-top box campaign pushed BSkyB into the red for the first half, recording a loss before tax of &#163;61.5m compared to profits of &#163;53.2m last year. Turnover was 13% higher at &#163;849.7m.Shares in Kingston climbed 24% to &#163;12.52, which means that Kingston-upon-Hull city council, the company's major shareholder, is now sitting on a stake worth around &#163;2bn.
There were audible sighs of relief from corporations and governments across the globe when 2000 dawned with little sign of the millennium bug and the computer meltdown doomsayers had predicted.But barely had exhausted IT operatives put their feet up after a punishing schedule of Y2K-compliance work than a series of alarming breaches of computer security began in Japan and the United States.It has already been a vintage year for hacking. On January 21 the celebrated hacker Kevin Mitnick was released from prison after serving five years for five fraud offences related to breaking into the computer systems of multinational giants including Sun Microsystems and Motorola."I saw myself as an electronic joyrider," Mr Mitnick, 36, told CBS television following his release. "I don't consider myself a thief."Neither did the hacking community. Hackers campaigned for his release by breaking into websites and daubing them with demands to "free Kevin". A campaign website pointed out that while hackers face harsh penalties, manslaughter in the US can be punished with as little as two years in prison.Mr Mitnick could not have taken part in the current spate of hacking even had he desired to - his release conditions forbid him access to any computer. But there is a growing community of young hackers carrying on where he left off. Ira Winkler, the president of the Information Security Advisory Group, estimates that the number of hackers worldwide has grown from 35,000 two years ago to 100,000 today.Late in January hackers began a high-profile campaign to crack open Japanese government websites. On at least five sites, links were inserted to porn websites.The Japanese government's computer systems are widely viewed as vulnerable compared to those in the US. Tokyo has pledged to tighten security to US levels over the next three years and announced the creation of a 30-strong special police force to combat hackers. A digital signature bill aimed at verifying internet users' identities is also to be submitted to parliament.This spate of hacking has coincided with a new law which came into force in Japan this month making it illegal to access sites without the proper clearance. As the US has   found, all attempts to tighten security on the internet serve to redouble the efforts of those who seek to break and enter computer systems or demonstrate free speech on the internet.But the hacking that brought down a host of bluechip US websites, including Yahoo! and Amazon, seems not to be part of any political manifesto but is more the result of a new phenomenon: the rise of the "script kiddie".Dozens of US teenagers have been accused of internet vandalism in the past few months alone. A group of teenagers recently boasted to the US media that they steal AOL identities and masquerade as other users "just for the pure joy of trying to ruin friendships by insulting friends who have no idea they are talking to a hacker and not the victim". They also caused a serious credit card scare by obtaining users' card details.And in Norway in January a 16-year-old was arrested for allegedly creating and distributing a software programme which enables the piracy of DVD movies.Another teenager, calling himself "Maxus", hacked into CD Universe's computers, stealing 300,000 credit card numbers. Maxus began publishing the company's customers' card numbers on his website after it refused his demand for a "Christmas present" of &#163;62,000.Most of these teenage cyber criminals broke or entered into corporate computers by parroting relatively simple computer "scripts" picked up freely on the internet. The "denial of service" attacks brought down Yahoo! and others by swamping the corporations' servers with multiple requests for information, so that other users could not access the site. Denial of service can also be created by "mail bombing" - flooding computer servers with mass emails."What we're seeing is adolescent pranks going mainstream," observed the MIT network manager, Jeff Schiller. The US justice department is attempting to stop children growing up to be script kiddies with a $300,000 (&#163;186,000) cybercitizen partnership campaign, aimed at promoting responsible, law-abiding surfing.Many script kiddies in the US are caught swiftly, often because they boast of their hacking exploits on the internet or are betrayed by their internet names.Jay Satiro, 19, was jailed for a year after hacking into AOL's computers and replacing programmes with his own. He   was banned from using a PC for five years.But hackers are able to cross national boundaries with ease. After the FBI was called in to investigate Maxus's attempts at extortion, a CD Universe spokesman, Brett Brewer, said the hacker had been identified as a teenager in Russia, but had not been apprehended.The elitist hacking community distances itself from the script kiddies. A statement by Hacker Quarterly described the recent attacks on corporate US sites as "malicious assaults on infrastructure" which "have nothing to do with hacking at all".Hackers prefer the term "crackers" to describe those who break and enter into   computers illegally to vandalise internet property or steal information."The world of hackers is 95% non-criminal," the US-based hackers' thinktank L0pht claims. "It is a world of people exploring the edges of technology and building things. The crazy thing is, the government is making more and more of that exploration illegal."The "hacker ethic" heralds "information sharing" as a "powerful positive good".This contrasts, hackers say, with crackers, who tend to gather in tight-knit, secretive groups. Crackers are proud of their sophisticated code-cracking - but they keep quiet about it, unlike the hacking   community, who make no secret of their distaste for government regulation of the internet and the lucrative hardware and software businesses run by Microsoft, IBM and others.The current spate of hacking will spur corporate America to close up computer "back doors" - the crackers' holy grail that allows them access to a computer system as often they like, even when the security system is enhanced or updated.But as long as America's computer-literate teens can cripple multinational and government websites, the glamour of hacking will continue to lure script kiddies to have a crack at infamy.
The bombardment with junk messages of internet sites likeYahoo!, the highly popular gateway to the web, andeBay, the electronic auction house, is both puzzling and instructive.It is puzzling because of the difficulty in fathoming the motives of digital saboteurs striking at some of the core values of the world wide web. CNN, one of the victims, offers news free, and Yahoo!, despite its hyper-inflated worth on the stock market (a cool $98bn) has steadfastly stuck to basic net values of mutualism and encouraging people to go where they want to go.It is instructive for two reasons. First, it shows how vulnerable the web is, and will continue to be, to the actions of mindless minorities bent on exploiting its openness for their own means. No amount of policing will ever be able to stop it because once one hole is plugged, others soon appear. In essence it is no different from any other kind of hooliganism - it is just that the global reach of the internet enables minorities to create   disproportionate havoc. But it is also instructive in underlining how much the net has shifted the balance of power from producers to consumers. On this occasion, the motives were malign. It could have been different: there might, for instance, have been co-ordinated complaints from consumers with a real grievance who could all click together or - even more powerfully - not click at all as a collective boycott of products deemed too expensive or unsafe.Net consumers are already negotiating discounts by buying in bulk and the fact that a single click could reveal a cheaper source is a global force keeping inflation down. The Seattle summit is a reminder of what can be achieved when individual lobbies link together through the web. This is not to deny that the net needs some sort of police force to prevent the events of this week from happening again. But in the end that may be the exception which proves the rule that the internet is on the side of the consumer.
Investigators have narrowed down the source of the initial attack on some of the world's biggest internet sites to 50 computer addresses, it was disclosed yesterday as more e-commerce and information providers were hit.Yahoo, the first site to be brought down on Monday by floods of useless information, was working with the Federal Bureau of Investigation to trace the hackers involved, but experts said that to do this it might not be enough to have the suspect computers' IP (internet protocol) addresses."Because the computer has been tracked doesn't mean that the machine is the culprit," said Sharon Machlis of Computer World magazine. "Some computers have the same IP all the time but someone could be spoofing them or seizing control of them. What you need to know is whether there is evidence in the machines of the guilty parties."Corporations and universities were most vulnerable to having their computers hijacked for the assaults, in which dozens or hundreds around the internet are instructed to bombard a target site, which runs out of memory and slows down or closes.ZDNet, an information tech nology site, and ETrade were both hit for a time yesterday, joining a progressively less exclusive club. Already hit on Tuesday were the commercial retailers Amazon.com and Buy.com, the auctioneer eBay and the media provider CNN.com. It emerged yesterday that the cyber assaults had slowed down traffic across the net by as much as 20%."The FBI is probably trying to mobilise everybody they have," said a US internet security consultant, Ira Winkler. "This is exactly what they've been fearing."Analysts were waiting to see where the hackers might strike next. "With the e-commerce side already under threat, it's logical that financial sites will be the next target," said Jyoti Banerjee, chief executive at TBC Research."So far consumers have been held up from buying CDs, so for the end user it doesn't cause much disruption. But hackers are just as capable of holding up trading in shares. If you lose trade in the markets it makes a very big difference." The disruption to Buy.com happened on the day of its initial public stock offering. Its chief financial officer, Mitch Hill, said the intrusions had been traced to computers in Boston, New York and Chicago.An FBI spokesman said it was too early to confirm that the attacks were linked, but those in the business were sure that they were."I have no doubt that these are coming from the same individual or group," said John Vranesevich, founder of antionline.com, a website that deals with security and hacking.The biggest challenge to the previously inexorable march of the internet coincided with a conference in San Jose, California, of the North American Network Operators' Group -with denial of access top of the agenda.Denial of service attacks can be launched without much technical skill by employing freely available programs such as Tribe FloodNet, hiding them on servers around the internet and then activating   them simultaneously.Experts were divided on the hackers' motives. Vesey Crichton, European marketing and strategy director for the AltaVista search engine, suggested that they could be driven by a number of urges or a combination. "They might want to show the vulnerability of the internet. Someone could be annoyed about all the hype and the feeling that the general public doesn't understand what they're doing on the net."They could be wistful for the net as it was, when it seemed to be just for a closed community, as opposed to how it is now. Or it could be pure malice. They could be anywhere. People think 'America' because we have the highest number of users and the most e-commerce and you get most attention here. Whether they are caught depends on how much information the companies have who have been hit, or perhaps someone will start bragging about it."Ted Julian, founder of @Stake, said: "There's no such thing as absolute security on the net just as there isn't in real life, but we can do a better job: we need better routers and better links so that we can better detect an attack before it happens."&#149; Victims and villainsBelgiumA hacker calling himself Red Attack threatened to switch off the power supply for two hours last September. When Electrabel, the Belgian power company, warned of the dangers of turning off the energy, the hacker simply proved he could carry out his threat by entering the computer code. The month before, a hacker broke into the computer system of the G&eacute;n&eacute;rale de Banque via its website. He got into customer accounts but never made a transactionLloyd's of LondonThe firm had to close down its website in early January after a hacker twice tried to break into its system. The hacker got into the website, leaving two messages, but could not tap into Lloyd's computer system: the website was run by an independent company and was therefore unconnected. The site offered information on brokers and agents but was not a vehicle for online business transactionsTV showsHackers infiltrated the computer systems of the UK quiz show Who Wants to be a Millionaire this month, trying unsuccessfully to steal questions and tamper with the choice of contestantsCitibankIn 1992 Vladimir Levin masterminded the first bank raid to use the internet, withdrawing more than $12m (&#163;7.5m) from Citibank accounts. Levin hacked his way into Citibank on an old computer in a St Petersburg accountancy firm and transferred large sums to accounts in countries around the world. He used a web of Russian expatriates to launder the stolen money. Levin   was arrested in 1995 at Stansted and extradited to the US, where he is serving a prison sentence. The FBI recovered most of the moneyItar-TassThe Russian news agency's website was defaced last December by hackers protesting against Russian action in Chechnya. They posted the message: "We're here to fight evil and our power is growing" and signed themselves Princes of Darkness and Angels of Freedom. At the time, Itar-Tass backed the military campaignMicrosoftThe free hotmail electronic mail service was broken into last September. Hotmail, hosting more than 40m users, had to shut down for five hours after a security problem was reported: email accounts could be read by anyone. A group called Hacker's Unite posted a web address which gave anyone who inputted a particular user name access to hotmail accounts. After logging on, people could send, receive and delete emails in that account. The group claimed it wanted to draw attention to Microsoft's "spotty security"The CIA, the Pentagon and the US governmentSpurred on by the movie Wargames in 1983, hackers, cyber terrorists and foreign governments have tried to break into the computer systems of the Pentagon, the CIA and other sensitive government departments. Success rates vary and security is constantly being tightened. There are thousands of attempts to crack military secrets every year and attacks have seen the web pages of the White House, FBI and departments of defence, energy and interior taken down for repairDTI and UK governmentHackers have twice broken into files at the depart ment of trade and industry, once in 1996 and again this year when a DTI computer was programmed to re-route email. The home office investigated nine cases of hacking break-ins last year, one of which was the leaking of the Macpherson report on the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry. The Northern Ireland office investigated seven. In August 1996 hackers ran up a &#163;1m phone bill for Scotland Yard, but did not access any filesThe Scottish and Welsh parliamentsScottish hackers cracked Scotland's official government website last September. They replaced a picture of the first minister, Donald Dewar, with one of the Scottish nationalist Alex Salmond. The group cracked the Welsh parliament's website tooYahoo!In 1997 hackers got into the Yahoo! website, replacing the home page with a ransom demand. Unless the noted hacker Kevin Mitnick was released, it said, a computer virus would be embedded in all Yahoo!-users' computers. The company dismissed the threat as a hoax
"Do you have pizza delivery men in Britain?" asked Bruce Schneider of Counterpane Internet Security, which is based in San Jose, in the heart of Silicon Valley outside San Francisco."What has happened to Yahoo! is as if someone who didn't like you ordered 100 pizzas to be delivered to your house all at the same time. How do you defend yourself against that?"Mr Schneider, whose company is working on a new security mechanism and liaising with other computer security companies, said that internet firms were now realising that they are almost powerless to resist a coordinated attack. Mr Schneider said that one of the greatest problems was that the hackers were not disrupting the internet companies for gain."It's not being done for profit," said Mr Schneider, who is one of a growing number of people entering the security   side of the internet world in response to the near panic caused by the disruption. "Nobody's making any money." He said tracing malicious hackers was similar to pursuing hit-and-run criminals as opposed to kidnappers, as there appeared to be no clear motive."You've got to step back," he said. "If this is being done from eastern Europe there is no way to track them down. If it's being done in the United States then there is a possibility."The task is vast, he said. Security and forensic experts visit the company that has been targeted and attempt to trace back the audit logs to see where the attack originated.Like the companies they service, the security firm's day starts at 8am and can often finish late into the night. It is a badge of honour for many young internet companies to work "24-sevens" (24 hours a day, seven days a week) - which merely adds to the complications in assisting with security. This is painstaking work and requires the co-operation of small internet companies in a field that has still not worked out how to police or protect itself."This is malicious vandalism rather than mischief," said Mr Schneider, whose company was founded four years ago as it became clear that computer security was not being taken seriously by many start-up companies in Silicon Valley. "At the moment no one knows how to defend against it. Blackmail is a possibility - but I would hope that doesn't happen."He said that there was no immediate solution in sight. One of the great strengths of the internet, its accessibility, is also turning out to be one of its great weaknesses. "There have been conferences on these attacks and we are trying to share knowledge," said Mr Schneider. But he acknowledged that there was no speedy solution in sight. "It's like curing malaria," he said. "You've got to drain the swamps."
Net listeningDavid Birch touches on an important point (Why content isn't king, Online February 3). The net could "make us all broadcasters not browsers". Yet most of the media, Guardian Online included, continue to discuss internet matters as though all users were passive, mindless consumers, browsers, surfers, thrill seekers or shoppers.No doubt there are many reasons for this, but an ingrained journalistic habit of resenting the audience talking back would seem to be one.  Why not devote some space each week to individual "broadcasters'" sites? OK, many of these are crap. But let a hundred flowers bloom - outside the commercial sector - and see what happens.Paul Hartmannguycroft@clara.co.ukMP3 crimeRe: Weblife: MP3 (Online February 2). It is one thing to buy a CD and make copies for one's own use (though still illegal), but quite another to conspire in the premeditated way described in this article.  Not only are Mr Trueman and his friends common thieves but he is also encouraging others to do likewise, itself an offence.I sincerely hope the Performing Rights Society has spotted this article and acts appropriately.  Ultimately, it won't be the multinationals that suffer but the writers and performers, who will simply go to the wall if their efforts go unrewarded.They're not all billionaires with yachts in the Bahamas but ordinary people who live in ordinary houses, just like the rest of us.  I can't begin to describe the contempt I feel for the author of this piece and your newspaper for printing it.Ian Nicoliannicol@talk21.comMP3 - why?It is perhaps because he is addicted that Paul Trueman can't explain why anyone would want to own an MP3 player - the digerati's 8-track.  Has someone come up with a means of recording MP3 files on to MiniDisk (a process much closer to home taping than what he describes)?  Until then, I'll "just say no".D. CameronStoke-on-TrentKey factsCharles Moseley (Online February 3) has done an admirable job of explaining public key infrastructure (PKI) but I fear he has fallen foul of a few of the common misconceptions peddled by some over-zealous converts.First, public certification authorities (CAs) do not "put applicants through a vetting process in order to ensure that they are reliable and trustworthy."  They are, in fact, vetting applicants to ensure that they are who they claim to be.Rather than thinking of the public CAs as a brokers of trust we should consider them an authority on identity.  Second, public CAs do not hold all private keys as this would place them in an untenable situation with regard to liability.The CA will incorporate the client's public key into a certificate saying that the identity has been checked and that this is the person's public key. But if they were to ever see a copy of the matching private key then they would be equally responsible for the actions of the holder.There would now be two people who could have signed a document and so non-repudiation (the inability to deny responsibility) would be lost.  Finally, Mr Moseley mentions legal recognition now in place for digital signatures. In fact the Electronic Communications Bill has not yet passed into law and many believe it will be some time yet before this happens.This is mainly due to the unworkable provisions for electronic eavesdropping by law enforcement agencies.Philip RyanHead of InformationSecurity, Peapod Group
If it's raining and miserable outside and you can't be bothered to pop down to your local for a pint, you could log onto the web instead and drop into AOL's virtual pub.This online tavern is one ofAOL's many themed chat rooms. It might not serve real beer but it does have a virtual jukebox and, unlike your local, it's not full of smoke and you can chat for as long as you want without getting slung out by some bad-tempered landlord.These kinds of innovative chat services are now common on the web.Virgin Netoffers more than 200 themed rooms for everyone from teenagers and gays to senior citizens - or "silver surfers" as they are now known.Yet chat is not always what it claims to be. Rooms might be billed as an opportunity to discuss politics and current affairs. But often they are little more than virtual pick up zones. Other visitors might profess to be interested only in the goings-on at Westminster but the majority are frequently web lonely hearts desperately looking for a bit of cheap cyber-foreplay.Although it is used as an easy opportunity for virtual flirting, chat still manages to operate successfully on a number of other levels. For example, there are plenty of educational chat rooms online and a great many people believe chat fulfils an important social role.Take celebrities. They love chat and are queuing up for more. Everyone from David Beckham to Dickie Bird has done one, usually to please   sponsors or promote new books and CDs. PR advisers adore them too, because celebrity chats are moderated (marketingspeak for censored) so there is no risk of anyone being stitched up in a traditional tabloid way.Last year when Monica Lewinsky came to London to publicise her book at the height of Zippergate, she agreed to do a moderated online chat with AOL UK. Her US spin doctors decided it would be a lot safer than throwing her into a live Newsnight studio where she could have been savaged by Jeremy Paxman. As it was, she broke down at Harrods under the pressure and the entire media schedule, offline and online, was scrapped.But what do ordinary online punters make of their opportunity to chat anonymously for as long as they like with complete strangers? "People like the idea of owning a separate identity," explains Virgin Net's assistant community producer, Pete Mitchell. "In a chat room, no one sees what you look like. People can just be whoever they want to be."Most web-based chat rooms encourage surfers to choose new identities. It's like instant cosmetic surgery. There are hardly any chat rooms left where you are encouraged to be yourself and use your own name. If you log ontoActive Worlds, you can chat as a dinosaur or as a robot and move around and approach people in shiny new virtual worlds. AtDoBeDoyou can choose to become a cowboy if you like, and roam freely across the online prairies of DoBeDo country, chatting to other cartoon characters.For many net users, chat rooms offer a break from the restrictions of ordinary offline life. Chat is really nothing more than good old fashioned escapism in a different guise. It's a virtual masked ball with the attraction of a traditional fairground ride.But many people are still more than happy to denigrate chat. Often chatters are labelled as social misfits. They are dismissed as the maladjusted outcasts of the offline world and the cruel label of "Billy No Mates" often gets put about. But chatting is not the preserve of the socially-estranged, and anyway, would it matter if it was?Chat can and frequently does bring families closer together. It helps to construct new friendships across age-old cultural divides. It consoles the lonely and it throws a social lifeline to the house-bound.In fact chat is whatever you want it to be. It can be deadly serious and it can be wonderfully trivial. You can chat about anything from the   health of a pet hamster to the adventures of Buzz Lightyear and the complete works of Amadeus Mozart. It is constantly innovating too.Internet relay chat (IRC) is extremely popular at the moment. Most people swear by it. But some critics complain the software can be tricky to use and IRC users are renowned for getting grumpy with any new comers.One of the latest chat products is the much-hypedGooey. Download the free software and rove across the net, chatting with other Gooey users. It will let you send and receive files, watch videos and receive up to date news reports from traditional media outlets like Reuters. But it's not all good. Just ask a Mac user what they think of Gooey. A Mac version has been promised but so far one has failed to emerge.Whenever you enter a live chat room for the first time -and it is definitely worth it for the experience - it's hard not to be momentarily transfixed by the torrent of text messages rushing down your screen. It's a voyeur's paradise.Whatever the time of day, wherever you are, millions of people are in chat rooms, chatting away. There is no clearer evidence that the web is revolutionising communication.Whether it's educated debate or showbiz gossip, people are talking more freely on the web. The traditional tight British lip has been killed off in cyberspace and chat, despite its many flaws, offers a Speaker's Corner for everyone. And if you don't like it, you can just click off.
The Me generationThe last version of Microsoft Windows 95/98 will be called Windows Millennium Edition - or Windows Me - and, according to the usually well-informed WinInfo newsletter, will ship on May 26.It won't be very different from Windows 98, but will include updates to match the new Windows 2000 interface and a Movie Maker program for handling digital video. Me will also see the final removal of MS-DOS. For details, seewww.winsupersite.com/faq/faq_millennium.htmWhy Millennium? Microsoft got into a naming problem after it turned the pre-launch Windows NT5 (New Technology) into Windows 2000.That was when Microsoft was saying that Windows 98 would be the last-ever version of Windows 95, and would be replaced by the more powerful, more secure, stable, multi-tasking, multi-processor NT version. In other words, the Microsoft story hasn't changed at all between Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows 98 Second Edition and Windows Me. The real question is whether it really means it this time.Buying BorlandCorel Corporation, Canada's largest software house, is using a $2.4 billion share-swap to take over Inprise, which was called Borland International until the name's former glory became too much of an embarrassment.Corel has already soaked up WordPerfect Corporation and Borland's Quattro spreadsheet - or the remains cast off by Novell, the network software company, which bought them first. Both are part of the WordPerfect Office suite, which was trounced by Microsoft Office in the applications market.  Duncan Stewart, fund manager at Tera Capital Corporation in Toronto, compared the deal to a boa constrictor swallowing a 200-pound pig.Corel had a huge success with CorelDraw for Windows, but has been struggling after falling for the Java hype and also investing in network computer "appliances". The combined companies, which had revenues of $418 million last year, are now betting on the latest bandwagon: Linux, the clone of the old Unix operating system. Corel has already produced Corel Linux (based on Debian's version of GNU/Linux) and will launch WordPerfect Office 2000 for Linux for &#163;150 in March.  Borland's sales peaked at $482.5 million in 1991.Hot chipsThe annual International Solid-State Circuits Conference (ISSCC), which started on Monday in San Francisco, California, is where chip   manufacturers take their bragging to the limits. This year, IBM looks like winning with its IPCMOS (interlocked pipelined complementary metal oxide semiconductor) chips that it says could reach speeds of 3.3GHz to 4.5GHz, four times today's speeds.Going gigaBoth Intel and AMD (Advanced Micro Devices) have chips running at 1GHz, which might be built this year using the production lines that are currently making 700-800MHz parts. IBM and Compaq also have 1GHz versions of their PowerPC   and Alpha processors. But Intel is expected to reveal details of the next version of the Pentium - code-named Willamette, after a river in Oregon - at its Professional Developers Conference in Palm Springs, California, next week. Willamette may appear in October, and is expected to replace the Pentium III in 2001-2002. It will run at speeds of 1GHz plus.Intel is also working on a Celeron (Pentium II) replacement - code-named Timna, after a valley famous for its copper mines in Biblical times - which will have built-in graphics.CDs in minutesIt takes only six minutes to copy any tpe of CD using Odixion's DigiCopier DG1-12X which, as the name implies, is a 12x speed CD-R burner. But the system's real appeal is its ease of use. The DigiCopier is a standalone device which is operated via a simple LCD screen: no technical knowledge is required.The new DigiCopier can also be used to make rewritable CD-RW discs, in which case it operates at 4x speed. The system does not need to be connected to a computer, but includes a SCSI interface and software so that it can be linked to a PC or Apple Macintosh. The DigiCopier DG1-12X, including 10 Philips 12X Silver Premium blank discs, costs &#163;849 plus VAT (&#163;997.58): if you already own a PC, it's not the cheapest way to copy CDs. But for companies sending out images, presentations, music and other large data files on CD, speed and convenience could make it an attractive purchase.Suits you, sirIs that a mobile phone in your pocket, or are you just dressed strangely? Launching a new mobile phone, NEC teamed up with designer Alexander McQueen to create a suit especially designed for the mobile phone-toting man about town. The result is this silvery affair, which effortlessly combines the need to have a mobile phone in your breast pocket with a fetish for dressing like Dr Evil from the Austin Powers movies. Who says Cool Britannia is dead?
When did you discover the internet?In 1992, in Japan, I worked with a lot of programmers at Kyoto university and they had an access point to the internet before it was released for commercial use in Japan. In the beginning it was very rare for people to use the internet so you became quite good friends with the other people using it. A lot of the programmers and scientists I met then could be very shy when you were face to face with them but email allowed them to show a whole new side to their character.Any favourite places on the net?Osaka Gas in Japanis full of recipes. Also really boring stuff likeBritish Airwaysfor all my travelling arrangements.How did you come to set up the first children's search engine in Japan?I'd worked closely with local government to promote the internet and I had the opportunity to work with the largest teachers' organisation in Japan. I thought it was important for children to learn how to acquire proper information. So, instead of restricting sites by key words, we got an initial list of about 5,000 sites that we felt were actually beneficial for childrenwww.krp.co.jp/toss.How do we compare with Japan as regards the internet?I've lived in England for two years now and when I go back to Japan I get amazed at the new technologies. Here the main value is in information, not the technology, and I think you are ahead there. For example, subjects like media studies are taught at school here, which I think is a valuable way of teaching critical thinking. Whereas in Japan, you would have to go to college in order to learn anything like that.How important is e-commerce to you?Things that you don't actually have to see and feel - books, CDs, games - will be more successful than items such as clothes. Sony has just announced that it's going to start selling its games over the net, so it's definitely growing.Anything you'd like to see changed about the internet?I'd like to see more boutiques on the net. There are sites you can go to but they don't have that boutique feel where you know that they'll always have something you like. That goes for information too - I'd like to see it become more streamlined rather than trying to have everything.Do you feel that more gaming will soon take place online?It's going to become less important where you're actually playing the games. There will be some cultural differences, though. For example, in this country you won't see a grown man reading cartoons on the underground whereas in Japan you can see men in business suits reading mangas and playing Game Boys on the train.&#149;  Video System's website can be found at:www.dreamsquare.co.jp
Living with the simsThe SimsWindows 95/98 &#163;34.99 Maxis/Electronic Arts  *****If you've ever fancied keeping Britney Spears or Leonardo DiCaprio as a pet, this is the program for you. The sims are little simulated people of the sort you might previously have imagined living inside earlier Maxis games, such as Sim City or Sim Tower.They have their own friends, jobs and lives, but you can order them about - useful if Britney has to clean the kitchen floor or take a shower.However, the Sims game has three modes - build, buy and live - and you learn them in reverse order. The easiest way to play is to continue the tutorial game based on a sim, Bob Newbie, and his house. You can also start a new game with ready-made sims, then buy and furnish a house. (Remember the essentials for life in America include a    shower, toilet, fridge, and TV set, even in simland.)Or you can build a house and design your own sims from scratch, which means you can simulate real houses and real people.No doubt there will be a web-wide market for recognisable characters or "skins", including pop singers and movie stars. The tools are available atwww.TheSims.com, and you can already download the game's designer, Will Wright. However, when sims use the toilet or take a shower, modesty is preserved by making the graphics blocky.Watching the sims live does have a somewhat voyeuristic fascination, of course, but ultimately this is a capitalistic time-and resource-management game. To "win" - or just survive - you need to push your sims into getting jobs and developing their careers. You can then spend their earnings on toys (including computers), furniture, and home   improvements. Buy, buy, buy.However, in some respects, the program is very liberal: your sims can develop relations with, and move in with, neighbour sims of any race or sex. Bisexual polygamists will have few causes for complaint.What lets The Sims down is the technology. The 3D graphics look good but the scrolling is jerky, and the control system can be a nightmare. Getting, say, a fridge in the right place and facing the right way can be a cumbersome procedure. If your PC has a fast 3D graphics card, prepare to weep.Nor are the sims based on a form of "digital DNA" like the Norns in Creatures, so there's no point in breeding them, and they don't grow old and die. The Sims doesn't simulate life so much as a doll's house.But it's a very addictive doll's house that should appeal to a much wider market than the average computer game, including women.(JS)Plastic privates on paradeArmy Men 3DPlayStation 3D0 **Ah, the times we had: lining up plastic soldiers on the garden wall, making poor attempts at mimicking the sound of gunfire, insisting that we had shot first.Such nostalgia, to be honest, is the principal, and perhaps only, appeal of Army Men 3D. For those who never pursued childhood campaigns of green against tan, the nostalgia might just translate into novelty; but not for long.Because, once you've become accustomed to the idea of toy massacre, and laughed a few times at plastic corporals being reduced to a sticky mess by a well-aimed flamethrower, there really isn't much more to look forward to.The single-player mode is   just too easy. this is one of those disappointing games where, if you've mastered the first level, you've mastered the game.Although your choice of weapons is restricted - rifle, mines, flamethrower, the occasional vehicle - it's more than adequate to take out the terminally dim-witted forces opposing you.The multiplayer mode is a little more satisfying, but, afflicted with the same mediocre graphics and music, it's never going to keep you up beyond bedtime.When all's said and done, it would be more cost-effective to track down your childhood friend and dig out a couple of plastic platoons from the attic.  (AB)Mickey Mouse in a rat raceMickey's Adventure RacingGame Boy Color Rare &#163;24.99 ***UK coder Rare is known for many things - Goldeneye, cutesy graphics - but it could never be accused of profligacy. It has always practised the "not-ready-till-it's-ready" philosphy when it comes to actually producing games. However, in Rare terms, the last month or two has seen the floodgates open.First out was Jet Force   Gemini on the N64, swiftly followed by Donkey Kong 64. Sandwiched neatly in between was Mickey's Adventure Racing for the Game Boy.The Disney licence is not a good selling point for post-teen Game Boy players but, despite this handicap, MAR is a good companion for that long train journey. This is mainly because the racing itself is so enjoyable. Viewed from an isometric angle you get to race Mickey, Goofy and the rest over land and sea,   changing vehicles as the situation demands.Despite the format limitations there is little slowdown on screen and there is a real sense of achievement when you cross the finishing line.Unfortunately the off-track activities annoy. The Boulderdash-style mini games are fun but the traipsing between house and village is not. This "adventure" section comes across as an excuse to bump up longevity by forcing a lengthy hike to the nearest   upgrade garage or to change characters.Nevertheless this is a well-animated title and the quality of the racing element makes up for flaws elsewhere.  (GH)
Yvonne Krasner is a brave woman, according to her friends. "People said to me, oh you were very brave. But I didn't see it like that. When you are looking for a relationship, you have to help yourself."If you are alone this Valentine's Day, Krasner's bravery might interest you. Nine months ago, she posted a message on Arkline.com, an internet dating service. She is 29, a charity worker from London with her own teeth and a personality. It was a courageous move."A friend of mine twisted my arm," she says, after checking with her fianc that the circumstances of their introduction can be revealed without mortification. "My friend persuaded me that no one would get hold of my home details."But, whadyaknow? Someone got hold of her heart instead and she and Richard Cohen, a 30-year-old marketing manager from London, were engaged to be married a week last Sunday.Krasner's behaviour only counts as brave if you see the internet as a playground for predators and deviants. Otherwise, praising her courage is a rather underhand compliment, reminiscent of the woman who turns up at a party in a monstrous frock, to be told in silky tones: "How very brave."Yet while it will always be easy to sneer at introduction services, whatever their medium, the impact that the web is having on dating conventions is such, that, "we met over the net" is fading as an admission of desperation and fast becoming a standard line. Many of the couples exchanging chocolate hearts on Monday will have conducted the first flush of their courtship over the internet.
Joe Johnson is 29, his fiance, Deborah, 27. The two "met" three years ago in an obscure US chatroom. "I was telling a joke," says Joe, "and before I could type out the punchline, Deborah had finished it for me. It was apparent that we had the same sense of humour."The slow trajectory of their relationship is typical of web-spun love affairs. First, they revealed the real names behind their log-ons. Then, they exchanged email addresses. Finally, they swapped phone numbers. "It was four or five months before we actually met up," says Joe. He travelled down from Wigan to see Deborah in London and on new year's eve, 1998, asked her to marry him. "You get to know each other slowly over the web, which stands you in good stead when the arguments come later.""You can chat to someone over the web without really committing yourself," says Krasner. "There are no strings, no ties: you don't have to speak to them on the phone. It all happens very casually."None of this should come as a surprise. Think about it: with the web as cupid, you don't have to meet the person until you have corresponded for long enough to be sure they won't bore you; you can run a whole stable of potential lovers without risk of having your polygamy exposed; and if you attach importance to the quality of your prospective partner's prose style, you can weed out the time wasters who type in upper case, or use three exclamation marks with each statement, after a single email."Using the web is a lot less nerveracking for making first contact," says Guy Morris, the operations director for Dateline UK. "Whereas you might be nervous about making a phone call, you can send an email saying hello with very little emotional effort." In 1997, dateline.uk.com had 168 clients and received 1079 hits a day. Last week, it registered 1,142 clients and was doing traffic in the region of 10,000 hits a day.Like most on-line dating services, it has more male than female clients and relies on users filling in a questionnaire, much the same as Dateline's print service. What happens next, however, is almost a return to the epistolary romances of the 19th century. Flirtatious emails fly back and forth in gentle courtship that can go on for months before the two parties meet."A hundred years ago, a woman would post two letters a day to a man who lived on the other side of town," says Jenni Trent Hughes, the agony aunt at Handbag.com and author of the On-Line Guide To Dating. "That was how people got to know each other - on paper. This is just the 21st century version.""Because we're both Jewish, it was almost like going back to the very basics of forming a relationship, when all you did was talk," says Krasner. "Sometimes you didn't even meet until you had talked enough to realise that this was potentially the right person."Given the space available on the web, the idea is that you can lessen the chances of finding the wrong person by filling in pages of personal trivia. You can specify what hair and eye colour you prefer, what height and breadth, even what dietary requirements, although, strangely, the dating services are coy about asking for users' political persuasion or reading habits.The results are, at best, approximate. The conservative profile I enter in Match.com returns 405 men, among them some real clangers. For example, I am 97% compatible with a man whose catch-line is, "I'm looking for some hot sex, are you?" a match I can only think has been licensed on the strength of my not being a vegetarian."Crazy young thing seeks love bunny" doesn't entice much, and "I value honesty, having been lied to before" is in 10-foot bargepole territory. "I have Italian roots which have influenced my looks quite a lot" has me envisaging the guy's hairline.After some false starts, however, I find Jason, a 25-year-old from Essex. "I am a sales professional with a nice car and flat. I love to go out or stay at home. I like nice food, nice places and nice company. A sense of humour is essential." In his first email, Jason  (not his real name) abides by the primary rule of internet dating, Flag up your Solvency. "You get a better class of people over the internet," Peter Ronan had boasted earlier in the day. Ronan runs the Singles Network, a free internet service with 184 clients clinging to the belief that the cost of connection charges keeps out undesirables. "Because the internet is still quite expensive, you are getting a classier type of person."Apart from the non-sequitur in this statement, it ignores the main virtue of internet dating: namely that it diminishes preoccupations with class, looks and other superficialities; that in spite of the eugenics of ticking eye-colour boxes, what you essentially judge your date on is his ability to banter over email. "So much of getting to know someone is based on wondering if they are in the same class as you are or went to the same sort of school," says Jenni Trent Hughes."A lot of this is toned down over the internet. It comes out in the end, of course, but it's not the same barrier it is in a face to face relationship."
Perhaps because of the lingering sense that only teenage desperados trawl the web, looking for love, the tone of Jason's first missive is influenced by a need to establish his demographic. "My car is less than three months old and is about to have its 12,000 mile service," he writes. "I live in a flat which is way bigger than I need. I have a boring job although it pays well."After one day of corresponding, however, Jason and I are getting down to the fundamentals.  "Right, Burger King for quality, quantity and value, McDonald's because sometimes you just want a small soggy cheap burger," he writes. "Too right we should boycott Austria" - and, in answer to the key question, was the Littlest Hobo sad or happy to be moving on at the end of each episode: "I think the Littlest Hobo was happy to be moving on. It was his mission in life and that is that. He has a destiny to fulfil." We are compatible on every point except the last one.It is only at the end of the third day of our increasingly lengthy email exchanges, that the subject of looks is raised, and then as a tentative aside in the final paragraph. The downside to this mutual chivalry is, of course, that it is open to abuse. "Be honest, we can't emphasis this enough," says Ronan at the Singles Network. A salient lesson can be learnt from an exchange currently raging on Koshersex.com, a Jewish dating service where the cover of an internet predator - a married man cruising for single girls - has been blown."Girls," reads a message, buried deep in the singles ads, "a word of advice from his wife. Please beware of the guy advertising as above. He has destroyed many Jewish hearts and will continue to do so for as long as you allow him. Do not respond to his Spanish ad under the header ShalomBaby."The husband, if this message is genuine, ripostes further down with: "Some people are really nasty and enjoy making other people's lives difficult. It is amazing how bitter and twisted some people are."Without the aid of body language, it is more difficult to spot the creeps in the chat rooms, although if you're sensitive to language, the clues are usually there. If everything goes well and you meet your destiny over the web, you'll find there is one thing that the new medium hasn't changed: the sentimental value attached to yellowing love letters, even when an indelible electronic version exists.True to history, Joe and Deborah are keeping printouts of their emails, in a box, for when they're old.An  e-lover  repliesDear EmmaHello. Thanks for your email, very unexpected but a very nice surprise. I have a boring job in sales, although it is very easy, pays well and gives me a new car every year or so! I love comedy and humour, especially silly humour - Bottom, Vic and Bob, Monty Python, and a ton of other stuff. I don't take life very seriously, and laugh at every opportunity. I love music, and have diverse tastes from 80s to dance, soul to rock. I do not like country, and have trouble with classical music. Oh, I am also a massive Friends fan, I hope that doesn't scare you.I have just started going to the gym in the last few days. I am not fat or very unfit, I just haven't done any real exercise for a while. I drive everywhere - my car is less than three months old and is about to have its 12,000 mile service.
I live by myself in a flat which is way bigger than I need, but I love my space. I am a little bit mad, but I like me this way!I am now at that stage in life where I think I won't get older this birthday, I'll just repeat the last one a few times.
Please write back soon, and tell me loads about you. Be lively.JasonDear EmmaI can't dance, well, I can after nine pints and a few bottles of wine, or at least I think I can. 
I can't play the piano, but would like one as an ornament.I've never really got into the whole South Park thing - I have watched a couple of episodes, and liked it, but wouldn't break my neck to watch it. I have a brilliant DVD player and I spend a lot of tv-viewing time watching good films. I only have about 20 disks as they are so expensive, but you can rent them so I do that lots too.Don't really know what else to say.
Write back soon, maybe with some more silly questions?!?BonjourJason
The hubbub in concerned circles these days is that AOL-TimeWarner, and now Time-Warner-Elektra mergers herald a dangerous trend. The dark enemy at the heart of this nightmare scenario? Media Monopoly.I understand the fear - however misplaced. I get it myself sometimes, and it goes something like this: a single giant company or corporate conglomerate will control virtually all the media content that we are exposed to. That company will have the ability to censor, or "edit", news and points of view that do not serve its own profit-making agenda.The bigger the conglomerate, the more "special interests" there are to be protected. So if, for example, General Electric owns NBC,   there might be a lack of news stories in which satellite technology or defence department spending are criticised.In essence, the bigger a media conglomerate gets, the more watered down its content will become as it caters to the interests of its own executives and shareholders. And the worse a conglomerate gets at reporting the news, the more people will look for alternatives.Consider what happened to Time magazine when its parent company, Time-Life, merged with Warner Brothers. The magazine rapidly turned into a cheerleader for entertainment culture. No, not all the covers were about Time-Warner properties, but the news magazine surrendered its objectivity about the role of entertain ment in human affairs to sell its conglomerate's products and culture. When Time-Warner absorbed CNN, the cable news network lost its edge. This was no longer the anything-goes network of Ted Turner, media cowboy.CNN created a TV show along with Time to produce pulp so sensationalist that it led to public scandal.The bigger a media company gets, the worse it gets, and the less money it makes. Time-Warner is really just a name on a big load of debt.   Now, AOL has signed on to help pay the behemoth's bills. Watch it go down, too.Unlike monopolies in the real world, media monopolies in a networked environment will tend to fail. Networks thrive on - and promote - diversity. The more monolithic a content enterprise, the more limited its reach. By going through the mediaspace and turning various properties into AOL-Time Warner productions, the conglomerate only reduces their potential impact. It turns them all into the same thing. This produces a vacuum for someone else to create what's been destroyed.I guess we can worry about what monopolies might do to the internet. On some level, I suppose, it feels like we're living through that same transition from ham   radio to broadcast radio - when the spectrum was taken away from hobbyists and given to corporations. But AOL won't even be using the internet. It has just bought Roadrunner, an interactive cable network. In fact, the internet may just get freed up for more civic use as conglomerates migrate to other conduits, such as coaxial cable, for their broadband offerings.Speaking of which, I'm having a hard time imagining just what sort of broadband media content they could pipe into my home that I'd be willing to pay for. And believe me, so are they. I'm looking forward to the kind of interactive games that Sony is working on more than commercials with "buy" buttons.Maybe I've simply outgrown my ability to imagine   what's coming, but I don't see it in AOL-TimeWarner, or any media monopoly, for that matter. Time magazine is a commercial for the business of media; CNN is just another news channel; and I've never been a fan of AOL's web-censorship policies. I can't imagine how their collaboration will yield anything better.The blandification of packaged media is only compounded by their mergers. And the more they merge, the fewer of them there are, and the easier it will be to identify alternatives.As packaged media content becomes increasingly less compelling, people may think more about using these networks to organise something truly living for themselves. For in a media monopoly, it's no longer us against them - it's us against "it".
Gran Turismo topples ZeldaSony's Gran Turismo 2 game shifted about 130,000 copies worth &#163;4.3 million over its first weekend, overtaking Nintendo's Zelda 64 to become the UK's fastest-ever selling title. The game accounted for more than half of the full-priced PlayStation market, and more than a third of the PlayStation games sold over the weekend. After its first week on sale in the UK, GT2 had sold about 250,000 copies.Pok&eacute;mon powers aheadThe four best-selling console games in the US last year were all for Nintendo's Game   Boy Color, according to figures just released by research firm PC Data. The top four were Pok&eacute;mon Yellow, Pok&eacute;mon Blue, Pok&eacute;mon Red, and Pok&eacute;mon Pinball. Pok&eacute;mon Snap, for the Nintendo 64, also made the top 10, which included only three non-Nintendo games: Sony's Gran Turismo, Square's Final Fantasy VIII, and GTI's Driver. PC Data reckons US sales of console and PC games grew by 21% to a record $7.4 billion.Sony stocks upSony is manufacturing truckloads of PlayStation 2 games consoles for sale in Japan early next month. Last week, Sony advisor Kiyoshi Yamakawa told the Reuters news service that "the company hopes to sell two million units in the first two days of the launch". On sale date is expected to be March 4, following a public preview in Tokyo on February 18-20.Keegan's comebackKevin Keegan returns to fantasy football management at the end of next month with   Premier Manager 2000 for the Sony PlayStation. The long-running title, published by France's Infogrames, has more of everything than last year's Keegan-endorsed chart-topper Premier Manager 99, including leagues for England, France, Spain, Italy, and Germany.DinobitesThe dinosaurs are preparing to take over the world, or at least the gaming part of it. Sid Meier, famed designer of games such as Civilization and Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, is keeping a diary of the new title's progress atwww.firaxis.com/dinosaursSpeak, memoryMicrosoft plans to include real-time voice technology in its DirectX software interface. The idea is to provide a readily-accessible way for players to talk to one another in multi-player games. DirectPlay Voice is being developed from Shadowfactor's Battlefield Communicator technology, which Microsoft picked up by buying the company.
SheffieldThe entrepreneurs - wearing green badges - were out in force at Sheffield's rock and pop music museum, reassuring First Tuesday that its first expedition beyond the M25 was not going to be in vain.As in Manchester and Newcastle upon Tyne, where the Pitcher and Piano bar attracted another good throng, Yorkshire's turnout suggested that the e-commerce world is going to be an eeh-world too."We all know that Leeds has got some big e-companies already, like Planet Online and the Press Association set-up" said Jonathan Armstrong, a Sheffield solicitor whose intellectual property specialism is tapping a host of internet copyright applications. "But here in Sheffield, we seem to be particularly strong in small e-companies and individuals with bright e-ideas - just the people looking for advice from the likes of me with capital." On cue, with his nose ring reflecting the National Centre's spotlights, Gary Kusula schmoozed up, to chat about the web application development he's been working on in the next-door Science Park of Sheffield Hallam university.In his early twenties, he is looking for a backer. "Trouble is, you don't tend to get many red badges &#91;investors&#93; at these gigs," said Gary to nods of agreement from his friend Martyn Bailey - one of the   few in the room to have bucked the first-name-only rule on the tags. Labelled solemnly as "Mr Bailey", he otherwise looked the part of the cool e-businessperson (head of a Yorkshire internet service provider), with a ponytail and hands still chalky from the climbing wall where he'd been working out.Both men circled the museum's huge powder blue Cadillac in pursuit of two newly-arrived red badges, Suzanne and Michael Brand from Captum venture capital in Derby. The pair, trained in hard American business schools, are immigrants to the North via East Anglia.They ran the first angels' network of online venture capitalists in Norfolk before being bought out.The couple, whose firm's name is Latin for "capacity-building", are trying to turn the same trick in the Midlands and South Yorkshire. As the schmooze developed, oiled by free wine and the buzz from 250 guests, the Brands moved closer to a besuited knot of yellow badges (consultants, solicitors, accountants) where Jonathan Armstrong was outlining the difference between Yorkshire e-commerce and   the county's traditional ways of making brass. "Just as they tend not to wear suits, Northern e-entrepreneurs seem generally keen for things to be informal," he said."The e-commerce world is very fast-moving and they all want to crack on with doing the deals."The Brands agree, noting that a traditional firm takes between two and five years to develop that tradition of solidity which accompanies Yorkshire business people all over the world. "But with e-firms," says Suzanne, "you're talking about the whole thing being ready - and maybe even sold - by 18 months. It's all incredibly quick."Another Sheffield e-entrepreneur, Russ Walker, who runs an IT consultancy with his partner Helen Piddock, says: "You can't get by on the internet as far as networking is concerned. You've got to come to events like this to meet the people face to face."Optimists like Warren Bone of the regional Transport and General Workers' Union hope for a "virtuous circle", if e-business raises awareness in the North of an e-successor to the locally-strong mail order business."We still have some diabolical infrastructure here," he said. "If e-shopping goes the way it seems to be, there's going to be deliveries all over the shop and where you get more lorries, you tend to get better roads."Jonathan Armstrong sees that coming too, with interactive TV ordering   bringing a huge widening of the sophisticated internet shopping clientele.He says: "We know the demography of the internet and e-commerce and at the moment it is something like 85% made up of ABC1s. But TV developments and mobiles are going to change that and see a strong movement downmarket. That's a plus for the North."In the same way, suggests graphic design e-entrepreneur Peter Harwath, the gizmos of the e-world may appeal to a region where cherished car numberplates have particular appeal. He says: "There's a lot of bar room talk on the lines of 'My website's bigger than yours' and a tendency for clients to want the latest and most amazing thing."Ian Germer of Vodafone conjured up a world of mini-phones with e-facilities small enough to wear as ear-rings "which your kids will want to have in the playground to show off".A four-mobile man himself, Mr Germer encountered a nice piece of Northern scepticism, before the evening settled into post-presentation schmooze. "Anyone who asks Ian a question will get a free baseball cap," said the First Tuesday gofer ."I will," said a Yorkshire voice . "Can he tell us when we can go two miles with our mobiles without being disconnected by signal failure?"  (MW)ManchesterIt was an eclectic crowd of more than 300 e-entrepreneurs, venture capitalists and computer programmers that squeezed into the fashionable glass-panelled Bar 38 in the heart of Manchester for the inaugural meeting of First Tuesday North.They may not have looked like natural business partners but everyone, without exception, was busy e-mingling, e-networking and cutting e-deals.With similar gatherings in 38 cities across the globe, First Tuesday is devoted to realising the e-commerce dream and the North of England is its latest target.Among the crowd was Alex Allan, the government's newly appointed e-envoy. "It's fantastic, isn't it?" he said, looking around the bar which was buzzing with fresh ideas. It is precisely the kind of event Tony Blair has asked him to foster."Small businesses used to take a cautious approach to e-commerce," he explains. "Often they would say: 'it's all rather difficult', or 'how will I get the finance?', or 'I'm not sure who the customers are'. But things are transforming now."A recent Mori survey showed companies using e-commerce in the North of England jumped from 33% in January last year to 56% in November.There was some worry in the early half of 1999 about whether Britain, and the North of England in particular, was getting left behind while the rest of the world hooked up to the web. But since then the surge in activity and interest has shocked everyone - not least Mr Allan."I've just met a firm from Wigan which makes protective gear for Rugby players," he said. "Since they put up their website, they've started getting hits from around the world. They've even had orders by email from as far as Italy and, incredibly, one from   Kazakstan."None of the e-pioneers in Bar 38 appear to show any of the caution of this time last year as they jostled with each other to pitch their proposals to the venture capitalist (easily identifiable by their red name tags and sensible suits).Jon Keefe, managing director of KMP Internet Solutions, an e-business consultancy firm that employs 24 people at its Stockport headquarters, was bursting with optimism about e-commerce opportunities in the north-west."Manchester has a great history in direct mail order marketing," he said. "Companies like Great Universal Stores and J D Williams already have well-  established databases and distribution systems. These are fantastic resources for e-commerce."We are also finally seeing the gap between hi-tech programming specialists and creative design teams being bridged, which will enable e-business in Britain to really take off."Martin Gelles, a partner in Andersen Consulting, who sponsored the event, said that many of the larger London-based firms have moved their e-commerce operations northward."A lot of the big players have realised that there is no need to be tied down to a particular place when you are dealing with the web. That's why you have banks, building societies and retail firms setting up in the North where there is a well-trained and flexible workforce."Indeed, as Mr Allan points out, geography has become much less of an issue. "All these new technologies mean that small businesses can set up in, say, the middle of the Lake   District and trade right around the world reaching markets that they would never have dreamed of."However, as one e-commerce enthusiast rather sheepishly admits, the fact that all these pioneers have travelled from far and wide to gather in one spot is as embarrassing as it is encouraging."I suppose you have to ask yourself, if the web is all its cracked up to be, why are these people not meeting in cyberspace?"The answer, I suppose, is that when it comes to actually doing a deal they still like to meet the person they're going to do business with."  A similarly sceptical note is struck by Ross Sleight, a marketing and IT consultant based in London."I've chosen to base my business in London because, ultimately, that's where the people I want to employ are based. If the government want to draw the big venture capitalists out of London, they will have to invest more in training and infrastructure."As with any fledgling industry e-commerce has its teething problems. Mr Allan's evangelising address, for example, was to be web-cast to simultaneous events in Sheffield and Newcastle. But this plan fell victim to technical difficulties.Nevertheless, the burning optimism that has engulfed this emerging industry continues to spread like wild fire across the north-west.  Mr Allan, who has been the government's e-envoy for only a month now, is also irrepressibly enthusiastic."We are going to set an example in government too," he promised. "We can't tell industry they must be adopting this new technology if they can turn around and say: 'well why can't I access this or that government department on line'.  "There's going to be a lot of work opening up access to government." (SB)EdinburghJust over 200 years ago, Edinburgh was at the centre of the Age of Enlightenment, an intellectual and knowledge revolution that was to lay the foundation stones for Scotland's pre-eminent role in the industrial revolution which, historically-speaking, followed quickly thereafter.However, in the intervening centuries, new nations and sunrise technologies have risen and replaced the iron and steel technologies which built the country's wealth and subsequent economic development as a powerhouse of the industrial world which reached its zenith just before the first world war when the Clyde had the lion's share of world shipbuilding trade.Since then, rampant municipalisation and nationalisation deprived Scotland of much of its entrepreneurial leadership.However, the First Tuesday e-commerce network, which was exported from London north of the border to Edinburgh six months ago, is creating such an e-business fervour, that a new e-biz buzz is engulfing the city.And in true new- technology style, word of email is spreading like online wildfire about the new e-business self-help and networking group. All adherents must consent to sharing email addresses and it operates on a culture of sharing information, ideas and contacts.The first meetings attracted a handful of hard-core adherents-cum-anoraks. Four months later, more than 200 people crowded into the Assembly Rooms in George Street (traditionally a venue for the arts during the international festival) to hear James Oliver, director of a typical e-commerce start-up, lastorders.com (the "on line off licence") reveal the secret of the Holy Grail to his followers."Just do it," he told them.The crowd was a curious mixture of venture capitalists, businesses seeking venture capital funding, people seeking to put together e-commerce teams, and a spate of lawyers touting for business from tomorrow's Bill Gates.In fact, the presence of the lawyers is perhaps the most significant straw in the wind as the city's traditionally reserved and conservative legal establishment gets wired into the potential of online enterprise. Central government is yet to follow.With a barely audible PA system fighting a losing battle with the self-interested and   self-seeking e-buzz of budding new businesses clamouring for attention around a handful of venture capitalists like some modern-day Klondykers proclaiming they've found the one true lucky-strike e-gold mine, the atmosphere in the Assembly Rooms was a curious cross between some kind of religious fundamentalist group meeting Gordon Gekko, the avaricious lawyer in the movie Wall Street who decreed: "Greed is good."By the time the fifth First Tuesday meeting was held in the Georgian grandeur of the Royal College of Physicians in the country which produced Baron David Hume and Adam "Wealth Of Nations" Smith, big business - in the form of British Energy plc sponsorship - had arrived to proclaim that it had seen the future and that e-business worked.This time, more than 300 devout followers swarmed round Rupert Connolly, managing director of HomeDirectory.com as he preached the Gospel of the First Tuesday-ment, telling how, through the e-commerce self-help group, he was first introduced to his e-venture partners at British Energy, which has consequently taken a &#163;5 million stake in the company.His "disciples" listened in devout silence as the nmemonics tripped effortlessly from the PA system (which worked on this occasion). The keys to success in business and e-commerce are straightforward. He said: "It's KISS - Keep It Simple, Stupid, and remember the seven most important things in business - people, people, people, people, people, people, and product."To which worshippers reply with the silent mantra; "I've gotta e-business plan, I've gotta a hot e-business plan_ it's kinda like Los Angeles, without a sun tan."Such has been the success of First Tuesday in developing new businesses and e-commerce in Edinburgh, that it the concept is being re-exported to the other side of the known universe - Glasgow, on March 7 at the Royal Concert Hall.  Watch this e-space.  (JC)
EU antitrust officials today said they have started an
investigation of Microsoft's Windows 2000 amid complaints that
the new operating system will give the company a dominant
position in the software market.Mario Monti, the EU competition commissioner, said several
customers and competitors have expressed concern at the
antitrust implications of Windows 2000, designed for
high-powered computers and networks for business. It is the
successor for NT."Whoever gains dominance in the software service market gains
dominance in electronic commerce too," Mr Monti said, adding
that the EU sent Microsoft a letter last week, asking for more
information. Microsoft has four weeks to respond to the request."Microsoft has designed (Windows 2000) in a way which may permit
it to leverage its dominant position in PC operating systems
into operating markets such as server operating systems and
e-commerce," Mr Monti said.The EU action means Microsoft could face a two-pronged legal
attack. In the US, the justice department is weighing up its
options with the software giant after a judge rule that
Microsoft is a monopoly. But Mr Monti noted that it would be
"hugely premature" to talk about possible sanctions against
Microsoft.Microsoft said it looked forward to providing information
requested by the EU. "We received the request for information.
They have asked us to provide the information by the beginning
of March and we look forward to doing that," said John Frank,
Microsoft's European director of law and corporate affairs."Mr Frank said the commission's action followed a complaint filed
last year by Sun Microsystems, which he said had complained that
advances on Windows 2000 would make it harder for Sun to
compete. "We have shared a great deal of information with Sun.
We strongly support high quality interoperability," Mr Frank
said.
Phone.com of the United States yesterday paid &#163;310m for a British company that attracted seed capital of some &#163;450,000 two years ago.Paragon Software - which employs 63 people developing synchronisation technology allowing personal computer-based personal information to be transferred to mobile devices - accepted an offer of 3.6m Phone.com shares plus $7.5m (&#163;4.7m) in cash.The deal underlines the position of the Berkshire town of Newbury - home of Paragon - as the UK's mobile phone capital in the wake of locally based Vodafone's acquisition of Mannesmann.It also guarantees a personal fortune for Paragon founder and chief executive Colin Calder, who attracted &#163;450,000 in seed financing from investment group 3i after winning a newspaper competition in February 1998.In November of that year 3i   and Kennet Capital, the venture capital affiliate of Broadview, invested a further &#163;1.25m to fund expansion into the US.Paragon's main product is FoneSync, which allows users of PC and internet-based personal organisers using software such as Lotus Notes and Microsoft Outlook to transfer data to and from 240 types of mobile phone.Its partners include mobile manufacturers Alcatel, Ericsson, Nokia and Panasonic.Alain Rossmann, chairman   and chief executive officer of Phone.com, said: "Mobile phone users are demanding touch of a button information management between the mobile phone, PC applications, and net services, whether or not they are online. The combination of Paragon Software and Phone.com will drive this technology to market."Mr Calder said: "Extending our technology to WAP-based over the air synchronisation will revolutionise the way people use their phones."
No internet site is safe from attack by hackers, experts said yesterday after the leading search engine, Yahoo!, was brought down for several hours."It appears that unfortunately it was a planned attack that looked like it was directed at Yahoo! specifically," said Jeff Mallett, president of the most popular site on the internet.Hackers crippled the site for more than two-and-a-half hours by flooding it with automated requests from multiple locations in what is known as a "denial of service" attack.The assault was comparable to a number of people repeatedly calling a firm's telephone number to block other incoming calls."We had an excess amount of automated mock traffic that was generated to one of our server clusters here in California where there was such demand in a short period of time that we were unable to serve all the pages that were requested," said Mr Mallett.The company, which is based in Santa Clara, California, and delivers an average of 465m pages a day, said that the hackers had not gained access to its computers. The company had taken precautions to prevent a repetition of the incident.But Elias Levy, chief security officer at SecurityFocus.com in San Mateo, California, said: "It basically says nobody is safe if Yahoo! can be taken down with all the resources behind it."The attack indicated the vulnerability of a media tool that   was designed to be an open system. The FBI, which was hit by hackers last year, warned operators last month about denial of service attacks and the electronic auction site eBay went down for two days last July and one day in August.James Atkinson, president and senior engineer of Granite Island group, an internet security consultant in Massachusetts, said: "It's kind of silly it took so long. The fact it went on for hours indicates a management and infrastructure problem that does not involve technology. This should have taken them off the map for 15 to 20 minutes, 30 at the most."Yahoo!, which claimed 36m visitors in December, has a market capitalisation of about $93bn (&#163;58bn) and its users conducted more than $6.7bn   in business during the fourth quarter of 1999.The firm makes money by selling advertising space and by taking a cut from merchandise sold through it. Sponsorship fees can be reduced if it fails to hit minimum levels of user impressions.Lise Buyer, an analyst at CS First Boston, said: "There is no technology anywhere that is completely bug-free. Outages are significant only to see how the site's management reacts, how fast they get the news out and how quickly they get the site back up."Diane Hunt, a spokeswoman for Yahoo!, said a flood of data requests from different computers on the internet had overwhelmed the routers which help to direct traffic on the website.
In June 1997, a rumour went round Oxford that the budget for one of the big college's summer balls was a quarter of a million pounds. To anyone not involved, the idea that a committee of students, whose business experience turned on selling mugs through Young Enterprise and balancing tabs at the bar, could be put in charge of a such a major sum was hilarious. In February 2000, there is a rumour going round about two first-year students who are poised to float their online revision service on the stock market next month for a figure 10 times the ball budget. This time, however, nobody is laughing.The small but growing number of students setting up companies from their college bedrooms is beginning to make the activities of the ball committee look like Fisher Price finance. There can scarcely be an undergraduate alive who has not been grinding their teeth over the fortunes ofStudent-Net.co.uk, the online service founded by four finalists at Nottingham Trent university that attracted a &#163;10m investment from a US firm of venture capitalists last month.Hardly a day seems to go by without a report of some new bright spark making his first million before passing his A levels.CyberBritain.com, the fastest growing online network in Europe, has a 17-year-old chief executive. And last week, Oxygen, a firm of financiers set up to fund student business ideas, was valued on its first day of trading at a mind-boggling &#163;240m, more than double the annual turnover of Nottingham Trent university.This is more than another breathless chapter in the saga of the e-commerce boom; it marks a very real shift in the culture of student life, where not long ago even the most ambitious undergraduate was content to chisel the perfect CV out of captaining a university club, doing work experience at Goldman Sachs and honing his self-importance in the union debating chamber."When I was at college, ambitious students saw university as a time to burnish their CVs by being president of   the debating society, and so on," says John McLaren, the 48-year-old non-executive director of Groupe Chez Gerard, which owns a string of restaurants across Britain. "Then, the key skill for a student was to position yourself at the moment of graduation so that you got an A-stream job where you could move up a monolithic system." McLaren did this by getting a summer job at a demolition company and embroidering it with the same canny self-promotion as his fellow students.Today, it seems, you are an also ran if you haven't made your first million by the time you graduate. "In the current economic climate, when the cost of education has risen substantially, everybody who goes to university views it as an investment in themselves," says Alan Edmondson, 22, one of the founding members of Student-net, a sort of web version of the student union handbook. He and the other three - Peter Atalla, the 21-year-old who came up with the idea, Michael Haycock, 23, and John Woodcock, 22 - are among the first generation of students who have had to pay for their degrees and it has had a galvanising effect on their productivity. "Students in America have long had to work their way through college, which teaches them a certain business discipline," says McLaren, and so it is now in Britain.With the help of the &#163;10m capital injection from IMPG, a Nevada-based venture capitalist, the four Student-net founders have opened two offices in Nottingham, two in London and are taking on 15 new people over the next fortnight. Edmondson's attitude towards his staff is revealing. "Since we've started employing people ourselves, we've realised how valuable we are in the marketplace," he says. "I interviewed someone today who was a law graduate with a 2:1 and a masters in business, but he didn't have a clue."Edmondson's casual self-assurance comes from an industry in which there is no received wisdom to accumulate and no rites of passage to slog through; this is a gold-rush panic in which youth is valued above experience. "It wasn't seriously possible to start a business when I was at college," says McLaren. "Without computers and the internet, what could you do apart from a glorified paper round? And where would you go for funding, because the bank sure as hell wouldn't lend a student the money."Step forward Oxygen, or rather, Emma Edelson, the 26-year-old daughter of Michael Edelson, the Manchester United director with whom she set up the company to specialise in financing student projects. Members of the board include PR executive Matthew Freud and Keith Harris, former chief executive of HSBC Investment Bank. From an initial investment of &#163;1m in five start-up companies, it floated on the stock exchange last Friday for &#163;240m. "It isn't a case of students thinking, oh my god, I've got all this studying to do and my business to set up," says Edelson. "It generally grows out of having fun and spotting a gap in the market."Since starting six months ago, Oxygen has received more than 100 business plans, half of them from students. Some package their ideas professionally, others ignore the protocols and pitch themselves, shakily, over the phone: both are acceptable. "The problem for students with business ideas has always been that unless you have a business plan and partnership agreements, you will not be taken seriously," says Edelson. "You don't have the time or knowledge to find out how everything works."The difference in today's climate, is that students with no practical experience in running a business, will still be courted for the value of their unrefined ideas. "There is a shake-up in people's attitude to age generally," says McLaren. "The fact that they have seen 23-year-olds successfully run internet companies, has shown how little age should be a   determinant in giving people responsibility."Benjamin Cohen is 17. When he was 13, he was diagnosed with ME and was forced to spend long periods of time confined to his home in north London. "I hadn't been into the internet much before that, but I started using it as a way of keeping in touch with the world. I realised how powerful it was for reaching people at low cost."Cohen, like a lot of teenage programmers, began idly constructing a website around his interests. With a &#163;150 loan from his father, he bought the domain nameJewishNet.co.ukand when he stumbled across the email address for the chairman of the Durlacher Corporation, a colleague of his father's and the financial backer behind the hugely successful Soccernet, Cohen secretly sent him a pr&eacute;cis of the site. Durlacher phoned the boy's father and advised him to   broker a deal. In eight weeks time, JewishNet will be floated on the Alternative Investment Market and Ben Cohen will start revising for his A levels.The manner in which Cohen came to be the chairman of two sizeable companies (the other being CyberBritain.com, a rudimentary search engine that is none the less growing faster than any other online network) at 17 years old, is typical of a student business ethic that views work as the natural extension of recreation. "A lot of the ideas that come in have been conceived at the pub over a drink," says Edelson.'Now that the whole concept of a monolithic career is starting to go, what matters more is personal networks," says McLaren. The combination of youth and success isn't new, of course, but it has been more common in acting or writing, areas that tolerate a certain amount of precocious immaturity. For the student entrepreneurs, however, there can be no allowances made for youthful caprice. Shareholders require a level   of constancy that it is hard to imagine a first-year student putting up with. "The thought of having all this potential money on our shoulders puts us under huge pressure," says Rose. "Once the venture capitalists have invested, they're going to want to see something more than just Jordan and me running the company."Rose and Mayo are having an untypical first year at university. Rose, studying politics, philosophy and economics at Oxford's Lady Margaret Hall, is woken by the phone each morning at 9am. He goes to lectures during the day, writes business plans at night, and spends one day a week, usually a Thursday, in London with Mayo - who is reading economics and management at Hertford College. On March 20, during the Easter holidays, the pair plan to launch their on-line revision service, revise.it, built out of the proceeds from the sale of their last company. On a typical day in London, they will attend their first meeting at 10am and have subsequent meetings - with fundraisers, advertisers and marketing managers - every hour until 7pm."Our general self-confidence has helped and we have motivated each   other," says Rose. "But there are loads of young people who have cool, creative ideas. The only difference is that our idea came at a time when we had the summer after A levels to work on it."There is more to it than luck, however. Two years ago, translating a student business idea into a bona fide company would have been almost impossible, as Robert Jenkins found to his cost. When he was a second year economist at Jesus College, Cambridge, he had an idea. The 19-year-old was already a seasoned entrepreneur, having speculated his student loan on the stock market and made enough money to fund his degree. But when he made a tentative pitch to City financiers, he was laughed out of the   room. "I approached a few venture capitalists and they wouldn't really open the door to a student. I didn't know how to present a business plan or anything."Jenkins retreated, licking his wounds, and after graduation worked for Deutsche Bank for nine months until he had gained the right skills to resubmit his idea - an investment web service he is wary of detailing before the launch. At 22, he has been taken on by Oxygen and is preparing to launch yellowturtle.com in March with a business partner who is still at university. "If I had been able to launch this service three years ago, it would have blown everything else away," he says regretfully. "It is still a solid idea,   but back then it was revolutionary. You have to do this things when you think of them, because in a year or two, they won't be competitive.""There is a certain window of time for these entrepreneurs to make their mark," says Emma Edelson. "The capital valuations are crazy and I'm pretty sure the bubble will burst."Getting in quick has its disadvantages. Apart from trying to juggle management meetings with Descartes essays, Rose has been the target of some snide comments in the college laundry room. "Someone said, 'oh, I don't think internet millionaires did their own washing.' We're having to cut down significantly on social life, but hopefully when we get backing, we'll be able to bring in a manager.""Certain members of staff didn't take it particularly pleasantly that the boss was 17 years old," says Cohen. His diffidence triggers a rare concession to the fact that he isn't 45. "I'm having to make decisions that I don't really want to." Like what, exactly? "Like, how many desks we should have and what colour the walls should be. Sometimes I think it's pressure I don't really need."
The internet's huge, hyperactive gossip and rumour machine looks almost certain to come under scrutiny from the financial services authority amid rising concern about its power to move share prices and even to distort markets.Scams such as "pumping and dumping" - in which internet noticeboards are abused by rogue share promoters - will be investigated by a special FSA think-tank.The terms of reference for the e-commerce investigation team - which will draw on all relevant expertise within the authority's Canary Wharf headquarters in London's Docklands - are still being drafted. It is thought certain, however, that the vast, unregulated bazaar of tips and gossip will come within its scope.Alarmed by the ability of cyberspace's rumour mongers to talk up stocks in which they might have built up large positions, thus making a mockery of laws on market abuse, the "thematic" inquiry into e-commerce, established last month by FSA chairman Howard Davies, is likely to seek remedies for the plague of misleading information.Tony Hobman, the chief executive of Proshare, the organisation that promotes private share ownership, said potential investors should use information on internet bulletin boards with caution."We have seen a great leap forward in the public's interest in share dealing, but people should not pile into the stock just on the basis of a tip they read online," he said."The dark side of net trading is that it is easy to do, and when dot.com stocks are rising so dramatically it can be very tempting to get involved."Investors need to fully understand what they are doing, research the companies they think about buying into and spread their risk."Fuelling official concern is   the explosion in potential regulatory cases involving the internet and e-commerce.Three months ago, of the 50 to 60 files opened each month by FSA investigators, 10% related to the internet. The figure now is 15%, with further increases expected.But the authorities are hobbled to an extent by protection in the human rights act for freedom of expression. A source said there was no real legal "grip" enabling the FSA to come down hard on the internet gossip machine - although it is believed that official surveillance of the internet is being stepped up.It is understood that the FSA will steer clear of any attempt to regulate opinions not given in what is known as the "course of business", however malicious or unfounded these opinions may be.The thinking seems to be that companies themselves are both equipped for monitoring   comments about them on the internet and responsible for doing so.Furthermore, there is a feeling inside the authority that "market separation" - under which it is clear to even the average investor which areas of online comment and advice are "safe" and which are not -   might be a natural development, and one that is not wholly undesirable.But a hands-off policy is not an option, not least because of the damage that fast-moving rumours - often corrupted by the self-interest of the rumour-monger - could do to the integrity of financial markets.More than one in five execution-only share trades will be conducted over the internet by the end of March, the Association of Private Client, Investment Managers and Stockbrokers predicts."We can easily see one-quarter of all trades taking place online by the end of this year," said the organisation's head of information, Brian Mairs.He added that online share trading had doubled every quarter since the start of 1999. In the fourth quarter of 1999, 2.3m execution trades were carried out in Britain, 155,000 of which were on the net.The e-commerce inquiry is one of four investigations being begun by the FSA; the others will cover mortgages, incentives for companies to comply with FSA rules and the implications for investors of a low-inflation environment.Many firms running internet bulletin boards have pledged to expel individuals who post false or inaccurate information on their message boards.
This is going to be big. The Wall Street Journal, one of the world's most famous newspapers, unleashes its long-awaited onslaught on European markets today with a redesign of its European edition, hefty investment to back expansion plans, and much improved coverage of the e-economy.Backed by $60m (&#163;36m) of investment and more staff, the European strategy is also designed to boost subscription numbers to the Journal's online edition and marks a huge escalation in the battle for eyeballs on business news websites.Frederick Kempe, editor and associate publisher of the Wall Street Journal Europe, says the move coincides with a change in European attitudes to business - as the euro begins to knit European business closer together and ordinary families begin to buy into share ownership.This enthusiasm for buying shares, Kempe says, is being fanned by the creation of a new economy. Technology is   driving change into the way people work, invest and live. The Journal has covered technology more comprehensively than most papers for some time. With its reach into the west coast of America one way, and its strength in Asia the other, Kempe hopes that his new European edition will give readers a far better service than is available from, say, the Financial Times.If this sounds familiar, it should. The FT, owned by the media group Pearson, recently unveiled a joint venture with CBS.MarketWatch.com to set up a European business news service aimed at the private investor.But there is a huge difference between the Journal and the services offered by the Financial Times and its affiliates. Pearson is wedded to the concept of giving its online news content to users free, making money from advertising and e-commerce.The Journal is taking precisely the opposite line. Peter Kann, chairman and chief executive of Dow Jones which publishes the WSJ, says he is committed to the paid model, where users subscribe to the online service.   This, he argues, protects the printed paper from being devalued by association with a give-away service, and will be better for advertisers too.In Europe on a flying visit to launch the redesign, Kann admits that neither he nor any newspaper publisher can know what the internet will do to their businesses in the long run. But he seems unflustered by the prospect of steering one of the world's most eminent papers on to the web.Formerly a staff reporter who worked in the Pittsburgh and Los Angeles news bureaux, Kann was the paper's first resident reporter in Vietnam and, from 1969 to 1975, covered Asian affairs. It was another war, though, that brought him into the limelight. In 1972 he won a Pulitzer for his coverage of the conflict between India and Pakistan.Kann is keen to protect the value of the WSJ brand by charging a hefty amount for the paper too. The cover price of the European edition will be cut from today to &#163;1 from &#163;1.25 as part of the plan to put the squeeze on the FT (price 85p).Kann's philosophy appears to fly in the face of conventional wisdom about how to succeed on the web, where users are accustomed to free services. In reality the marketing strategy makes more sense once the wealth of the European Journal's readership is known: 80% of the paper's readers are European nationals with an average household income of more than $330,000 (&#163;205,000).Kann is aware that most US newspapers have made a hash of switching their content to the online world. Dow Jones has decided that it must try to leverage its different operations so that each reinforces, rather than detracts from, the other. This is not a new approach in the communications industry, where technology is forcing companies to operate in several media at once. At the Journal, the most obvious sign of this approach is in the redesigned European edition, where a navigation bar across the first page is a clear indication of its integration with wsj.com.Dow Jones will also be using its wire services to update wsj.com. Bylined pieces from the wires are already used in the paper. The aim is to take the wire feeds and re-edit them for a wider audience via the website. In this way wsj.com should emerge as a strong blend of analysis and moving news.Dow Jones executives argue that the wires may prove to be their best weapon in the battle ahead: no other rival internet-based service could justify the cost of 800 staff to provide dynamic news, but Dow Jones has this number on its wires already. The printed Journal, by contrast, has 600.Kann is also explicitly linking the online and paper editions by giving European subscribers to the printed Journal a free subscription to the online version for the rest of this year."The two can coexist and complement each other, performing different functions," he says. He also stresses that different people subscribe to the online version. Two-thirds of wsj.com's 375,000 subscribers do not take the printed   paper (paid global circulation, 2.3m). Kann says wsj.com growth will come from both online-only subscribers and people taking it as a package with the paper.That people should want both may seem strange, given the surfeit of information already flying around. But it may be evidence that the Journal is managing to strike a balance between its different services.Kann says people turn to the paper for analysis and to the online edition for up-to-date breaking news. But he stresses that the common denominator is quality of information. And that in turn leads him to a defence of traditional media as much more reliable in the main than fledgling internet start-ups. "In defence of traditional media, it has standards and generally doesn't want to sacrifice these across different media and that is right."Kann faces some tough challenges ahead, not least in the management of his people. He has yet to make up his mind on how to incentivise the staff and ensure that they are not   poached wholesale by rivals, but points out that the company already offers bonuses to some.He has also to decide how far integration of the wires, online edition and printed paper should go. For the moment, not that far seems to be the view. He says the editors of the different editions work alongside one another while remaining focused on their respective charges. He dismisses out of hand the concept of a centralised editing team to act as a clearing house for material - "just another level of bureaucracy" - and is happy for now with this looser arrangement.Kann acknowledges that the Journal is not a typical publication. The average household income of its readers is high, and its content based mostly on one slice of life. But other newspaper publishers will be watching the Dow Jones strategy closely, and not just in Europe. For if Kann succeeds, he may shatter forever the notion that the internet has to be based on free delivery. Publishers, if not readers, will be grateful.
Despite being very long and sparsely populated, Norway is as keen to cut global smog as your average Brit with a brace of Jags. Even there, 70% of car usage is within urban confines and, despite all those open roads, the average A-to-B speed of the average Norwegian car is a miserable 25mph. All of which raises the question: why buy a filthy fume-spewer when something battery-powered can do the job just as effectively?And imagine if you didn't even need to burn fossil fuel elsewhere to charge your nickel-cadmiums, but could produce the necessary leccy via a local waterfall. Wouldn't everyone be happy? Clearly a Norwegian would, which is why this car is now rolling out of a plant near Oslo. Meet not only Norway's   first self-built car, but a true e-car for Europe.There are plenty of well-rehearsed arguments for lashing out on a three-pin plug and matching motor. However, they tend to wobble when you get behind the wheel, mostly because e-cars are dreadful to drive. Still, the team behind the Nordic Think City's design and marketing have some tidy balance sheets and diagrams to show how fleet operators will get a return on their investment, including such noteworthy trade-offs as no annual petrol bill for a few pennies' worth of Economy 7. Furthermore, in the Think's case, there is no need to budget for bashes because the panels are all made of sturdy anti-scratch plastic.From this side of the flip chart, the Think, at &#163;11,583 (plus a lease   of about &#163;100 per month for battery maintenance), seems, economy-wise, to be well thought out. However, even Bengt Heggertveit, Nordic's sales and servicing boss, admits that the private buyer makes a heart-led decision based on brand perception, with scant regard for long-term economics beyond the forecourt price. If governments incentivise e-cars by making them elegible for free road tax, no VAT and free toll passes (as they do in Norway), long-term wear and tear to the wallet looks reasonable. Ahead of a wider European launch after 2000, Think's initial sales target is Scandinavia, where it needs to prove itself as something more than an eccentric political statement. So is it?Well, before it moves, it's off to a decent start. Deliberately designed to appeal to young high-spenders, the Think has more than a smattering of Smart Car about it, though it's more grown up; okay, it has only two seats, but unlike the Smart, the Think has enough space for four hefty suitcases. Lovers of the ironic-functional will adore Think's hit-me-please body. The panel gaps gape in places and the matt finish struggles to compensate for uneven contours, but this is a car you can nudge affectionately with a sledge hammer and it will not wince. In fact, because the thermoplastic powder that makes up the thick panels is the same colour throughout, there is no paint surface to worry about. In a cramped car park, it can be clouted a thousand times and still look spanking new. And if someone   did devise a way to engrave your mobile Samsonite, you'd simply click off the panel during the next service and snap on a new one.Think's parentage reveals a parts list of usual suspects, including Peugeot, Fiat and Ford. But inside, there's no suggestion   of painful inbreeding. The dash is a bit minimalist and the vents hastily finished, but the seats are generous, and visibility - given a clever tailgate made of glass - is excellent. Time, then, to burn rubber.Which, of course, is all this car will ever burn. It might be foolish to long for the rickety clatter of an old diesel Golf or the slack tappets of a knackered petrol Fiesta, but there's something sensorially deprived in going for an e-drive. Turn the key, flick the thing that looks like an ashtray cover but is the drive selector and you're away. Be warned: e-cars feel like death on a towrope, but amid the deafening silence the Think's perfect road manners and   manoeuvrability trigger a critical short circuit. Dare I suggest it - it's actually fun. From static to urban jog speed it shows real urge, and on bends it rolls slightly but has true grip. Because the electric motor directly drives you along with no need to go via gear changes, acceleration is smooth and joint-free. So despite a 0-60mph time of, er, never, a 53-mile test drive of the Think (after which it needs a full eight-hour recharge) is an electrifying experience.The best thing, however, is that although this newcomer does less damage to the environment than a flatulent elk and can crash-test EU dummies with all the finesse of a Renault Clio, they company didn't forget to build in some charm. Ford has its hand in the Think Nordic pie to the tune of 51%. Judging by the first test, its fingers will not be burned.
It was my New Year's resolution, and I've achieved it already, so as you can imagine I'm feeling fairly smug. When I tell you that my New Year's resolution list has read "Learn to Drive" for three consecutive years, you might not think my achievement quite so impressive; but the fact that it's taken over two years and five attempts to pass my test made the day, when it finally came, all the more thrilling. When I embarked on the project, back in the dark days of January 1998, I had no idea what I was letting myself in for. I envisaged a few lessons, a test (although in my imagination even this part mainly involved good luck cards and attention), swiftly followed by lots of driving around in sunglasses with the radio on.That was at the beginning. (Actually, it wasn't quite the beginning; there was a brief prologue to my driving career a few years earlier, when as a student I took some lessons with a joyless man called Brian who told me at the end of my    first lesson that he'd never in his career encountered anyone with less natural feel for driving, but - perhaps not surprisingly - my enthusiasm for the project quickly waned.) By January 1998 I was developing a three-cabs-a-day habit that, although handy for learning impressive short   cuts, was clearly a road to financial ruin. Besides, at 24 years old, not being able to drive was becoming embarrassing. I bought a new set of L-plates and a course of 10 lessons with BSM, and hit the roads.Like so many battles, my driving campaign didn't go to plan. Although my new instructor, Steve, was faultlessly diplomatic, by the time I'd written the cheque for the third course of lessons, I was beginning to suspect Brian's comment hadn't been sexist, or even mean, but simply honest. By the summer, the initial thrill of being in the driving seat had subsided, and I was dug into a demoralising struggle. Never before had a basic skill eluded me so completely: I was just terrible at driving. I'm terrible at singing, too, but I can live with that because singing well is a rare talent. Being terrible at driving, however, was utterly galling, because it seemed to be a piece of cake for almost everyone except me. Being sworn at by spotty 17-year-old drivers when I stalled at junctions was beginning to get me down.But by autumn, I was making progress. Abandoning the admittedly unconventional standing-on-the-driving-seat technique made things more straightforward, and I had figured out which pedal was which. OK, I was still shaky on reversing around corners, but the car no longer hopped and lurched about like a rabbit with hiccups. In the absence of spatial skills or common sense, I had mastered the driving-by-numbers methods for reverse parking, with the help of bits of masking-tape on the windows to show me where to start and stop steering. By winter, I had been learning for a year; at Steve's prompting, I booked a test.By the time Big Day Number One dawned, I was feeling fairly hopeful. Almost all my friends had passed first time, after all, and some of them still can't park eight years later. How hard could it be? I carefully chose my most responsible, I-never-coast-round-corners outfit, and even remembered not to wear the kitten-heeled mules that Steve had sweetly suggested weren't helping matters. Even my examiner's serial-killer eyes didn't faze me. I started the car and followed his instructions, ostentatiously mirror-signal-manoeuvring my heart out. When he asked me to pull over just past a corner, I knew what was coming. Steeling myself, I reversed around the corner with   mathematical precision, but my jubilation quickly subsided when I realised that in my determination to maintain the correct distance from the kerb, I hadn't looked over my shoulder once - an automatic fail.All pretensions at taking it on the chin evaporated back at work, when I burst into tears at the first inquiry as to how I'd got on. I began to see that telling absolutely everyone I knew that I was taking my test had been a mistake. The second time around, I told just a few people. Not that it calmed my nerves much: in fact, when Big Day Number Two dawned, I was far more nervous than at the first attempt. I was shaking so much that I could hardly get the key   in the ignition. Not surprisingly, since I probably appeared to be a complete basket case, I failed. The reactions of those I had told were different this time around. The first time you fail, it's normal; the second, you get sympathy. By the third attempt (when I failed because of something to do with a roundabout) the tests were a closely guarded secret, but those who did know couldn't help trying to get me to see the funny side of it. After the fourth fail (hit the kerb during parking - schoolgirl error) no one knew what to say.When I finally passed, it was the operative at my sister's paging company I told first. (He congratulated me warmly, which I thought was very sporting.) By this time, having had well over 100 lessons, even I could drive fairly competently; without the shakes, it went fine. When I heard the words "I'm pleased to tell you..." I almost fainted. Steve, who had, I suspect, begun to wonder if he was ever going to see the back of me, was almost as pleased as I was.Saying goodbye to Steve was rather sad. If you're 17 years old, have eight lessons and pass first time, you probably don't spare a second thought for the person who sat in the passenger seat, but I'd been through a lot with Steve - there was the driving, of course, but more importantly, the one whole and two half football seasons. As an Arsenal supporter being taught by a lifelong Manchester United fan, we'd been through a double for my team and a triple for his, with an hour each week to discuss them.Apart from being a brilliant excuse to buy champagne (easier now BSM isn't syphoning off half my salary), passing my test hasn't changed my life much. I don't think I'll get a car; I walk to work, and when I'm not at work I'm generally drunk (that's a joke, Mum). Besides, it wouldn't seem a particularly positive contribution to London's traffic problems when there are all those jolly buses and comfy black cabs out there. But that's not the point. I passed, and that's all that matters.
Quote of the week:  "The point of a ring road is simple. It allows cars to drive round a city centre rather than through it. So would someone please explain why Oxford's ring road is now being festooned with bus lanes -  I mean, at this rate, some loony will build a bus lane on a motorway, for heaven's sake"Jeremy Clarkson, the SunClock this:  In a new survey, Masterquote insurance has found that Britons enjoy driving (82% say they do). More interesting driving facts: the average driver drives 5,379 miles a year, 80% of drivers admit to singing in the car and, perhaps more worryingly, 57% of those who use mobile phones when driving do not use a hands-free set.Moonie buggies: The Unification Church of the Rev Sun Myung Moon is to build a car plant in North Korea. In a joint venture with the country's state-run Ryonbong Corp, the plant will assemble 100,000 Fiats a year. Production will start next year.Top of the bops:  This one we like: the above contraption is called the Dancikum Dream Commute. It works like this: you climb on, dance, and off you go, propelled by the power of the boogie. And it just got the bronze award in the Toyota Idea Olympics. Good work.Running on empty:   Police in North Wales are losing the battle against crime becasue they're running out of petrol, according to Plaid Cymru MP Elfyn Llwyd. Mr Llwyd says that police officers have told him that the rationing of petrol for patrol cars means that they can't go and investigate everything they ought to. North Wales Police deny there's a problem.
What do you drive?A Wrangler US military Jeep.What does that say about you?That I'm practical.What do you like about it?It's fun and has fantastic power steering. In the summer you can take the roof off - but it's not the smoothest of rides.What kind of driver are you?My husband Lee says erratic, but I think I'm perfect.Any bad habits?I get distracted. I like to get up and go without mapping my journey out beforehand.Any driving test tales?I took it four times, the last in my own car. The examiner was wearing a noisy anorak which made a rustling sound and confused me into thinking it was time for the emergency stop. Every time I heard it rustle I almost put her through the windscreen.What was your first car?A white Mini.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points?Two speeding tickets within 10 minutes of each other, and just small crashes when I went through my phase of reversing into things.What do you use your car for?Transporting the kids, shopping. Actually, I hardly ever get in it. My nanny uses it more than me.Have you experienced road rage?Yes. On one occasion a man cut me up really dangerously coming off a slip road. I was pregnant and had a baby seated in the back. He was laughing and I furiously asked him why he'd done it. But I would never advise anyone to do that. It's always dangerous - especially for women - to stop a reckless driver.What's in the boot/glove compartment?Wellies, umbrellas and all those things you can never be bothered to take out.Have you ever had sex in a car?Pass.What do you listen to on the road?Classic FM or a good play on Radio 4. My ambition is to get a video screen put in the back seat to keep the kids amused on long journeys.What would be your dream car?A Range Rover. My husband has one. When I'm lucky he lets me use his. It's like driving a big armchair.Who would be your dream passenger?My husband Lee. He enjoys criticising my driving and there's nothing I like better than a good row.
Who wants to be a millionaire? The answer is that we all do. But the latest twist to the old song is that the internet now allows us to nurture our dreams without having to endure the torment of Chris Tarrant.Media analysts have been saying for some time that the value of online information is as much the information itself as the fact that the internet allows us to read it and play with it from anywhere in the world, at any time."Content"- what is put on the web - was a buzzword long before America Online, the world's largest internet service provider, confirmed its value with last month's bid for Time Warner, the apotheosis of an old media group.The buzz has highlighted greater opportunities for journalists themselves. Accustomed to working in a business that sometimes prides itself on working for nothing, journalists are suddenly finding the laws of supply and demand working in their favour. News organisations have seen their West Coast bureaux used as springboards for dot com careers, while reporters have taken to using their leaving speeches to deny rumours that they have already been given a stake worth millions in their new online start-up.Caught in the headlights of the online competition beaming on to their businesses, media groups appear to have woken up to the staffing implications in recent months. But how does an old media group compete with the lure of internet millions and continue to recruit and retain top-notch staff?One solution is a join-them-if-you-can't-beat-them strategy. The New York Times became one of the first traditional media companies to take a definite step into this arena two weeks ago when it announced plans to issue shares that reflect the performance of its separate internet division rather than that of the entire company. Viacom is to make a similar move by offering shares in the web operations of MTV.The attraction of issuing shares designed to track the performance of an online business is that the shares are no longer hindered by their connection to a slow-growing old media group. This attraction can be powerful. America's six largest publicly traded newspaper   groups, which together own 140 newspapers and 54 television stations, were valued by the US stock market at about two-thirds of Yahoo, the internet portal.The NYT is hoping to raise about $100m (&#163;63m) by spinning off the nytimes.com and its other loss-making internet operations. The listing is not just designed to furnish the company with more money. In announcing its decision, the company declared that some of the shares will be available for staff members.Few details of the offering are available because of US financial regulations and several questions remain about how these shares are going to be allocated.The first is, does the company offer most shares to the dot com-savvy staff members they most fear losing to online rivals? The answer for most industry executives is often yes. The problem is that online websites such as nytimes.com are largely fuelled by the editorial staff of the paper edition. Why should these dull.co drones not be equally rewarded for their contribution?Also, if a media group's internet operations are spun off, what happens to the value of existing assets? What investors will want to buy shares in a company faced with falling circulation, escaping classified advertising and disaffected staff?Pearson, owner of the FT, has recently decided against a similar tracking stock for its online operations. Instead, the group raised money for its internet ambitions simply by issuing more shares of its own. This did little to answer the personnel problems, however, and the group - which has seen three FT technology reporters leave for dot coms in recent months - is set to announce a new staffing incentive scheme over the coming weeks. This is expected to spread Pearson share options throughout the newsroom.Such options are unlikely to lead to the sorts of riches now part of internet lore. However, groups such as Pearson hope that the added bonus will retain loyalty to a less risky media business.It remains to be seen how such schemes work. But they do represent one way of giving incentives to staff that are not open to the few remaining media companies with no route to the stock market. Notable examples include the BBC and the trust-owned Guardian.Other industries have adopted different strategies to keep valued members of staff. Leading law firms in the US are understood to have increased pay by as much as 50% since the beginning of the year for some associates. Any journalist hoping that traditional media companies might follow suit would be wise not to leave that as their final answer. As Chris Tarrant might say.
&#149; Ringing the changesHas your firm starting using the new phone numbers? If not, you could experience problems when the dialling codes change on April 22. Although old and new codes will work in parallel for a while, the old codes will eventually be withdrawn and any phone systems that use pre-programmed numbers - including ISDN lines and call logging features - must be updated before then. London, Portsmouth, Southampton, Coventry, Northern Ireland and Cardiff will all have new three-digit codes beginning 02. Businesses should contact their telecoms maintainers to check that their equipment is "Big Number" friendly. Call the free helpline on 0808 224 2000, or check out the codes onwww.numberchange.org.&#149; A pain in the backMore than 11m working days are lost each year through back pain, at a cost of &#163;5bn. In response, the department of health has launched Back in Work, to increase awareness of back pain and ways to avoid it. The government is hoping businesses will sign up to the scheme, part of the wider Healthy Workplace Initiative. Seewww.ohn.gov.ukor emailsignup@doh.gov.ukto register your firm.&#149; Web wiseSmall businesses know they should be on the internet, but often have no idea where to start, or cannot afford the costs of consultant web designers. So says EasyWeb, a firm that has devised a simple way to help individuals and small firms to build their own websites. For &#163;99, companies can select web pages to suit them, and EasyWeb claims it takes ten minutes and requires no special skills. For more information, visitwww.easywebdirect.comor call 01892 617264.&#149; Employment lawDo you know who is affected by the national minimum wage? Are you aware of how fathers' rights have changed under the parental leave legislation? If you need to keep up with the changes from Brussels, you'll find Essentials of Employment Law invaluable. This updated guide from the Institute of Personnel and Development costs &#163;19.95 from Plymbridge Distributors, tel: 01752 202301.&#149; All the right movesAnyone who has coordinated an office move knows there is more to it than packing up the computers. A new resource, Office IQ 2000, aims to take the stress out of sourcing new premises or altering an existing set-up. The 300-page guide comes with a CD Rom with 33 printable checklists from the book, and has contact details for nearly 500 agents, surveyors and lawyers. It costs &#163;200 from Property Futures Ltd, tel 020 7613 8822.
America Online, the US Internet giant, is negotiating to buy German media combine Bertelsmann's 50 per cent stake in AOL Europe, the Internet service provider which has 2.8 million customers across nine countries.Sources in Germany said the talks were understood to have been going on for several days. Analysts believe Bertelsmann's half stake in the five-year-old joint venture could be worth anything up to $7 billion. The impetus for the deal is believed to have come after America Online (AOL) - which owns 50 per cent of AOL Europe - merged with media giant Time Warner last month in a deal valued at $350bn.Bertelsmann chief executive Thomas Middelhoff stated after the merger that he intended to step down from AOL's board because Time Warner is one of the German media giant's leading competitors. Time Warner's acquisition of record company EMI soon after the merger has also heightened tensions between AOL and Bertelsmann, which has aspirations to become the world's largest music company through its BMG Entertainment division. An AOL   buyout would resolve this conflict by separating the two companies completely.Although privately owned Bertelsmann would lose its shareholding in Europe's largest pan-national ISP, the German company may look to link its vast library of content (notably its Gr&uuml;ner &amp; Jahr newspaper and magazine publishing unit) to the AOL-owned network. However there are questions over whether an AOL Europe owned completely by AOL would be keen to link up with content providers who pose a threat to Time Warner.There had been suggestions early last month that AOL and Bertelsmann, the world's third-largest media company, were planning an initial public offering of the joint venture but it is now believed the US firm's chief executive officer, Steve Case, is keen to take full control.Selling its stake in AOL Europe would equip Bertelsmann with a war chest it could use to develop its multimedia operations and invest in Internet start ups. It would do this through its independent venture capital division with a view to taking the companies to market later on.
George Orwell thought we would be destroyed by things we hate. Aldous Huxley predicted that the things we love would prove our undoing. The explosive growth of e-commerce suggests that Huxley was right. The reason is that online trading is giving rise to a spectacular erosion in personal privacy - something once memorably described by the United States Supreme Court Judge William O. Douglas as 'the beginning of all freedom'.Most Internet users nowadays don't realise the extent to which every click they make on commercial sites is monitored, logged, stored - and used to create secret profiles of them which can then be sold to other companies. Their innocence can be inferred from the astonishment - nay, outrage - they express when informed about the 'cookie' system.When you visit commercial websites, many of them will try to place a small packet of data (called a 'cookie' for some reason) on your hard disk. This is (they claim) to improve the service they provide, for example by 'recognising' you the next time you call, or eliminating the tiresome necessity of your having to type in a password on every visit.Whatever the rationale, though, the fact is that the cookie system enables complete strangers to write stuff on your hard disk in a form that can be read by other strangers on the next site you visit. Outrageous, isn't it?The e-commerce boys will seek to reassure you by saying that you can always opt out of the system by configuring your browser to reject cookies. And so indeed you can - just as you can get by, kind of, without possessing a credit card.Meanwhile, for those who deny that privacy is a problem may I suggest the following experiment? Set your browser to seek approval before accepting cookies, and then go browsing e-commerce sites. Note how long it takes before you to get so sick of the resulting dialogue box breaking into what you are doing to ask questions that you give in and let others violate your privacy (and your hard disk) to their heart's content.GLOBALISATION is usually portrayed as a sinister trend which benefits only huge transnational companies. But last week's revelations about BAT's curious relationship with tobacco smuggling worldwide suggests that globalisation may be a double-edged sword.The story was broken by an international federation of investigative hacks who are using the Net for collaborative research on stories which transcend national jurisdictions. Could this be the first recorded sighting of OpenSource journalism?Another straw in the same wind was Thursday's launch of MediaChannel.org, a web portal dedicated to global media issues.It integrates content from several hundred organisations and contributors with a view to combating corporate spin and the dumbing down of mainstream media in some countries. It even has a launch message from Walter Cronkite who is, I suppose, the nearest thing journalism has to a pope.MediaChannel.org is a spin-off from an even more remarkable Web operation, Oneworld.org, which has grown from a website created in an Oxfordshire garage to the leading portal for Non Governmental Organisations worldwide. All of which goes to show that you don't have to be big to become a global player.DOG Bites Man department: In a new book ( The Internet Bubble, by Anthony and   Michael Perkins), a Silicon Valley insider reveals that (a) the dotcom mania is a bubble and (b) up to half the $400 billion valuation of US Internet companies is due to 'market hype and investor naivete'.Tony Perkins, the co-owner of Red Herring, sometimes described as 'the bible for dotcom investors', calculates that the leading 32 US e-commerce companies would need to increase revenues by an average of 87 per cent a year for five years to justify the stock market valuations which they enjoyed on 11 June 1999.Well, blow me down.John Naughton leads the Going Digital project at the Open University's Faculty of Technology. He is also Director of the Press Fellowship Programme at Wolfson College, Cambridge.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Another week, another Internet company floats and sees its share price soar on the twin thermals of unfettered PR and desperate investor demand. But as the share price of Oxygen, the Internet incubator fund which aims to invest in university start-ups, headed North last Friday, investors might have been forgiven for experiencing more than a glimmer of  d&eacute;j&agrave; vu .Oxygen, after all, is another company created by Michael Edelson, the chairman of Knutsford, whose share price soared from 2p to 232p in one day last year as former Asda chairman Archie Norman and three other high-profile entrepreneurs bought into it.But perhaps Oxygen is more like another company formed by Edelson - Media Content, a business which specialises in advising on sports rights over the Internet and which has seen its share price jag north as investors in chat rooms speculate about possible, as yet inchoate, deals.Interestingly, Media Content, formerly the Wilmslow Group, started life as a very different company. At one stage in its putative history it owned the Quasar sportswear brand. Admittedly, back then it was little more than a shell company designed to facilitate the reverse takeover of private companies, thus giving them a stock market listing. But it is a sign of how feverish investment is becoming in 'dot.com' stocks that Media Content's share price rose from 6p to 35p last month thanks to expectation about its potential to be a key Internet player.Edelson is a shrewd operator, so the hype in this instance does at least have substance. But it is perhaps an indication of how similar some of today's investors have become to those caught up in the tulip mania of Seventeenth Century Holland that many companies can now seemingly announce a complete overhaul of their business strategy almost overnight without anyone daring to mention the words 'emperor', 'no' and 'clothes'.Indeed, not only do investors fail to question the rationale for a firm's decision when it announces a Paulean desire to turn itself into a new-technology business, they actually rush to buy its shares with lemming-like devotion. Take Whittard's. The tea company saw its share price leap 40 per cent after Ant Factory, an Internet   incubator fund, revealed that it was taking a stake. And this was one of the more sensible examples.Heard the one about the shoe company which, in all seriousness, recently issued a press release stating it was looking at developing Wireless Application Protocols - the standards which govern how mobile phones will interface with the World Wide Web? Well, bizarrely, the Fii Group saw its share price jump from 33p to 111p over last month, such was investor enthusiasm for this apparent volte face.Nor is this is the first time the Fii Group has diversified out of the depressed shoe market. Back in 1988 it bought into a bloodtesting company which it later sold on. As one person sympathetic to the company explained: 'What's the point of being a plc and having access to capital markets if you are moribund. You should look at doing new things.'But what about Blakes Clothing, the ailing fashion chain once held up as Next's main rival, whose share price was languishing at around 7p on 11 January? The share price had rocketed up to the pound mark by the following week as Blakes announced plans to become an e-commerce investment group.Perhaps the most surreal example of this new sport of .com bandwagon jumping was shown by the Black Country metal bashing company Arthur Shaw, whose share price jumped from around 6p at the start of last December to 18p just before Christmas. Why? Because the company, which specialised in making window latches, announced that it no longer wanted to just make window latches. No, it had decided to team up with a former rock promoter to broadcast concerts over the Internet.Perhaps it got the idea from Svennsk Copper, the Swedish mining company, which has now decided it is to stop dig  ging chunks out of the ground and will instead focus on becoming a major Internet investor. Indeed the trend for more 'prosaic' companies to attempt to metamorphose into Internet-savvy businesses looks set to spread this year. Griffin Mining, which specialises in extracting gold and zinc from holes in the ground in China, was attracted limiting enthusiasm from investors until the start of this   year. Then it announced it was to spin off a company called GriffTech.com, which would look at making investments in Internet companies. Griffin's share price rocketed 120 per cent.'If you were being charitable, you could say this is an example of the old industrial companies waking up to the potential of the Internet,' said Nick Jones, Internet commerce analyst with Jupiter Communications. 'Or you could see it as companies jumping on the bandwagon.'Nick Gibson, an analyst with Durlacher, added: 'We've been talking about the Internet bandwagon for quite a while now. It brings an inherent danger in that there is a lowering of the quality of floated Internet companies around.'But analysts warn of a serious flipside to this corporate catatonia. It's not so much that this vogue for reinvention is absurd - after all, businesses must adapt - it is more that the valuations being put   on these corporate turnarounds are impossibly high. Take fruit importer Fyffes. Its share price practically tripled last month as its e-commerce arm, worldoffruit.com, which allows companies to buy produce online, announced a new link-up with a technology partner. Using the Internet for such a purpose is eminently sensible. But does it really make the company worth around three times what it was valued at the previous month?'It's similar to the mid 1990s, when there was a penchant for listing multimedia companies on the Alternative Investment Market,' Durclacher's Gibson said. The problem was that many of the companies failed to meet profit forecasts at anything like the speed that had been predicted. 'Some lost up to 97 per cent of their value.'And when this sector slipped, it dragged others with it. 'It actually dragged down the video games companies as well,' Gibson said. 'Investors were unable to discern the difference between the two sorts of company. Games companies were left in the doldrums for two to three years.' Small wonder that a Merrill Lynch report recently stated: 'Recognise that what looks like a bubble probably is: we think the valuation "floor" is 75 per cent below current levels.'But if the mad scramble to gain exposure to the Internet is now reaching alarming proportions over here, the US saw it all two years ago. The most famous example has been that of Zapata, a former oil company founded in 1953 by George Bush, the former US president. Until the 1990s, Zapata's largest asset was a company called Omega Protein, a food processing plant which specialised in mashing up fish.But then Zapata got hip. It bought a couple of webzines and spent a fortune rebadging itself as an Internet business. Inevitably, Zapata was shortened to Zap and such was the company's transformation that it felt its paper was good enough to offer to Excite's shareholders back in May 1998. The Internet search engine's investors told Zap where to go, but it came close nevertheless.This phenomenon of bandwagon jumping is nothing new to seasoned observers. Tony Perkins, editor-in-chief of  Red Herring and author of a new book,  Internet Bubble , said: 'We've been here before. There were 508 automobile companies in the US in the early 1900s. Today there are three.'Not surprisingly, the people who will really lose out if and when these sorts of firms fall off the bandwagon are the smaller investors, who lack the tools needed to gauge whether a company's sudden transformation into something  Wired  magazine salivates over is cosmetic or genuine. At least in the US, most companies have well-developed investor relations departments which specialise in dealing with smaller punters. Here this is rare.'It's a shame that while the Internet can help popular capitalism, it could end up denting the experience of many,' Jones said. Welcome to the dot con revolution.
Whether you're still at the planning stages, or you've bought your ticket and are ready for the off, or even if you're already halfway around the world, the net is a good source for money-saving tips.Most destinations are covered byThe International Student Travel Confederation, which gives basic information about currency, telephone codes and time differences. More to the point, it can tell you which hostels in, say, Cape Town are offering discounts to student travellers holding an International Student Identity Card (ISIC). Information about how to get this card is also on this site.    Another good source of budget accommodation isHostelling International, which is essentially a database of hostels worldwide, allowing you to search for a hostel in your chosen destination, read about budget travel in that country and book your bed up to six months in advance.Hostels.comoffers a similar service with its Worldwide Hostel Database and has links to online bookshops, bargain tickets shops, offers the chance to win a trip abroad and has some editorial content.For more detailed reading about your destination, it's worth knowing that bothLonely PlanetandRough Guidesreproduce a lot of their guide books online. Not only will you save money accessing the pages you want, but you won't need to carry a heavy tome around with you either. The Lonely Planet site has a noticeboard (the Thorn Tree) for travellers' tips. It doesn't look great, but a search under your particular destination may well throw up some useful advice   from someone who's been there and done that.The online magazineGap Yearis a hugely informative site run by travel writers. It publishes first-hand accounts of students' experiences, has a search engine to enable you to find a placement, gives the lowdown on choosing an organisation to travel with, as well as advice on visas, health matters and money. It also has a chat room - a good place to start if you want to hear more about other people's experiences - a message board and the staff are keen to respond to any concerns you may have.Most charities and working-abroad organisations now have websites.Bunachas a specific group of programmes for gap-year students. Other sites to investigate are theJet Programmefor teaching English in Japan,Raleigh International, andKibbutz Representatives.It goes without saying that it's worth setting up an e-mail account, and most search engines now have a "free e-mail" flag on their homepage.Hotmailhas updated itself since its security scare last year;Yahoo!andCompuserveare both popular programmes.The Gap Year site mentioned above also has its own web-based e-mail. You may find there's already someone out there with your name, though, so if you're fussy about your e-mail address, you could try a few sites to see if you can get the address you want.
Chris Gent, Vodafone's chief executive, is planning a series of new alliances with American and European internet and data services providers after sealing the 181bn euro (&#163;110bn) merger with Mannesmann to create the world's largest telecom company.The world's biggest corporate deal, creating a group worth &#163;225bn, yesterday unleashed a wave of buying into European telecoms as investors bet on a wholesale shake-up of the corporate landscape as a result of the deal. Germany's Dax index rose to a record high, with Deutsche Telekom and Siemens reaching their own highs - a trend echoed elsewhere on the continent.Mr Gent, buoyed by endorsements from both Tony Blair and Gerhard Schr&ouml;der, the German chancellor, who clashed at the outset of Vodafone's hostile bid, set out the enlarged group's stall as "the partner of choice" throughout the world.He hopes by the middle of next week to declare unconditional the offer - approved belatedly by Mannesmann's supervisory board yesterday - of 58.96 Vodafone shares for every Mannesmann share, giving the German company 49.5% of the combined group.He said in a London conference call that, by agreeing to demerge or even sell off Orange, Vodafone hoped to get swift regulatory approval for the friendly merger by early next month at the latest.Mr Gent insisted that the enlarged group, to be known as Vodafone AirTouch, would not pose a serious competition issue given the presence of Deutsche Telekom, France Telecom, BT and other mobile operators.But German sources, still smarting from Mannesmann's loss of independence, questioned whether Brussels would simply give approval without launching a full-scale investigation lasting up to four months - given the repeated references to dominance.A few analysts also questioned whether Vodafone had paid over the odds to secure a European partner for its global ambitions, with aides of Klaus Esser, Mannesmann's chief executive, pointing out that he had forced up the price from 155 euro in October to Vodafone's effective offer of 353 euro."That's three euros more than the 350 euros Klaus put as the value of the group, a statement that brought him ridicule as a man off his head," a source said. "And he's got a company worth 30% less than Vodafone owning nearly half the new group."Mr Gent paid handsome tribute to his opponent, not least for his sense of humour. "There should be smiles in Germany given the tremendous shareholder value created, not least by Klaus Esser in the robust defence of his own company. Our discussions were always professional and courteous."But Mr Esser, who is to become a non-executive deputy chairman after overseeing the &#163;2.5bn float of Mannesmann's engineering and automotive unit in late June, is increasingly seen in his homeland as the man who sold out corporate Germany to Anglo-Saxon   capitalism. It emerged clearly yesterday that Mr Esser, who is likely to seek new pastures, lost the battle for independence when he failed to cement a planned 60-40 merger with French media group Vivendi, which backed Vodafone instead.Mr Gent and his advisers believe the turning point came, however, when Hutchison Whampoa, led by flamboyant Li Ka-shing, began to vote its 11% stake in the Mannesmann group towards Vodafone. "The unequivocal message from shareholders was that, however good the Mannesmann team, the business would be better with us," said Mr Gent.Disputing this, Mannesmann insiders said British institutions in particular simply had "an unquestioning love affair with the notion that bigger is better and global is the only way". Mr Esser blamed speculative moves by arbitrageurs.Mr Gent, who signed off on the deal in D&uuml;sseldorf on Thursday after a last-minute impasse had threatened it, said he now hoped for a swift integration of Mannesmann's business and personnel within the wider group's operations.
Hopes of an imminent boom in e-commerce were discouraged yesterday by a big survey which found that seasoned surfers have no plans to buy more electronically.The survey - of more than 38,000 British internet users - says most expect to increase their spending "slightly or not at all" in the next six months.The Bookseller magazine, which commissioned it, concludes that "internet shopping is not about to enter a period of rapid growth among those already familiar with the web".The study is based on questionnaires advertised on search engines and popular   websites. Some 30% had bought goods on the net. Books were their most popular buys, followed by CDs and computer software. They made 15% of their book purchases on the net in the past year.Amazon.co.ukhad a big lead over its bookselling rivals, with 56% of sales. Its US parent companyAmazon.comheld second place. Its nearest UK rival, launched last year by the German group Bertelsmann, had only 9%, with WH Smith at 5%, Waterstone at 2% and Blackwell at 1%.An earlier report, by Verdict Research, forecast that internet book sales could rise to 15% of the market. They now stand at 3%.
It may be a peculiarly British trait, but there is something satisfying about checking out the weather in the days before a holiday. It's still beyond your control, but information available on the web makes it much easier to decide what clothes to take and how much sunscreen and insect repellent is called for.SkiclubFor skiers and mountaineers, of course, reliable weather forecasts are a necessity. If you're off to the slopes soon, visit Skiclub's snow reports. Resident weatherwoman Laura provides details of powder quality and pistes in the best condition. Skiclub is one of the most comprehensive of the many new skiing-related sites and allows you to search by resort, covering most of Europe, Scotland and North America.Sport Scotland Avalanche Information ServiceWalkers and mountaineers in Scotland can consult the Sport Scotland Avalanche Information Service. It covers Glen Coe, the northern and southern Cairngorms, Lochaber and Creag Meagaidh, and is also an excellent source of information on avalanche risks and emergency tactics.The Met OfficeThe Met Office, as one might expect, covers Britain's weather in great detail, and    includes a three-day forecast and severe-weather warnings. Aspecial sectionis devoted to UV radiation levels in the UK and Europe. This is also the place to read the latest shipping forecast  in its oddly compelling detail, as well as reports from inshore waters.IntellicastIn the US,  Intellicast  has beautifully-detailed graphical information for North American cities - satellite pictures,   precipitation maps and other data for those who take forecasting seriously. Larger-scale maps are available for such places as Kuala Lumpur.YahooFinally, Yahoo's weather service  offers what is probably the most up-to-date international service on the web. You can add details of your chosen town or region to a My Yahoo homepage. In terms of speed and ease of understanding, this site is the clearest; its coverage of extreme weather conditions   is also very good, should you be unfortunate enough to take a holiday in an uncertain climate.
If, these days, you are a busy person, or a keenly-organised one, or a business executive who travels and likes gadgets, you may find yourself acquiring strange typing habits. Perhaps you only use your little fingers; or the edges of your fingertips; or a pen or a pencil, even, to peck more precisely at the keys. You probably type in public: on trains, at cafe tables, on streetcorners. You may feel nicely modern, bent over your personal organiser, great mineshafts of information and pulses of global communication beneath its slot of a screen. And just next to your tiny keyboard, the manufacturer's logo, most likely, will be an apparently unpronounceable word in yellow capitals: Psion.It sounds Californian - another anonymous-but-crucial Silicon Valley conglomerate, like Sun Microsystems or 3Com. Or maybe East Asian. When Psion (pronounced "Sion") commissioned research about its country of origin two year ago, most of its customers thought it was Japanese. But Psion is British. Its name stands for "Potter Scientific Instruments Or Nothing", its founder was a physics professor, and its history has been as charmed and erratic as any aficionado of these islands' famed inventiveness could hope for. What is more, in the great profitless deserts of British computing and innovation, Psion has actually made money. It could be about to make a great deal more.Since the early 80s, improbably at first but with steadily growing credibility, Psion has been selling an idea of the electronic future based on computers the size of pencil cases. While everyone else has been building faster, flasher machines, with features to please the nerds and prices to match, Psion has been producing far simpler, cheaper, more genuinely portable models. Until quite recently these were barely considered computers at all - a sort of electronic Filofax. On the business pages, Psion was praised, but modestly, as an "innovative" niche enterprise.Now, rather suddenly, it is being compared to Microsoft. And not just by over-excited financial journalists: in October 1998, Bill Gates himself "leaked" a Microsoft memo to the US media identifying Psion as his vast corporation's "Number One Global Threat". Since then, other computing and communications conglomerates have been queueing up to collaborate with Psion, like sixth-formers begging for a glimpse of the upcoming exam questions. On Tuesday, Motorola announced a joint manufacturing deal. Nokia, Ericsson, Oracle, and Matsushita, among others, have already joined a project started by Psion, called Symbian, to create the operating system for the next great advance in computing: fusion with the mobile phone.There are currently at least 380m mobile phones in the world. There are only 330m personal computers. Within two years, Nokia estimates, mobile phone numbers will have breached one billion. Day by day, it seems to be becoming clearer that people prefer their electronics small, cute, and pocketable - the way that Psion, more than anyone, has always built them - rather than desk-bound, boxy, and designed for offices. By next year, according to the publicist for Symbian, there will be "30 or so" mobile "communicators" or "smartphones" or "wireless information devices" for sale. They will combine telephone functions with email, internet access, and word processing.The publicist looks up from his laptop computer, where his presentation program is unfurling in a giddy whirl of rhetoric and dollar symbols. "This is not a computing industry any more," he says, his smile suddenly gone. "Consumers will not tolerate what they've lived with up to now." On the table, his slim new laptop, which is not a Psion, suddenly looks like a lump of stone. He purses his lips. "I don't see this as an evolution."The company was more modest at the start. In 1980, after two decades teaching at Cambridge and Imperial College and the University of California, an expatriate white Zimbabwean with restless eyes and a love of London called David Potter decided to take a punt on computers. He was already a successful semi-professional investor, and had &#163;70,000 in spare profits. His curiosity had been stirred by the beginnings of Silicon Valley: "A couple of my colleagues &#91;in California&#93; went off and built a mini-computer in 1974," Potter remembers. "That impressed me hugely."He founded Psion as a software company, writing computer games. Across Britain, other people were inventing hungry hardware; early on, Psion provided software for some of the personal computers sold by Sir Clive Sinclair. And as most of the new computer firms began to fail, cut down by recession and naive marketing, Psion managed to prosper. "We were very lucky," says Potter. "We made huge profits very early on." He hung on to these windfalls to sustain Psion when things got worse. "They made their own luck," says Sinclair.In 1984, Potter unveiled his first Organiser. It cost &#163;100, and was little more than a computerised filing system, plus a calculator. But unlike the rival products that soon followed - such as the Microwriter and the Agenda, which asked users to learn an entirely new way of typing - it was practical. By the mid-80s, Psions were being used, very publicly, by British Rail staff and Marks &amp; Spencer. Potter the ex-academic, "analytical by nature", seemed to understand how to exploit novelty better than most entrepreneurs. "If you look at the computer industry over 40 years," he says now, a professorial boom entering his voice, leaning back in one of the many chairs in his office at Psion's London headquarters, "you get these disruptive transitions. Each time, the controllers of the technology, the high priests, lose power." A shark-like smile splits his long, tanned face. His eyes light with mischief. "This is all solid-state physics, ultimately."In 1987, he confidently floated Psion on the Stock Exchange. Within a year, the share price had quadrupled; profits were surging up the graphs too. Two years later, both had collapsed. Psion, for all its cerebral self-awareness, had not yet learned a fairly obvious lesson about business: the more innovative a company is, the more it can suffer from its own "disruptive transitions". Each time Psion had a new product out, its customers would get excited and sales and profits would climb; but then, as the novelty eroded, and expectations about the next new gadget began to grow, people would stop buying and wait. In the meantime - which might be several years - Psion would be spending millions on research and development. The stock market, not known for its patience, would panic. At the memory, Potter's face abruptly tightens - from playful inventor to beleaguered pioneer. "The major transition periods have been very difficult," he says.Currently, Psion is enduring another. As it makes promises about Symbian, and all its associated miracles of minaturisation and communication, so some of the items Psion sells now - its latest range of silvery slim Organizers, its standard software packages - already seem old-fashioned. On Tottenham Court   Road, London's ceaselessly competitive electronics bazaar, Psion's recently-launched organiser for the younger, "switched-on" market, the Revo, has already been marked down from &#163;300 to &#163;260.Psion's shares have been lurching sharply up and down for months. The company website warns that "On-going investment in Symbian will continue to constrain... short-term profitability." Senior Psion staff, some long-term, have been leaving in greater numbers of late than feels comfortable. Since 1996, Potter, who is 56, has suffered heart alarms and surgery. He has given up the day-to-day running of the company to become chairman."My role is more of a guiding one these days," he says. His office at Psion is on the top floor, facing away   from the ferment of central London; a glass wall gives onto dozing Mayfair rooftops, a terrace, drifting clouds. "In 1988, when we were about 120 people, I absolutely knew everyone," Potter continues. "A larger organisation becomes more... process-driven." He has been acquiring projects outside Psion. He has recently been invited to Downing Street to give a lecture on entrepreneurship. He is a regular on education quangos.Meanwhile, across the corridor from his office, the new chief executive of Psion is plotting reform. David Levin is 20 years younger, a former management consultant, and has a background, not in electronics or new inventions, but in "venture capital" and "abrasives". He likes to whizz around his office on his chair castors. The view from his windows is of building sites, business premises being transformed or torn down.Levin wants to turn Psion from a deviser of gadgets into "a platform for content". He fixes his eager gaze: "The category of organisers... is going to come to an end." The company needs to become more "market-driven", and less "technology-driven"; it must be "nimble", accept the   need to "reinvent" itself. What all this means, in practical terms, remains a little unclear, for all Levin's chair-rolling and tumbling syllables. But he does mention one concrete initiative: he has sold off some of the company's factories.Such reinventions have not always suited Psion. In 1996, it tried to become a high-street favourite by buying Amstrad, the consumer electronics firm. The deal failed. The plans for Symbian are a similar gamble. The alliance could quickly raise Psion from a vigorous but commercially-vulnerable company of middling size to something much bigger and more stable. Potter and Levin anticipate receiving a large and constant income, via licence agreements, from the makers of the new devices that use Symbian software. Or the great collaboration could crumble. Some of Psion's current allies seem to be hedging their bets: last December, Motorola and Nokia became investors in the Palm Pilot, an American rival to the Psion Organiser; the same month, Ericsson announced a link-up with Microsoft to develop mobile email.Victor Basta, the managing director of Broadview, a consultancy specialising in the merger of computer firms, thinks this phoney war could last "a year or two". After that, as in many sorts of e-commerce, one or two conglomerates may be left standing. "Psion's got a pretty good shot," he says. "People have been saying Microsoft will kill them for a while now, and they haven't yet."High above Mayfair, behind his glass wall, Potter disagrees that such all-consuming competition will ever loom. "No one company can manage the whole wireless future. You've got to be interdependent." He cites Europe's greater sophistication than the US, when it comes to mobile phones: in America, the network remains patchy and uncooperative because, he says, the telephone companies refuse to pool their resources. At board meetings for Symbian, by way of a contrast, Potter says he acts as "the Kofi Annan".It all sounds very civilised. That the electronic future might be partly constructed, not by some pale perpetual teenager from the cold school of capitalism, but by "an old-fashioned liberal" who "believes in things", and finds the time to advise the South African government, for example, on how to better educate poor people, is a reassuring notion. Perhaps we will all become more like Psion users: keen on our machines, more practical in our use of them, more resistant to pure marketing, a bit patriotic or political even in the brands we favour.There may be a few problems to sort out first, though. When the man from Symbian runs his demonstration program, the portable computer he shows is twice the likely actual size. Yet its screen is barely bigger than two matchboxes. He talks, quickly and a bit vaguely, about folding screens and putting the screen down the back and offering "not internet, but internet-type content".Sir Clive Sinclair knows about such difficulties. "Whenever I'm at a meeting and we're deciding about dates," he says, "the people with diaries are always 10 times faster. But the people with Psions get terribly cross if you say so."
Ford's 350,000 employees worldwide, including more than 26,000 in Britain worried about their jobs, are to be offered a computer and the chance to surf the internet from home for a nominal fee.Amid widespread - and rebutted - fears of imminent plant closures in Europe, including the flagship plant in Dagenham, the world's second-largest car manufacturer said it planned to put its international staff at the cutting edge of e-commerce.The 26,326 Ford employees in the UK, assuming their plant is still open, can expect to be offered a Hewlett Packard PC, printer and modem for about &#163;3 a month this year.The package, which they can upgrade at their own expense and allows incidental personal use, is said by Bill Ford, the group's chairman, to be "part of a global strategy to become the world's leading consumer company of automotive products and services".The programme is to be rolled out from the US in the next 12 months. It is designed to raise the skills of the group's employees when a growing amount of Ford's business, including buying and selling cars, will be done online.As one employee put it: "The whole world's way of getting information and even talking to each other has changed radically."Ford, meanwhile, confirmed that its low-margin European operations, including UK plants, are to be subjected to another radical review and cost-cutting in an effort to raise returns from last year's paltry $28m on sales of $30bn.The UK, with main plants in Dagenham, Bridgend, south Wales, and Halewood, Merseyside, could be the prime target for any closures because of the pound's continuing strength.The UK operation, threatened by a strike of 3,000 white-collar staff, has been under review for some years. But union leaders yesterday insisted that the productivity record of UK workers merited continuing investment.
Vodafone last night won its three-month battle for its German rival Mannesmann with an agreed &#163;103.4bn bid, the biggest corporate merger in Europe and close to AOL's record-breaking purchase of Time Warner last month.The British company's victory paves the way for an explosive growth in new-generation mobile phones.The deal, masterminded by Chris Gent, Vodafone's flamboyant chief executive - who ruffled German feathers by launching the country's biggest hostile bid and earned the disparaging sobriquet of Mr Cricket - opens the way to a wave of foreign takeovers of German companies.The former Young Conservative chairman and friend of John Major is now set to dominate the market not only in the US and UK but in Germany, Italy, and Spain. It will also be a big player in France.The deal, giving Vodafone 50.5% and Mannesmann 49.5% of the combined group, will see the demerger and probabable flotation of Orange, Britain's third-largest mobile phone company -bought by Mannesmann last October for &#163;20bn and now worth at least &#163;24bn.Consumers can expect a quantum leap in mobile phone capability, as Vodafone and Mannesmann have both entered agreements with internet service providers and software specialists that could swiftly transform everyday life.The deal brings closer the day when individuals will be able to download video clips, music and other web-based products and services on new-style mobile phones.It will also hasten the time when consumers will be able to use mobile and fixed-line screens to obtain combined monthly statements for telephone and bank accounts, and possibly other services such as domestic fuels and water.Vodafone, which took over the US group Airtouch for $60bn a year ago, is already poised to launch the first stage of a global internet service in July.Later this year subscribers should be able to trade shares, play games, get the day's news, and up-to-date weather forecasts and travel details.
Buried in the British Library's new building at Euston is a small fragile looking manuscript. Protected by glass and low lighting, its meaning is obscured by an ancient language. Yet it is about to become available to scholars around the world in unprecedented detail. It is the only surviving copy of the 11th century Old English epic poem - Beowulf.The British Library is publishing a double CD-rom containing colour digital images of the manuscript   together with related commentaries and transcripts.  The poem evokes a dark landscape inhabited by mythical monsters engaged in epic battles.This edition is aimed at academics familiar with the language. A multimedia version with a translation is planned schools and general readers. Those wanting help with their Old English have a choice between Seamus Heaney's Whitbread prize winning version or net translations including that from the US scholar John Breeden.This area of medieval   scholarship has been illuminated by technology from space exploration. Professor Kevin Kiernan, the editor of the electronic edition, was inspired by work at Nasa to use advanced image enhancement techniques in unraveling some of the mysteries of the manuscript.Although it survived for centuries, it was damaged in a fire in 1731. Handling by scholars led to further deterioration as the edges crumbled away.The detective work to reconstruct some of the missing text involved Kiernan studying not only the first complete edition of the poem   published in 1845 but also the contributions of other 19th century medieval specialists. Kiernan followed through with an increasing sophisticated series of experiments using digital cameras, ultraviolet fluorescence, and fibre-optic backlighting with staff at the BL led by Andrew Prescott, curator of western manuscripts. Each page was filmed in colour using a digital camera and illuminated by a cold fibre optic light source to minimise damage.Kiernan decided to use Netscape as the front end of the project because it makes it platform-independent and ready to put out on the net.   The Java plug-in has a built in magnification tool, the facility to view pages side by side and a sophisticated search.When running the disks it is advisable to use a system well above the recommended minimum spec because the large files are unwieldy with slower systems. The only thing missing is a series of links to related sites. Not even theBritish Library's own siteis mentioned.
Internet euphoria may be calming down a bit in the US (the shares of leading companies like Yahoo and Amazon are 30% to 40% below their peaks), but in the UK it is still in full bloom. Once the tag "dot.com" is attached to a corporation it becomes today's equivalent of the philosopher's stone, turning baseline companies into gold. The trouble is that hardly anyone seems to be making any profit out of selling to the consumer (most of the money is being made by providing the infrastructure of the information highway and in business-to-business deals). For the rest it might as well be dot.communism, since they aren't making money (except in capital gains). One problem is that the new companies are cutting out the middle person only to find that the savings are offset by the increased cost of marketing to tell people they have cut out the intermediary.The latest start-up, HomeFreeHome (announced yesterday), aims to put the traditional estate agent out of business   by offering sellers the chance to advertise their homes on the web for free. Since polls show that estate agents vie with journalists (among professionals) to be foot of the table in public esteem, this might be a shrewd move. But will it succeed? A spokesman for estate agents yesterday claimed that "nothing can replace the interpersonal skills which the estate agent brings to the transaction". Not everyone would agree - though, left to themselves, people might find it tough to fix prices for their houses.In the US the equivalent of estate agents have survived by ganging together to produce their own web presence, on the basis that there is safety in numbers. HomeFreeHome hopes to recoup its investment by attracting advertising for services associated with house purchase from conveyancing to kitchenware. They may succeed. But they will have to overcome the problem of so many startups which look terrific from all angles except one: the bottom line.HomeFreeHome
&#149; Soft option PC maker Compaq is willing to "cannibalise" its core business as it turns itself into an internet company, senior vice-president Peter Blackmore said yesterday.The company, which has lagged rivals' online sales of hardware, said it would focus on development of consumer, corporate and retail internet applications.&#149; Float Serial e-entrepreneur Chris Matthews, who pocketed several million pounds after the sale of internet firm Telinco Networks , is to float Hoojit , the e-commerce unit of Telinco that was not acquired by World Online International last month.Mr Matthews said: "I have made a decision. I don't want to sell the e-commerce division, I want to float." The company would launch its first products over the next two to three weeks.
Microsoft, the world's biggest software company, is to announce a "major deal" with British Telecom and a number of high-profile business alliances in the race to dominate the next generation of mobile phones, according to a private company email obtained yesterday.The corporate communication underlines the company's ambitions in the burgeoning "wireless" arena. The message, understood to have been sent by a member of the marketing department, reveals that the group wants to announce a series of important deals - possibly with US groups such as AT&amp;T, Sprint and AirTouch, as well as BT - at the end of this   month, when founder Bill Gates addresses a wireless trade show.The internal note asks: "If the really big deals were to fall through, do we still have something along the lines of content for Bill's keynote?" It goes on to refer specifically to BT and AT&amp;T, saying: "We're in discussions for a major deal with these companies."Underlining the need for secrecy, the writer adds: "This is still highly confidential."Such deals are likely to take the form of alliances or strategic partnerships rather than an outright takeover, although analysts were ruling little out yesterday.The negotiations could result in wireless companies using Microsoft software to   download news and other information from the internet. As part of a strategic shift announced last year, Microsoft said it wanted the world to use its software "any time, anywhere and from any device".The announcement marked a recognition that consumers were likely to want to access the web from a range of devices and not just their computers.But while Microsoft has made several large investments in wireless companies over the past year, it has failed to make much of a mark in the area to date.In a bid to gain ground, Microsoft announced a joint venture with Ericsson of Sweden in December to develop mobile technology. It also in vested $5bn (&#163;3.1bn) in AT&amp;T, America's largest telecommunications group, a year ago and announced a small-scale partnership with BT. At the same time, it bought Sendit, a Norwegian messaging service.Analysts said it had been losing ground to Symbian, the mobile venture involving Psion of the UK.Microsoft refused to comment on the email sent to journalists at CNET News.com. But sources close to the Seattle-based company described the incident as "unfortunate".The no holds barred nature of Microsoft's internal emails has already caused the company problems in its legal battle with the US government.
Content firstRe Weblife (27/1) - Matt Martel admits to being a beginner at web design. Not surprising then that his article raises a number of issues.His company "provides web content for sites". He suggests that it is alright to create pages even if the content "is not the real content" Twice in the last few days I have had demonstrations of web sites where the proud demonstrator disclaimed all responsibility for the content. Never mind the content, feel the graphics.He has obviously been too busy to read the recent Online article where Jacob Neilsen, the creator ofGoogle.com, made a case for graphic-free sites where the visitor just might be able to find the information required.Alertbox.comand it's top ten mistakes in web design would give him pause for thought.At the nuts and bolts level, Dreamweaver is not free, cheap or easy to use. How do you do your maintenance after 30 days are up? Frames are not an unmitigated good, especially for someone who would like to pass on some of you information in an email say or print it out. They reduce the usefulness of a site. Photos are better saved as jpgs not .gifsJohn AshurstDidsburyWeb perilIt is certainly true that programs such as Dreamweaver allow web sites to be quickly and easily built. However they do not guarantee that the result will be any good.A lot of skill and experience (of many different disciplines) go into creating a good web site. Just being able to use a web authoring package like Dreamweaver does not make someone a web designer.Companies need to realise that their web site is as important as their corporate   identity. Unless you want your brand to suffer, spend the money and get it done properly.I don't mean to be critical, butwww.contentgenerators.comis a case in point - it looks unprofessional and works badly, which is a shame because the content is actually quite interesting.Jonathan HirschNew Media Consultantjon@hirsch.co.ukDelugedSince you published my letter about email and mobile phones on Thursday, I have had a handful of letters of thanks (many expressing amazement at the wonderful facility they now have) and DOZENS of letters asking for trouble-shooting tips. You might like to point readers towards an expanded explanation of the service which I have posted atwww.freespace.freeserve.co.ukMichael Hampsonmichael.hampson@bigfoot.comC'est terribleI tried the Systransoft website with our family Christmas letter, translating it into French and the result back into English. I expected the end result would need some editing - and how!The opening lines were: "For us this was the Year of Jenny's Hip. At the end of January, Jenny had a bad fall in the garden: nothing broken, but plenty of discomfort which increased over the following weeks &amp; months. Our doctor was baffled".They were rendered into French as: "Pour nous c'&eacute;tait l'ann&eacute;e de la hanche de la bourrique. A fin janvier, la bourrique a eu une mauvaise chute dans le jardin: rien cass&eacute;, mais abondance de malaise qui a augment&eacute; au cours des semaines et des mois suivants. Notre docteur a &eacute;t&eacute; d&eacute;rout&eacute;.Put back into English, it read: "For us it was the year of the hip of the she-ass. At at the end of January, the she-ass had a bad fall in the garden: nothing broken, but abundance of faintness which increased during weeks and by the following months. Our doctor was diverted."There's scope for human translators yet!AndrewPatricka_j_patrick@compuserve.com
Tell us about you and computers.My dad's a research scientist so instead of fairy tales as a kid I got programming problems. I was programming HPL (Hewlett Packard's basic programming language) when I was about five. It wasn't until sixth form that I found that, while others at my school were earning spare cash with bar jobs, I could make a bit of cash with some freelance programming. What finally hooked me into the printers side of things was when the original Apple Macs came out. I joined a Mac dealership just as desktop publishing was happening and became very successful.What system are you running now?One I love, one I hate. The one I hate is the day to day system I use, a Dell Latitude CPI. The one that I love is the Palm 5. To a lot of people that's more of an organiser, but to me it's a computer.Do machines like the Palm 5 mean the end is nigh for the PC?I think that "nigh" is still quite a long way away. The PC is very much designed to have the infrastructure built into it whereas we're now building infrastructure into our offices and into our lives. Once that's done we don't need all that infrastructure overhead.How have things changed in the printers market?It is probably the most turbulent, schizophrenic place I've seen in the 14 years I've been in this business. There are three critical conflicts: between colour and monochrome in the business environment; between printing and copying - last year printers produced more pages than copiers and that's really significant - and between centralised and distributed printing environments. With the internet and with the development of networks the distributed environment is really winning. The question is: how do you provide good quality services if you're a manufacturer in that area?Will the colour printer ever replace the photograph?From a technical point of view the quality will never be quite as good. From a practical point of view the answer has to be yes, definitely. There are lots of things we can do with a conventional photograph to make it print better on a printer because we can digitally control things like colour space and contrasts and the accessibility is so much better to the equipment.Any favourite places on the net?I really like theShockwave site- I must admit I'm one of those people who fiddles with the South Park cartoons. Like a lot of people in the industry I watchSilicon.com. It's early days yet to be using the Web as a medium but in that sense they're doing a pretty good job. I also have my favourite user groups that I subscribe to .Do you feel that Usenet and newsgroups are overlooked?I think so because the net is about connecting people. I think everybody's got terribly caught up in the e-commerce thing when actually it's just a lot of people who are communicating with one and other using the web.
Internet-based fraud is the fastest growing criminal activity in the UK, according to the latest crime figures. Although internet purchasing makes up only 2% of credit card transactions, the banking industry's credit card research group has shown that the net generates around 50% of all credit card complaints.Last year was a record year for spending on the internet - more than &#163;2 billion in the UK - and predictions for e-commerce growth are staggering. Forrester Research says $3.2 trillion will be spent online annually by 2003, accounting for 5% of all world-wide transactions. But the public still does not fully trust the online world. A recent DTI survey revealed that 69% of the public cited lack of trust as the major barrier to online purchasing and many internet users who research products online still use traditional channels for purchasing. For e-commerce to become viable, the public must trust the internet.Internet based traders looking for a secure technology to alleviate consumers' anxieties are turning to public key cryptography. Using a system called a public key infrastructure (PKI), internet users can use digital signatures to determine the identity of online organisations and individuals.A digital signature in the virtual world takes the place of a physical signature. The government's recent electronic communications bill makes provision for legal recognition of digital signatures.In a PKI system, a digital signature is attached to a communication and contains detailed information about the originator. Each user in a PKI system holds a pair of "keys", one private and one public. The private key is used as a signature, encrypting the message and the public key is used to decrypt the message, verifying that signature. Anyone can obtain the public key, allowing them to encrypt information but only the holder of the private key can read that information.A PKI system ensures that   when information is sent using a public key, it can be read only by the intended recipient, ensuring privacy and security. The recipient of a message encrypted with a private key can be sure of the identity of the sender because they will have to use the sender's public key to decrypt the information. In short, this means that when buying online, the purchaser can be sure that his or her credit card details will not be intercepted en route to the seller and will allow the seller to be sure that the purchaser is who she or he claims to be.PKI technology offers a secure method of encrypted data transaction but still does not provide a guarantee of reliability. Your credit card details are guaranteed to be sent securely but do you know you are purchasing from a reliable source?The final element that makes a PKI system truly secure is a certificate issued by a certification authority (CA). In a commercial PKI, a trusted third party acts as the CA and issues certificates to users who prove themselves trustworthy. It holds all private keys, verifies users and has the power to rescind certificates from traders who break the rules. A digital certificate contains the owner's name and public key, the CA's name and public key and details about the certificate owner.In the UK, The Post Office currently offers certificates through its CA offshoot, Viacode and BT has formed BT Trustwise in partnership with Verisign, the largest American CA. Before issuing certificates to websites, Viacode and BT Trustwise will put applicants through a vetting process in order to ensure that they are reliable and trustworthy. "We will only issue certificates to a website after a very thorough security check," says Michelle Mooney, head of trust services for BT. "Visitors to a site will be able to see that the site is certified by us and can click on the BT Trustwise icon to be taken to our site where they can get make further checks if need be".A PKI system is also ideal for any organisation offering access to selected users on a global network such as the internet. "&#91;PKI&#93; offers added security and a very flexible way of managing risk. The technology is going to grow massively - not just for retailers but for any organisation that wants to offer secure access to online users," says Mooney.The use of digital signatures will become more and more common as an internet security feature. "I funda  mentally believe that everybody will end up with a digital signature," says Sushi Nair of Advanced Computer Group, a company pioneering PKI and website security. "It's like everybody getting an email    address. You can't have a method of communication without knowing who and where that communication comes from. Look at letters. We all sign letters and we assume and recognise that   that has legal meaning. We need the same thing for email."Now that legal recognition is in place, digital signatures promise to give us reliable and trustworthy electronic communication.
