For a man who has seen his company's value slide by nearly $40 billion in six months, Tim Koogle is looking remarkably calm. In fact, he looks more than calm. The Yahoo! president and chief executive officer seems positively joyous.Sitting in the study of the Dean's house at the London Business School, just before he addresses some future masters of the universe, Koogle shows no outward sign that he is a man who believes Silicon Valley will soon be renamed Death Valley due to the recent bloodbath in the dotcom sector.Perhaps it is because Koogle believes he is blessed with what he calls the gift of 'serendipity'. 'I've been making money since I was very young. As I look back over four decades of making money the huge value for me in doing that from such an early age is that it has put me in the shoes of my customers and I've got enough perspective to have a pretty accurate view of real consumers. I find a lot of joy in serving up great product and the one thing that drives people's consumption patterns is serendipity.' And serendipity is? The faculty of making fortunate discoveries by accident. Hmm.Before the age of 10, Koogle was a precocious travelling salesman, knocking on his neighbours' doors offering gardening services. As a teenager he worked for one R McDonald, making sure that burger equipment in one of the grinning clown's franchises worked properly. By   his forties he had become president of Intermec Corp, a Seattle-based data collection firm. Before that there was a nine-year spell with Motorola in a number of executive positions.Koogle's talk of serendipity might make some of the older heads at the London Business School a little bemused. It conjures up pictures of shareholders looking nervously at each other and asking: 'So this serendipity thing, where d'ya get it and what's it doing to the bottom line?' The answer is a) you either have it or you don't, and b) a great deal. Yahoo! has grown from a company valued at $4 million in 1995 to one which, before the bubble burst, was worth nearly $70bn.The massive surge in the company's value has been largely predicated on the fact that Yahoo! seems to have found a way of linking the separate worlds of media, e-commerce and services like email to create a virtuous circle for the new economy.'We've always been very clear and focused. We have always been open, comprehensive aggregators of world- class content and services. We know that consumption patterns get driven by serendipity. People bump into things that they wouldn't have predicted they wanted.'This might seem a nebulous concept to follow, but Koogle is convinced the approach will work. He argues that the old media distribution methods - such as cable or radio - are no longer where real value lies.'On the internet, no one company controls physical distribution. Anyone with access to internet can access any site - independent of their or its location. So on a slightly philosophical level, the distribution asset begins to be the relationship that is formed between a service and its end users.' And that's where Yahoo! comes in.Koogle, funny and warm with more than a hint of West Coast philosophy professor   about him, says this was always the company's intention. 'Even back as early as 1995 we had a vision that we wanted to create a global branded network. It's not just navigation - we're more than a portal. We have many, many services and hosted content throughout the network. We're integrating deeper and deeper within content, commerce, delivery and services across our network. In a very straightforward way, we are a distribution platform for many great providers.'But the danger is that distribution is not where the real value lies - instead, it belongs to the content providers, those firms who in the future will produce the media we will all want to consume.Certainly AOL, in the middle of trying to merge with media giant Time Warner, believes this to be the case. And, in addition to the AOL deal, search engine Excite was taken over by cable operator At Home, while Lycos has married Latin lover Terra Networks, of which Spanish telecoms and media company Telef&oacute;nica is the majority owner.So would Koogle consider a similar sort of deal? 'Not at this time. We of course have considered it. We've had lots of discussions with lots of companies worldwide, some of which are quite large franchises in traditional media. We're very respectful of Time Warner and AOL. We think they're great businesses and great competitors. There's no doubt if they get their merger completed they'll have some kind of financial clout and flexibility but we're believers in the open model. Great content always seeks out great distribution in the history of media. There's great business to be had without owning each other.' However, it is clear Koogle is looking at forging numerous content alliances. 'There are interesting specialised content partnerships that we will be continuing to build and evolve. I think in those kinds of cases there are great content suppliers that see huge value in our distribution, but I don't think we need to own each other. Our goal of being very large and maintaining our size in terms of audience breadth is better-served by being independent.'A merger with a big old media company would go against everything Yahoo! stands for. Set up by two twentysomething Stanford graduates, Jerry Young and David Filo, in 1994, Yahoo! still retains something of a campus mentality. Koogle, who was headhunted the following year, is known to all as TK. Ties are, of course, effectively banned. Hawaiian shirts, of which Koogle owns a particularly ferocious collection, are  de rigeur .'We have this really free approach to Yahoo! We all share that same philosophy. You can deliver real joy to customers worldwide if you give them the ability to discover things they otherwise would not have predicted. That's about serendipity itself.'There he goes using that 's' word again. But Wall Street seems less sure about its long- term viability these days. The company is now worth a notch above $30bn. Admittedly this still values Yahoo! at a vertiginous 150 times earnings, but Koogle says the company is now undervalued because analysts are looking too short- term. 'The way we run the business is for the long term. We've built it on great fundamentals. There have been very few companies that have grown to this scale and profitability so quickly.'Hang on. Did he say profitability? The 'p' word is not usually found in the same sentence as the words 'internet company', but Yahoo! is something of an exception. Analysts are pencilling in profits of nearly $280m for the year. Earlier this month the company beat all forecasts to ratchet up third-quarter sales of nearly $300m.Unfortunately, it also had    to confess to the fact that it had lost more than 200 online advertisers over the period - a huge worry for analysts, who fear that the company's business model, which depends   partly on advertising revenues, could be in jeopardy. Koogle points out that Yahoo! is becoming less and less reliant on dotcom firms for advertising revenue.He says he saw the shakeout coming although he did not think it would be so dramatic. 'I knew we were going to have a correction. It was difficult to predict when.   There were valuations that had gotten a little bit out of the range of normalcy. And everyone knew that. I've been a little bit surprised by the speed.'But Koogle argues that the correction now means Yahoo! is in a strong position. 'The concept is to find strategic ways that we can extend our business through acqui sition. The opportunities for us are broader right now because the capital markets are less friendly to early-stage companies.'Serendipity strikes again.ProfileSubject:Tim KoogleAge:49Job:President and chief executiveOther directorships:Non-executive of Web Van and E-LoanHobbies:Guitars, cars
If ever you hanker after a half-assed exploration of internet issues, then tune in to that great flagship of BBC news and current affairs, Radio 4's  Today programme. True, the ageing journalistic toffs who present it do not often engage in discussion of the net, but when they do they invariably take a firm grip of the wrong end of the stick.Last Wednesday morning they turned their attention to the oft-visited question of paedophiles on the net. The item opened with a report on the dangers to children posed by internet 'chat-rooms' - virtual spaces in which people exchange text or voice messages in real time. A representative of Childnet, an internet-based charity, ex-plained how one could highlight an individual participant in a chat room and invite that person to join in a private discussion. This, he argued, is where the danger lay. 'In chat rooms,' he went   on, 'it's so much easier for someone to build a relationship with a child over a period of months, so in terms of strangers actually contacting children and harming them we've got to recognise that internet chat is the new playground where this is going to happen.'The reporter then interviewed the mother of a girl who had been picked out in this way by a 47-year-old man masquerading in cyberspace as a teenager and who had arranged a meeting (in real space) with her daughter. The point of the report was that this kind of thing is not illegal under UK law - but is in the US, where authorities do not have to wait until a child has actually been hurt before tak ing action. There then followed a hand-wringing discussion with a British police officer about the difficulties of preventing this kind of thing over here. 'There's real concern,' concluded the report, 'that British law and policing methods may be inadequate to meet the coming danger'.All of which is true, but mostly beside the point. What was missing from the  Today item - and indeed is missing from discussions of internet issues in the mass media generally - is any acknowledgment that by far the best way to protect your children from the dangers that lurk on the net is carefully to monitor what they do online, and to engage with them in discussing the dangers. Most of us warn our kids not to accept lifts or sweets from strangers. But how many give warnings about not accepting invitations to private internet chats or disclosing personal details to online contacts?I suspect that many parents (and teachers) avoid   doing this, probably out of fear of revealing their technological ignorance and suffering the loss of face this might entail. An increasing number put their faith - misguidedly - in software, by installing filtering programs which detect flesh tones, ban access to certain sites and so on. But these programs raise almost as many problems as they solve: computer-savvy kids find them easy to circumvent, for one thing; and they clumsily ban good sites as well as evil ones. But their greatest flaw is that they enable one to subcontract to a piece of software a fundamental parental responsibility - that of helping one's children to become street-wise in cyberspace.In the brain-dead mindset of the  Today programme this is apparently a job that has to be subcontracted to software, the police or some national cybercrime intelligence unit. This is hooey. It's a job for parents and it's dead simple to do: put the PC in the living room where you can keep an eye on it; do not allow your kids to install chat or other software without your knowledge and approval; and talk to them about not accepting virtual sweets from virtual strangers.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
It is difficult to move at the moment without hearing the sound of crashing dot.com companies. It started in the spring, when free-spending sports retailer, Boo.com, bit the dust, and has been gathering pace ever since. The fall in European shares has been happening against the descant of a worldwide slump in technology stocks that has seen high-flyers likePriceline(the US pioneer of customers bidding online for airline tickets) fall by 42% in a single day.Yahoo, one of the strongest net stocks, suffered a 27% fall in its share price last week. Even mighty Microsoft has seen its market capitalisation more than halve this year (before recovering this week). The latest casualty is Boxman.com, thought to be one of the most viable e-retailers, which sells CDs on the net from a central warehouse. This week it announced it was facing liquidation.A year ago it was so different. Venture capitalists - hitherto a rare sighting in Britain's capital markets - appeared from nowhere and were falling over themselves to lend money to almost any young person with a business plan in their knapsack and the word "internet" in the executive summary. The word "dot.com" - American, of course - soon became a sassy suffix for coolness in business..The explosion of web start-ups in the UK was heralded as the start of a New Economy, albeit blown in by a transatlantic wind. In this new world, the internet would lower prices by cutting out the middle person while enabling budding entrepreneurs to start up global businesses from their back bedrooms. Any company that didn't   embrace the world wide web for selling (and purchasing), would be smothered by those that did.So what went wrong? Nearly all the early claims of the internet were, and still are, true. Yes, it is an all-embracing change that will transform the way we do business, the way we are educated, and the way we are entertained. What the preppy-preneurs forgot, however, was the importance of two rules of the old economy and one of the new.First, they failed to appreciate that in the old economy 50% of all new small companies fail within the first four years. Whether you call it the creative destruction of capitalism or just natural selection, it is inescapable. Given that the brash new internet companies were run by people who were young and often inexperienced, and who were operating in an unexplored area, the failure rate for dot.coms was always going to be higher than the historic average for small companies.What was different was the extraordinary media attention these upstarts attracted. Small businesses which normally die unmourned and alone are now being cremated under a national spotlight. Take Clickmango, the start-up that attracted a lot of publicity because it had Joanna Lumley as its figurehead. When it crashed it emerged that its monthly turnover was only &#163;4,000. My local corner shop does better than that, but you won't see it in the national press.Second, they underestimated two old economy mantras: marketing and delivery. It is easy to build an attractive website that anyone in the world can access at the click of a mouse, but expensive to tell people it is there and to get them to   buy, let alone deliver quickly when they do buy. Small wonder that virtually no dot.coms in the UK selling to the consumer are making money. And that includesLastminute.com. It has been beating its budgets but its last quarterly accounts revealed it spent almost &#163;6m on marketing, nearly six times the value of its entire sales. Yesterday the head ofAltavista, the US search engine portal, resigned. Earlier in the year the division had reported losses of $307m on revenues of $98m in the second quarter. Say no more.Third, and most culpably, the dot.coms failed to understand the nature of the beast they had embraced: on the internet the consumer, not the producer, is king. The centrifugal forces of the world wide web push power away from the centre and outwards to the millions of global users who, at the click of a mouse, can find the same product cheaper elsewhere. The dot.economy turned out to be just a more expensive way of selling old economy goods at knockdown prices.Was it all just a year of madness, a momentary dot.con? Not at all. We are merely entering the second stage of a long voyage with some of the flotsam discarded. Traditional companies are waking up to the fact that old economy strengths like brands and reliable delivery are vital in the new era. They are already starting to gobble up the failing dot.coms to boost their own net initiatives.It is no coincidence that the biggest successes of the new economy - like the universal portal, Yahoo, and the   electronic auction house, eBay, are companies that couldn't exist without the internet. The next stage of the revolution will not only see traditional industries embracing the net. There will also be an explosion of activities that exist only within the internet - like digital music, films, two-way video and the huge potential of the new "peer-to-peer technology". This enables computers around the world to exchange files (whether music or films or data) with each other without going through intermediaries.This is brilliant for the consumer but bad for business. There is a real possibility that items like pop songs or books will become commodities like "breaking news" which are given away for nothing because it is impossible to make money from them as long as they are freely exchangeable on the net. Unsurprisingly, companies are seeking refuge by trying to build monopolies (whether of "content" or infrastructure) to escape the deflationary forces of the internet.Even the current rush to build giant "business-to-business" electronic market places, where spare parts and components can be bought at the cheapest price, can be seen in the same light - a defensive move by producers to offset the web-induced downward pressure on retail prices.This is the reality behind the absurd overvaluation of internet share prices. Some of the valuations made the South Sea Bubble seem like a village jumble sale. Now they are falling rapidly to earth, but with some way to go. Be happy you are a consumer: there will be lots of bargains among the debris.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
The Queen yesterday became the highest-profile casualty of the slump in dot.com shares when the value of her stake in a fledgling internet company fell by &#163;157,000 in a matter of hours.The monarch's 1.5% stake in Getmapping.com, which sells aerial photographs of Britain via the internet, was worth &#163;912,000 shortly after the company floated on the stock market in April.But the turbulence of the markets and the falling price of dot.com shares have seen the value of the royal investment slump by almost 80%.Nearly half the value of the stake was lost yesterday after disappointing results from the company knocked its shares back 41p to just 51p. The holding is now worth &#163;195,840.Ironically, it was poor sales of a Domesday millennium map dedicated to the Queen - the product that attracted her to the firm - that triggered the problem. Yet despite the nosedive in Getmapping's share price the Queen is still sitting on a regal return on her investment. She bought a 1.5% stake in the company for &#163;50,000 before it floated.A spokesman for the Queen last night refused to say whether she planned to hold on to her holding or had any other dot.com investments. "We don't talk about her individual personal holdings as it would inadvertently act as a commercial endorsement," he said. "As far as the Queen having any other investments in IT or cutting-edge technology firms, I'm afraid I'm unable to comment."
QXL shares rose 22% yesterday on reports the internet auction house has started talks with strategic investors aimed at finding the cash needed to take the company through to profitability.The shares, which earlier this week hit an all-time low, rallied 6p to close at 33p, helped by the report and better-than-expected figures from market leader eBay.According to internet news site breakingviews.com, QXL has started talking to strategic investors, including old- and new-media companies.QXL refused to comment because it is in its closed period ahead of third-quarter results, which have been pencilled in for the week starting November 6.But sources close to the company played down the speculation that talks had started although they admitted that at some point QXL would probably have to find a strategic investor.In common with many of its peers, QXL is facing a cash famine. Its funds will run out in 12 months' time, well before the company is scheduled to reach profitability.According to analysts, investors are increasingly reluctant to stump up more cash for loss-making internet companies. This rules out traditional methods of fund-raising such as rights issues or convertible bonds, forcing companies to consider other options such as joint ventures.Analysts see Lycos Europe, Yahoo! or another leading portal as a likely strategic partner. Alternatively, eBay might be tempted to bid for QXL to reinforce its position in Europe.At its peak in March, QXL was worth almost &#163;2.6bn. Earlier this week its value fell below &#163;100m for the first time. Dealers blame growing disenchantment with business-to-consumer internet companies.
Internet Indirect, the internet investment group, is to be taken over by its larger rival Newmedia Spark in a deal which values the company at &#163;80m.The group was set up by Mark Slater, 30-year-old son of the colourful seventies financier Jim Slater. He launched Internet Indirect to invest in small start-up companies designing internet software.When it floated last December the shares rocketed from 5p to nearly 90p.They have since crashed back down, and yesterday's bid from Newmedia values the shares at 25p. Before the announcement of the takeover they were changing hands at 18.5p.The bid is an all-share deal   - 3.7 new Spark shares, 1 new Spark Warrant and 0.266 ordinary shares in EO (a Spark investee company) for every 10 Internet Indirect shares.The offer values the 10% stake held by Jim and Mark Slater at &#163;8m.Mark Slater and his co-director Roger Parry, will join the Spark board as non-executive directors. The company, which already has irrevocable undertakings to accept the offer from directors and investors, who account for 29.9% of its shares, said the enlarged group would be the "best resourced technology investment company quoted in London". It will have more than &#163;90m available for further investment.NewMedia Spark, with entrepreneur Luke Johnson as a director, is the largest internet incubator fund in Europe, and   one of the largest original backers of Lastminute.com.It has 56 investee companies, which have each received an average backing of &#163;1m-&#163;2m. It also hopes to bring at least two of these companies to market next year. They are likely to be ETV, a Scandinavian digital TV company and DX3, a digital music distributor.Michael Whitaker, chief executive of Newmedia Spark, said the deal showed that now was a good time to invest in e-technology. "Internet Indirect has been very bearish about the sector recently and has &#163;70m in unspent cash. The company has accepted our shares because it thinks now is a good time to invest." We are a bigger operation, with 60 people here and abroad who can help make these investments work."
If you want to understand the troubles of Altavista - whose chief executive, Rod Schrock, resigned today - look no further than the bottom line.The company, which was bought by CMGI in 1999 for $2.3bn, lost a staggering $307m on revenues of $98m in the three months ended July 31 on its portals and search engines division. No wonder its flotation keeps being postponed.A year ago that may not have mattered when dot.com mania was at its height and making big losses was almost a virility symbol. Now it has all changed. After the crash of high tech stocks in the US (notwithstanding yesterday's mild recovery) investors have abandoned notions that New Economy companies should be judged on different criteria to traditional ones. Profitability - or at least a Path to Profitability, another P2P to get our minds around - must be established before companies will get a second look.The low barriers to entry in the internet world mean that there are plenty of search engines and portals to turn to if your current favourite isn't up to scratch. And all are for free. This is not because the portals don't want to charge money; they simply can't, because punters will simply move to the next one.A year ago web start-ups still thought they could recoup their huge investments by charging for "banner" adverts on the screen. But consumers don't like them and advertising revenues are now slowing down.Virtually every company selling to consumers through the web has felt the force of the hurricane that has been destroying swathes of the dot.com economy. One of the latest casualties was the hitherto highly regarded CD-seller Boxman.com, which this week admitted that it faced liquidation unless it found a buyer.Tony Salter, chief executive of Boxman, commented to the FT: "I've never really believed in B2C (business-to-consumer)... the barriers to entry are low and B2C companies have a tendency to drive margins to zero and marketing costs to infinity."I've never read a more succinct critique of the B2C problem. Salter deserved better than to be buried in his own Boxman.
Rod Schrock, the chief executive of net portal AltaVista, has resigned, just months before the company's target date for an initial public offering.The company says that a search for a successor is already underway, and while an IPO was still a "primary goal", it would wait until a new boss was in place.Schrock's departure comes during a bad year for the company, following the failure to launch an unlimited access internet service in the UK and having to lay off a quarter of its staff. AltaVista postponed its IPO in the spring due to weak market conditions, and has since admitted it does not have the clout to take on  top media companies like Yahoo Inc.However, Schrock said he had actually stayed in his post  longer than originally planned in order to see AltaVista through some transitions."For four years, I've had the goal to take a break by the Summer Olympics 2000," he said. He said he was disappointed that company obligations caused him to stay on a little longer, but was now planning on spending time with his family.The company has become a leading net destination, and has grown from 55 employees a year ago to 675 today.Schrock joined AltaVista last January, as the company was being expanded from a noncommercial search service to a major Internet portal.     He added that for all its achievements, AltaVista had been "blessed with a sense of incredibly poor timing".Aside from its main US site, AltaVista has seven country-specific search engines in Europe as well as an Indian site. An Australian site launched this month, and the company has plans for 35 more country-specific sites in the next year. The company claim over half of their 65 million monthly users are from outside North America.
Don't look now but a solitary vice is taking Britain by storm: short
    text messaging from mobile phones. 
    In August, 560m text messages were sent in the UK, according to
    the GSM (Global System for Mobile communications) Association,
    more than 10 times the 50m recorded in May, 1999. Worldwide , the
    number of short text messages sent to mobile phones this month
    will reach 10bn, compared with one billion only 16 months ago,
    according to the GSM Association.That works out at nearly two for
    every person on the planet, though most of the world's population
    don't have a telephone, let alone a mobile. 
    Text messaging is now more popular than emai (currently running at
    10bn posts a year), even though it is much younger as a
    recreational activity. The reason, presumably, is that text
    messages are shorter and sent more frequently from a wider user
    base (mobiles) than emails, which are usually transmitted from a
    personal computer.IDC, the IT research firm, predicted this week
    that email traffic would reach a "staggering" 35bn a day by 2005 
    If present trends continue, text messaging will be far bigger. Like it
    or hate it, text messaging is the fastest growing communication
    phenomenon of all time. And it is still in diapers. 
    There are two interesting facts about the growth of the short
    messaging system (SMS) which are also shared with email.The first
    is that success was achieved with minimal spending on advertising.
    I'm pushed to think of a single advert urging me to SMS a friend.
    What happened was that supply created its own demand. Once the
    capacity to deliver messages instantly and cheaply was available,
    the message spread round the world by "viral" marketing, or
    word-of-mouth.Viral marketing was unintentionally invented by Netscape over six
    years ago when it made copies of its browser freely available over
    the web, a decision that led to tens of millions being down loaded
    within months.This lesson has yet to be learned by the so-called dot.com
    companies selling to the consumer which have crippled themselves
    with huge marketing costs to establish their new brands. 
    The difference is they are selling old economy goods over the
    internet rather than digital products like email that are intrinsic to
    the web. However, this problem won't last much longer: not because
    dot.coms will have found a solution but because they will have
    stopped calling themselves dot.coms.They are now reinventing
    themselves as software engineers or providers of merchandising
    solutions in order to have any chance of crossing a venture
    capitalist's threshold before they are shown the door. 
    Viral marketing is still booming. At last week's World Internet
    Summit in London, I bumped into Yossi Vardi, founder of ICQ, the
    hugely successful messaging company subsequently sold to AOL for
    $407 million. His latest venture, which speeds updownload times, has
    topped seven million downloads. He says he has never spent a penny
    on advertising.The second interestingfactor is what effect short messaging will
    have on information overload. Overload has been talked about years
    but it is only now starting to bite. Four years ago I wrote an article
    about information overload in the Guardian but I didn't know the half
    of it. The problem then was mainly "static" overload - the fact that
    there was so much information on the web that it was difficult to
    know where to start to look.That problem is even worse now but at least it is static - you don't
    need to browse if you don't want to. Static overload has always been
    a problem in the sense that there has always been too much
    information in the world to absorb. The information revolution
    simply brought an age-old problem to the desktop.But "dynamic" overload - the tidal wave of emails, now joined now by
    short messages - is different. It is aimed at your screen and
    demands a response - often instant - and is now threatening to
    become counter productive.Emailing quickly became a tool for competitive advantage because of
    the way it could cut response times, instantly disseminate
    information throughout the country, and cut through artificial
    corporate layers created by geography and bureaucracy. 
    Now it is different. Managers are finding they can't cope with 100,
    even 200 emails a day: everyone in the company wants to send them
    a blind copy of what they are doing and outside organisations and
    individuals can get through to them immediately without going
    through the secretarial filter. Employees now send emails to
    colleagues sitting next to them rather than speak - so they remain
    on the record and aren't the victim of a memory lapse.It has got to the stage where busy executives have stopped opening
    all their emails because they simply can't. One US businessman
    admitted to the Wall Street Journal that he had 1,059 unopened
    "carbon copy" emails. Another confessed he had gone back to using
    the telephone or voice-mail because it was more personal.
    Communications that aren't recognisable aren't even opened. They
    have become a new kind of junk mail. This is a sea change, because
    with letters, at least you knew someone wasopening them.Some managers now employ more not fewer secretaries to cope with
    email overload. Others print them out, hoping to go through them
    later - a resolution that soon gets broken once a few more hundred
    emails have arrived.No one has yet found an answer to email overload, except to make
    sure that you answer every one you open immediately - a resolution
    that inevitably leads you to open fewer in the first place. 
    What will happen when text messages - now the plaything of the
    younger generation - seep into corporate culture can only be
    guessed at. In theory, they are lethally efficient. They go straight
    to the person you want to reach, they are concise, and can be read
    in a meeting without disruption and instantaneously responded to. 
    But they will add yet another layer to corporate overload because
    they will be in addition to all the emails, voice mails and letters
    already received. Goodness knows what will happen when executives
    start getting 100 short text messages a day (you will, you will) on
    top of everything else.The only sure thing is that the communications revolution will end up
    with less not more communication.
Microsoft's Internet Explorer is the most widely-used web browser in the world - and also one that leaves users open to a fair few security problems, according to bug hunter Georgi Guninski. He has found a bug in the latest version, IE 5.5, that could allow people to read files and even execute programs on anybody's computer.The problem arises when Java is used at the same time as ActiveX. Nobody has reported being hacked in this way yet, but Microsoft has posted an explanation and fix atwww.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/fq00-075.asp.Something for which MS has suggested a workaround is Windows Me and Windows 98SE, despite denials that the operating systems themselves are at fault. It seems that on certain extremely fast machines - Athlon or Pentium III, running at 900MHz or more - they shut down too quickly for applications to save anything that is in cache memory.The way around this is simply to shut down all your applications before closing the system or accept that going to start-Shutdown from within a file may lead to loss of data.There is also a problem with the WebTV software that comes with Windows 98SE and Windows. Hackers can send computers information while WebTV is running and cause the system to crash. Microsoft was made aware of this problem a month or so ago but has only just acknowledged its seriousness and put patches on its website - one for Windows 98 and one for Windows Me.These are also available free at http://news.cnet.com/ news/0-1006-200-3176203. html?tag=st.ne.1430735..niIt should be noted that this bug is in the Windows WebTV software and not in third party offerings with similar names.Before any devotees of the non-Windows environments start gloating too much, they need to remember that Linux also has problems. A couple of releases - specifically Red Hat Linux 7.0 - i386 and Red Hat Linux 7.0J - i386 - contain a daemon, called rhnsd, which leaks file descriptors.Linux installation and fixing is complex stuff, but the way to get rid of this is to enter the following commands:/sbin/service rhnsd stop/sinb/chkconfig --level 345rhnsd offAnd that should clear the problem. There are other manual ways of clearing the difficulty up, all of which have been circulated on the various Linux newsgroups and mailing lists.While we're on the subject of Linux, it seems the Apache HTTP server has a flaw that can allow hackers to look at random files on a PC. The trouble stems from a module called mod_rewrite, which rewrites URLs for the client computer before further processing takes place.If you're running OpenLinux Desktop 2.3 with any Apache package prior to 1.3.4-5, OpenLinux eServer 2.3 and OpenLinux eBuilder running any package prior to apache-1.3.9-5S or OpenLinux eDesktop 2.4 running any package that came out before Apache-1.3.11-2D then you could be hit.The workaround, until you have an upgrade, is not to enable mod_rewrite. If you already use it then there's an upgrade package available at f tp://ftp.calderasystems.com/ pub/updates/OpenLinux/2.3/ current/RPMS/ , while the corresponding source code package is at ftp://ftp. calderasystems.com/ pub/updates/eServer/2.3/ current/SRPMSIf you're in any doubt about installation and extra software you might need, checkwww.calderasystems.com/support/security/ for more detail.People who were hoping for a cheaper, faster processor   from Intel have had their hopes dashed by the manufacturer's scrapping of its system on a chip, codenamed Timna. This was suffering from a glitch in the Memory Translator Hub (MTH) that would cause the entire system to freeze.Instead of launching and having to recall the product,    which is what the company did with a million Pentium III motherboards earlier this year, the launch was initially delayed until early 2001. However, Intel has now conceded that rival systems may well overtake Timna in terms of speed by the time of the delayed release. The entire project   has now been scrapped.At least one group of security consultants is so disillusioned with the number of bugs around in commonly-used systems that it has issued an ultimatum to software companies.CERT (Computer Emergency Response Team) at Carnegie Mellon University   has said it will allow software manufacturers 45 days to fix their systems and then go public with any information it has. It then hopes to publicise bugs alongside their solutions, in contrast with mailing lists like Bugtraq, which discusses unsolved bugs and security issues quite happily.
The dream of every talkative teenager - and the answer to their parents' nightmare - could soon become reality thanks to US-style "free" local evening and weekend phone calls to be offered by BT.A confidential BT briefing document obtained by the Guardian discloses that the company is to launch a radical off-peak free calls package on December 1, after a nationwide advertising campaign starting next month.The package, called BT Talk Together, will offer an unlimited number of local evening and weekend calls for residential subscribers for &#163;14.99 a month, including line rental and VAT - &#163;5 more than the current standard monthly line rental.But there is still a catch in the small print for the parents of chatty children - 1p a minute will be charged after the first hour of any single "free" call.The offer will be part of a wider shake-up by the telecommunications giant, which has been under pressure from increased competition from mobile phones and cable operators.BT said yesterday it would not comment on the new package in advance of an official   announcement. "We have no specific plans that we are able to talk about right now," said David Orr, a spokesman for the company.The company will also offer a similar package for unlimited off-peak internet access. The combined voice and internet package will cost &#163;17.99 a month.At the same time the company also plans to hike its standard residential line rental by more than &#163;2 a quarter. BT defends the increase by saying it needs to make "a better return on its line rental product".Oftel, the telecommunications watchdog, is said to have been told of the plans by BT. "Oftel have been informed of the price changes and there are now no objections to the changes," the briefing document states.BT says the timing and scope of the unlimited calls package is the result of demand from its residential customers.The off-peak call scheme comes after heavy criticism of BT by its rivals that the corporation has "dragged its feet" over allowing its competitors access to local exchanges and hampered internet service providers from offering unmetered access for individuals along the lines of similar services in the US.The company has also seen its share price plummet in recent months on the back of investors' worries about the size of BT's corporate debt - which is more than &#163;20bn.City analysts expect BT's new offer to spark a price war among the leading operators. And it comes as BT has been under severe pressure from institutional investors to breathe life back into its faltering share price - which has fallen from a peak of &#163;15.13 at the beginning of this year to less than &#163;7 each this month.In its most recent company results, BT reported a 27% dive in pre-tax profits for the first three months of this year, down from &#163;772m to &#163;561m. Earlier this month, BT bowed to shareholder pressure for a change in its management by parting company with its senior finance director.In April, BT announced it had restructured the company into four main divisions, and is expected to sell off some to raise extra cash to help meet its debt mountain.But yesterday BT received some good news. The company won a &#163;250m refund on its local business rates bills in England and Wales. The rebate covers valuations based on BT's network assets, including phone boxes and telephone poles.
Irish microchip designer Parthus yesterday shrugged off the gloom surrounding technology shares by introducing a product it claims would place it at the heart of the predicted boom in demand for internet-enabled "smart" mobile phones.Parthus shares bucked the wider sell-off to close up 27.5p at 296.5p after announcing that it had developed a chip called InfoStream in conjunction with palmtop computer maker Psion and chip designer ARM Holdings. Motorola is the first manufacturer to take a licence the product.InfoStream would be the world's most advanced mobile internet computing platform built on a single chip, the companies said. Parthus chief operating officer Kevin Fielding said the chip would make mobile phones "smart" by turning them into personal organisers without consuming large amounts of battery power."There are only about 25m personal digital assistants in use worldwide today but there are expected to be about a billion mobile phones in use in three years' time, so we're attacking a very big market," he said."InfoStream offers great functionality and performance, and consumes very little power. If the chip were powered by a traditional AA battery it would run on standby for about five years."Independent research group Cahners In-Stat predicts there will be 740m mobile internet devices in use by 2004, allowing users continuously to surf the web, send emails, and access address books and diaries.Several technologies are competing to become the standard platform for these new phones. Infostream has been designed to power Symbian, a Psion backed consortium, but will also run on Pocket-PC, Palm and Linux.Licence and royalty revenue projections have not been disclosed but income will be shared by the three partners in the InfoStream project, with Parthus taking the bulk.The Parthus share price rise was also supported by the release of better than expected figures for the three months to September 30. Revenues rose from $4.9m to $8.6m year on year but losses widened from &#163;653,000 to &#163;2.2m.
Cable &amp; Wireless took another step in its business-to-business internet strategy yesterday by buying web infrastructure company Baynton Thompson Networks.Baynton sells products and services that help businesses to get online quickly and to do e-business securely. Its clients are mainly blue-chip companies.Cable &amp; Wireless said the deal will enhance its ability to meet demand for internet protocol services.Peter Green, president, UK, at Cable &amp; Wireless Global, said: "This acquisition and our increased network structure investment represent further stages in the implementation of Cable &amp; Wireless's strategy of focus on IP services to business customers."We aim to furnish our business customers with all their IP solutions, including internet access, web-hosting, e-commerce and network integration services."Cable &amp; Wireless has acquired 13 internet service providers over the past 18 months.Ken Baynton, managing director of Baynton Thompson Networks, said that the deal with Cable &amp; Wireless would open up a world of opportunity for his company.Cable &amp; Wireless refused to disclose the exact figure for the acquisition, but said it was in the millions.The company's share price yesterday dropped 37p to close the session at 823p.
British Telecom faced an embarrassing setback to its mobile internet strategy when it said it did not know when its Genie portal would be fully operational, after more than a week of problems.Britain's leading multi-platform portal has been completely or partly out of action since October 11, when an upgrade scheduled to take 12 hours ran into problems.The failure could jeopardise BT Cellnet's lead over rival mobile operators, which view portals running on both desktop computers and cell phones as potential money spinners.Genie users were unable to access the desktop version of the site at all until the weekend, since when it has remained intermittently unavailable.One of the site's services, forwarding emails to mobile phones in the form of text messages, is still not working. A Genie spokesman claimed the site was fully operational, but an email received minutes later from Genie's customer care desk said it was still experiencing unexpected technical difficulties."This means it is taking longer than originally planned for the site to be fully operational. Although we do not have a time scale for a fix at the moment, we are told that the site will be running as soon as possible," the email said.The problems were caused by difficulties in transferring databases to the upgraded site, Genie said last week.Genie has been a rare internet success story for BT, attracting 1m users."I don't think they will lose large amounts of customers but their reputation will be tarnished as a result," said Dan Ridsdale, a mobile internet analyst at Nomura International.&#149; BT said it was to receive a &#163;250m refund following a five-year legal battle to reduce its local government business rates bills in England and Wales.BT also said in a statement that the rates bill next year for its network assets would be cut by &#163;100m to &#163;210m.The row centred on the valuation of BT's network assets such as street ducts, poles, cables, telephone kiosks, and microwave radio and satellite earth stations.BT said the case did not cover valuations for properties such as offices and shops. "Traditionally these have been assessed in the conventional way."
The future of peer-to-peer computing, or P2P to its friends, came into sharp focus last week with the collapse of Scour.net, the controversial company which allows members to share the files on their computers via the internet.The Beverly Hills-based company backed by former superagent and former Disney president Mike Ovitz became the latest victim of the dot.com crash after falling more than $100m into debt and facing legal action from both the Motion Picture Association of America and Recording Industry Association of America that sought to block its exchange services.Unlike Napster, the   poster-boy of the peer-to-peer music revolution with more than 30 million registered users, Scour presented a potentially larger threat to the entertainment and information industries: Napster lets users swap only music files. Scour allows them to exchange any type of digitised information, including movies and music.Scour's collapse confirmed an industry-wide problem: the internet, and P2P file-swapping in particular, may be revolutionising the delivery of entertainment, but there are problems to be overcome, and quickly. Not only does wholesale P2P computing threaten the established system of creation, manufacture, marketing and distribution of copyrighted information, but it offers no workable revenue model in return.P2P computing has effectively made the internet into a giant copy machine, allowing users and consumers to communicate and swap far more freely than businesses producing content ever expected and would like. One thing is abundantly clear: whatever happens to companies like Napster and Scour as copyright infringement cases work their way   through US courts, peer-to-peer file swapping, whether of music, films, TV programs, books or any other creative, copyrighted media that can be digitised, is not going away.Earlier this month in Washington DC, a publishing industry forum entitled Electronic Book 2000: Changing The Fundamentals Of Reading attracted more than 800 representatives from old-world publishing and dozens of entrepreneurs from start-up online publishers. What they heard from Dick Brass, vice president of technology development at Microsoft, was the prediction that 50% of all new books will be in electronic form within a decade.But Brass went on to say that if		 e-books become as easy to copy and distribute as MP3 files, the whole tradition of fee-based content publishing could collapse. "The irony is that the more sophisticated the e-book industry becomes, the more tempting it will be for pirates. There is nothing less at risk than human progress and prosperity."Overwrought perhaps, but other speakers at the meeting showed how sophisticated encryption supposed to protect from wholesale copying is sophisticated only until it is broken - which doesn't take very long. "This is so easy it doesn't even really feel like stealing," said Martin Eberhard, former NuvoMedia CEO, giving the encryption-cracking demonstration.Many fear that the Napster generation is habituated to downloading copyrighted materials for free. Trade associations have found that trying to convince them that this is   theft is a tough sell. "The anonymity of the internet gives consumers the feeling that there are no repercussions to piracy," says Frank Creighton, the RIAA director of anti-piracy.If the vast number of P2P network users has revealed anything - apart from how much all the world loves a freebie - it is that the market for digitised entertainment content is huge. But that has only added to the burden of trying to control it and finding a way of making it pay. Forrester, the internet research firm, predicts that by 2005, more than $3bn in annual music business revenue will be lost. "Digital security will not stop theft of content, and neither will lawsuits," the report concludes.Lawsuits have become the first line of defence of the entertainment business. But it is not certain that the law will clarify the complex copyright issues at stake, and, even if it can, whether this will make a difference. "No law can be successfully imposed on a huge population that does not morally support it and possesses easy means for its invisible evasion," wrote John Barlow of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.The challenge of pure P2P computing - that is, sharing content without central control, organisation or intermediaries - is that no one owns it so no one, except perhaps its members, can make money from it. There are lots of unanswered questions about Napster and its counterparts. Could it become part of a pay ment mechanism similar to those adopted by business-to-business or business-to-consumer companies?In court 10 days ago to stave off a preliminary injunction that would shut it down, Napster's lawyer David Boies invoked the argument used when VCRs were introduced. He argued that even if some Napster users are infringing copyright, the service as a whole has non-infringing uses and should not be shut down. Napster executives said they hoped the issue would be settled out of court and proposed to start charging consumers a minimal amount - $5 a-month that would mean $500m a-year for the record industry.While the proposal comes close to the system that many believe will solve the copyright problem, it was quickly rejected by the RIAA. The recording industry does not want distribution controlled by anyone else. But to sustain the system as it is, the music industry will have to kill off the CD - something it is loath to do - to stop digitally perfect, unencrypted music getting out into the world in the first place.So far, at least, it seems that consumers are unwilling to pay for content on the web and will probably not become willing to do so until the broadband future arrives, if then. For proof, the last two months have seen the almost   complete collapse of web content providers. Webcasting pioneer Pseudo.com, the online music label Atomic Pop, and the Dreamworks funded Pop.com, have all closed while even web arms of established media companies like MTV have slashed jobs.Even the New York Times, one of the world's premiere content providers, has scrapped plans to float its online division on Nasdaq. Dot.com has become a dirty word as advertisers and venture capitalists flee.As the five big record companies - BMG, Time-Warner, Universal, Sony and EMI - rush to come up with a cohesive way of offering digital music on the web, many   doubt there is a workable system. The two basic models being considered are downloading music on a one-off basis - the online reproduction of the current system - or a subscription model similar to Napster's offer - that would give consumers free access to new releases.Until a system is developed that is more attractive than the cowboy P2P systems of Napster and Gnutella, it is hard to see how the record companies can succeed. They must beat Napster at its own game, which effectively means an end to copyright protection. "The fact is, the record companies have not figured out a way to make money from the internet,"   says one music executive.How then will the music industries and others set for Napster-style bootlegging survive? One answer may to lie in corporate sponsorship. Some see the music industry and publishing industries becoming the marketing arms of big corporations. The two are already closely intertwined so "Radiohead bought to you by Coca-Cola" is no longer unimaginable.A business along those lines has already been established. LicenseMusic.com has more than 200 content partners - including NBC and Playboy - seeking original music for projects range from high-end film productions to music in commercials to corporate   training videos. With more than 1.4 million tracks from 5,000 musicians, entertainment and advertising ventures looking for content can find any kind of music they want.Once a song has been chosen, the content buyer uses the transaction engine to calculate the price of the licence. Within 15 minutes, the song and licence have been downloaded. So far the site is doing about $50,000 in business per month, with the average licensing deal coming to between $300 and $2,000.Many theorists like John Barlow are coming to recognise that peer-to-peer computing may not be the death of commercial opportunity, rather the start of a different system. As has been widely reported, US CD sales have risen by 20% since MP3 was widely adopted. And however hard Hollywood may be fighting DeCSS, the software used to decode DVDs, it also needs to remember that the VCR, which it fought for years, helped to increase revenue.It was the same with computer software. After fighting duplication, the software industry learnt that the more a program is pirated, the more likely it is to become the standard. In other words, abundance breeds abundance. "The free proliferation of expression does not decrease its commercial value," argues Barlow. "Free access increases it, and should be encouraged... The war is on, all right, but to my mind it's over. The future will win; there will be no property in cyberspace."In other words, peer-to-peer piracy may not turn out to be copyright black hole many fear but instead would lead to a wider distribution of products, streamlining distribution and enabling a broader, faster reach. And that, in the end, can only be an advantage."Consumers have spoken," said the Forrester report. "Regardless of whether the record companies consider Napster right or wrong, they must beat Napster at its own game." And that holds true for any industry vulnerable to the seemingly unstoppable explosion of P2P networking.Web addressesGnutellawww.gnutella.wego.comFreeNetwww.freenet.sourceforge.netMyNapsterwww.mynapster.comOpenNapwww.opennap.sourceforge.netScour Exchangewww.scour.comAimsterwww.aimster.comGnotellawww.gnotella.nerdherd.netGnummwww.gnumm.wego.comFileNavigatorwww.filenavigator.comNapigatorwww.napigator.comRiffsharewww.riffshare.com
Witch's webBlair Witch is back this week with a three day webfest (Seewww.blairwitchwebfest.com) of events, many involving the cast of the new movie, Book of Shadows: Blair Witch 2. The sequel is being released in the US on October 27, just before Halloween, and has taken over the official site atwww.blairwitch.com. For independent info, seeUpcomingmovies.com/blairwitch2.htmland theInternet Movie Database.Cracked itA Swedish team has broken all 10 of the codes set as a &#163;10,000 challenge in Simon Singh's The Code Book (www.4thestate.co.uk/cipherchallenge, a history of codes and code-breaking published almost a decade ago. The team, led by Fredrik Almgren of Across Wireless, explains how they did it athttp://codebook.org/codebook_solution.html. The cracking of the final 256-bit code was well timed, coming before the end of Channel 4's current series,The Science Of Secrecy.Simon Singh has a website atwww.simonsingh.comYour songOld webheads will remember Ringo, an MIT Media Lab site that used "collaborative filtering" to recommend music you might enjoy. If you told Ringo what you liked, it would tell you about other music highly rated by other people who liked the same things as you. Ringo morphed into Firefly and HOMR (Helpful Online Music Recommendation Service) before finally being snapped up by Microsoft and never heard of again.NowSongExploreroffers the same sort of service via a somewhat overweight space-themed website. SongExplorer is backed by Edison Media Research, which supplies music-preference research to the radio industry "to help determine what gets played".If you want to learn about the background technology, you can readSocial Information Filtering: Algorithms for Automating "Word Of Mouth"by the Media Labs' Upendra Shardanand and Pattie Maes.Fold@HomeNow you can put your PC's wasted processing power to use to help unravel the mystery of how proteins put themselves together.The Fold@Home project) has been launched by researchers at Stanford University, California, with software for PCs and Linux. It follows the popularity of Berkeley'sSETI@Home project, where home computers are being used inSearch for Extraterrestrial Intelligence, and the Golem Project.Reality bitesAllTrue.comhas started to assemble the world's biggest collection of "reality-video clips", and encouraging the creation of clips of the sort that fuel downmarket TV channels. But even sleaze does not come cheap. The start-up is backed by $8m in venture capital and the site design can bring an ADSL connection to its knees.TalksearchLooking for a soundbite? Compaq researchers are developing SpeechBot, a search engine for audio and video content hosted on the web. SpeechBot is still a text-based search engine, but it operates on transcripts produced automatically using speech recognition technology. This approach will become increasingly important as more and more web content comes in multimedia formats. So far, almost 8,000 hours of programming can be searched athttp://speechbot.research.compaq.com.Alien saleThe movie had a huge impact when it was launched in 1979, so there could be a healthy market for props and other souvenirs such as alien feet and arms, and the flame-thrower used by Ripley (Sigourney Weaver). The props are being auctioned on the web by a company run by Mick Fleetwood, drummer    with Fleetwood Mac, and memorabilia salesman Ted Owen. More celebrity auctions are promised. Seewww.fleetwoodowen.comMysteryHalloween always stimulates a flurry of activity in the US-centric parts of the web, and this year's offerings include an online whodunit. Suspicion Of Murder works like a commercial game, but it is online, and free, atwww.suspicion-of-murder.com.Streets seenMaporama SAclaims to be the European market leader in online mapping: it covers all French towns with more than 30,000 inhabitants and offers door-to-door itinerary capabilities.Now the company is launching in the UK with coverage of all British towns with more than 50,000 inhabitants, providing some healthy competition forwww.multimap.comandwww.mapquest.com. Maporama's site is localised in eight languages.New and noted&#149;  The World Football Foundation has been launched in Shelby Township, US, and Reykjavik, Iceland, to develop soccer worldwide. Seewww.worldfootball.org.&#149; Writer and reviewer AA Gill has a website to publish work by travel journalists atwww.travelintelligence.net&#149; Japanese toys are reviewed atwww.cooljapanesetoys.com&#149; Report of the Commission on the Future of Multi-Ethnic Britain:www.runnymedetrust.org/meb/TheReport.htm&#149; Send chocolate printed with personalised messages:www.groovychocolate.com&#149; Fashion flop Boo.com will return to the fray atwww.boo.comon October 30.Six of the bestWordsMicrosoft Dictionaryhttp://dictionary.msn.co.uk/Language portalwww.dictionary.comA Word A Daywww.wordsmith.org/awadAnagram Serverwww.wordsmith.org/anagramFowler (1908)www.bartleby.com/116Michael Quinionwww.worldwidewords.org/
There is no doubt the banks are changing. I debated this the other night with friends, courtesy of one of the big High Street names. No, the bank wasn't paying. We   were sitting in a brasserie in Wandsworth that, until recently, was a branch of one of the major banks.Branch closures have been made possible by automation. It has brought welcome developments, such as the   cash dispenser, as well as very unwelcome ones, such as call centres.Millions of pounds have been spent to address what the banks know is a serious image problem. The online banks have tried to counter   the image of stuffiness with bright and breezy names - Smile, Cahoot, IF - to convey friendliness and intimacy alien to most people's experience of banks.It is too late to return to some rose-tinted mythical   high street institution peopled with polite, helpful tellers and avuncular managers, but not too late to bring back customer service.Unlike other forms of automation that the banks embraced to save money, the internet is different. Here is technology that could help re-introduce the personal touch, and support new and improved services. The key word is "could" because there is no sign that the banks understand what the net can do for them.The banks are making no money from the internet. This is partly because of the huge sums invested in new online services. More fundamentally, it is because they are applying accounting principles to a problem that demands fresh thinking.A study by Booz-Allen and Hamilton showed that a transaction conducted in the branch costs $1.07 while the same transaction on the net costs 1 cent.Internet banking hasn't been conceived for the benefit of the customer at all, that's just what it says in the press release. You don't need to heat and light branches, pay staff or print statements. Just build a website, give it a nice appealing name, sit back and watch the profits roll in.Customers are not stupid. If the internet allows banks to deliver their services at lower cost, then customers will expect to get something out of it - a better service, a cheaper service, or both.No strategic thinking has been applied; all the banks have done is to web-enable the services they already offer, making the internet branch a pale reflection of the dismal service customers have come to expect on the high street.Most customers would welcome services that allow them to manage all their financial affairs in one place, view consolidated balances, find expert advice about pensions and investments, pay their home or car insurance, and so on. Elements of these services (called "wealth management") are already available in piecemeal form, but the banks are perfectly positioned to take the high ground and offer the lot via a single website.Developing such services will not come cheap. Banks need to think about how their internet services work with existing back-office systems, how to make better use of all the data they hold on customers, and how to translate visits to the website into sales of related products.The integration of online services with the banks' IT   infrastructures is crucial - because the real added value for the customer will be provided by opening up applications that are already running. To take a simple example, where customers are ringing a call centre for an account balance today, why not simply send the information on the operator's screen directly to the customer's PC? It's quicker and more convenient for the customer and it saves on labour costs for the bank.The banks will need to be more creative than this, however, if they are to use the internet to reassert the long-lost customer service ethos. The reactive style of account management will be challenged by services that anticipate the customers' needs. If an account is about to go into the red, for instance, the customer could be sent a warning message. Or, if authorised to do so, the bank's systems could automatically transfer funds from the customer's savings to cover the shortfall.Even more fundamental things will need to be addressed. Clearing time on transactions is already an anachronism. On the internet, it's a scandal.In future, all transactions will take place in real time. The 40 pieces of plastic most people carry around will be reduced to something a bit bigger than a credit card with all the functions of one of a new generation of handheld computers, including the ability to run all our finances.Who will provide these services? The banks, with their enormous customer bases and years of experience are prime candidates, but it is not a foregone conclusion. These days, banking services are available from all sorts of businesses, even supermarkets. People will always need banking, but the internet makes it more possible than ever for them to do without banks.So long as the banks regard the internet as just another delivery channel, all the money spent on image makeovers will be wasted. This could be the last big opportunity for the banks to reinvent themselves. So far, few have even grasped this point, and even fewer have done anything about it.
The internet may one day lead to sedentary dystopias of homeworking and virtual travel by means of cybersuits and streaming 3D videos, but not yet. Unsettled souls are still going overseas to work and sample life abroad.Expatriates get a bad press. In their little bubbles in towns and cities around the globe, they are commonly viewed as eternal holidaymakers, tax dodgers or, according to JG Ballard's Cocaine Nights, exiles from social reality.While good travel guides and relocation experts ease the move for some mobile workers, the internet can absorb these roles and more. Type "expat" into a search engine like Google and you get hundreds of company-based and amateur sites. These have recently been joined by professional operations such asNet ExpatandExpat Financial.Chue Chi Meng, who has edited aSingapore-based sitesince 1997, estimates that the country has about "400,000 white-collar expats, mainly from the US, Europe and Japan", working in high-earner posts. Chue's aim is to "establish a virtual expat community and bring together the advertiser and user. We provide useful content   to all expats - from those arriving, looking for work, homes, schools, mobile phones, to those looking to travel and entertain themselves".Chue owns the site with his wife and they have registered 12 domain names in Asia, shortly starting up sites in Hong Kong, Korea, Philippines, Thailand and Malaysia.Europe attracts expatriates in all sectors, from top-flight business positions to low-paid English teaching and catering work. Simon Payn, who left The Birmingham Post to joinExpaticain January, is editorial director at the company's flagship Netherlands site. He sees the 250,000 English-speaking expats in Holland as a heterogenous community. "Some get their flights, accommodation etc found and paid for - they are really looked after by their companies. But many others, probably the majority, are not helped much at all and face the realities of Dutch life - finding a flat (which in Amsterdam, for example, can be difficult and expensive), registering with the authori ties, making friends, finding a school for their children."Payn also sees the internet as an emotional resource. "Arriving in a new country can be a daunting and lonely experience. A website can provide a central point of reference for expats. As well as reading the site, our visitors can interact with other expats in our discussion forums, email the editor with questions and comments, place classified ads. A lot of our ideas for content come from our readers."Expatica, which has received seed funding from the Dutch government, recently launched in Belgium.Not all sites are local.Expat Expert, one of several global sites teeming with links, highlights the hassles experienced by spouses and families. Robin Pascoe, a Canadian author who edits the site, explains: "Many of the visitors to my site are unwilling expats. I write in the context that expat life is indeed a privilege and a wonderful opportunity. But having said that, I try to reassure women especially that they are still allowed some time for transition and have permission not to be happy 100% of the time!"Certainly there can be a downside to being an ex-pat wife - particularly if you are caught in the middle of a riot while taking your daughter to a Girl Scout's show in Indonesia. You can read an account of such an experience atwww.expat-moms.coma site especially for women who, as their motto says, "give their children the world".The site offers advice on other important topics for mothers such as raising bilingual children and making a relocation checklist.On the business side, tno single global supersite has emerged to date, though the expat-friendly European Internet Network has spread quickly across Russia, China, the Balkans and Eastern Europe (seewww.russiatoday.com).As markets go, expatriates are often a small but wealthy segment of any major city; globally, they are a very attractive proposition. On the e-commerce front, expatriate Brits for instance - who typically miss their M&amp;S underwear, curry paste and TV comedy shows - are potentially a soft target for exporting.So will future expats travel thousands of miles to stay in and check out the footie on the web at home? Will there be a global community of armchair expatriates, bonded together by nostalgia and friendlessness and the subconscious need to go home or, indeed, elsewhere?Not likely. The spirit of most sites is basically "click on to get a life" and expats are often travel mad.Virtual reality might have its advantages, but in the hazy, never quite real world of expatria, it is as liable to still itchy feet as driving to work in the rain back home.&#149; Chris Moss is editor ofwww.expatvillage.com, a site for expatriates in Buenos Aires, Argentina
French at the spin of a CR-romLearn To Speak FrenchThe Learning Company	&#163;40 Version 8 for Windows 95/98Some things are very right indeed. It really helps to see the text as you hear it: it also helps to be able to subliminally check the translation. Those of us who have never managed the French "r" are encouraged to think that, that with the help of a very precise female narrator, we might at least hope to do better.There are things to quibble at from lesson 1: when you meet a young lady in France, you probably shouldn't begin by saying "Tu t'apelles comment?" unless she really means it when she says: "On peut se tutoyer."The accompanying situation cartoons are expressive without being cute (a handshake here, a big exclamation mark there) and the choice of dialogue situations seems pretty close to the format and bruising speed any traveller is likely to meet in casual encounters: who could   resist "J'aime toute de sorte de musique, sauf l'opera"?You can compare your voice with the speaker's and score on a tourist-native scale. You can also set your own pace, and click the translation on or off. There are some helpful notes on the idioms. "C'est pas terrible" for instance is glossed as "It's ... different" which shows a nice ear for nuance. At the more ambitious level, there are disappointments. The "cultural movies" on disc 4 are fairly thuddding travelogues around Rouen, Paris, Nimes, Mont St Michel and so on: all panning shots and appropriate music (guess what they play while showing you the Pont d'Avignon?).By this stage, you should be up for a bit of serious narration (you have, after all, the English and French texts there on the screen as well, and you can click back to the bit you didn't quite get and run it again) and even a bit of serious cultural explanation.But all in all, much encouraged. I shall persevere. I already know that a windshield-wiper is "essuie-glace".There are also courses in Spanish, German and English. When will someone get on and do this for Greek?  (TR)A father of the web tells his storyHow The Web Was Born by James Gillies and Robert CailliauOxford University Press	&#163;8.99It would be an odd biographer who devoted half his book to the grandparents, then stopped when his subject was old enough to walk. That's what James Gillies and Robert Cailliau have done,   but given the title of their book, you can hardly complain. What it says is what you get.The book is, of course, special in being co-authored by two scientists from Cern in Switzerland, Europe's particle physics laboratory, where the World-Wide Web was created. Indeed, one was so closely involved that in the early 90s, we used to credit Tim Berners-Lee and Robert Cailliau for its development.But in 1995, TBL went off to start the Word Wide Web Consortium (W3C) at MIT, Cern's web work was trans ferred to Inria in Paris, and that's where this story ends.Most of the first half of the book is devoted to computer history, starting in the 40s. Topics include the origins of the internet; Doug Engelbart, the inventor of the mouse; and Ted Nelson, who coined the term hypertext and conceptually pre-invented the web. It also covers the Viewdata (text to TV) saga, including BT's Prestel and France Telecom's Teletel (Minitel).The book's European perspective is interesting, but these fields have been   ploughed many times before.The story of the web's development at Cern is told in sometimes excruciating detail, with Cailliau being treated just like any other character. This approach is fair, and seems to ensure that even the minor participants are given their due.However, you may still be left with the impression that TBL would have developed something like the web wherever he'd ended up, but without him, Cern would never have given birth to the web.  (JS)Game just complicates a simple storyThe Little PrinceTivola CD	&#163;19.99Woe betide any new user who loses the packaging for The Little Prince: the charmed world may remain a locked book forever - which, since the little prince sharply divides the real world into those melted or nauseated, some might regard as a blessing.My copy of the book came from a Canadian who had discovered it while driving a school bus in Alaska, and had taken great comfort from the story of the unhappy adult who finds universal truths in the deceptively simple words of the strange and Christ-like little boy he meets in the desert.Ever after, like many Little Prince zealots, the Canadian had gone about the world scattering copies among the unbeliever.I was intrigued by the book, but toe-curlingly embarrassed by its faithful.In my experience child-like simplicity is wasted on the young, but Samuel, aged six, was cheerfully   prepared to tackle the CD claimed by Tivola to be aimed at ages 8-102.It loaded clunkily enough on my Mac PowerBook, once we'd reset the colours, and up came the usual charming Tivola opening titles, and appealing vaguely New Agey music. Samuel found it very hard to plonk his star cursor on a passing meteorite or comet - and when I helped I found it extremely difficult to be sure I'd clicked accurately enough, and dull enough in some cases when successful.Landing on Saturn launches the book.Most Tivola CDs we've played with have lucid instructions built into the disc, but this gave no guidance on how to get the lovely Kenneth Branagh to read us the text: we went fruit lessly back to the CD case, and by the time I'd found the pamphlet in the packaging inside the box Samuel had lost interest and has not been tempted back since.Mr Branagh reads it beautifully, of course, but the same maddening imprecision applies to clicking on page corners to continue the story, and animating sections of the illustrations.The Fox Taming Game - again, don't throw away that booklet or you're finished - was pretty to look at but baffled both of us. Samuel was intrigued enough to come and look over my shoulder at the animated biography of the author, but he liked only the crashed plane.I hoped it might include a war game sequence based on the legal actions raging around Saint-Exupery's estate, but alas, no.You can't go into a toy shop in France now without being stunned by the scale of the Little Prince merchandising industry. I can't see this CD becoming a market leader.  (MK)
Digital video is transforming the film business. Established director/producers such as George Lucas and Mike Figgis are experimenting with the system. Lucas shot some scenes from Star Wars - Episode 1 in this format and has been digitally projecting it in some US cinemas. He is currently using high-definition digital cameras from Sony to shoot most of the next episode.Figgis has just made a technically accomplished and critically acclaimed success of shooting Time Code on four digital cameras which have been transferred onto 35mm film in split screen format.In the UK, the revolution in projection is under way with three cinemas equipped to project features digitally. These include the Odeon Leicester Square, where Pixar's Toy Story 2 was shown in digital format to a regular commercial audience.Now the feature film business faces yet another revolution in coming to terms with the increased access of young first-time filmmakers to cheap, high quality digital equipment.Prior to Lucas's experiments with digital projection, two young American filmmakers, Stefan Avalos and Lance Weiler, created movie history in October 1998 by shooting The Last Broadcast on digital camcorders, and beaming it via satellite to cinemas in the US where it was projected digitally on equipment supplied by a UK company, Digital Projection. They used the same digital projectors for their European tour. Now   they have made VHS copies for home rental. The cost of shooting the movie was reputedly$900."When people ask me how much they need to make a feature," says Peter Broderick, digital filmmaking guru and founder of Next Wave Films, "I ask them how much they have, because that will probably be enough."His company, an offshoot of the Independent Film Channel, specialises in practical support for digital film makers with an individual vision, including providing finishing funds and even complete production budgets up to $300,000. The company is experimenting with Sony PD150 cameras and Final Cut Pro editing software on a G4 Mac with practical support from Apple.It is encouraging that big manufacturers are backing emerging talent. Supervising the UK production of The Trouble With Men And Women, Liz Rosenthal says: "This kind of equipment gives filmmakers a lot of creative freedom. They don't have to wait three or four years to get their film financed - they can get started immediately."First time director Tony Fisher says: "Shooting with two cameras all the time has been great from a performance point of view but we have   ended up shooting far more footage than we would have done on film - we're suffering a bit in post production."The first cut has gone to Broderick in the US for his comments. When complete, Next Wave will push it round the festivals and try to get a distribution deal. Whatever happens there is always the outlet of the Independent Film Channel. "Shooting on DV," says Fisher, " has enabled me to find a balance between the constraints of low budget and creativity, between compromise and art, and has given me a new intimacy with performance."Next Wave Films also provided marketing and festival distribution advice to Elemental Films on One Life Stand. This feature has just been shown at the Edinburgh Film Festival in a digitally projected launch by Scottish filmmaker May Miles Thomas. It was shot using Sony VX 1000 digital camcorders and edited on a desktop computer using FAST DV Master Pro with In-sync Speed Razor software. Despite a budget in the low five figures it has received a good deal of critical acclaim."There's a false assumption about what a camcorder movie is," says Miles Thomas. "With One Life Stand, the aim was to bury the technology and concentrate on the craft of storytelling."While developing her own career, Miles Thomas wants to pass on her experiences of devising new ways of working with digital technology to aspiring filmmakers. She will be backed in this by the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the   Arts (Nesta),which has awarded her a fellowship.Elemental Films has received the latest editing software from In-sync and help from Digital Projection in showing the movie at international film festivals. Sony will also be providing consultancy and backup for their next project which will be shot on high definition digital cameras."We are entering an age," says Broderick, "when shooting a feature is becoming as accessible as painting a canvas or writing a novel."That is true up to a point, but plays down the difficulty of writing or painting and makes filmmaking sound a pushover. Low-budget digital filmmakers have to wrestle with technical problems that more expensive systems are designed to circumvent. Distribution is also a problem, though the market is easing with the explosive growth of digital TV channels and the sale of films on DVD.But at least film makers are now freer to wrestle with the big creative challenges of writing a cracking script, recruiting talented actors, and through the rigorous process of shooting and editing, creating a movie to inspire and entertain an audience.Web addressesNext Wave Filmswww.nextwavefilms.comThe Last Broadcastwww.tebweb.com/lastbroadcastElemental Filmswww.elementalfilms.co.uk
Last week, Sony's Aibo robot pet grew up. What was an experiment became not just a product but a platform. Just as Sony PlayStation owners can buy programs to run on their games consoles, Aibo owners will be able to buy software to give their pets extra capabilities, including playing games.The new generation Aibo ERA-210 is twice as powerful as the original, but much cheaper at &euro; 1,500, down from &euro; 2,400. It has two more sensors on its back and chin, to provide greater interaction, and can move its new perky ears.Voice recognition means that it can learn to recognise 40 to 50 words, and it can "talk" in a sort of musical burbling language. The digital camera built into its nose means that it can take pictures on command, and save them on a Sony Memory Stick for viewing on a PC.With Aibo Fun Pack software, owners can follow their pet's daily photographic diary,   and with Aibo Party Mascot software, their Aibo can play a game based on "rock, paper, scissors". Thanks to a built-in clock/calendar, Aibo can even remember birthdays.But the biggest change of all is that if you want one, you can buy one. When Sony offers the new Aibo for sale atwww.aibo.comon November 16, it will build as many as are needed to meet demand. This is not quite the   same as a continuous production line, but it could become one.The first limited edition Aibo ERA-110 made headlines last June when the 3,000 offered for sale in Japan were snapped up in just 20 minutes. Another 2,000 also sold quickly in North America, in spite of the hefty $2,500 price tag.Sony came back for another bite at the market in November, holding a lottery   to sell 10,000 of the revised Aibo ERA-111. This came in a choice of colours - black, as well as the original silver - and, for the first time, was sold in Europe. Orders flooded in: 132,000 from Japan, 2,000 from North America, and 1,000 from Europe.Another 30,000 Aibos were sold in February, taking the total population up to 45,000. About 90% of those live in Japan."Nobody expected that much demand," says Satoshi Amagai, president of Sony's Entertainment Robot Company. "Even now we're not sure how much demand there is, and what are the success factors that attract people. We have to be super-flexible to follow the movements of the market. The problem is, you never know."With the new version available in gold, silver or black, Amagai is planning to expand the market, starting with sales in Singapore and Hong Kong. South Korea may be next.He also wants to build up a business in software and   accessories for Aibo, which has a 192MHz Mips processor and 32 megabytes of memory. This will include programs supplied on Sony Memory Sticks with CDs for PCs running Microsoft Windows.Aibo Life is the basic program: it lets owners raise and train an Aibo from "birth". Hello Aibo is an accessory pack "for busy people": it provides an energetic adult Aibo that owners can show off to their friends. Party Mascot includes games and is described as "great for parties and other events".Other software includes the Aibo Fun Pack, which works with the Aibo Life Memory Stick, and Aibo Master Studio, which lets owners program their own behaviours. Accessories range from spare batteries to carrying bags, some of them not available until February.In February, Sony plans to release an Aibo Wireless LAN card, so an Aibo can become part of a wireless Ethernet local area network, making it much easier to program from a PC. Wireless Ethernet is becoming popular as a way of connecting several home PCs together to share a high-speed internet connection, such as ADSL.There are enough products to push the package price back up from &#163;1,590 (for a standard Aibo with Aibo Life) to &#163;2,400 or more. However, Amagai is also looking at other spin-offs. "The thing is, this is not just hardware, it's a new form of entertainment," he says. "so people can enjoy a wide range of offers. One of the ideas we're discussing is making a movie. Or publishing a book, or coming up with Aibo-character souvenirs. One of the benchmarks is   Nintendo's Pok&eacute;mon!"We're also looking at communications: how Aibo could communicate with your personal computer or PDA &#91;personal digital assistant&#93; or with another Aibo. We are studying Bluetooth, wireless iLink, all the technologies, to see which ones to pick. The new Aibo will already communicate with a desktop or notebook PC."Most of this sounds as though it could appeal to the somewhat geeky audience that the Aibo enjoys outside Japan. It might even encourage people to think of practical applications for the dog, perhaps for remote monitoring. But the mass market of toy buyers is clearly some way away, and it is much further away in Europe than it is in Japan.Amagai says: "Sales of this Aibo will tell us about the differences between countries. We believe there is vast potential in Europe and North America, otherwise the market will be significantly limited. Young people in Japan are keen to take anything new, and will spend much money, but that won't last forever."You might have thought one obvious way to broaden the market would be to offer a robot cat instead of another robodog, and the latest version has new cat-like ears instead of the droopy dog-ears of the original.But Amagai protests. "We never said this was a dog!" he exclaims. "That's part of the reason this new Aibo is not as dog-like. Concept-wise it's a baby lion, which is more related to the cat, so hopefully this will attract more cat lovers."
Psst... wanna earn &#163;1 a minute with your mobile? A new service starting next month has the neat idea of paying respondents &#163;1 for every market research survey they fill in via their Wap phones. They say it won't take more than 60 seconds, so this must be the first mobile service that pays users more than 15 times the national minimum wage - but, sadly, there's a limit on how many times you can do it. They are now signing    people up on a regular web sitewww.instantintelligence.netin preparation for the launch. However, read the small print to see what you are committing yourself to.Market research is an obvious use for Wap phones to get a fixed sample of respondents almost immediately, especially younger people - the sort that won't be interviewed in the street yet always carry a mobile.Kizoom, a timetabling service, will send text    messages to you via www.railtrack.co.uk/wap to warn you when your train is delayed. It has attracted good reviews from those who have had better luck with it than I have, but the potential is great. You can register atwww.kizoom.com(a web, not a Wap address). Kizoom may soon tell you when London underground services aren't running, though it might be better to tell us when they  are.An ingenious new site at   wap.bango.net enables you to reach Wap sites by dialling in four numbers instead of complicated web addresses. If the numbers aren't already allocated, you can reserve them for your own use.One attraction of belonging to Yahoo is that users can read their regular emails from their Wap phones. You can either do this directly or through another portal that supports Yahoo, such as BT Genie (wap.genie.co.uk).Another interesting Wap site, at wap.mailandnews.com , enables you to access email from a POP3 email account. You won't be able to reply with a long email but you can send a short message to the sender - or even ring them.Breathe - which is atwww.breathe.comor www.wap.breathe.com - is an interesting site with all the usual facilities: new, lifestyle, journey, Wap email etc. It is now offering free access via   an 0800 number until the end of November to bypass charges that can reach 35p a minute.Research byAnywhereYouGo.com, the wireless systems company, claims that 19% of wireless internet links, usually on Wap connections, are faulty in some way. Would it were so. If the error rate was only 19% Wap wouldn't have got itself such a bad reputation.
Swordfighting sorcerers lose their charmWizards &amp; WarriorsPC CD Rom	&#163;29.99 Heuristic Park/Activision	***He may not be as well known as Richard "Ultima" Garriot, but DW Bradley has a respected track record and his latest effort is an important release for the role playing games (RPG) community.But, while it may have been four years in the making, the anachronistic Wizards And   Warriors could have been released any time in the last 14 years.Sporadically impressive 3D graphics or not, this is an RPG so dated that only the committed will care. Unlike Baldur's Gate and the rest, W&amp;W plays in the first person, although Quake fans will find their reflexes remain untested.Instead there is copious prose and a stash of spells as you set out to find a "magical sword". Thankfully this sub-Tolkein nonsense is bolstered by an imaginative variety of races - from magical elephants to crossbred lizards.However, once you've raised your stat level a few times and bought that snazzy   new chain mail, the paucity of original thought matters less.Persevere and it is soon clear that there is little here that will appeal to the unconvinced. The game plays out exactly as you'd expect, with your party having numerous dungeons to loot and abundant quests to complete.The control and combat work well enough but, with at least 120 hours of play, it's likely that most will never see the end credits. Also, with Baldur's Gate 2 offering similar thrills to the same audience, there may simply not be enough time to play both. One for the hardcore fans only.  (GH)Vicarious Viking vicissitudesCulturesPC CD-rom	&#163;29.99 Funatics/THQ	***The god sim is back, and this time it's personal. A little too personal, in fact.Overseeing a small community of Vikings settling Greenland, you're on first-name terms with everyone: Sven the huntsman, Ingmar the scout, Frieda the, er, woman. And you must micro-manage every aspect of their lives: their jobs, their domestic arrangements, the layout of the town, even what sex their baby should be.The big idea here is that each of your subjects is a genuine individual - no two look the same, and all, supposedly, have their own peculiar quirks.With their sweetly animated features, it's all too easy to become attached to your little Scandinavians. Which is fine as long as you're building a happy community - but a different story when it comes to sending Benny and Bjorn into battle.Because yours is not the   only tribe trying to build a new life in the new world. There are Inuits and Native Americans here, too.For a time, you will be able to coexist and trade peacefully, but eventually resources are going to run out, tensions are going to rise, and   you're going to have to build a graveyard next to that woodcutter's tent.This odd disjunction between cuteness and horror is one of many in Cultures: another is the disparity of timescales, which allows you to conceive a child, bring him up, train him as a soldier and send him to his death in the time it takes for Ingmar to recce the west of the island.Furthermore, while some characters, such as bakers and fishermen, will happily beaver away unassisted, seeking out their own materials, others - scouts, soldiers, builders - crave attention like a rock star's daughter, having to be told where to go, what to do, even when to eat and sleep.Given the prospective size of your settlement, the complexity of the infrastructure, and the fiddliness of the interface, this is no small task.On the other hand, the pace of the game is so infernally slow - a coastal raid with these particular Vikings turns into a two-week beach holiday - that keeping tabs on them all is easier than you'd think.In sum, then, Cultures is a thoughtful, jolly, ruddy-cheeked affair, put together with a great deal of love and attention - and, to be brutal, very little concern for playability.  (AB)Veteran racing champion is overtakenF1 Championship Season 2000Sony PlayStation	&#163;34.99 Electronic Arts	****Formula One 2000Sony PlayStation	&#163;25-30 Studio 33/Psygnosis				***When you load Formula One 2000, you wonder if PlayStation graphics have improved at all in the past four years. Then when you   run F1 Championship Season, the full-motion video and fabulous tracks make you wonder why all PSX games aren't as brilliant as this.Formula One 2000 is in its fifth year and the series has sold more than 4 million units. It has a commentary by Murray Walker, and while the starting interface is clunky, it is very easy to play. Overtaking is simple, and you can take long excursions across the greens and gravel traps and still win races. If other cars are in the way, bumping them up the gearbox often helps.F1 Championship Season 2000 is a completely different matter. EA's second annual trip to the starting grid is a vastly more realistic simulation. The tracks, which ought   to be the same, seem much shorter, and the corners are harder to get round, unless you brake well in advance.Bump into other cars and shards of carbon fibre fly in all directions. Go off the track and you frequently end up pointing the wrong way while a dozen cars stream past.Eventually you lose gears, wheels fly off, and you end up retiring rather than winning. The game is a bit more forgiving that the real thing, but 16 laps of precision racing is still a challenge.The simulation continues in staggering detail through all the testing, qualifying and racing through all kinds of weather. And while you don't get Murray Walker (as a driver, you wouldn't), you do get   realistic race intros from Jim Rosenthal and in-race instructions from your pit crew. The only real problem is that the controls are very twitchy and take some getting used to, though this could also be true to life.Psygnosis's Formula One 2000 is still a good game, and after EA's F1, you get to appreciate the (unrealistically) easy overtaking and (unrealistic) on-screen map of the circuit. Its arcade option is great fun, especially in two-player mode.While F1 Championship Season 2000 also has a quick race mode, its simulation takes the genre to a level we never expected to see on a PlayStation. I can hardly wait for the PlayStation 2 version.  (JS)
Focus with your phoneComing this month to a shop near you in Tokyo... what is claimed to be the first mobile phone with a built-in colour camera making it possible to dispatch freshly taken photos by email. Released by J-Phone Communications, the J-SH04, pictured here, can   also be used to produce instant prints through a Sharp colour mobile printer. It promises high-quality printing with 65,536 colours and 203 dpi resolution.The phone also plays back voice and sounds from musical instruments and is compatible with FM sound sources and 16-harmony sampling sound. The company hasn't announced a price yet or whether it will be released in the UK.  (VK)Goodmans spins MP3British budget hi-fi company Goodmans is set to become the unlikely hero of MP3 fans who feel frustrated by the tiny storage capacity of most personal players.It is the first manufacturer to offer a personal CD player, the &#163;80 CDMP350, that also plays MP3s stored on a CD-rom. Users can save around 10 hours worth of MP3 formatted music on one CD-rom - enough to archive the entire Beatles back catalogue.The model also plays back conventional CDs and boasts random play, a 1-bit digital/ analogue converter and a   bass boost option.A slightly more upmarket take on the personal MP3 compatible CD player will soon be offered by Pine Technologies. Its &#163;179.99 SM200C features a graphic equaliser and rechargeable batteries and is available with an optional car-kit.It is available from the end of the month via PC dealers andwww.pineuk.com.Sharp PC talks backIn Japan, Sharp has unveiled what it is billing as the simplest PC to use ever. The PC-DJ10M/S combines a basic spec PC 566MHz Intel Celeron processor, 64MB RAM, 10 gigabyte hard disk) with a 13.3inch TFT LCD screen.However, its secret weapon is Liquiy, a voice-activated on-screen navigation system that uses IBM's ViaVoice engine and Sharp's Associative Retrieval Technology. Users can ask Liquiy how to operate the PC's basic functions and it will respond with a mixture of voice commands and on-screen prompts. They can also ask questions about where to find pages on the internet and Liquiy then displays answers provided by search engines.Lonely Japanese tele-workers should also note that Liquiy occasionally initiates conversations. However, they shouldn't expect anything more complex than being asked what they did at the weekend.There's no news yet on a UK launch.Turning HandspringsHandspring is taking its range of PDAs upmarket with a pair of highly specified new models.Available from Handspring's website now (www.handspring.com/uk ) and due in the stores in November are the company's first colour PDA, the &#163;399.99 Handspring Visor Prism, and its fastest model, the &#163;249.99 Handspring Visor Platinum.The products are the first PDAs to use Motorola's more powerful VZ 33MHz Dragonball processor.The Visor Prism boasts 16-bit colour and can display more than 65,000 colours. Its makers claim the colour processing will significantly enhance applications such as games, web browsing and digital cameras.Unlike previous Visor models, which use standard AAA batteries, the Prism comes with rechargeable batteries.Handspring is billing the Visor Platinum as the fastest Palm OS compatible handheld computer on the market, claiming it is twice as quick as the Handspring Visor Deluxe and most other Palm   OS products.The Visor Platinum also features the latest enhancements of Palm's 3.5 OS including wireless infrared synchronisation and enhanced security.Both new editions of Visor come with 8MB of RAM, USB support, Mac OS compatibility and the innovative Springboard expansion slot.Coming soon are a host of upgrades and gadgets for the Visor range including a GPS module from GeoDiscovery, an MP3 player from Good Technology, and a colour game pack from Pocket Express.   (AN)
Double winnerEidos Interactive - which, contrary to earlier reports, is not being taken over by France's Infogrames - has made games chart history. Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?, the game of the TV show, simultaneously topped the All Formats, PlayStation, PC and   Dreamcast Top 20 charts for the week ending October 7. The British version of the game was developed by Hothouse Creations in Bristol.DVD dreamSega really ought to have expanded its Dreamcast console to offer a model with a built-in DVD player, since this has proved one of the most popular features of Sony's PlayStation 2.Instead, it has come up with a bundling deal. From October 30, it is offering the &#163;150 Dreamcast with a separate Encore Direct 450 DVD player for &#163;299.99, the same price as a PS2.The Encore player can play DVDs from all six regions as   well as CDs, Video CDs, and SVCD discs. The normal retail prince is &#163;229.The bundle will include a copy of ChuChu Rocket!, a puzzle game that can also be played online, and money-off vouchers for selected DVDs.The Dreamcast was released in the UK last October. Sega says that it has sold more than a million units across Europe, along with more than 2.5 million games.Lara sagaCore Design is planning a series of inter-related Tomb Raider games for next generation games consoles, rather than its usual process of starting from scratch and producing one game each year,   according to Core spokeswoman Susie Hamilton. She says "plans aren't confirmed yet", but there will not be just one game with a series of episodes to download. However, downloads will provide "added value" for consoles that can get online. Tomb Raider Next Gen will be published by Eidos Interactive towards the end of next year.Kick offOnly eight days to go before Eidos Interactive's Championship Manager Season Edition 00/01 is scheduled to hit the shops, featuring updated squads. The game is developed by Sports Interactive, which has launched a website atwww.sigames.com. This offers all the downloads made available for various versions of this long-running program,   including editors, patches and utilities, a message board, and a fanzine.
You're the boss so you must have lots of nice Compaq kit at home.I have quite an impressive desktop PC with a flat screen monitor, and a notebook PC, and I have a similar desktop in the office. I also have one of those hard-to-get handheld colour iPaqs, and I do use it an awful lot. I carry it around and sync to Outlook twice a day. I quickly write emails to individuals and thoughts to my assistant, and the minute I synchronise, whoosh, they're off: it's quite powerful.In the next few months it will have a mobile sleeve added and I'll download real-time. There's a whole new community developing on the web around PocketPC devices with people downloading MP3s, books and videos and so on.How much email do you get?Typically,I get around 300 emails a day, but about half of those are copied to me rather than written to me. I spend half my time answering email. There's a great opportunity for anyone who can do something to simplify it with voice recognition and artificial intelligence.What are your favourite websites?I'm a big car fanatic so I like looking at sites about classic cars, and I frequently look at theWhat Car?website. I catch up on the latest news about Formula One - we sponsor theBMW Williams F1 teamandwww.williamsf1.co.uk.It's a bit Compaq-centric, but because we have the Compaq NonStop boat in theBT Global Challenge, I like to log on and see how that is going.I have to look at different newspapers, and I also like to tap into papers in San Diego, where I grew up, to keep in touch with the community and see what's going on. Then I have a favourite football team - not a gridiron team, I've been converted. I supportChelsea. That will probably alienate half your readers!What brought you to Europe?I came to the UK nine years ago on a 30-day assignment, and got the opportunity to head up a big project at IBM. Then I met my wife here, and the rest is history.Compaq UK used to be one man in a rented office, back in 1984. How big is it now?Compaq UK is around 10% of Compaq's business worldwide so it's around $4 billion. We have about 5,000 people working in sales and service in the UK, and a similar number in manufacturing up in Scotland, where we manufacture everything for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. We're one of the biggest exporters in Scotland.How important is the internet?To me, it is as profound a development as the advent of electricity in the 1900s. I think we are in the early stages of realising the full potential of the net. The convergence with wireless devices is just one step on the road to transforming the way we live our lives both at home and in the workplace
E-booksIt is true that slowly but surely the move to e-books is coming. I rarely buy the Sunday papers now, preferring to catch up with the best articles atArts and Letters Daily, and when I went to Iceland earlier in the year, the web was more up-to-date and cheaper than buying a travel book.Where I perhaps disagree is in the move towards an e-literature, ie fiction. It is worth remembering that a paperback is actually a far more advanced storage device than most electronic equivalents: it is portable, cheap, widely available, robust, easily searchable (with a finger!) and even easier to bookmark (turning over the corner of a page).The move to e-literature will, I think, require a 'killer app' - a kind of literature that is more suitable to being read on the screen than on paper, rather than the next Stephen King.Writers like David Eggars, Ben Marcus and Harmony Korine seem somewhat constrained by the page, and will possibly be liberated by electronic means.Similarly, my own story,I Am No One, can be read either in the order that I wrote it as you would on the page, or one decided by the reader.Because the experience of reading from a screen is different from a page, it seems likely that successful e-literature will exalt in this difference, not   merely repeat what is already there.Adrian SlatcherManchesterThanks for the mention and the picture in the article. It was the most comprehensive survey of available e-book technology yet published in the press.I'd like to correct one error. I was not the founder of Online Originals. It was founded by David Gettman in 1996, I took over as managing director this year.Phil Rancephilrance@onlineoriginals.comNot quite deadAs a mainframe contractor with more than 16 years experience, I was distressed to read the opening line of a Jack Schofield article last week: "Since the death of the mainframe in the 1980's..."I can only imagine the mortification that this revelation must be causing to the heads of IT departments the world over, since just about every large company on the planet has obviously been wasting its money maintaining what amount to incredibly expensive mausoleums for the last 15 years or so.It's almost enough to make me feel the odd pang of guilt as I sign my next contract.Tom Booththomas.booth@lloydstsb.co.ukRallying callI have just stumbled across a site that could provide a rallying point for all of us who are keen to see a rational, fair-priced system of access and use of the internet.www.08whatever.comis brilliantly designed, with clear comparisons of all the internet service providers (ISPs) and, perhaps most importantly, users' comments. I urge all the readers of Online to enter their experiences on this site, for the benefit of all. I speak as one whose fingers were burned by late signing to EzeSurf. We will prevail!Constantine de Goguelcongee1@hotmail.comReader neededIt is correct that CD-RW discs can be read by drives with the relevant specification.   However, for these drives to transfer data, files etc to the computer system, you need to install a UDF reader.Udfrinst.exe can be downloaded from Adaptec's website, which has more info about the different versions of the file and the CD-rom drives that have been tested.Ron LoewenbeinRon@loewenbein.worldonline.co.ukFreeserveMay I echo Richard Page's problems with Freeserve Unlimited. I returned from a week's holiday on September 29 to find that connection to this service was impossible at any time and has subsequently remained so.Telephone calls and a letter eventually elicited the information that there were indeed problems and that work was taking place to improve capacity in areas of high usage.However, to date (October 14), I am still able to make a connection only by using the original Freeserve dialling code, thus effectively paying twice for the same service.Having emailed the billing department separately to express my dissatisfaction, I received a prompt reply asking me if I wanted to close my account.One has to wonder whether Freeserve still wishes to continue with its Unlimited service.Tony Buckleam@buckle61.freeserve.co.ukAfter the promise of "unlimited free access to the internet", I signed up for Freeserve Offpeak Surftime.My advice to anybody else is don't bother. After experiencing similar problems to Richard Page, ie the line being engaged most of the time, not being able to upload because of low speeds of 6-9cps and continuously being bumped off after two hours, I feel this is not delivering what the adverts say.It is about time trading standards stepped in - after all, Freeserve is advertising a service it can't deliver.BT should also be held responsible for this farce because you can't get the service unless you use an ISP on the BT list.If it doesn't deliver, you should be able to cancel within normal contract periods - around 28 days.Bernard Harperbernard@norfolkpark.freeserve.co.uk
Ebookers.com yesterday saw a much needed rise in its share price as the online travel agency reported third quarter results with sales 16% ahead of market forecasts.The shares went up by 8% on the Neuer Markt, to close at &euro;8.1, as the company reassured investors that it was on course for profitability by early 2002. The share price is, however, still down about 80% on its all time high, after speculation about cash difficulties.Dinesh Dhamija, chief executive officer of Ebookers, which raised $45m in July, said the company would break into the European business travel market within the year."We will be moving into business travel as soon as possible and we will certainly be looking to buy a company in Italy", Mr Dhamija said.The company, which has expanded into 11 European countries, yesterday announced that sales, of &#163;23m, had risen more than three and a half times, compared to the same period a year earlier.Pre-tax loss, excluding stock compensation, was &#163;7.2m and Ebookers has&#163;36.7m in the bank, money to be used until profitability is achieved.The number of registered users at the end of the third quarter was 740, 000, up from 500,000 at the end of the previous quarter.According to Ebookers, losses have peaked and are on a downward spiral. The marketing and branding on the whole has been done, so costs are going down. "It is becoming a more stable business", Mr Dhamija said.The firm also generates revenue from Ebookersfinance.com, which is on the Ebookers site and is run by Moneygator.com.
How are businesses gearing up for the new consumer power that is emerging from the electronic revolution? I did some research for Marketing Forum 2000 to find out, and discovered real dilemmas for marketing and businesses.The research, which was conducted among both marketers and consumers, found that the rules of marketing haven't changed fundamentally, but that many of the processes marketers use are now too bureaucratic and ponderous.Some companies are simply hiving off their electronic division to keep the "e-types" from being too disruptive a force in the existing culture. This is, in effect, a kind of corporate denial. A better solution would be to embrace the need for change and become quicker to respond and less bureaucratic. Size is important in the e-world, but speed and agility are vital, too. The winners will be the companies that succeed in combining both.There are also implications for ways of working. In the words of   one senior marketer, "This is the death of precedent." Everyone in marketing will have to find quicker, more original ways of working, with more emphasis on creativity. This should, surely, be the perfect climate for agencies.While the marketing community is undergoing a revolution, agencies - which have traditionally seen themselves as the natural business partners of marketing clients - are turning into dinosaurs. They have not risen to the challenge of adapting to meet the rapidly changing needs of their customers. The web agencies fared even worse and were seen by one respondent as "the dot.coms of the agency world: entrepreneurial, ambitious, but lacking substance".However, the problem is not only one for agencies. As far as consumers are concerned, few companies are getting their electronic offering right. There is too much emphasis on design and too little on functionality in websites.One of the consumer respondents summed it up: "Your website is your shop - whether or not   you are planning to sell from it. Most people who visit are looking for information and help, and they need to be given it. Then they may stay to browse and even buy. If they don't like the feel of your place, they have the biggest shopping mall in the world on their desktop."However, this pales into insignificance against the biggest single conclusion from this research. We are witnessing the start of a seismic shift in the balance of power in marketing. We are feeling only the first distant rumbles, but as more people become e-enabled, the closer we will get to the epicentre of a major earthquake that has the potential to shake the very foundations on which marketing has been built. The marketing industry may soon look back with nostalgia at the good "old" world which was ruled by brands and built on inspiring confidence and reflecting consumer aspirations.Since the arrival of the e-world there has been much talk of building deeper relationships based on the previously undreamed of quality and quantity of data, providing a new depth of knowledge and the ability to anticipate consumer needs. Attractive as this model may seem to today's marketers, based on the consumer research, I believe it unlikely that this will be the future of marketing.While it is not news that the new, emergent e-consumer is becoming empowered, marketing has not yet fully understood the implications of meeting the needs of consumers who feel omnipotence rather than awe. In fact, this sense of omnipotence is not usually a response to marketing. It often comes on the back of a bigger need, such as the desire to become knowledgeable about a medical condition affecting a member of your family. It takes persistence and a degree of acquired skill to become really competent on the web. But this type of stimulus leads consumers to push through the pain barrier, and once they have done so there is no turning back.There is a glint in the eye and an almost belligerent attitude among consumers who have "cracked" the web. Marketers and brands really need to understand this phenomenon. Never before have consumers understood that they have the power over a medium and by extension over brands. What's fundamentally exciting is that consumers are controlling it, they are defining how it grows. They don't control the way the other media work, but they are controlling this and it's immensely exciting.People power is on the increase. Governments can't afford to ignore it and neither can brands, and this means that marketing needs to change beyond recognition.&#149; Lindsey Roberts is founding partner of the FRESH ideas consultancy.
Shopping on the internet is as easy as A, B, C. So says the BBC which, although best-known as Britain's public service broadcaster, last Sunday week began a two-month bus roadshow to help the public shop online, and next week, in partnership with children's imprint Ladybird Books, publishes How it Works, Shopping on the Internet.How kind of Auntie to hold our hand while we shop online. Except that this initiative has little to do with altruism: the hope is that by encouraging a greater number of people into e-commerce, more money can be raised to help fund BBC radio and TV.It's a curious rationale, but the BBC is no stranger to such logic. In this case it's all about beeb.com, the corporation's three-and-a-half-year-old commercial internet service overseen by BBC Worldwide, reinventing and better positioning itself to turn a profit.From its launch, beeb.com has comprised a selection of the BBC's more commercial brands - mainly magazine spin-offs from BBC programmes - revised for online consumption. Limited e-commerce has been available to surfers clicking on banner ads through which they   were whisked off to advertisers' own websites.A strategic review, however, concluded that this in itself was not maximising the potential for a commercial BBC online service. The upshot was the decision to reposition beeb.com, a process that started in December 1999 and culminated in a high-profile, &#163;7m national advertising campaign which kicked off last month.The beeb.com roadshow and Ladybird book (the latter idea taken from the current advertising, to stress how anyone can learn the best way to shop online) is part of this re-positioning initiative."The idea is to establish the &#91;beeb.com&#93; brand with the message that there is a degree of safety and a certain naturalness about doing e-business with the BBC," says Julian Turner, chief executive of Beeb Ventures, the majority-owned subsidiary of BBC Worldwide which runs the beeb.com site. "As a shopping intermediary we offer the safety of a trusted environment and approved third-party partnerships."So from now on beeb.com is to be known as an internet shopping portal. Surfers visiting the site can select from a variety of subject areas, all of which are directly linked to pre-existing BBC brands ranging from magazines such as Top of the Pops and Gardeners' World to programmes such as BBC Holiday. Each themed area provides online editorial content related to   specific types of product. Users can ask experts for advice on which product to buy, or call up other related information.The next step, however, is the nub of the new beeb.com service. Once users know what they want, they can call up details of different online suppliers - each of whom is a commercial partner in the beeb.com site - to compare price and delivery times. They then click on a preferred supplier to go direct to its site to complete the transaction online. To date, beeb.com has struck deals with 37 commercial partners which are featured on the site. Turner expects this figure to have risen to more than 60 by Christmas.It is through such commercial partnerships and banner advertising that beeb.com hopes to make money. Partners pay for the BBC association. In return, however, they must provide a good-quality, reliable and fairly priced service that reflects well on the BBC brand. No such relationship will be entered into with any commercial partner on an exclusive basis, Turner adds: "It's not about the BBC becoming an e-tailer," he claims. "It's about being a shopping intermediary which can offer a safe and trusted shopping environment and approved third-party relationships."It's certainly a step on from what beeb.com was doing previously - and one that is now being funded through a joint venture between BBC Worldwide and US-based   internet firm TH Lee Global Internet Managers. This deal, announced in August, involved THLi investing a cool &#163;32.5m in beeb.com and freebeeb.net, the BBC's internet service provider. The transaction valued the two businesses at &#163;240m.But the new beeb.com is not a development welcomed by Auntie's commercial competitors. Although not funded directly by the licence fee, the programme brands on which it is cashing in are, critics lament. Angela Mills of the British Internet Publishers' Alliance, whose members include not only traditional media owners with online interests but also pure internet-only businesses, expresses concern at the BBC's latest move."Because its positioning is 'shop here without trawling around lots of other websites', and because the brands it promotes heavily are all BBC brands developed by licence-fee funding, it's another example of the unfair competitive advantage the BBC has over its commercial competitors," she says.The BBC's public service sites, meanwhile, should provide no direct link with beeb.com, she adds: "It's not as if they do so for any of beeb.com's commercial rivals." Although Turner stresses that all surfers are doing is moving from the corporation's public service to commercial online sites, and also insists beeb.com gives no undue prominence to BBC brands, Mills counters: "This is little more than paying lip service to open access."Rob Hersov, chief executive of internet sports service Sportal, meanwhile, does not believe that the BBC should be on the net at all - either in a public service or a commercial capacity. "It is impossible to name one public service they are giving &#91;on the net&#93; that a privately funded company is not providing already," he says. And of the corporation's commercial online activities, Hersov adds: "They should not be doing any of these at all. &#91;BBC Worldwide&#93; should be sold off."Like it or loathe it, however, BBC Worldwide's brief is to raise funds through commercial activities that can be fed back into the BBC to supplement income earned from the licence fee. Given that this is its remit, Beeb Ventures - like the rest of the internet business - is surely justified in its desire to grow the internet population, not just for itself but for everyone, Turner says."What people forget is that if you link the BBC name with e-commerce, then you grow internet business for all," he claims. "If we bring one new person onto the net, then we help everyone, as that person's propensity to go on to transact with other e-commerce sites is significant."Whether or not this continues to be an acceptable rationale for the public service broadcaster will become clear in coming months with the publication of a white paper on the BBC's future remit, and the expected introduction of a single broadcast industry regulator whose remit will include public service TV and all its related activities - including commercial initiatives online.
Dare you expose yourself to the ultimate truth?It is horrible, strangely addictive and a phenomenal success. The insecure need not apply.'Am I hot or not' is the latest internet sensation, a new website created only six days ago by two unemployed Californians who may now make a fortune out of the craze.For those brave enough to take up the challenge,www.amihotornot.comoffers people a chance to find out how good-looking or otherwise the rest of the world thinks they are.A series of anonymous pictures of men and women are presented to the viewer who is then invited to vote on their attractiveness on a scale of one to 10.Already 1,000 people of all ages have sent in their photographs to the virtual beauty pageant and watched their scores fluctuate as complete strangers assess their looks.Actual nudity is not encouraged and anything considered too risqu&eacute; can be voted off the site by users. But despite that, the photograph with the highest average score (7.3 after 2,636 votes) yesterday was of a young woman in her underwear.The internet user can choose to look at three files, men, women or both together. No personal details are supplied, and when you have voted you are shown what score everyone else gave them before being taken to peruse your next victimCruel? Some people are downright nasty although the amount of '10s' suggests that at least some people are too kind to be honest.To take the step from judge to judgment you simply upload a photograph onto the internet and fill in the address on the AmIhot online form. The site then assigns it to its own pages.AmIhot is being described as 'viral' - web language for a new idea that takes off without advertising or hype. Past examples are Microsoft's Hotmail address, which was launched and took off before the advertising campaign, and the site devoted to a Turkish man called Mahir. His homepage won a million hits within weeks as news spread of his bad English and touching friendliness.'Word of mouth about innovative and free internet-based services means their growth takes off like a virus,' said Anne McCrory of Computerworld magazine. 'Then so-called viral websites are born.'The two inventors of this latest hot potato, twenty-something former college roommates who will only be named as Jim and James, are stunned by the overwhelming success of the site.'We never expected anything out of it. It was just a clever idea for a funny site. Suddenly we are deluged with emails and calls,' James told The Observer.But now the founders are fascinated by the psychological pattern emerging from their brainchild.'People are definitely more interested in voting for women than men and scores are lower in general for men than women. Also the saying "beauty is in the eye of the beholder" is proving true as even people with low average scores will always have a few nines or even 10s,' said   James, who has posted his own picture on the site.'I have had to face up to the fact that my score is just not going to go past 4.3. I think though that anyone worried about a low score should just add two to it. That will balance out the people who have voted just to be cruel.'At the moment, there are no plans to make it possible for anyone featured on the site to be contacted by others.A few well-known faces have been been sneaked on. Britney Spears and Gwen Stefani, singer with No Doubt, are there. And mere mortals whose scores were low can console themselves with the fact that Spears rated 6.9, less than a plump blonde in a bikini, but more than Stefani, who scored 6.6.But it is the willingness of ordinary people to subject themselves to such scrutiny that is the most remarkable aspect. It seems people have always shared the lament of Scots poet Robert Burns: 'O would some power the giftie gie us, to see ourselves as others see us.'&#149; tracy.mcveigh@observer.co.uk
David Boies was not having the best of days. It was an August afternoon, and he was in the lounge of a Los Angeles airport, waiting for American Airlines to sort out a flight that had been oversold.Recognised by his peers as one of the biggest-hitting lawyers in the US, Boies is used to dealing with the foibles of big business. When the US government wanted to take on the corporate behemoth of Microsoft in the anti-trust trial, it hired Boies. And after a few lengthy stints before the judge, he caused the biggest company in the world to consider breaking up.But he could have been forgiven for thinking this airport delay was just another sign that his luck was turning. His current client, Napster, the internet company that invented a piece of software so powerful it threatened to swamp the world with pirated music, was being sued by the Record Industry Association of America (RIAA).The case was not going well. Boies had lost the first court battle, and, with this huge challenge in the balance, he was stuck in a departure lounge. The flight was blighted by one mechanical problem after another, and they were paying people not to board.Once finally on the plane, Boies became aware of a man repeatedly turning to look at him. Eventually, the stranger asked: 'Hey, aren't you the Napster lawyer?' Boies assented, and then his inquisitor stood up and announced: 'Napster's lawyer is on the plane.' A cheer rose among the tired crowd of passengers. For the first time that day, perhaps, Boies knew that, even if not in the legal sense, he was backing the winning side.The court battle between the reactionary RIAA and the copyright-insolent Napster is set to reach its climax within the next couple of weeks. Whichever way the judgment   goes, though, Boies's airborne experience is as clear a sign as any that the war is already lost for the RIAA.Three things are clear about Napster. The first is that it lets anyone copy and share MP3 files - files that use special compression techniques to digitise music so that it can be downloaded over the internet - with alarming ease and at virtually no cost. The second is that many of these duplications or 'exchanges' break time-honoured copyright rules, the laws that ensured the artists got their royalties when the record company sold their music. The third is that people love it. More than 35 million people are now fully fledged converts to the church of Napster. And, after years of paying through the nose for CDs, they don't mind breaking the law to visit it.It has divided some of the biggest names in the music world. Anti-Napster band Metallica have criticised their fans for enjoying the service too much. The Corrs are also in the anti-Napster camp. Radiohead, however, were far more sanguine when their    latest album, Kid A , popped up on Napster prior to its massively hyped launch. Perhaps Radiohead's stoicism is the best way to deal with Napster.The court case may eventually force Napster to shut down, but it has spawned a host of imitators who are not going to disappear. In fact, the International Federation of Phonographic Industries estimates that there are currently at least 25 million illegal music files on the internet, producing up to 5 million downloads every year.Take Gnutella, for example. Gnutella is basically the internet's answer to Frankenstein's monster. It was developed as an unofficial project by a team of programmers at America Online who released it onto their website in March, only to realise the consequences of what they were doing and shut it down 24 hours later.Too late: the Gnutella code was out in the wild wild web   and significantly it was a serious improvement on Napster. Unlike its predecessor, Gnutella doesn't have a central data base. This is crucial. Napster's central catalogue of music directs users to various sites where they can download records of their choice. Gnutella, however, constructs a labyrinth of virtual private networks which means there is no one point of reference - making it almost impossible for the music industry to kill it via legal action.'There's no one body hosting the index, so there's nobody the industry can sue.   It's extremely difficult to prevent Gnutella from existing,' said Jay Marathe, head of consulting with technology investment firm Durlacher.Significantly, Napster, too, is using the index argument as a defence. The company no longer pools music on a centralised database, only directions as to where to find different artists located on various servers in cyberspace. Napster's critics, however, argue that this index is clearly designed to enable people to pirate music.The music industry is not the only business sector that is watching the Napster case with great interest. Scour.net and DIVX, two daring deviants to Napster which allow users to download film and video clips, are currently attracting an enormous following.The music industry now tacitly accepts that, if Boies has to retire a beaten man, another Napster variant is likely to spring up and take over the mantle. In a sign of weary recognition, Paul Russell, head of Sony Music Europe, conceded that it would be possible to accept the likes of Napster - if it used its online advertising revenues to pay and promote artists.'If they came along and said, "We are smarter than you. We are going to sign up artists and we are going to invest in their careers and we are going to put their music up and invest in their careers" I could live with that,' Russell said earlier this year.But the real challenge for the record labels is to create a viable online alternative to the likes of Napster which, while never being able to kill online piracy, will prevent it from dominating the industry.The future is not totally gloomy. After all, the record able audio cassette didn't kill the LP or the CD. For similar reasons the online pirates might not end up ruining the music industry.'At present it's very difficult to find the tracks that you want using Napster. It's often very slow, the names of the artists are sometimes wrong, it sends you to hard drives that are not that reliable. If I wanted to create my own compilation of tracks it's a long, hard slog. If the music industry could offer these sort of improved services, I believe that people would be willing to pay for the service,' Marathe said.But so far the music industry has been slow to react, choosing simply to swat the pirates with legal action. This is not a viable strategy for the future. The major record labels know that, whatever the Napster court case ruling, the judgment will ultimately change nothing. Other sites will always spring up to take its place.It may well be that Napster is heading for an early demise. So what? Long live Napster.www.mp3.comwww.napster.comwww.gnutella.comwww.mydivx.com
Fate untemptedThe UK's dotcom companies seem to be shedding their lemming-like characteristics after they shunned Friday the 13th last week. Despite it being results season, not a single new media fledgling reported financial figures. Perhaps they were mindful of the fact that the fickle hand of stock market fate, which is giving them a solid slapping at the moment, needs no encouragement. However, one account manager at a top city PR firm denied any superstitious strategy: 'Everyone's been too busy to notice,' he said... as a grand piano fell on his head from great height.Full MarxThe internet as communist bolthole? This was one of the unlikely conclusions to be drawn from the UK Internet Summit held in London last week. Both Dave Stewart, the musician, and Martin Sorrell, chief executive of WPP, the giant marketing multinational, invoked Karl Marx when discussing the impact of the net. Stewart, one half of now reformed band Eurythmics, said the internet was all about returning the means of production to the workers. Well returning it to those who work as pop stars or ad industry execs. Hardly the dictatorship of the proletariat.Knicker warsDespite last week's liquidation of Boxman, @large was delighted to see spasms of life in small internet companies. Surpriseyourwoman.com a smooth, sophisticated, 'Arena-like' website peddles presents for laydeeeez - the Craig David of the business. But it faces a battle with a rough 'n' ready Liam Gallagher of a competitor called Giftsforbirds.com. Class war hits the net again. Except Surpriseyourwoman.com will feature tasteful shots of women in lingerie, just so you can see whether the 'surprise' will look good on your woman. Honestly.
The most intriguing question about the internet is whether it will turn out to be a genuinely subversive technology or whether en-trenched power structures - governments, transnational corporations, cultural establishments - will eventually get a grip on it and subvert it to their own ends.Cyber-libertarians have never been in any doubt. Their view was summed up in John Gilmore's dictum that 'the internet interprets censorship as damage and routes around it'. Libertarian suspicion of the evil establishments of the 'real' world was tempered by the consoling thought that these institutions were also irredeemably stupid.The collective IQ of the net was always going to be greater than anything the FBI, GCHQ, Microsoft or the legal profession could muster. And whatever the forces of darkness came up with, the net community could easily circumvent, disrupt or subvert. The balance of power between freedom   and control had been irrevocably shifted - and so the internet became a uniquely subversive technology.In principle, this argument remains valid. The technology of the net, and the fact that software is pure 'thought-stuff', means that the subversive creativity of the internet community cannot be snuffed out. There will always be 16-year-old hackers capable of inventing ingenious mouse-traps which can be distributed globally within minutes. Short of banning the use of computers, shutting down the global telephone network and shooting all 16-year-olds on sight, there is little any authority structure can do about it.Where the libertarian com munity errs is in thinking that this is all that matters. So long as the internet remained a virtual playground for geeks, Gilmore's mantra did indeed apply. It still does.But once the net became a mass medium, accessed and used by hundreds of millions of 'ordinary' people and firms - for email, entertainment and commerce - the complacent optimism of the libertarian position began to look like a philosophy of denial.The difference is that established power structures are able to exert much more leverage on a mass medium than they could on a geek playground. Most internet users now are 'ordinary' folk, who lack both the talent and the motivation to cock a snook at authority. They access the net through internet service providers, companies run by accountants who carry no torches for liberty or anarchy.And e-commerce companies aspire to the same status: they are after profits, stability, and the protection of their intellectual property. Few of the key players in the mass-internet want trouble with the established order; in a way they want to be part of it.The Napster case illustrates this. The libertarian position is that it doesn't matter what happens to Napster in the courts because the peer-to-peer (P2P) networking genie is out of the bottle.This is true but beside the point, which is that the moment somebody runs away with these subversive technologies they become something different - and are suddenly more vulnerable to legal attack.The thing about Napster, remember, is not so much that it had zillions of users, but that it wanted to become a billion-dollar company on the backs of those users. This is why the recording companies are so interested in it.'File-sharing means we have to think about a fundamental change of the business model,' Sony's chairman and chief executive told the  Financial Times recently.The companies want to destroy Napster not because they desire to stamp out its disruptive technology, but because they want to deploy it for their own ends.Who are the real subversives now?john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Hard landing or soft? The value of new technology stocks twitched sharply this week; it was more like a spasm in the price of oil, as dealers hit the panic button after the events appraised above. On the hi-tech front, share movements may signal the start of much-needed realignment in the relationship between equities and commercial prospects. After spectacular movements on Wednesday, things calmed down yesterday, despite gloomy warnings from Motorola that worldwide growth in demand for mobile phones is now slowing.Some people bathe in schadenfreude on such occasions. The possible liquidation of Boxman, set up three years ago to sell music and videos over the net, no doubt pleased those offended by the explosive growth in the perceived value of dot.com companies despite their lack of a track record in real (and often hotly competitive) markets. Boxman is unlikely to be the last collapse. According to a study last month, another 19 big start-ups are going to run out of cash before the end of the year. It is an irony that those who relish the pain of the Boos and the Boxmans are often most appreciative of how the "new economy" appears to have altered some fundamentals for the bet ter. Sushil Wadwhani's view, expressed yesterday, that the economy can be run at higher levels of demand without generating inflation relies on a positive appraisal of the internet's effects on competition. If he can persuade his colleagues on the Bank of England's interest setting committee and they stay their hand in the face of recent inflation figures, well and good. But one inference is that internet start-up companies are playing a sterling role in the process.Broad-brush correction is much needed. American stocks are over- valued. Dot-commery needs the air let out. But of course everything depends on how readjustment is made. Wall Street valuations will affect the dollar, the hinge of the benign economic circumstances in which the American election is being fought. On the high dollar also depends the huge inflow of short and long-term capital into the United States, funding an extraordinary balance of payments deficit which in turn keeps the world economy ticking over nicely. Growth and employment in the euro zone win faint praise when compared to the US. But as Sir Samuel Brittan observes (we hope not too presciently), the American economy is "more precariously balanced".
Fewer than 1,000 of British Telecom's local exchanges will be opened to rivals by July next year despite government assurances of "widespread availability" of competition by that date, it emerged yesterday.The number represents only 17% of BT's exchanges and appears to conflict markedly with comments made by e-commerce minister Patricia Hewitt last week.Officials also admitted that the number of "problem" exchanges where demand for space from rival suppliers exceeds the amount of space available could be 5-10% of sites.Rivals to BT again expressed their anger at the pace of the roll-out of so-called "local loop unbundling". They claim it has given the former monopoly a head start in the deployment of DSL technology which can upgrade copper wires for broadband use such as high-speed internet access."We are pretty angry about BT's foot-dragging," said a senior executive of one rival company. "BT is simply using its dominant power to discriminate in favour of itself."Oftel has identified the first 361 exchanges which will be opened up for competition but rivals will not be able to gain access to the first 60 until the beginning of February at the earliest. The following three tranches of 100 a time will be opened over intervals of several weeks.Oftel aims to name a second group of exchanges at the beginning of December but officials admitted that the number which will be open by July would be numbered in "hundreds rather than thousands".Oftel executives are also concerned that the opening of individual exchanges could be delayed by planning issues.Last week Ms Hewitt threw her support behind Oftel and said there would be widespread alternatives to BT by the July deadline originally set by the regulator. The EU has ruled that the local loop - the last mile between the exchange and homes or businesses - should be open to competition by the start of next year.Britain complied with that regulation, she maintained, because BT was ready to meet "reasonable requests" from companies applying to store equipment in its exchanges. A lot turns, rivals have complained, on the interpretation of what is reasonable.Oftel officials insisted the number of exchanges that will be open by July was within the spirit of the statement made by Ms Hewitt.The regulator yesterday issued a consultation document on how space will be allocated in more popular BT exchanges. Demand for space in some has come from up to 25 telecom suppliers - threatening to leave some disappointed.At best, each supplier will have only 1,600 lines per exchange although that could be as few as 800 at more popular sites. The consultation document gives options for apportioning space including a lottery or auction but favours a complex method where each supplier has to place priorities on each of its applications.&#149;Infostrada falls to EnelItalian power company Enel has clinched an &euro;11bn (&#163;6.6bn) purchase of Infostrada, Italy's second-biggest telecoms group, in a challenge to the market dominance of Telecom Italia.Enel, Europe's largest listed utility, said it would pay British mobile phone company Vodafone half in cash and half in bonds for loss-making Infostrada and then fold the group into Wind, its joint venture with France Telecom.Enel is hoping the booming telecoms market will help it offset an expected drop in power prices when competition bites by 2003."It's good for investors. It creates very strong competition for Telecom Italia," said one London-based analyst. "Infostrada was already pretty strong but lacked mobiles. This will give investors a real choice."The deal to secure the number two spot in Europe's fourth-biggest telecoms market is pricey. It values Infostrada at about 11 times expected sales for 2000, compared to a sector average multiple of eight.
Whether it is Ed McBain, Colleen McCullough or AN Other, one author will be $100,000 better off at the end of next week's Frankfurt Book Fair, when the biggest literary prize in history will go to the best original electronic book.But publishers and agents at the show already have 500,000 reasons to be interested in e-books: that's how many downloaded Stephen King's novel, Riding The Bullet, in its first two days online this summer. Many didn't pay for it, and lots didn't read it, but King showed beyond argument that e-books can reach a mass market.Electronic book publishing has many of the same risks and opportunities as electronic music publishing. By delivering text direct to the reader's computer screen, the e-book could slash production and distribution costs, and allow creators to deal directly with their audience, bypassing conventional publishers and retailers. But it also raises the spectre of mass piracy. Phil Rance, founder and managing director of Online Originals, a London-based e-book publisher, sums it up: "No one wants Napster to happen to books."Indeed, the MP3 saga may have put the frighteners on an industry that generally operates some way behind the "bleeding edge". The Meta Group, a leading US-based market analyst, say publishers are far too concerned about protecting their rights: "We believe all the recent legal manoeuvring over Napster is like putting a finger in a dyke that is already overflowing. Publishers need to deal with reality and come up with new ways to exploit wide electronic distribution, asking the question: 'How can we use the inevitability of wide distribution to our advantage?' "At the moment, most   publishers would like to limit the use of e-books to the person who bought them, or to the computer used to download them. If that can be done, e-books become just an extra revenue stream in a publishing industry that would continue to operate the way it does today, according to Terry Robinson, business manager for Adobe's e-paper group. "If you've cracked the digital rights aspect, you've cracked the market," he says.Robert Nichols, Books Director at BOL - a subsidiary of Bertelsmann, the world's biggest publishing company - agrees. "Rights management is absolutely critical: that's the key comfort area they want addressed. Publishers just pull down the shutters and say that 'until copyright is secure, we're not going to talk'."But Rebecca Ulph, an analyst at Forrester Research's London office, is not sure the two industries are all that alike. "Something like 7.5% of the people in the UK are responsible for about 75% of the book sales, and until e-books are routinely available to technophobes on the high street, they're never going to be more than a niche market," she says."And there's nothing fun damentally wrong with the book," says Ulph, "so there's really no problem the e-book solves, unless you need to carry around 10 or 12 books at a time. Otherwise, the electronic book is a &#163;300-&#163;400 format that doesn't actually improve on a &#163;6.99 format."US sales of dedicated e-book readers costing around $199 to $599 bear this out.NuvoMedia's Rocket eBookandSoftBook Press's SoftBook Readerhave been slow to take off, and even slower to reach Europe. Last year, BOL signed a deal with Rocket, and it launched the eBook in Germany this April, but Nichols says it is unlikely to reach the UK until next year.The process was slowed after Gemstar International Group Ltd, which produces TV programme guides, took over both NuvoMedia and SoftBook Press at the start of the year. In the US, Thomson Consumer Electronics has just produced a new model, the RCA eBook, with a built-in 56k modem for downloading content, but it is too early to judge how it will do.Andrew Rosenheim, managing director of Penguin Press and acting head of the company's digital media operations, believes that if the market is going to take off, it won't be due to sales of dedicated e-book readers. "I think it's going to happen in handhelds," he says."Convergence is happening. People aren't going to want to carry a mobile phone and an e-book and a laptop computer. They'll want something that will do everything  and read ."That is the way Microsoft is heading with its PocketPC software, which is used by the Hewlett-Packard Jornada, Casio Cassiopeia and Compaq iPaq palmtop computers   launched this summer. The PocketPC (Windows CE 3) software includes electronic organiser functions, email and web browsing programs, an MP3 player, and Microsoft Reader e-book software. And millions more are already reading documents on Palm and Psion handheld though - worryingly for the industry - generally not in copy-protected formats.Probably no one will pay &#163;250-&#163;500 for a Palm, a Psion or a PocketPC just to read books on a small screen. However, millions buying handheld computers to organise their lives will want to use the same device for other purposes, and e-books are another application.This also applies to desktop computers, where both Adobe Acrobat and theGlassbook readermay be used for reading books. Adobe, which took over Glassbook in August, says it has distributed more than 165 million copies of itsfree Acrobat reader. But now this faces competition from the Microsoft Reader, which is already available for desktop and notebookPCs running Windows, and will appear for Apple Macintoshes later. (Officially this has not been announced but a spokesman points out that "the Macintosh is a very important platform for Microsoft".)The battle between Adobe and Microsoft is unlikely to turn into a standards war. The two programs have different origins and different uses, and anyway, it is easy for publishers to convert texts between formats. There is also an open standard being set by theOpen EBook Forum, which both Microsoft and Adobe support. The OEB is, very sensibly, based on the technologies used to create   web pages, such as HTML (HyperText Mark-up Language), XML (Extensible Mark-up Language), and CSS (Cascading Style Sheets).But publishers don't want to release books in an open format. They want to release them in a protected binary format, which eventually boils down to a choice between Microsoft Reader's .lit file, which is an encrypted form of OEB, and Adobe's PDF (portable document format), a non-OEB format derived from the PostScript publishing language.Adobe has the advantage that PDF is well established in the printing and publishing   industries, for which it was designed. It is also well placed as a secure format with PDF Merchant server software to look after rights and payments. And if the market moves rapidly to electronic distribution, with books being printed on demand at local outlets, that will also benefit Adobe: PDF's whole raison d' tre was to mimic print publications.However, the Acrobat PDF reader is not even available for handheld computers, and it has other drawbacks. Acrobat is much clunkier than Microsoft Reader software, which is a proper electronic book system, designed for consumer use. It    also lacks Reader's ClearType font technology (seehttp://grc.com/cleartype.htm), which makes text easier to read.For Adobe, Robinson says: "We've shown PDF working in the Windows CE environment and on personal digital assistants: they're not commercially available at this stage, but we've shown the intent." He also says Adobe is bringing out CoolType technology to improve legibility on the screen. But as Nichols says: "All the time, Reader is gaining ground, and when colour PocketPCs come down in price_"Also, anyone with a PC can create e-books for Microsoft    Reader using a free add-in forWord 2000or Overdrive's freeReaderworks. Adobe charges for PDFWriter and Acrobat Distiller, the programs usually used to create PDF files, though there are now shareware tools and print utilities to do the job. Examples include SanFace's Txt2PDF, The Amyuni PDF Converter, and Win2PDF.For Microsoft, e-books are part of a long term strategy. Bill Hill, a researcher with Microsoft's electronic books group in Seattle, and one of ClearType's developers, says: "We believe that the screen is the place where people are going to read in the future. Do you really think that in 20 years time we're still going to be cutting down trees for tomorrow's edition of the Guardian? So our strategy is to create an industry."There hasn't been enough content to encourage sales of e-book readers, and not enough readers to encourage publishers, Hill explains. "We saw an opportunity to jump-start the market by producing Reader. Suddenly you can offer publishers a potential market of several hundred million users - especially if you give it away! It's like a snowball rolling down a hill: somebody has to get it going."Rance, who started Online Originals in 1996, quotes Andersen Consulting's forecast that e-books will have 10% or the market by 2005. He thinks "there will be a serious market - one you can make money in - by this time next year, but only the beginnings of one."At Penguin, Rosenheim thinks it will be three to five years before the e-book market becomes viable. "In terms of it becoming roughly equivalent to print sales, I do think that will happen, but in 20-25 years," he says. "New generations, younger people without the traditional attachment to print, will find the shift easier to make. Books are just one of a number of options to them, so if books become electronic, they won't have an inherent resistance to that.Web addressesFrankfurt E-book Awardswww.iebaf.orgOnline Originalswww.onlineoriginals.comUniversity of Virginia   Etext Centerhttp://etext.virginia.edu/ebooks/Books for PDAswww.memoware.comBarnes &amp; Noble eBookstoreebooks.barnesandnoble.comTome Raiderwww.tomeraider.comTop twenty downloadsAuthor	TitleAesopFables	2,103WellsWar of the Worlds	1,701DarwinOrigin of Species	1,404CarrollAlice in Wonderland (with illustrations)	1,345CarrollAlice in Wonderland (without illustrations)	1,294Beowulf	1,179FranklinAutobiography	1,170ShakespeareMacbeth	1,107VerneAround the World in Eighty Days	1,033IrvingThe Legend of Sleepy Hollow	1,019DoyleThe Hound of the Baskervilles	992MelvilleMoby Dick	985TwainHuckleberry Finn	978ShelleyFrankenstein	922WellsThe Time Machine	866FrostGroup of Four Poems	858BaumMarvelous Land of Oz (with illustrations)	854CarrollThrough the Looking Glass	843MiltonParadise Lost (1667 edition)	835ColeridgeRime of the Ancient Mariner	830Advantages of e-booksAdvantages of e-booksE-books cost nothing to duplicate, they are easy to customise, and they can be delivered almost anywhere in the world in seconds. They are easy to carry: a memory card can easily store 20-40 heavy tomes in a few grams, which could be very important to future sales of travel guides. Thousands of e-books are already available free on the web, though most are out-of-copyright works.
Lost dataTwice in the past two years I have lost my hard drive due to it becoming corrupted. Happily, I had backed up most of my data files, but I have been unable to back up my address book in the Contacts folder in Microsoft Outlook. The reason is that I cannot find it! So I end up having to retype my address book which is, to say the least, quite a chore.Fred Brooksfred@redgrave.screaming.netJack Schofield replies:Nowadays, Outlook keeps the addressbook in its .pst file, and if you search for *.pst files, you may find your address data in the same folder.However, your question   highlights the fact that just backing up disk drives is not enough for important data. You should also export it into a separate file, so that if you lose the use of Outlook, or whatever, you can load the same data into a different program.Outlook's File|Export to a File|Personal Folder File wizard will export your addresses in a number of formats including Comma Separated Values (ie text), Excel, and the dBase and Access databases.Getting addresses into another program can be tricky as you have to map the field names in the data file to the field names in the new program, and they never match. However, it is not as bad as having to retype everything.Ideally, addresses should be held in the standard business card data format called vCard, in .vcf files (Seewww.imc.org/pdi/vcardoverview.html), which are recognised by both PCs and Apple Macintoshes and are also used on the web (by Yahoo, for example). That removes the mapping problem. Unfortunately, I don't know of a program that will export a whole addressbook that way.As a journalist I am justifiably paranoid about losing my addressbook data, so I also synchronise my Outlook Contacts database with two handheld computers and two websites, including Yahoo, for an "off site" back-up.On the cardsI would like to print some visiting cards. Do you know of an application that would   be useful or do I just work it out on my WP?Rosalind Pulverros.mart@tesco.netJS:It is certainly possible to produce all kinds of cards in a word processor. And if you need lots, you may be able exploit your program's label printing facility (in Microsoft Word 200: Tools|Envelopes and Labels|Labels).However, there are a lot of utilities designed for producing business cards, which may do what you want. Business Card Designer Plushttp://camdevelopment.com/bcdp.htmandVisual Business Cardsseem to be the most popular, and the alternatives includeParaben's Business Card BuilderandKlick-N-View Business Cards. For a quick listing from a long search term, seehttp://hotfiles.zdnet.com/cgi-bin/texis/swlib/ hotfiles/mlt.html?link=1&amp;Utext= dtp+windows+soho+cards+template+design+print+business.Most utilities are available free for a 30-day trial period.BackgroundControl/At/Delete will pop up a window showing current running programs, many of which are in the "background" and perhaps started automatically on startup. They all have incomprehensible names and it is difficult/impossible to tell which program they represent. Also, there seem to be   many more of them than programs in the Startup folder. Is there any way of getting a plain English explanation of these programs or preventing them loading up in the first place?John PendleburyJohnpend@dialstart.netJS:On a standalone PC running Windows, the task list should normally have only two programs: Systray and Explorer. Most, or all, of the others should be associated with utilities that have icons in the Systray, next to the clock on the right hand side of the Task Bar. These could include programs such as ICQ and ZoneAlarm.If you right-click on the icons, these should allow you to configure them so they don't run when you start your machine.If there are any background programs you can't identify, open Windows Explorer at the C:\ drive or My Computer. Press F3 for the search box (or use Tools|Find|Files and Folders) and enter the name shown in the task list (for example, sysmon). This should find the associated programs for you.Some background programs are useful but if you have too many of them, they can consume a lot of valuable system resources. Go to Start| Programs|Accessories|System Tools|Resource Meter to find out how much: and yes, it will load and sit in your Systray!Background programs may also clash with one another, making your PC less stable.ExtensionI am writing Java programs and saving them in Microsoft Notepad with the suffix "java". However, my problem is that by default it adds ".txt" on the end. When I try to run the program through the compiler, it reads "bad command or file name".Ashley Wrightashe.wright@tinyworld.co.ukJS:Go to the data directory where you keep your files (so the directory name is highlighted) and pull down the File|New|Text Document menu to create a new text document. Give it a new name, such as test.javaYou will be asked if you want to change the extension: say yes.Double-click your new file, and a pop-up box will ask you which application you would like to open the file. Scroll down the list and select Notepad (and keep the box ticked for "Always use this program to open this file").Now type some Java code into the test.java file and save it (Alt-F Alt-S), and it will still be a .java file.Disk saverI would like to compress my 1 gigabyte C: drive as I'm running out of space. Is there a safe way of doing it?Andy Brodiearbpc@yahoo.co.ukJS:The disk compression software provided with Windows should be safe, but   I would not use it myself. Huge hard drives are now so cheap (under &#163;100) that compression is no longer worth the risk. If you can't justify a new drive, second hand ones are available for a few pounds. A drive that re-formats with no bad sectors can be added as drive D.RepriseSince I upgraded to Internet Explorer 5.5, all new windows in Outlook Express open up very small. How can I make them open up maximised as they always used to?Dr Kambiz Boomlak.boomla@qmw.ac.ukJS:Sorry, when I answered this question last time, my reply was too brief. So....Windows programs usually try to remember how they were when you closed them, and then open up the same way. To make a window open differently, use your mouse to grab the bottom right hand corner and drag the window to the size and shape you want. Close the window and open it again: it should open the way you want.If you really want a window maximized, then click on the middle button on the top right of window.
Using an aerial, a lightning conductor, a floppy disk and a microwave transceiver little bigger than a credit card, a pair of techies are hoping to beat the world's big telecommunication companies and launch the first broadband wireless internet in the UK.James Stevens and Julian Priest ofConsume.netrepresent a growing group of people who believe that the internet should be as free as the air we breath - and they are planning to make it so.Everyone, they say, should have the right to access to the internet because the net is too valuable a thing to be owned by small groups of organisations, ie the big telecommunications companies. They believe that the network should be owned by its users, and it should be free. The current economic and regulatory framework is too slow, they say, and too expensive and is the cause of what is now being called the "digital divide".The scheme will be piloted later this month in Shoreditch, east London. It involves the creation of a "data cloud" - a wireless internet network distributed through the radio spectrum. The technology is already commercially available and, as long as the network is used for non-commercial basis, no licences will be needed, say the pair.Stevens says: "We have already established three sites for antennas or nodes - which are omnidirectional send and receive stations.   Once people have the wireless cards in their laptops they will be able to connect with our networks." These first three nodes, adds Stevens, are enough to generate a data cloud. The right cards for laptops are called 802.11 or wireless Ethernet and are available from companies like Lucent Technologies for as little as &#163;150.Of course, the pair cannot build a network on their own. So last month they invited others to participate in its building and design. The response so far has been promising. Nearly 400 have already joined the mailing list. These include the chief executive of a leading UK internet service provider (ISP) and several high-end   technologists. Already, another node is being developed in north London, and Medium Rare is building its own at London Bridge. The pair say that anyone can set up a node and that it can cost as little as &#163;350.The initial nodes will rely on connections to the "outside" internet - which will still have to be paid for. But the pair see no reason why the network cannot stand alone once it has grown big enough.The idea for the network began in 1995. Then, Stevens had just co-founded Lateral, one of the UK's first web design agencies. Lateral was leasing a two megabyte connection from a business park in north London at a cost of &#163;200,000 a year. Stevens found that he was using a mere quarter of the bandwidth and wanted to redistribute the spare capacity to the other creative groups in his neighborhood. One of those groups was web designer, Medium Rare, whose technical director is Julian Priest.The trouble was that they were housed in the building   opposite and it is illegal to string a cable across a street in the UK.So, Priest went out and bought a pair of microwave transponders for &#163;300, similar to those found in mobile phones, and hooked up to Lateral's bandwidth with a wireless connection. The pair say that the idea for a city-wide network came from there."The whole environment of communications is very tightly controlled. Because that's where the power is, especially these days," says Priest. "That's the reason why we couldn't hang a wire across the street."The good thing about what we are doing now is that you don't need planning permission to build our network. And you don't need a licence." This is because they plan to operate on the part of the radio spec trum usually used by CB enthusiasts.The data cloud, they say, is not the internet for free, but the internet in return for participation. Although the protocols are still to be thrashed out, they will give access only to those prepared to build a node. The nodes   work by both transmitting and receiving large amounts of data. This means that those participating in the creation of the data cloud are effectively sharing bandwidth. So, although technically feasible, simply buying the correct PC card will not be enough.Beyond that, the group   hopes to connect local networks and get backbones between local networks running under their own rules. Similar networks are already under way in Sweden and the US. Consume is constructing a legal framework that will be built into its software that will define how resources should be shared, "both inside and outside the network", says Stevens.To Stevens in particular - who for years ran Backspace, the UK's first digital access space - the point of all this is to allow people to produce their own media."This has been possible for some time," he says. "But the missing link has always been issue of connectivity. It is easy to stream media between two people, but to stream to 10 people is already beyond the bandwidth of most users. So we have stepped in to give people the idea that it is within their own capabilities to   develop a network of their own."It was because of this desire that they got fed up waiting for the big telcos to get their wireless networks together. Also, the government's auction of bandwidth has driven the price up to a point where any successful bidder will have to make so much money out of it that the chances of a fast cheap public access network emerging are virtually nil. At no point do they ever mention the desire to make any money from Consume - they operate as a strictly non-profit making organisation."We are just trying to build in the scraps of what's left," says Priest. "But we believe that there is more than enough. And if we can populate the space with free public access networks - then we might even provide some competition for the big telecommunications companies."
This year has been a grim one for the internet fraternity; the problems atBoxman.comare just the latest.While sports fashion e-tailerBoo.commade the biggest headlines when it ceased trading in May, there have been others since.Earlier this monthPowernet Telecom, the internet company chaired by the Marquess of Huntly, was forced into receivership with debts of &#163;30m.Before this,Callnet, the internet service provider, went   into administration and was forced to bring in BDO Stoy Hayward to try to find a trade buyer.Leisureplanet.com, a travel site, went the same way andClickmango,the health e-tailer, was forced to cease trading earlier this year.Even ventures with heavyweight support have found the going hard.Efdex, backed by IBM and Dell, closed its UK arm and despite Disney backingToysmart.comfell by the wayside.
Thousands of people living in the poorest communities in Britain will be brought online by a computer scheme intended to bridge the digital divide between rich and poor.The chancellor, Gordon Brown, has announced that &#163;10m will be invested in 10 pilot schemes in some of the most deprived areas of the country.The first area to benefit will be the inner city area of Kensington in Liverpool, where unemployment is three times the national average.Recycled computers, printers and software applications will be delivered to 2,000 homes in the area when the project goes live in the new year. Customers will be expected to contribute &#163;60 to the cost.A community website linking those involved in the project to the internet will give training and advice on jobs and access to local services. IT training centres will be provided as part of the venture, which is being funded by public and private money.The scheme will eventually provide computers for 35,000 households.The chancellor said that half the richest families were now on the internet, but only one in 20 of the poorest families was linked up."It is the determination to bridge the digital divide that makes us adopt such an innovative approach," he said. "Our aim is not just that people can access new technology, but that they also have the skills to make the most of that technology."We want to see not just some, but everyone equipped for the challenges of the future. No one should be excluded from the benefits of the IT revolution."Families will have to pay their telephone bills for internet use to their own homes, but free internet use will be available at computers installed in community centres.Michael Wills, the minister for learning and technology, said: "Those on high incomes are eight times more likely to have access to the internet than people on low incomes. We are committed to providing universal access to the internet."New technology has tremendous power to connect people to opportunities in education, employment and with one another."He said the risk of a digital divide was real but the government alone could not bridge the gap, which was why it was working with the private sector.Tony Blair has pledged that everyone should have access to the internet by 2005.
"It looks and works like a radio, but it's an internet radio, so instead of picking      up just 20 stations, it could pick up 20,000," says James Gable, the president      of Kerbango. "And it does it without using a personal computer!"The Kerbango radio is intended to appeal to computer users who are already      listening to radio stations via the internet, but it has four advantages. First, it      is a dedicated appliance and therefore easier to operate. Second, you can listen      to local radio stations all over the world - though listening to your old home      town radio is a more attractive feature in the US than it is here.Third, it handles data, so it can offer two-way services such as letting users      vote on songs, or buy albums or concert tickets. And fourth, you can put a      Kerbango radio in a kitchen or bedroom where you might not want a conventional      PC.The Kerbango is also at the forefront of the "everything IP" movement. In the      long term, almost every kind of data - voice, radio, television, movies - should      be available via IP (internet protocol) as well as, or instead of, using traditional      delivery systems.Of course, the Kerbango does not really avoid using a personal computer, and at      the moment it won't appeal to the long-promised "appliance" market, but that's      the concept.       While it looks like a retro-styled radio, inside, the Kerbango is actually based on      a personal computer board with an 81MHz Motorola/ IBM PowerPC processor      running Montavista's Hard Hat Linux (a version of the GNU/Linux clone of the      Unix operating system). But these are shielded from the user, who operates the      Kerbango using menus on a quarter-VGA monochrome LCD (liquid crystal display)      screen.There isn't a "tuning knob" for finding thousands of stations, and you don't have      to type in internet addresses to get them. When connected to the internet      through a phone or Ethernet socket, the radio accesses the freeKerbangoTuning Service ), which provides a thematic menu of      options. First, you choose the kind of music you want - Oldies, then 50s pop, for      example - then pick a station to try.The listing also includes many internet-only      stations, and things like police scanners.       The Kerbango radio can "play" RealAudio streams and streamed MP3 files, which      Gable says covers about 80% of the market. It doesn't work with Windows Media      Audio "but,"Gable says, "we'd like to support it."When not plugged in to the internet, the Kerbango works as a traditional      standalone AM/FM clock radio, picking up signals via an aerial. Marc Auerbach,      Kerbango's director of marketing, says: "We really want to replace your AM/FM      radio, not just upgrade it."       Internet stations are available only when the Kerbango is connected to the      internet, which means it is not really practical for people with dial-up      connections. Normally it will be plugged into an Ethernet local area network.      These are standard in businesses, but a growing number of home users with      "always on" broadband internet connections are also installing Ethernet,      especially in the US."Internet appliances" are supposed to appeal to late adopters - people who don't      want to make the effort to cope with connecting a personal computer - but      Gable says: "We realise this is an early-adopter product." He thinks the sort of      people with broadband internet connections are the most likely to spend $299      on a portable MP3 music player, or a Palm electronic organiser, or a Kerbango.From what I heard using a 56k modem connection, the sound quality leaves      something to be desired. Part of the problem is that many internet      broadcasters are targeting users with slow dial-up modems, and even the music      stations may stream mono instead of stereo feeds. The quality should improve      as broadband becomes more widely used. Users who want better amplification      can connect the Kerbango to a hi-fi system.Another small drawback is that when you select a station, it doesn't start      playing immediately: as with any PC, the signal has to be "buffered" (held in a      temporary cache) to compensate for network congestion and the stop/start      nature of internet communications.Still, internet radio is seen as an important development, and Kerbango should      get a fair crack at the market. This summer, it was taken over by 3Com, a      California-based networking giant, and Thomson, a consumer electronics      company, has signed up to market a version under its RCA brand label. This      should give Kerbango an advantage over rivals such asAudioRamp.comof      Tustin, California.The Kerbango is expected to go on sale in the US in December. So far there are      no plans for a UK launch, but the radio comes with a universal power supply and      would work here, too.
Despite the heady trillion dollar predictions for e-commerce, the reality is that life is hard for dot.com companies. The promise of great riches has produced hordes of wannabee sites, often grossly over-funded but run by inexperienced people.Even worse, the bricks and mortar outlets are starting to fight back. In this situation you can lie back and die, or attack. One of Europe's leading retailers of digital versatile discs (DVDs) retaliated last week with a strategy that could have major implications.DVDplus has abandoned the cost-plus model, saying: "Here is the cost; if you like the service then leave us a tip". This concept it calls the"e-tip".All the DVDs on its website (Seewww.dvdplus.co.uk) are now listed at cost (the price it pays for the DVD) plus postage and packing, also at cost. Its profits depend on whether the customer leaves a tip.Bryan Welsh, managing director of DVDplus, said: "For the first time in retailing history we're giving customers the power to decide how much to pay. We believe we offer the best service in the business, so our customers will be happy to buy DVDs at cost, and leave an e-tip in appreciation of that service. If you don't think we're doing the best job in the business then don't leave us an e-tip. We are prepared to live or die by the e-tip."Is this the last act of a dying business or an innovation that will transform e-commerce? The latter seems more likely because the results so far have been astonishing. Since the launch of last week's initiative, the number of visitors to the site has tripled and the amount of business has doubled. The most important statistic is that half of them left a tip. These are early days but Welsh is pleased.DVDplus was set up in 1998 by a bunch of top ex-Intel employees who describe themselves as new generation retailers and are exclusively web-based. They see the benefits of their operation as wide   selection (every title launched in UK) and convenience (open 24 hours a day).On the face of it the proposition is compelling and the product is ideal for e-commerce. The DVD has been hailed as the fastest growing consumer electronics product of all time. Growth in Europe is outstripping even that in the US. Vastly increased quality of audio and video are two of the factors propelling this new format, which is challenging the dominance of the videocassette. Sadly for the dot.coms, the success of DVD has not gone unnoticed by the traditional retailers. Even the supermarkets are vying for a slice of the burgeoning market.No longer is the internet always the cheapest option, given the massive buying power of the supermarkets. Welsh says: "When Asda is offering 'Two DVDs for &#163;20' it is not easy to compete".Dixons, too, is keen to jump on the bandwagon. Back in the 80s it missed out on becoming a destination site for CDs and is determined to avoid that happening with DVDs.The DVD market is still in its infancy and it is dominated by the Hollywood blockbuster titles. They are an impulse buy for the Saturday shopper. Thus, internet sales of DVD titles are not booming in the UK and many e-retailers are having a rough time. It would seem that the internet-savvy early adopters are not typical consumers of DVD titles. They are a different breed - often film buffs who prefer to buy a title direct from the US.Or they can shop around and buy from an offshore site that does not levy VAT. The people who buy DVDs at the moment are the telly addicts. They could be reached via the TV but "it costs close to &#163;1m to get access through OpenTV and we don't have that sort of money," says Welsh.While DVDplus is still growing, this latest act is a bold move to capture the market. Welsh admits that it   is a desperate gamble to gain volume. "We have done the research," he says, "we think it will work. If it doesn't we could be out of business next year".By moving to a cost-plus approach, DVDplus is hoping   to treble its volume and cover its overheads. In the process it could wipe out its competition in the UK. Who'd be a dot.com company?&#149;  John Barker is the editor of Inside Multimedia.
RememberSince Blair Witch showed us how far the net could be used as a marketing tool, film trailers have been getting curiouser and curiouser.The latest addition is the thriller Memento (Seewww.otnemem.com), released in the UK next week. Directed by Christopher Nolan and co-written by brother Jonathan, the film is an elliptical murder mystery that has won rave reviews in the US.The site, designed by the brothers, includes scraps of evidence that are not in the film. The website revolves around a newspaper article detailing the grizzly murder of a character in the film. But roll over certain key words and fragments of evidence are then revealed. The site is really just an interactive   trailer, but a friend, who was lucky enough to see a preview, says that revisiting the website after seeing the film can reveal hidden meanings.For full effect, make sure you have the sound turned on.Turf accountsWembley Stadium and online auction house QXL.com are selling off sections of its hallowed turf (at &#163;26 per square foot reserve price). Bidding started on Saturday after England's atrocious performance against Germany. It will run until October 23. Just how the organisers can judge the very spot where Geoff Hurst scored his famous hat-trick is unclear, but you will get a certificate to prove it. The special microsite is also full of other memorabilia; see the home page ofwww.qxl.comfor details.RoboticAmorphic Robot Works (ARW) was formed in 1992 by a group of San Francisco artists, engineers and technicians to create robotic performances and installations. To date, the society has built 100 interactive and computer-controlled machines ranging from 12 inches high to 30 feet long. A number can be viewed on their website (www.cronos.net/~bk/amorphicin QuickTime VR and RealVideo formats. The works are touring Europe, and will be on show at the Sketch Gallery in Nottingham from October 25-28.Only connectCitizens Connectionsis a community based site funded by Camelot as part of its contribution to the UK's millennium celebrations. The site is still "in prelaunch" but already it is encouraging people to give their time to a number of charity groups and voluntary organisations. Also, Oxfam has just launched the UK's first online charity shop atoxfam.org.uk/shop.Game on"Where the boundaries between real and virtual life disappear," is how Nokia describes its new cross-media game atwww.nokiagame.com. The game, based around the mobile phone and the internet, will take place in 18 different countries. Participants have to solve a series of cluesprovided through text messages, on TV and in newspapers. There are lots of prizes up for grabs, including snowboarding trips, prizes and cash. To play you need a mobile phone that can receive SMS text messages and a PC with an internet connection. The game starts on November 1, and the final stage will be played on December 1.Do it allOverwhelmed by Oxford Street? Help could come from the palm of your hand, or so claimsDoLondon.com, a Wap and website service, that aims to promote high street shops. Realising that the wired still like to go shopping, the website attempts to collate things like promotions and sales and help plan a shopping trip, while the Wap service will try to keep you informed while you are on the move. No Wap phone? Don't worry, says DoLondon. An SMS service will be available soon.Tasty siteIt probably won't achieve the cult status of the dancing hamsters but the prancing goose pictured here gives a lively introduction to the London Food and Film Festival, which starts today. Seewww.londonfoodfilmfiesta.co.ukfor two films for two days of films, cookery, celebrity chefs, and more cookery and food.Nuntii LatiniNuntii Latini (News in Latin) is a weekly review of world events in the language of the ancient Romans -not the Latin Americans as Dan Quayle said - by YLE, the Finnish Broadcasting Company, atwww.yle.fi/fbc/latini/summary.html.New and notedThe National Gallery has an e-shop atwww.nationalgallery.co.uk;RocketSki.comis a site for skiers and snowboarders.Liveanduncut.comis yet another site for unsigned bands andthepeoplevillage.comis a new IT recruitment site - no relation to the Village People.Six of the best: Climate changeThe Met Officewww.meto.gov.ukWorld Met Organisationwww.wmo.chTornado Projectwww.tornadoproject.comGlobal warmingwww.globalchange.orgEl Nino &amp; La Ninawww.pmel.noaa.gov/toga-tao/el-nino/nino-home.htmlWatching the weatherwww.guardianunlimited.co.uk/weather
There are five bedrooms (three with sea views), three bathrooms, a steam room, four turrets and a three acre garden part bordered by craggy cliffs and wild clover. It is light and airy, warm and comforting. It is my castle in the air, far removed from the two-	bedroom basement flat we can afford.Searching for a property is never easy, especially when ideals do not compare with reality. In London, space is the ultimate luxury and a snatch of greenery is the diamond carrot for financially stretched buyers. In this environment, bargains are snapped up before house details are even printed so it pays to either befriend an estate agent or look online.Warned by Stephen Fry about estate agents - who "with their jangling keys, nasty suits, revolting beards, moustaches and tinted spectacles, roam the land causing perturbation and despair" - I turned to my computer.Property sites are a booming, gazumping business online. As the new property databases with their virtual tours and vast range of properties propagate, so too have the estate agents produced hi-tech sites of their own to entice their customers back.An even greater risk to the estate agents are the dot.com property companies who often charge zero commission and are beginning to get a foothold in the industry. Progress may be slow but Rome wasn't built in a day and a   house is rarely found in a week.I began my own search atwww.findaproperty.comwhich is a database of properties from several estate agents, both large and small. Simple to use (just key in ideal prices, number of bedrooms and postcodes), it comes up with a list of properties matching your description. If you find something you like, you can email your interest directly to the estate agent involved. For all the wonders of modern technology, only one in six responded so it is often best to contact them by phone.The site also gave excellent local information, council tax prices, comments from residents and virtual tours. These tours allow you to see into the home using panoramic imagery which can really test estate agent speak ("funky" meaning "ghastly paintwork" and "light and airy" meaning "one window in the basement").Other good sites arewww.assertahome.com- it has a change of address service and online applications for new utilities - andwww.08004homes.com(with online interior design magazine).www.propertylive.co.ukalso provides information on buying and selling a home.According to Tim, one of that rare breed of nice estate agents, properties are updated every week on the internet so the chances of finding a home still for sale are much higher there than from the colour brochures that come through your letterbox - these are often a month out of date.Vendors and buyers can avoid agents altogether with sites such aswww.loot.co.uk,,www.linkupproperties.co.ukandwww.easier.co.uk. These charge vendors a small sum to advertise but are free to buyers. You can search for a property then email your interest and details to the seller who will then contact you direct. Some sites allow you to contact the sellers direct.Some even price their properties a little more competitively since they will be saving on estate agency fees. These are a useful resource if you are not in a rush to buy. Most sites require registration.Atwww.auctions.co.ukproperty/ there is a list of forthcoming property auctions. You can request brochures online and subsequently view a property in your desired area and price range. It is important to have cash up front and know your prices. We met a lot of professional "auction buyers" who intimidated us with their shiny grey suits and patronising manner. I am still seeking a website that teaches you how to deal with such individuals.My castle in the air proved to be a subterranean flat. Dark in places with the odd whiff of mildew, but it felt like home. After a thrilling sealed bid where the advice of sites such aswww.findaproperty.comandwww.propertylive.co.ukwas useful in understanding procedures and competitive prices, we started the next stage: looking for a mortgage.Mortgage advisers are another strange breed with their peculiar passion for all things numerical. The potential embarrassment of    exposing my knowledge of figures had me reaching for my mouse and looking online. I went straight to my home page and linked through towww.charcoalonline.comwhere a mortgage wizard takes you through a series of relevant questions to help find your ideal mortgage before calculating the cost.The site does offer special deals but it is useful to have some kind of prior knowledge to get what you want. I did my background research atwww.mortgages-online.co.uk, which offers an excellent guide to most kinds of mortgages. We eventually found what we wanted atwww.woolwich.co.ukwhich not only offers good (if biased) mortgage advice but also information and details about the very latest open plan, offset mortgages.With both property and mortgage secured, it was back to my castle in the air and to the ultimate property website,www.property.org.uk. This is a daydreamer's paradise. Here you can buy a safari park in Kenya, a castle in Perth, floating homes in London and an island in Loch Lomond for only &#163;15,000.So, as I dream about turrets and ravaged coastlines; galloping through the savannah back to my homestead; watching the sun come down on the deck of my 60ft narrow boat, property prices continue to rise and estate agents continue to irritate. Or in the tempered words of Stephen Fry: "There's only one thing worse than an estate agent but at least that can be safely lanced, drained and surgically dressed."
Anything goes in the marvel of SpeedballSpeedball 2100Sony PlayStation 	&#163;29.99  Bitmap Brothers/ Empire Interactive 	***Back in the days when home computer meant Amiga or Atari, there was a future sport game that transcended its humble roots to become a benchmark for the genre.Speedball 2's violent mix of football and rollerball has retained its visceral excitement. And finally, 10 years on, the Bitmap Brothers have released an updated version for the PlayStation, and this time it's in 3D.Speedball has always been    a simple game to pick up. Never mind tactics, timeouts and offside, the rules here are straightforward - get the ball in the goal more often than the opposition. Anything goes in the enclosed venue, with elbows flying and stretcher-bearers a crucial part of the   team. Nevertheless, tactics are still important, with judicious use of the arena walls still joyously effective.Taking charge of the lowliest team, your aim is to win league and cup glory: a task made easier by the regular fine-tuning you can give your   boys. Of course, the real excitement is in the two-player mode, with the satisfaction gained from pummelling a human opponent far greater than any artificial intelligence.Despite a decade of technological progress, the Amiga version actually looks better. The obligatory move to the third dimension means that Speedball 2100 just doesn't seem as clean as the original, even if you can now adjust the camera angle. There are also a number of control issues - from slowdown to player selection -that affect the smooth feel of the game.Despite these niggles, Speedball is a peerless future sports title. Whether the Fifa generation will appreciate an unlicensed game with a single button control method remains to be seen.  (GH)London without the Dome?Sim City 3000 UK EditionWindows 95/98	&#163;34.99 Maxis/EA	***The selling point of the latest edition of the long-running city construction series is that you can "design, build and manage your own UK city in   the first truly British Sim City". But the title fails to deliver.Yes, you can have traffic driving on the left. However, you still have to put up with grid-style cities with more or less straight roads and overhead power lines and so on. The advisors still look American, and the city budgets are still calculated in dollars not pounds.New features include redwood forests and plagues of locusts. How British are those?As the small print on the box admits, this is really the   SC3000 World Edition with an extra building set that looks reasonably British, but the details are totally swamped by the rest of the design.Loading the pre-prepared London, which takes an infuriating amount of time to render, reveals a Big Ben clock tower but no Houses of Parliament, no London Eye, and no Dome, though a remarkable number of suspension bridges span the Thames.Sim City is a terrific game - at least, it is with disasters turned off. But if you already   have Sim City 3000 World Edition, you don't need this.  (JS)Wrecking zombies just wears thinCarmegeddon TDR 2000PC CD-rom		 &#163;29.99 Torus/SCi	**In Carmegeddon, you had to race round the streets of a nightmare urban future, mowing down zombies and turning opponents into scrapyard fodder.In Carmageddon 2, you had to do more of the same. Now, in a radical departure, Carmageddon TDR 2000 puts you in an altogether more benevolent world, where you drive courteously, blow kisses to fellow motorists and throw bunches of flowers at unhappy people.As if. No, it's zombies and wrecking again, and to be honest, it's all starting to wear a bit thin.The problem is that the few changes that have been implemented make little difference   to gameplay. Sure, the physics engine may have been overhauled, but racing is no more enjoyable than before - the low-gravity environment makes it hellishly difficult to stay right side up.We are assured, also, that the graphics have been revamped; detachable car parts, though, hardly compensate for blurry zombies and insipid backgrounds.The hardcore dance soundtrack is way too close to WipeOut (which, chaps, came out in 1995), and the new mission-style levels interspersed with the standard races are repetitive, unimaginative, and even trickier to complete.One thing that CTDR2K can pride itself on is its improved multiplayer code, which should make online gaming simpler, quicker and more satisfying. Because other humans - as opposed to the infuriating artificial intelligence Schumachers programmed into the game - make far more rewarding competitors.  (AB)
The great Indian phenomenon is sweeping the world of information technology. Producing a rich resource of 68,000 computer software professionals every year, India has turned into a virtual incubator of infotech talents being wooed by the West. The country is touted as the next IT superpower in the making.The rush has begun in earnest. While the US government is set to increase its controversial H-1B visas from 115,000 to 200,000 next year targeting Indian geeks, Germany has opened its doors (so far rather unsuccessfully) to attract more techies. But not everything begins and ends with the great American dream. The other is a more dynamic tale of a booming software industry of which, apparently, the whole information techonolgy world wants to be a part.So as Bill Gates opens his next Microsoft R&amp;D centre in Hyderabad and NRI (non-resident Indian) funded technology startups make headline news every other day, Indian companies continue to grow rich by exporting low-cost software   development services.According to India's National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom), the country's software exports have increased from $734m in 1995 to $3.9bn in 1999-2000. It expects to reach an export level of $6.3bn by 2000-2001 and $9.5bn the following year. And the target set by the National IT Task Force is nothing short of $50bn in annual exports of software and services by 2008.Rajesh Srivastava, vice chairman, Silicon Valley Indian Professionals Association (SIPA) and president of Balcom Systems &amp; Technologies, believes that the Indian scene now could rightly be compared with the "growing" Silicon Valley of 1982. "I feel that there is a great opportunity in India and that is why all large and medium scale companies in the world want to be a part of it," he says, pointing out that he also has an offshore development centre for networking and systems software at Noida industrial centre in northern India.Most of the 2,000 or so Silicon Valley Indian entrepreneurs engaged in the hi-tech industry have, like Srivastava,   invested in India's software segment. The reasons he cites are cost effectiveness and lack of skilled personnel in the US. "This is where India has the lead - availability of technical resources. Currently about 60,000 to 70,000 Indians are employed in Silicon Valley in the hi-tech sector and there is always a shortage. The influx had increased here around 1996-97 because of the Y2K opportunity," says Srivastava. He also came to the US for better job prospects in 1991 and worked with Tandem Computers (now Compaq) and Peerlogic before starting Balcom in 1996.And what has made Indians such a major force in the Valley? "In the hi-tech field, quality and technical education in India and the US has made all the difference," says Srivastava. "Technical capabilities and the ability to take risks have worked well for the community here. The 1990s will be seen as the decade of the rise of Indian entrepreneurship in the Valley. The growth of networking and internet technologies created unforseen technology niches which were quickly grabbed by Indian engineers to create many successful companies."Nitin Borwankar, who runs an internet and web-database consultancy in the San Francisco Bay area, insists that it is the atmosphere in the US and particularly in the Silicon Valley which makes a difference. If an entrepreneur fails he is always given the opportunity to try again. Having achieved much more than he could have dreamt of while leaving India almost two decades ago, Borwankar is also engaged in a joint software development venture with a Pune-based company.An alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mumbai, he worked for a short while in India before heading to the US to study at the University of Southern California. Borwankar feels it is the solid education in technical fundamentals like maths and physics and the ability to handle deep analytical problems that has given the community an edge in the field. "Also, coming from a less industrialised country, we learn to do more with less," he adds.Interestingly, while the "brain drain" continues, the big players on the Indian IT scene seem unworried by it. Renee Jhala, head of corporate communications at   Wipro Technologies, Bangalore, reveals that about one in eight staff seek to leave for opportunities abroad, mostly for higher education. Of the 6,000 IT professionals employed by the company, as many as 1,500 are posted outside India."But yes, we do have problems in getting people with specific skills like technical consultants and managers for high powered projects. They come for a price and, since we operate at a global level, we are willing to pay," she admits.Suresh Raisinghani, director of the systems integration division of Tata Infotech in Mumbai, concedes that whenever a big company employs IT personnel, it is always aware that 12-15% of the staff could migrate in a steady stream.And of those jumping jobs, about 60% leave the country."We have a workforce of 3,000 plus infotech people and can handle the staff crunch, but it has happened so many times that smaller companies have closed down because of this migration," he says."Eventually, even the owner packs his bag and leaves for a job in the US."
The recent foul-up of exam-grading computer systems is no surprise. Catastrophe-watchers in software will say: "You ain't seen nothing yet."A normal brain suffers system malfunctions with no serious ill-effects. We periodically get the wrong end of the stick, or mis-hear our partners. They don't call for a brain scan. They just glide along with "Were you just thinking?"Now neuroscientists are beginning to map the brain's operating system, we can spot the saving trick. The brain has a two-layered structure. The top layer, associated with consciousness and self-report, updates its own rough model   of the myriad routines below the threshold of awareness.In neuroslang, the upper layer is the "person", or "you yourself". The unseen "zombie" is a lower layer, largely unconscious, teeming with specialised agents dedicated to the neural circuits regulating the body's internal functions and external reactions.When I drive to the station to meet a friend, we may have an animated chat. My brain's "person" conducts the conversation. The zombie drives. I may not even recall our return route unless a rare interrupt occurred in which the two layers briefly communicated."Look out for that cyclist!" my passenger may have cried, causing my zombie to swerve, and imprinting the landmark in my memory. No operating system has such a top layer. But even with only a sketchy self-model, such a layer could be extraordinarily useful. Intelligible self-report (not to be confused with error messages) could render harmless most runtime bugs. With a top user-interactive layer, diagnosis becomes a snap.Highly illustrative of the   separation of layers inhabited by person and zombie is a patient called Bill, studied by VS Ramachandran, director of the Center for the Brain and Cognition, University of California, and author of Phantoms In The Brain. A small, localised stroke has taken out Bill's left angular gyrus, associated with calculation. Here is a conversation."Okay, Bill, can you subtract seven from 100? What's 100 minus seven?""Oh, 100 minus seven?""Yeah.""Hmmm, 100 minus seven.""Yes, 100 minus seven.""Ninety-six?""No.""Oh.""Let's try something else. What's 17 minus three?""Seventeen minus three? You know, I am not very good at this kind of thing.""Bill, is the answer going to be a smaller number or a bigger number?""Oh, a smaller number," he said, showing that he knew what subtraction is."So what's 17 minus three?""Is it 12?" he said at last.Further questioning confirmed that Bill has a sophisticated conscious model of the number system, including infinity, approximation and relative magnitudes. But the calculation agent had dropped out of the library, depriving the library manager (Bill) of this specific function.One question ("Is the answer going to be a smaller number or a bigger number?") was enough to reveal that the bug was nothing to do with Bill's knowledge of what subtraction is. It was confined to the operation. With computers, we still address these questions to some outside guru. This is from the June 2000 What Palmtop And Handheld PC.Ailment: "But whenever I plug the Palm into the keyboard it attempts to HotSync via the direct serial connection.... What am I doing wrong?"Treatment: "The most logical solution is that your Palm V is not aware that the keyboard is present. You will need to reinstall the drivers."Now imagine a woman taking her husband to the doctor. Ailment: "But when I put his crossword before him he tries to activate the CD player."Treatment: "The most logical solution is that your husband is unaware the crossword isthere. You need to replace his spectacles."In practice, husbands are usually fairly well trained in spectacle management in the first place, and even in answering simple questions for themselves.What is stopping the importation into software of such question-answering capabilities - well within the state of today's software research and development. Is it just the fear that transparency and simplification might spoil the market for the trouble-shooters? Or have I missed something?
Codies onlineCodemasters, one of the UK's leading games developers, is launching a multiplayer network that will cater exclusively to Codemasters titles. The first game to use the network will be Insane, a    new 4x4 off-road racer for the PC. It will be launched on November 24, but there's already a demo up for testing atwww.codemasters.com. The network will allow PC gamers to play against PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Xbox owners when they finally make it online. Players will also compete against one another in a series of perpetual leagues, called Ladders.Hope for TLCMattel, the American toy giant, is disposing of its loss-making Mattel Interactive division to the Gores Technology Group, with no cash apparently changing hands.What was originally TLC was acquired at a cost of $3.5bn in shares only 18 months ago, and included such once-great names as The Learning Company, Broderbund and Mindscape.If GTG's chairman Alec Gores can turn the business around, Mattel will collect a share of future profits.Dream revivesSega's Dreamcast console has enjoyed something of a boom in the US, with sales rising by 92% from August to September. Partly this is because of a price cut to $149, partly because of the success of the American football   game NFL2K, and partly because of stumbles by Sony, which announced it would not ship as many systems as expected.NFL2K has attracted online players because it was sold with 50 hours' free access to SegaNet. It was also offered with Sega Sports NBA 2K in a bundle with a limited edition black version of the Dreamcast for only $169.95.NFL 2K went to the top of the games charts, selling 409,260 units. Great things are also expected of the new Quake III Arena, where the Dreamcast version allows four simultaneous players in split-screen mode, and a   planned broadband SegaNet DSL service.The Dreamcast has also been helped by the realisation that, at the moment, it has better games than the Sony PlayStation 2, and that the PS2 is twice the price.Peter Moore, president and chief operating officer of Sega of America Inc, is optimistic that the Dreamcast will have a US installed base of 5 million units by the end of March -about twice what it is at the moment.ThrillerSequels sometimes fail to live up to the predecessors, but Midway's Ready 2 Rumble   Boxing: Round 2 sounds as though it could improve on the wonderful original.Michael Jackson will appear as a celebrity, and the 12 new boxers "rumblized" for the cartoony game include Shaq O'Neal, the "undisputed NBA heavyweight champion" basketball player. The original 11 boxers will reappear in enhanced versions.R2R2 should be out in November for the Dreamcast and PlayStation 2.PC, Nintendo 64, PlayStation, Game Boy Color and arcade versions will follow, as Midway cashes in on its surprise smash hit.
Are you one of those bored commuters who enlivens your train journey by playing through all the different ring tones on your mobile phone?If you've played them all so many times that you (and your neighbours) are sick of them, you might like to invest in the new Siemens SL45 mobile phone which features a built-in MP3 player.You can carry between 35 and 45 minutes of music on a 32 megabyte removeable card. Using your computer you can record CDs or MP3 files on to the card - along with Microsoft Outlook addresses and calendar entries (the phone has its own address book and diary   whic h can synchronise with these entries - and a stopwatch, calculator and currency converter).It will also store Word, Excel and Powerpoint files and digital voice recordings so you can carry files on your phone rather than using discs or a PDA.The SL45 comes with a Wap browser, an infrared interface and built-in modem so that you can fax or send emails from your Psion 5 or other hand-held device.The phone will be on sale in   Britain from December, in time for Christmas. The sticking point may be the price. This has not been settled yet but Siemens says it will be in the &#163;350 to &#163;450 range (of course, there may be special deals if you agree to sell your soul to a phone service provider).One last thing, should you be on the train and bored with the music you've recorded on the phone, the SL45 has six built-in games and its own melody composer so that you can delight your travelling companions by making up your own ring-tone tunes.
