Beyond the grass courts, tennis whites and jugs of Pimms, there’s a whole flurry of activity going on in a dimly lit underground bunker. The series of whirring machines in IBM&apos;s data bunker are fed through to every commentary, post-match analysis and TV graphic on screens across the country. Welcome to the IBM bunker in the heart of the championships.In the bowels of broadcasting centre sits the data operations alongside the web and content room for IBM, its 25th year as the official technology supplier of Wimbledon and the All England Lawn Tennis Club.Technology is great, but there&apos;s still a huge reliance on humansIBM shows off updated technology every year ahead of the championships, driven by a team of data entry experts, photographers, graphic operators and a systems and operation team.Two members of the IBM team keep an eye on the data coming in from live entry courtside. Photograph: James HaworthIBM deploys 48 data entry people – 46 are dotted around the venue and sit court side capturing data such as the speed of the serve, the direction of the serve, the number of shots in a rally (forehand and backhand by player) and how a rally is won or lost.“We employ county national tennis players, because it’s easier to train them on how to enter the data into the system than it is a technical person,” explains Chris Nott, chief technology officer for big data and analytics at IBM UK and Ireland.Both centre court and court 1 have three data entry people sitting courtside; one calling the game, one who tracks the speed and direction of serves and another who inputs the data into the Wimbledon information system. Nott describes how it is the task of the remaining two data entry people within the bunker to shadow the action on court through the TV coverage and to communicate with the relevant team via radio comms, flagging up any discrepancies."Dimitrov, he's one to watch," says one of the data entry team as he watches the Bulgarian compete against Britain's Andy Murray in the mens quarter-final of the Wimbledon championships. Photograph: UPI/Landov/Barcroft Media“It makes it more accurate having two people’s opinions,” says one of the team, turning his head briefly to explain how his communication with the team courtside needs to be fast and the decision instantaneous.For Henry Moore, 21 from Hampshire it is the first time he has worked in the data entry team for the IBM bunker. A collegiate tennis player in the US, he’s enjoying the opportunity to watch a grand slam from a new perspective. He expresses how focused he has to be in this role: no more drifting in and out of a game when you&apos;re scrutinising every single action.Who has he enjoyed seeing play? He glances back at the screen. “Dimitrov,” he says. “He’s one to watch.” Indeed he is; shortly after we speak he beats Murray, forcing the defending champion out of the tournament.From mountains of data to bite-sized chunksVery detailed data is available from the Wimbledon information system for commentators, players and the media. With data on past matches throughout the year also on the system, commentators can make comparisons on the way a player is performing against past match stats, explains Nott.Members of the IBM digital team working on game statistics in the digital operations room during day Four of the Wimbledon championships. Photograph: Philip Toscano/PAA search for Sharapova brings up all her grand slam history, annual ranking, career earnings and tournaments played in this year with corresponding results. Another click and the system pulls up Spencer Gore - the first ever winner of Wimbledo who walked away triumphant with winnings of 12 guineas.A recording of the match, blended with statistics – meaning players analysing their play can instantaneously match up a stat with the moment in the video – is handed on a USB stick to the players 30 minutes after the match has finished.From the bunker to your screen“In the same way we’ve used tennis players to capture [the data], we also put someone alongside the BBC producers… they will then advise them on the appropriate graphic to use at a particular time in the match that is relevant and timely,” says Nott..One tap of the &apos;graphic on&apos; button and a range of lines spread across the screen showing the direction of Nadal’s shots from the points at which he hit the ball to where the ball landed.New for 2014 is analysis of aggressive play on centre court, Nott explains, based on an algorithm using four input points: the speed that the ball is hit, the closeness to the line at which it lands next to, the amount of movement of the player goes through to get to hit the ball and from where they hit the ball.#thehill vs #theworldTwitter are asked who will win? Dimitrov or Murray? The IBM social media command centre track the hash tagged responses. Photograph: /IBMAnother room is dedicated to social media, and features a large display of live Twitter data, and what people are tweeting about today at Wimbledon. With the arrival of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge in the Dimitrov vs Murray match,Royal Boxis one of the top trending topic displayed.Which players are the most engaged, where in the world people are tweeting and what pictures people are uploading with the Wimbledon hashtags are also tracked.The official Wimbledon Twitter account@Wimbledonregularly throws out questions to the Twittersphere. At the moment the question that is raging is &quot;who will win this match? #Murray or #Dimitrov?&apos; Not only are answers divided by location, #thehill vs #theworld but so it seems is sentiment. Viewers away from the grassy slope don&apos;t fancy Murray&apos;s chances as much with 59% tweeting that Murray will win, while 91% of those tweeting with #thehill think Murray can win.Andy Burns, digital producer at the IBM digital agency showing an image of the hill at Wimbledon. Photograph: James HaworthAndy Burns, digital producer at the IBM digital agency, zooms into an image of the enthusiastic crowd on Henman Hill using the viaSlam tracker tool- the centrepiece of IBM&apos;s offerings to the public - a sense of the real atmosphere on the hill is spread. For global fans of the event who are not just interested in the tennis but for all else that comes with it, the 360 degree images provide an intimate look at world famous event that they may be hundreds of miles from.&quot;We want to create the beauty of being in Wimbledon” explains Nott. There were almost 20 million unique users on mobile channels and wimbledon.com in 2013 and it is expected to grow this year. Ultimately, Nott sums up, the aim is to bring the Wimbledon experience in the otherwise rather quiet area of SW19 to an audience spanning the globe.•IBM&apos;s Wimbledon slam tracker
Google Flu Trends and other hopes of providing public health breakthroughs by analysing huge amounts of medical data have been overstated, according to a new study published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine.&quot;If we actually began relying on the claims made by big data surveillance in public health, we would come to some peculiar conclusions, said John Ayers, a research professor at San Diego State University who was an author on the study. &quot;Some of these conclusions may even pose serious public health harm.&quot;The finding casts doubt onclaims made by Google&apos;s chief executive Larry Pagethat more analysis of peoples&apos; health data could save up to 100,000 lives per year. Speaking this year, Page said that excessive worries about privacy were holding back developments in the field. Page has not specified how the figure for lives saved is calculated.Ayers told the Guardian: &quot;Big data has big value, and that includes saving lives. But to realise these gains we need better science.&quot;However the authors of the new study point out that even one of Google&apos;s simplest health data mining systems, Google Flu Trends, has consistently failed to provide useful forecasts of flu cases in the US. Google Flu Trends tries to use searches made through the site to predict forthcoming numbers of influenza cases in the US.In March 2014 David Lazer, a professor at Northeastern University, published a papershowing that Google Flu Trends had overestimated flu level for 100 out of 108 weekswhen compared with authoritative figures from the US Centres for Disease Control (CDC).However, Ayers&apos;s team showed that they could use open-source, publicly available data from Google&apos;s archive to significantly improve the accuracy of the flu prediction.Rather than monitoring a particular group of influenza-related queries - as Google does - they monitored how the queries changed, and gave some queries more weight than others. They also built in an automatic updating system using artificial intelligence systems which adjusted the bias given to any query every week, rather than the occasional manual system that as Google uses.They showed that that was more accurate during the flu seasons in both 2009 and 2012/13 than Google&apos;s model for each week.“With these tweaks, Google Flu Trends could live up to the high expectations it originally aspired to,” Ayers said.The researchers pointed out the Google typically predicted far more cases than occurred. In the 2012/13 season, Google&apos;s system predicted that 10.6% of the population had flu - compared to just 6.1% according to patient records, an overstatement of 73%. The revised model suggested 7.7% infection - a 26% overstatement.“Big data is no substitute for good methods, and consumers need to better discern good from bad methods,” Ayers said.Like Lazer previously, one of the new paper&apos;s co-authors, Benjamin Althouse, suggested that more clarity was needed about the models used by &quot;big data&quot; research to produce public health information and advice. “When dealing with big data methods, it is extremely important to make sure they are transparent and free,” Althouse said. “Reproducibility and validation are keystones of the scientific method, and they should be at the centre of the big data revolution.”Google declined to comment specifically on the new paper, but reiterated an earlier comment on Lazer&apos;s research: &quot;We review the Flu Trends model each year to determine how we can improve. We welcome feedback on how we can refine Flu Trends to help estimate flu levels and complement existing surveillance systems.&quot;Ayers said that the paper&apos;s critiques were not an indictment of the promise of big data. &quot;We certainly don’t want any single entity or investigator, let alone Google — whch has been at the forefront of developing and maintaining these systems — to feel like they are unfairly the targets of our criticism,” Ayers said.“It’s going to take the entire community recognizing and rectifying existing shortcomings. When we do, big data will certainly yield big impacts.”•We&apos;re all being mined for big data - but who are the real winners?• This story was updated: John Ayers was an author, not lead author, on the study.
Facebook could face an investigation by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) over its use of user data in the controversial “emotion contagion” experiment.The US privacy pressure group the Electronic Privacy Information Centre (Epic)has filed a complaintwith FTC demanding that the watchdog investigate Facebook’s actions.&quot;The company purposefully messed with people&apos;s minds,&quot; states Epic in the complaint. “Facebook conducted the psychological experiment with researchers at Cornell University and the University of California, San Francisco, who failed to follow standard ethical protocols for human subject research.”The study conducted over one week in 2012 and published in the Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences, hid &quot;a small percentage&quot; of emotional words from peoples&apos; news feeds, without their knowledge, to test what effect that had on the statuses or &quot;likes&quot; that they then posted or reacted to.‘Unfair and deceptive’ acts and practices“Facebook’s conduct is both a deceptive trade practice under Section 5 of the FTC Act and a violation of the Commission’s 2012 Consent Order,” the complaint continues.The FTC Act prohibits “unfair and deceptive” acts and practices, which Epic alleges Facebook’s actions within the Cornell study countermand.Facebook is also currently under a 20 year consent decree from the FTC that requires Facebook to protect user privacy, first imposed in July 2012, after an FTC investigation found the social network to be in volition of the FTC Act in the US.The settlement caused Facebook to increase its privacy and security of information measures, as well as preventing the social network from misrepresenting the extent to which user data is held as private.“Facebook’s failure to adequately disclose that it shared consumer data with third-party researchers constitutes a deceptive act or practice in violation of Section 5(a) of the FTC Act,” states the Epic complaint. “Facebook has violated Count I of its 2012 Consent Order with the FTC and is subject to FTC enforcement in Federal district court.”Epic demands that Facebook makes public the NewsFeed algorithmAs well as demanding that the FTC conducts an investigation into the study and sharing of data without explicit user consent with third-party researchers at Cornell University, Epic demands that Facebook makes public the proprietary algorithm that produces the NewsFeed.The FTC last investigated Facebook after the company made changes to the way information privacy was handled making some previously private information – such as friends lists – public without warning or approval in advance.The companysettled with the FTC in November 2011over the what the regulator described as Facebook &quot;deceiving consumers by telling them they could keep their information on Facebook private, and then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public.”The settlement included a clause that forces Facebook to obtain consent for making any changes to privacy settings, something Epic alleges was not the case for the nearly 700,000 users unwittingly involved in the “emotion contagion” study.Epic was part of the original complaint group in 2009 and 2010 that induced the investigation by the FTC.Facebook declined to comment.•Facebook denies military ties for its emotion contagion research
Danger Mouse and his sidekick Penfold will bereturning to British TV screensin 2015, but some of their fellow characters will have changed gender.“Characters that might have been male in the past will now be female characters,” said CBBC controller Cheryl Taylor, speaking at the Children’s Media Conference in Sheffield.The BBC is co-producing 52 new episodes of the iconic cartoon with FremantleMedia, with original co-creator Brian Cosgrove acting as a consultant for the remake.“We felt that the redesign stayed truthful both to the essence of Danger Mouse as we knew and loved him, but also brought something new for the youth of today,” said Taylor.“Having seen the scripts, which are really whizz-bang, they’ve managed to retain that fantastic rather old-fashioned British humour as well as bringing something fresh.”Appearing in the same panel session, CBeebies controller Kay Benbow talked about the BBC&apos;s wider efforts to make women more prominent in its children&apos;s shows.&quot;I still feel the default tendency is for there to be a male lead or a male presenter. It&apos;s actually really hard: you can easily say Mr Maker, Mr Tumble, Mr Bloom. It&apos;s harder for women: what do you say: Mrs, Miss or Ms? It&apos;s a bit of a drag really, we&apos;re still defined by our marital status,&quot; said Benbow.However, she said the BBC wants to launch more shows with women not just starring, but with their names in the titles.CBeebies also now has more women providing voice narration for its animated series. &quot;It&apos;s an ongoing thing, and I do feel it&apos;s my responsibility to keep asking those questions,&quot; she said.Danger Mouse is one of several vintage children’s TV shows being revived by the BBC, withTeletubbiesand Clangers due to return on the broadcaster’s CBeebies channel.“Teletubbies I knew would make the headlines. It’s an iconic series, it’s always been associated with the BBC, and a great show is a great show. A good idea is a good idea whenever it is,” said Benbow.“The series was made in 4:3, not HD. There would have come a point where we couldn’t continue running it… I’ll be honest, it took quite a bit of persuading because I wanted to see and be confident that it would be the right thing to do.”Benbow also enthused about the return of Clangers. “If I’m really honest Clangers was one of my favourite shows as a child. I loved it,” she said.“Again, that pitch was something new, something different… It was just a brilliant pitch, and it looks beautiful. I was on set last week and it’s looking stunning.”Horrible Histories may return to CBBC, but not this year.Taylor talked about CBBC&apos;s ambitions for Horrible Histories, the hugely popular comedy/history show that has so far run for five series. “We are doing more Horrible Histories down the track, but it’s not this year,” she said.“It’s obviously a brand that the audience adore. Possibly more than any other show on the channel it manages to sit in two different genres. You can call it absolutely a comedy, because it’s so damn funny, but you can also call it factual.”CBBC is in talks with producer Lion Television about plans for more Horrible Histories shows. “We’re just looking at how that might evolve, possibly with new editions and new people. We just wanted to continue to the conversation,&quot; she said.CBeebies and CBBC are collaborating on some projects in an effort to smooth the migration of children from the former to latter, as they grow older. So far, that has included a game, Fly High and Huggies, available on both channels&apos; websites.&quot;Over the next 18 months we&apos;re looking at doing two or three drama co-commissions which we hope will give us a sense, without of rocking the boat, of whether that&apos;s an appropriate way to handle that migration,&quot; said Taylor.&quot;It&apos;s not just about television. In five or 10 years time, the role of the iPlayer, being able to make your own playlists, will make all this considerably easier,&quot; said colleague Joe Godwin, director of BBC Children&apos;s.&quot;We know some teenagers watch CBeebies, even. When you can build your own playlist, and nobody has to know what channel you&apos;re watching, that fluidity will be much easier for people to do.&quot;More CBBC shows will be premiered on iPlayer before they air on TV in the future, following recent experiments with making episodes of Hank Zipzer available on iPlayer the week before they aired on TV.&quot;I think it won&apos;t be long before the notion that it has to be on the telly and then on iPlayer, and if you want to premiere on iPlayer that&apos;s a big special deal. I think that&apos;s going to end,&quot; said Godwin.&quot;For this audience, we have to try and put things on the platforms they want, when they want them.&quot; He noted that the BBC has recently launched dedicated versions of iPlayer for CBeebies and CBBC, while features in the works for the main iPlayer will also benefit children&apos;s shows.&quot;New iterations of iPlayer will bring more and more iterations of playlisting, where you can build your own stacks of stuff,&quot; he said.Ludus is one of two second-screen "playalong" apps launched in 2014 by CBBC.CBBC has been experimenting with &quot;playalong&quot; apps for shows including Ludus and Horrible History Gory Games in 2014, with children able to answer questions alongside the on-screen contestants.&quot;I think the play-along was a risk, they were bold decisions, they took a lot of hard work. Right up to a few weeks before tx of the actual programmes we didn&apos;t necessarily know if the playalong was going to work,&quot; said Taylor.&quot;It all did, thanks to some fantastic people working very long hours. We were thinking possibly 6% of the audience if they were playing along at home, that would be a good measure of success. But with Gory Games it was 15%, and for Ludus it was between 10% and 15%.&quot;Godwin added that a third of the audience for Ludus downloaded its iOS and Android app, which has now passed 100,000 downloads.CBeebies is preparing to launch its second smartphone and tablet app later this year, added Benbow, who said it will have more of an emphasis on storytelling than the games-focusedCBeebies PlayTime app.Has the BBC considered doing anything around Minecraft, the game that has a huge audience among British children both playing it andwatching videos from YouTube channels like Stampy? Or does the BBC&apos;s public-service status mean it can&apos;t get involved in this particular kids&apos; cultural trend?&quot;Because its a commercial, and an increasingly complex commercial thing, it&apos;s hard to cover it like we&apos;d cover something like, say, Wimbledon,&quot; said Godwin, who said he too is fascinated by Minecraft fan-culture on YouTube.&quot;The interesting thing is the phenomena and the attraction of it, and being able to reflect the fact that our audience – well, parts of our audience – are obsessed with it.&quot;&quot;We get a lot of people [independent producers] coming in and saying &apos;we&apos;re talking to Minecraft&apos; so it&apos;ll be interesting to see what those talks result in,&quot; added Taylor.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
Facebook and Cornell researchers have denied that the controversial “emotion contagion” experiment was funded by the US Department of Defence (DoD).The social network told the Guardian that the study was entirely self-funded and that Facebook is categorically not a willing participant in the DoD’sMinerva Research Initiative, which funds research into the modelling of dynamics, risks and tipping points for large-scale civil unrest across the world, under the supervision of various US military agencies.“While Prof Hancock, like many researchers, has conducted work funded by the federal government during his career, at no time did Professor Hancock or his postdoctoral associate Jamie Guillory request or receive outside funding to support their work on this PNAS paper,” John Carberry, director of media relations at Cornell University where the academic work took place, told the Guardian.“Initial wording in an article and press releases generated by Cornell University that indicated outside funding sources was an unfortunate error missed during the editorial review process.”Severalpublicationsallegedthat because one of the key academic researchers on the study,Professor Jeffrey Hancock at Cornell, previously had ties with the Minerva Initiative that the Facebook “emotion contagion” work could have been in service of the US military.Determine the tipping point of social contagionsThe Minerva initiativewas launched in 2008, the year of the global banking crisis, and was established to allow the department to partner with universities &quot;to improve DoD&apos;s basic understanding of the social, cultural, behavioural, and political forces that shape regions of the world of strategic importance to the US&quot;.Cornell University is one of the institutions actively engaged with the Minerva Initiative and currently has a study funded through till 2017 managed by the US Air Force Office of Scientific Research which aims to develop an empirical model &quot;of the dynamics of social movement mobilisation and contagions&quot;.The project aims to determine &quot;the critical mass (tipping point)&quot; of social contagions by studying their &quot;digital traces&quot; in the cases of &quot;the 2011 Egyptian revolution, the 2011 Russian Duma elections, the 2012 Nigerian fuel subsidy crisis and the 2013 Gazi park protests in Turkey.”Cornell denies that the Facebook “emotion contagion” study thatappeared in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Scienceswas linked with this project.At no time did Hancock seek federal funding for this work“Prof Hancock did submit a research grant proposal to the DoD’s Minerva program in 2008 to study language use in support of US efforts to engage social scientists on national security issues, but that proposal was not funded,” explained Carberry.“A similar research project was funded in 2009 by the National Science Foundation. Neither project involved studying emotional contagion or Facebook in any way.”“At no time prior to his work on this paper did Prof Hancock seek federal funding for this work, or any work studying emotional contagion on Facebook,” insisted Carberry.Other US universities including Washington and Maryland are involved in studies directly funded and commissioned by Minerva and the DoD, while the US military also has its own in-house research institutions conducting further studies and projects.Facebook did not want to provide a comment for publication.The row over the ethical implications of the Facebook “emotion contagion” study still rumbles on, despitea public apologyfor the “poorly communicated” study by the social network’s chief operating officer and number two, Sheryl Sandberg.Her apology contrasted with comments made on the same day by Facebook’s head of global policy Monika Bickert,who defended the studyand explained that it was necessary for innovation. She added that legislation which could limit innovation was “concerning”.•Facebook faces UK inquiry from data protection watchdog over emotion study•If Facebook can mess with our emotions and make us vote, what else can it do?
Google’s search website suffered an intermittent outage on Friday morning that prevented users from conducting searches or accessing services through the main Google website.The website went offline with a “500” error at 10.30am on Friday morning, affecting computer browsers.The mobile Google website, accessed via smartphones and tablets, were unaffected, as were the Google mobile search apps and Google Now.Google’s other services, including Gmail and Google Calendar were not affected.“500. That’s an error,” said the Google error page. “The server encountered an error and could not complete your request.”“If the problem persists, please report your problem and mention this error message and the query that caused it. That’s all we know,” it continued.The error message 500 indicates that Google is suffering an internal server error. Both the google.com and google.co.uk websites were suffering intermittent outages at the time of writing.Google could not be contacted for comment.Web users were quick to take to Twitter and highlight the outage.Tbh Google&#39;s been having lots of short outages the last few weeks. Couple of minutes max, every now and again. Anyone else noticed it?&mdash; Ian Steadman (@iansteadman)July 4, 2014So yeah. Google is down. Does this mean I have to use Netscape and Yahoo now?&mdash; Simon Whight (@fourfourfun)July 4, 2014Bing’s most searched phrase today ‘why is google down?’&mdash; Yogi Blair (@Blair_1980)July 4, 2014Google&apos;s headquarters are in California, where the error began at around 2am local time on the first day of the independence day holiday.Google search waslast seriously affected in July 2004, when a variant of the MyDoom virus were used to contact its servers repeatedly. Searchers in Europe received a &quot;server error&quot; message.•Gmail outage hits millions across the world including India, US and UK
Google has agreed to change the way it implements Europe's new "right to be forgotten" measure after being criticised for being over-zealous in its approach to blocking results in name-based searches.More than 70,000 people have asked Google to delete links to articles about them after a ruling in May by the European court of justice. TheGuardian, Daily Mail and BBC complainedwhen Google removed links to some pages when searches are made against particular names.The BBC's economics editor, Robert Peston, said Google hadcast him into oblivionafter a2007 blogposthe wrote about the former Merrill Lynch boss Stan O'Neal was excluded from some search results.Peter Barron, Google's director of communications for Europe, said the US company could be clearer in the way it informed publishers about search-term deletions.Interviewed on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Barron said Google was undergoing a "learning process" about how to implement the ruling, but denied it was deliberately trying to subvert the judgment by being too quick to remove links when requests were made.Barron said Peston had wrongly assumed that O'Neal had made the removal request, when in fact it had come from a member of the public who had left a comment on the post.But when challenged on the programme by Peston himself, Barron agreed that Google should give publishers more information about search-term deletions.Peston said: "It was an inevitable reaction by me, when I got the email from Google saying my particular story was no longer going to be searchable, to think that it was being cast into oblivion, because that's what the email implied."Barron responded: "That's very fair feedback. That is something we are looking at. It is completely understandable that Robert assumed that it was Stan O'Neal who made the complaint. So that's something we'll look at. We could perhaps say 'bear in mind it may not be the person you think it is'."Barron pointed out that Peston's post was still widely available through almost all search terms. "Only if you search for the very narrow term of the name of the commentator would it not appear [on a Google search]," he said.He added: "We have to balance the need for transparency with the need to protect people's identities."Asked whether Google thought the ruling was workable, Barron said: "It is clearly a difficult process. We are committed to doing it as responsibly as we possibly can. We are learning as we go. I'm sure we will get better at it and we are very keen to listen to the feedback."Six links to Guardian stories have been removed from some search results, three of them about a 2010 controversy involving a now-retired Scottish Premier League referee, Dougie McDonald, who admitted lying about awarding a penalty in the Scottish FA Cup. The links have since been reinstated and can be found on searches for McDonald's name.A Guardian News &amp; Media spokeswoman said the company was concerned that Google was pursuing an "overly broad interpretation" of the ECJ ruling.Barron defended the way Google has responded to the court's judgment. He said: "The material that has been removed, certainly in the case of the Stan O'Neal blog, was very much in line with the ruling."He added: "The European court of justice ruling was not something that we wanted, but it is now the law in Europe, and we are obliged to comply with that law. We are aiming to deal with it as responsibly as possible. We have had more than 70,000 requests so far. It's a very big process, it's a learning process, we are listening to the feedback and we are working our way through that."
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft + Wearables &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:You may have heard that a Microsoft smart watch is coming, and that Microsoft will be rejuvenating its decade-old SPOT watch platform, at least spiritually.Not exactly.My sources tell me instead that Microsoft will this fall release a Samsung Gear Fit-like fitness band that will display smart phone-based notifications, just like the current and rumored watches and other wearables. So that's the first bit of rumor busting: It's a wristband, not a watch. (Yes, I'm sure you'll be able to see the time on its screen. But the form factor is a wristband.)From a differentiation standpoint, Microsoft's wearable will do something that no other wearable platform does. It will work with everything and not just the device maker's smart phone platform.(Thanks @GambaKufu for the link.)Android L looks set to add new at-use permissions prompts &gt;&gt; XDA Developers[Here's] a screenshot, which appears to suggest that the Android permissions system will be introducing some "at-time-of-use" prompts, somewhat like iOS.As shown in the image above, it appears that the Permissions UI is extending to cover a prompt issued at time of use, allowing the user to allow or deny the location information. While these don't, at a glance, appear hugely different to the existing prompts to enable Location Services, we suspect these are different and tie into the new Unified Data Controls discussed in the keynote.Would be good if this were indeed implemented. (Thanks@GambaKufu@LazioLazio for the link.)The truth about Tinder and women is even worse than you think &gt;&gt; BusinessweekNick Summers spent time talking to Tinder for an article in summer 2013, and saw it from the inside:Getting an app to critical mass is not simple or easy. In 2012, when Tinder was still an unknown app, Wolfe thought up and executed a plan to promote the service at a half-dozen key sororities. "We sent her all over the country," Munoz told me this week. "Her pitch was pretty genius. She would go to chapters of her sorority, do her presentation, and have all the girls at the meetings install the app. Then she'd go to the corresponding brother fraternity—they'd open the app and see all these cute girls they knew." Tinder had fewer than 5,000 users before Wolfe made her trip, Munoz says; when she returned, there were some 15,000. "At that point, I thought the avalanche had started," Munoz says.Mateen was only then hired by his longtime friend Rad, as chief marketing officer—Wolfe's superior. Wolfe had been at the IAC incubator, Hatch Labs, since May 2012, working on projects that were shelved when the team sensed Tinder was its best shot at a breakthrough success. In her lawsuit, Wolfe says she was the one who suggested the name "Tinder" to Rad."She never got credit for [her contributions]," Munoz told me. "She never got credit for it. It got taken away, and marginalized in favor of the friend."If you aren't incredulous and outraged by the end of this article...Amazon resisting FTC on policy change for in-app purchases &gt;&gt; WSJAmazon.com is bucking a request from the Federal Trade Commission that it tighten its policies for purchases made by children while using mobile applications.In a letter to the FTC Tuesday, Amazon said it was prepared to "defend our approach in court," rather than agree to fines and additional record-keeping and disclosure requirements over the next 20 years, according to documents reviewed by The Wall Street Journal.…In a proposed complaint, the FTC said Amazon "often has failed to obtain parents' or other account holders' informed consent to in-app charges incurred by children" since it began allowing in-app purchases in late 2011. Many of the purchases have been made using Amazon's Fire tablet computers.An FTC lawsuit beckons.The world's worst password requirements list &gt;&gt; KottkeJason Kottke:I tweeted about this but wanted to document it here for posterity. The Attorney General of Texas Child Support website hasthe worst set of password requirementsI've ever seen.They truly are.. wait, that has too many t's.Is Samsung's exceptionalism coming to an end? &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsJan Dawson:I've always found it fascinating the two dominant companies in the smartphone market – Samsung and Apple – have such different business models. On the one hand, you have a company that approaches the market in a tightly integrated fashion, combining hardware, software and services in a proprietary way, encapsulating them in a very small number of high end devices sold at premium prices. On the other hand, you have a company which appears willing to try anything and to fill every possible niche in the market, from budget to high end, with its own hardware running third party software and services. The commentariat has always speculated about how sustainable Apple's business model is, but I've always wondered the opposite: how sustainable is Samsung's business model?The model he uses to analyse businesses is intriguing.Google, Detroit diverge on road map for self-driving cars &gt;&gt; ReutersSelf-driving cars can free people to do more of the things that earn Google money, such as Web search. But [Chris] Urmson [director of Google's self-driving cars group] said Google is still figuring out how to make a profit from the technology."I would imagine that this is probably different than just making more time for people to click on web sites," he said.Car makers such as GM, Mercedes and Volvo have been developing their own autonomous vehicle technology for years.But most favour an incremental approach to self-driving cars, in which features such as lane centering and parking assistance are gradually integrated into vehicles. Car makers are also hesitant to invest in new features until they are certain there is enough demand to pay for them.Thanks to "right to be forgotten," Google now censors the press in the EU &gt;&gt; Marketing LandDanny Sullivan:It's very important to understand that the EU's action is not causing content to be removed from publishers themselves, which would no doubt have raised a huge outcry among major news outlets. They usually don't remove content they've published without an exceptionally good reason or a court order.Rather, the articles are being removed from Google, for certain searches. The court went this route understanding that if you pull something out of Google (and search engines generally), that can effectively cause the material to be hidden more easily than someone trying to track down many different publishers that might carry the same thing.That's especially an issue when it comes to "scraper" sites, where someone might simply copy the content off another site without permission and republish it. Copyright owners know what a "whack-a-mole" situation this is, where getting one removed only makes room for another to spring up.But the EU action is arguably a de facto censorship of the press. News stories are being made to disappear without any court review. Instead, Google seems to be following the letter of the new EU mandate and rubber-stamping any reasonable request that comes along.The first three paragraphs are correct; the start of the fourth is wrong. The press is not being censored - that is, nothing is being removed from news sites, and they aren't being told what or what not to write. However, if you do a searchon a particular name, some pages won't show up in the results. Butallother searches that would previously lead to that page willstilllead to it.Sullivan is correct, though, that Google seems to be rubber-stamping any request, without regard to whether it passes the ECJ tests of "outdated, inaccurate, invasion of privacy, irrelevant" with the balancing test of "public figure".One other thing: it's not a "right to be forgotten". It's the Data Processing directive.Slowdown hits UK smartphone and tablet sales, tough competition looms &gt;&gt; CCS InsightCCS Insight's latest forecast signals demand for smartphones and tablets in the UK has slowed dramatically. The research company estimates 27m phones and 12m tablets will be sold in the UK this year — five million devices fewer than in 2013.The forecast showed sales of mobile phones dropped 20% in the first months of 2014 compared with the same period in 2013. Meanwhile tablet sales, which broke all records in previous quarters, slumped 17%. This is the first time such a sharp decline has been recorded in the vibrant UK market outside a recession.However it's not all doom and gloom for the UK tablet market. With over 25m tablets already in use in the UK — many of them being used by more than one person in a household — CCS Insight expects the number of tablets in use to double by 2017 as more people and businesses buy the devices.Marina Koytcheva, director of forecasting at CCS Insight, said, "The slowdown in tablet sales should come as no surprise to the industry. We warned back in December that the spectacular tablet growth we've been seeing in the last two years was unsustainable. With replacement rates for tablets slower than those of smartphones, a temporary lull was inevitable."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
German car manufacturer BMW has turned to 3D printing to physically augment its car-plant workers, giving them stronger, augmented thumbs.The 3D-printed apparel acts like support brackets for the workers’ thumbs, reducing strain and helping them to fit certain parts into the cars more easily.Each &quot;thumb&quot; is created as a custom orthotic device using a portable 3D camera, which captures the unique size and shape of each line-worker’s thumb.Lasers, plastic, scanners and thumbsThe scan is then used to build up a thumb guard made of a semi-flexible thermoplastic polyurethane plastic – a hybrid material mixture of hard plastic and soft silicone – which is create by a 3D-printing technique called selective laser sintering.A laser is used to fuse plastic powder into layers, building up the structure one thin slice at a time until the full 3D structure is created.Locked position holding the offending rubber plug that has been causing thumb strain. Photograph: BMWThe finished thumb guard flexes in a closed position. But because the structure is perfectly fitted to the wearer’s thumb the pieces lock into place when the digit is raised into a thumbs-up position.Iron Man for the thumbThe locked splint resists strain and spreads the load of pushing something like a stiff rubber plug into holes in the car’s chassis – something that was causing pain and strain for production-line workers.After small trials in the company’s Munich vehicle assembly plant yielded “very positive” feedback from workers, BMW is now looking to roll this and other schemes using custom built 3D-printed apparel to help production and prevent pain and injury.The plastic locks together spreading the load of pushing the plug into position, which takes some force to do. Photograph: BMW3D printing for the last 25 yearsBMW has been using 3D printing techniques as part of its prototyping of parts and cars since 1989 with around 100,000 pieces created a year using a variety of different techniques at the Rapid Technology Centre in Munich.This is not the first ergonomic aid BMW has created used 3D printing. The German automotive company created customised wheelchair seats for the British paralympic basketball team in 2012 using similar methods.The creation of the new thumb cots is part of a project at the Department of Ergonomics at the Technical University of Munich.Other projects have used3D printing to replace limbswith cheap, adaptable prosthetics, along with a large number of other interesting objects and creations that were not possible using traditional manufacturing methods.•Chuck Hull – the father of 3D printing•The first Tesla Model S electric cars roll out into the UK
Google has come under fire for its "clumsy" approach to obeying Europe's new "right to be forgotten" law, after it began blocking some name-based searches to articles on the websites of UK news organisations.The Guardian, Daily Mail and BBC complained about the search engine implementing a ruling made in May by Europe's highest court, the European court of justice, by starting to remove links to some pages when searches are made against particular names.Google sources admit it may be suffering teething problems as it struggles to implement the system, under which it reviews then rejects or allows the removal of links. The original pages on publishers' sites are untouched, and can be found via US based search engines, or by using search criteria that leave out the particular name.Publishers suggested Google was being too hasty in allowing removal of searches against specific names for information that was not "inaccurate, irrelevant or outdated" the key tests under the ECJ ruling.The ECJ also said removal requests from people "in public life" could be ignored.Google deals with more than 90% of Europe's online searches. It said it had received more than 70,000 requests to remove links to more than 276,000 web pages from Europeans, with most coming from France, Germany, the UK, Spain and Italy respectively. It said it was now receiving about 1,000 requests daily, from a high of more than 12,000 soon after the ruling.On Wednesday Google removed links via searches on an unspecified name to pages from 2010 and 2011 on the Guardian and Daily Mail. The stories covered a referee in Scotland, Dougie McDonald, who admitted lying about awarding a penalty in the Scottish FA Cup. The links have since been reinstated and can be found on searches for McDonald's name. McDonald did not respond to repeated requests for comment from the Guardian.The removal and rapid reversal have thrown a spotlight on those newly-hired by Google to vet requests. It is understood that a supervised team of "paralegals" – who are not professional lawyers – have been given the legal task of examining every request and making a decision on whether to approve it.The BBC's economics editor, Robert Peston, complained Google had "cast me into oblivion" after the corporation received a notification that a blogpost he wrote in 2007 had been excluded from a search, though the name against which the search was excluded was not specified.Ryan Heath, the spokesman for the European commission's vice-president Neelie Kroes, told the BBC that he couldn't see how Google's decision to remove Peston's blogpost from search results was in the public interest,adding that the "right to be forgotten" ruling should not allow people to "Photoshop their own lives".The Guardian understands it was not the content of Peston's piece, on former Merrill Lynch boss Stan O'Neal, but comments on the post that were targeted. Searches on O'Neal still return the article.A Guardian News &amp; Media spokesperson said: "We are always concerned about any attempts to block access to our content. The recent ECJ judgment requires Google to deal with these requests on a case-by-case basis, so their current approach appears to be an overly broad interpretation. If the purpose of the judgment is not to enable censorship of publishers by the back door, then we'd encourage Google to be transparent about the criteria it is using to make these decisions, and how publishers can challenge them."Mail Online's publisher, Martin Clarke, told Associated Press that the link removal was "the equivalent of going into libraries and burning books you don't like".Jimmy Wales, one of the members of a committee formed by Google to examine how to implement the ECJ ruling, commented on Twitter about Peston's experience: "This is what I have been saying. Censoring Google is censoring the press."However Julia Powles, a law researcher at Cambridge University, said: "The way that the ruling is currently being implemented adds strength to those who take an absolutist position in favour of free speech and free enterprise. The situation is much more subtle, just as it is much more subtle than the unhelpful catchphrase of the 'right to be forgotten'."There is a risk that an all-or-nothing approach and the highlighting of dubious cases to prominent news outlets and journalists will preclude legitimate claims from being fairly treated. We need much more information from Google about how it is prioritising complaints, as well as how its internal decision-makers are trained and what principles they are applying."David Erdos, lecturer in law at Cambridge University, said that it was "worrying that Google seems to give itself complete discretion to provide details of removed detail to third parties such as webmasters". Erdos said that data protection can cover "simply privacy intrusion" and that on that basis it might be necessary to consider that notifying sites, which might then retaliate by putting up new content about people, "would cause them unwarranted damage and/or distress".A Google spokesperson said: "We have recently started taking action on the removals requests we've received after the European court of justice decision. This is a new and evolving process for us. We'll continue to listen to feedback and will also work with data protection authorities and others as we comply with the ruling."Google last week began including a disclaimer around name-based searches in Europe to say that "some results may have been removed", and on Wednesday began contacting news organisations telling them about specific articles. The ECJ ruling in May followed a dispute between a Spanish lawyer and a newspaper and Google there. The lawyer, Mario Costeja González, complained that a March 1998 judgment against him published on the newspaper's website appeared high in Google Spain's search rankings. He argued that under Europe's data protection directive, "outdated, irrelevant or incorrect" information should be removed.The ECJ ruled that the newspaper was not covered because it was a publisher, but that Google was because it was a "data processor" which worked on personal information.Following are the six Guardian articles removed from Google searches to date:• Dougie McDonald, Scottish referee who lied over reversing penalty quits• Referee at centre of Celtic penalty incident escapes with a warning• Dougie McDonald penalty saga exposes need for SFA transparency• Paris's Post-it wars• Accused solicitor stands for office• An aggregated page of Roy Greenslade's blogs from a week in 2011• This article was amended on 4 July 2014. Because of an editing error, the earlier version stated incorrectly that Ryan Heath had "said he couldn't see how the right to be forgotten ruling was in the public interest".
The "right to be forgotten" has created a right old headache for Google and for publishers alike. As a result of a European court ruling, people can request results relating to them to be removed from Google's searches – even if the original article is true, fair and accurate – if it is "outdated" or "irrelevant". Google says it has received at least 70,000 such requests.So far, six Guardian articles, at least one BBC article and several Mail Online pieceshave been affected by Google's implementation of the ruling, we learned on Thursday, as the publishers received automated notifications that their work had been partially delisted. There has been no small degree of confusion as to what this actually means. Firstly, no web page disappears from the internet as a result of this: the articles are still present, but may become much harder to find because Google removes the offending article from search results for the complainant's name.So to give a hypothetical example, if the Guardian ran a story about a John Doe running an illegal kitten farm in Surrey, and years later he complained to Google, the article may be removed from search results for "John Doe", but could still appear in results for "illegal kitten sanctuary Surrey".This can have some strange effects: the "disappeared" BBC article related to Stan O'Neal, former boss of Merrill Lynch. However, it seems O'Neal was not the person who complained about the article, which still appears in results for his name; instead the complaint came from someone who commented below the piece.This can still be a serious challenge to freedom of expression. "Outdated" and "irrelevant" are broad terms that lie in the eye of the beholder, especially as the court neglected to give specific definitions of either in its ruling. The Guardian or Daily Mail might regard a 2005 article about legal tax avoidance as timely and relevant if its subject is still doing business. The subject of the piece is likely to feel differently. The ruling makes Google decide.This gives Google a huge role in policing the internet, and one it really doesn't seem to want: if it tries to resist too many (or any) removals, it could easily end up mired in numerous cases with Europe's information commissioners, taking up huge time and expense for the company. Similarly, though, it doesn't want to be left with thousands of daily requests for manual tweaks of search results.It's convenient, then, that it's found a way to get the media to kick up the fuss for it: there are very few news organisations in the world who are happy to hear their output is being stifled. A few automated messages later, the story is back in the headlines – and Google is likely to be happy about that.Still, just because Google might like changes to the ruling, or how it would work, doesn't mean the rest of us might not also benefit. At stake is the internet's effectiveness as a research tool: do we think the internet is better if people are free to wipe the slate clean, even if they really did everything that was written, or not? Who should get to decide what stays and what goes? The time to decide is drawing very close.
Sheryl Sandberg fails to realise that what she simply considers Facebook's "poor communication" about its psychological experiments (Facebook apologises for&nbsp;experiments on users, 2&nbsp;July) was an ethical violation of the principle of informed consent for 700,000 users. What makes this experiment more grievous is the lack of a briefing or debriefing, as well as a&nbsp;callous disregard for the principle to avoid harm to subjects. By manipulating the emotions of hundreds of thousands of Facebook users, and not telling them their emotions were impacted by an experiment rather than their own failings or temperament, Facebook has probably caused some real psychological harm to some of&nbsp;its users.Carter BraceEgham, Surrey• My husband and I own a small restaurant in Sheffield. It has been our life's work (so far). We worked hard to set up our small but thankfully busy and (we think) good South American steak house.&nbsp;It is our livelihood and the only source of income we have to support ourselves and our young son. In terms of what we have created it's on a small scale but nevertheless helpful to society – we employ 15&nbsp;full-time and three part-time staff, and we pay rates, VAT and taxes.Yet I am totally demoralised every time a keyboard warrior with no professional accreditation takes to the likes ofTripAdvisorand now Facebook and Twitter to rubbish our whole business. And there is nothing we can do about it. We can't opt out of TripAdvisor.Can you imagine an international forum where you can review how awful your co-worker was on one particularly bad day they were having, or even just in one encounter with you, for their potential future employers to be able to check? Our future employers are our potential customers – and they're checking us out on TripAdvisor and Facebook. If only more people understood the other side of those reviews.Gloria ClarkeSheffield
Thought you missed out on having youremotions tweaked by Facebook’s mood manipulationback in 2012? This free Chrome plugin is for you.The brand newFacebook Mood Manipulator Chrome extensiongives users the power to control their emotions by modifying their Facebook news feeds accordingly.“Why should Zuckerberg get to decide how you feel? Take back control,” says Lauren McCarthy, the New York-based developer of the pluginon her site.As positive as it gets Photograph: Lauren McCarthyInstalling the plugin gives users four sliders for positive, emotional, aggressive and open emotions, which use the same system that Facebook used for its emotional contagion study, calledLinguistic Inquiry Word Count(LIWC), to analyse the words in posts and remove those that don’t fit within the selected parameters.“Aw yes, we are all freaked aboutthe ethics of the Facebook study. And then what?” asks McCarthy. “What implications does this finding have for what we might do with our technologies? What would you do with an interface to your emotions?”Feeling sad. Photograph: Lauren McCarthyUsers will be able to conduct experiments on themselves to see how they feel over time. It could revolutionise the Facebook experience to a much happier, brighter one. Or it could do absolutely nothing.Either way, users can now “leverage Facebook&apos;s own research to manipulate your emotions on your terms.”•Facebook can tweak our emotions and make us vote. What else can it do?
My mum is in her mid-sixties, and lives alone. She&apos;s very active, but naturally we worry about things like: what if she falls or is otherwise incapacitated and can&apos;t get to a phone? She has a Moto G (Android), so I&apos;ve been looking for an app that can run in the background and notify me if certain conditions are met. Say, for example, she doesn&apos;t use her phone for 24 hours. I&apos;ve found one calledMan Down, which I thought might do the job, but it would require her to log into the app regularly and set it up. I was looking for a &quot;set it and forget it&quot; solution. I&apos;ve also searched for anIFTTTscript – say, alert me if she doesn&apos;t log into Facebook for a day – but with no success.I&apos;m looking for a light-touch solution. She&apos;s not elderly, and I don&apos;t want her to feel like she&apos;s losing any freedom or independence. Do you have any suggestions?StephenCountries in the developed world, particularly Japan, have aging populations, and monitoring the safety of older people is becoming a big business. It&apos;s a market that American companies such asGrandCare Systems, Healthsense (eNeighbor),IndependaandLivelyare already addressing, and the New York Times ran an interesting story about the subject:Technologies Help Adult Children Monitor Aging Parents. However, most require monthly payments, and I haven&apos;t seen any similar services in the UK.In the UK, of course, we have theAge UK personal alarm service.This &quot;personal emergency response system&quot; (PERS) uses a base station that connects to Age UK’s 24-hour emergency response centre. The user wears a small personal alarm. Pushing the alarm button connects them to the response centre and summons help. A self-installed system costs £69 then £3.47 per week, where neither price includes VAT.Your mother will probably have heard of Age UK&apos;s service, it retains her independence, isn&apos;t intrusive, and would be entirely under her control. However, it&apos;s relatively expensive, and it doesn&apos;t do very much in comparison with American systems like GrandCare. That would allow you to monitor your mother&apos;s weight and blood pressure, track her movements around the house, and know when she opened the fridge door, for example. The system described in the New York Times story cost $8,000 to install plus $75 per month. The cost depends on the features, and most are simpler and cheaper. However, a comprehensive system may well be worth the money if it enables an older person to continue living independently at home (in the US jargon, &quot;aging in place&quot;) rather than being moved to a care home.Home monitoring cameras can also be purchased cheaply as webcams and baby monitors. Parents often use these to keep an eye on small children even while they&apos;re at home, and they can also be accessed remotely via the net. In this case, they may also function as babysitter monitors. You could use the same sort of thing to monitor an aging parent, as long as the parent is keen on the idea. It sounds too intrusive for someone in their 60s, but might be acceptable to someone a couple of decades older.Mind the appA smartphone app sounds like a good idea, and while I haven&apos;t tried it,ManDownshould suit some users. ManDown will send an alert if an Android or Apple phone is immobile for a pre-set time, up to 24 hours. It also includes an SOS button. It looks as though your mother would have to reset it each day, but the website says: &quot;For an elderly person living alone, the ManDown app turns their phone into a check-in device. Just set the timer for a once or twice per day movement.&quot;ManDown is very cheap at $1.99 and there are no monthly fees. It sounds very close to what you want, so it&apos;s probably worth a closer look. If it&apos;s not quite right, ManDown&apos;s publisher has aweb feedback form. I&apos;d certainly give that a try.Unfortunately, I haven&apos;t been able to find anything better than ManDown for what you want. Maybe readers can suggest something.What about Fitbit?While I can see a growing market in devices and systems that monitor older people, this is really part of a much larger market that now comes under the general heading of &quot;quantified self&quot;. Millions of people are now measuring and monitoring their own vital signs with the aim of living a healthier life.Quantified selfers measure things like heart rates, blood pressure, calorie intake, blood sugar levels, sleep quality and, most of all, the number of steps they take each day. There are lots of wearable devices to help, such as the Fitbit trackers, Jawbone UP, and Samsung Gear Fit. Most if not all them connect to a smartphone, though ideally, you&apos;d want one that supported low energyBluetooth LE. This is sometimes called Bluetooth Smart, and first appeared as Nokia Wibree in 2006, before being merged into Bluetooth 4.0. Happily, the Motorola Moto G supports Bluetooth LE.Your mum is probably not a quantified selfer, but plenty of older people use pedometers to measure how many steps they take, so she might be interested in trying aFitbit Zip,Fitbit OneorFitbit Flexwristband. The device uploads data to the Fitbit website via a PC with a wireless sync dongle or an Android or iPhone app. Itsyncs automaticallyto Bluetooth LE, so she would just have to give you access to her Fitbit data (&quot;share with friends&quot;), and you&apos;d have a good indication that she was OK.Also, watch the watches. There&apos;s a lot of interest in smartwatches at the moment, but very few sales. However, Apple is expected to announce a health-monitoring smartwatch this year, so the market could take off. A smartwatch could be a solution, though no doubt it will be much more expensive than a Fitbit.I&apos;d encourage your mum to take the Fitbit route. She can track steps, calories burned, or distance and, with the more expensive models, sleep. The gamification elements will encourage her to be more active and thus healthier, but she will have control. You could get one too.
Researchers have been left a little baffled by a highly-sophisticated hacker crew that is simultaneously stealing data from drug dealers and government entities.Named &apos;MiniDuke&apos; after the malware the group uses, the attackers initially appeared to have been backed by a nation state, as a range of government agencies and research institutes from across the globe had been targeted, according to research released in February 2013.But an anomaly arrived in the logs of Kaspersky Labs researchers in recent months which indicated that individuals involved in drug deals had been affected by the MiniDuke hackers.After tracking one of the command and control servers used by the attackers, they were led to a site dispensing illegal substances, including certain kinds of steroids and hormones, though Vitaly Kamluk, principal security researcher at Kaspersky, would not say which.This finding led Kamluk and his colleagues to a number of guesses as to the nature of MiniDuke. The crew could be “cyber mercenaries”, consisting of several subdivisions, selling their services to different groups, possibly law enforcement or a competing criminal group that wanted to track a rival drug dealer, as well as government clients.Whoever they are, they have old-school hacking skills and a high degree of technicality, tweaking encryption standards to make tracking them that much harder, the researcher added. “They are more like underground cyber criminals than a typical nation state. This is what makes them stand out,” Kamluk said.Yet the main targets in 2014 remain government bodies. Kamluk said the group was seen using open source hacking tools to scan the internet for useful information on potential victims in Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Greece.“They were collecting everything like emails, names, nicknames and handles,” he told the Guardian.The time stamps on their operations, showing what hours they were active, indicated they were operating out of Eastern Europe or Asia, Kamluk said. As Cyrillic characters were used in the code, the former is more likely.The MiniDuke crew has also released a fresh kind of malware into the world, called CosmicDuke, that spoofs popular applications,such as Chrome and Java updaters. Just like the team’s other malware, it can steal a range of data from MP3s to Word documents to passwords and logins.Some of CosmicDuke’s code was also found in a highly-sophisticated malware type called Uroboros, believed to have come out of Russia.The malware creators have created a tonne of Twitter profiles too, which link to domains used to control the malicious toolkits, so even if their command and control servers were compromised by law enforcement, the group would still have access to infected machines.It is believed MiniDuke has claimed at least 139 victims since it started operating, with 14 in the UK. Most targets were in Georgia with 84, followed by Russia on 61 and the US on 34.•UK forges close cyber ties with China despite ‘endemic espionage’•Chinese military group linked to hacks of US and European satellite companies
Google’s Webmaster Tools service sent me two emails on Wednesday morning. This isn&apos;t unusual for me (I&apos;m head of search engine optimisation at the Guardian) but the subject line was entirely new: &apos;Notice of removal from Google Search’.The emails detailed six links that had been removed from Google&apos;s search results, three clearly related to a specific individual and three rather more complex and disparate ones.The search engine regretted to inform me that it was &apos;no longer able to show the pages from your website in response to certain searches on European versions of Google.’ At that point I suspected I might have a busy day.What I didn’t expect was the level of misunderstanding and misrepresentation - not only in general but also from journalists and industry experts. The implications and execution of these removals is fairly complicated, but it astounded me how much of the discussion – even off the back of clear and incisivecommentary from James Ballon Wednesday – was characterised by a lazy refusal to engage with what’s actually happening.So here are a few points to remember:• Google isn’t asking anyone to remove anythingOne of the tweets that drove the most page views to James’ piece was from a journalist. It said &quot;Amazing – Guardian receiving requests to take down three articles relating to Dougie McDonald.” That would be an amazing story. But it didn’t happen.• No one has been cast into oblivion, especially Robert PestonI’m a fan of Peston, buthis piece on his own right-to-be-forgotten noticewas misleading in many ways, and that’s particularly important considering his broad following and the trust people place in him. He kicks straight off with a sentence that simply isn’t true: &quot;A blog I wrote in 2007 will no longer be findable when searching on Google in Europe&quot;.This is a shame because it muddies the waters around his commentary on public interest.• It’s all in the nameGoogle isnotdeleting articles from its ecosystem. Peston is right to state that most people will come to this kind of older content through Google, but he’s very wrong to frame that as &quot;killing&quot; his journalism. What’s happening is that Google will no longer return the article complained about for a search on the complainant’s name.We don’t know who the complainants are because Google won’t tell us, so that means the best way of finding out the identity of the complainant is by searching for the person’s name on the relevant domain and seeing if it fails to return the article. If so, you’ve found your complainant.A search for“Dougie McDonald” site:theguardian.com(the quotes ensure the search engine looks for the full name) doesn’t returnthis right-to-be-forgotten article. But search forScottish referee who liedand you’ll see it.If this is brand management, it’s a very leaky form of it. One of the things we’ve already learned is that you can’t always assume who the complainant is.This one is particularly interestingin that respect; it turns out that finding out who wants to be forgotten is a pretty compelling activity.• The internet isn’t a placeGoogle is manipulating search results like this only in the domains affected by the EU ruling. But a web domain isn’t the same thing as a place. So anyone in the EU can carry out the same searches on Google.com and happily enjoy search results without interference. There are many, many other ways around it, outlinedhere.• The inconsistencies are almost certainly no accidentCleverer people than me have framed thebackground to Google’s behaviouralready, but it’s worth stating again that all of the obvious idiocy in the implementation suggests at the least that Google is far from whole-heartedly embracing the ECJ ruling.The notices so many of us received yesterday and the blanket notice thatall name-based searches in the EU are now subject to censorshipmake it look more like a mischievous attempt to point up the impossibility of policing content on the internet within physical territories, enraging publishers and encouraging them to write about it.The digital ecosystem is a complicated one. And it goes without saying that privacy and freedom of expression are incredibly important issues. But that’s what makes it all the more essential that when discussing this issue, journalists in particular are clear about the implications and precise with their language, even if that makes the story less &quot;amazing&quot;.•Google ethics adviser: The law needs bold ideas to address the digital age
Google has enforced a block on adverts that promote &quot;sexually explicit content&quot; from its advertising network across Google&apos;s search engine and other sites.The AdWords policy changeannounced in Marchwent into effect on Monday, catching some advertisers unaware.&quot;I was caught by surprise,&quot; Theo Sapoutzis, chairman and CEO of AVN Media Network toldCNBC.&quot;I was one of the very first advertisers for AdWords back in 2002. It&apos;s something that&apos;s been [untouched] for 12 years, so you don&apos;t expect change is going to start happening.”Strip clubs and dating sites are still permittedWhile sexually explicit content, including masturbation and oral sex, is banned from AdWords under the new rules, adverts for other adult entertainment including strip clubs and dating sites are still permitted.Some conservative lobby groups in the US, includingMorality in Media, have claimed credit for the move by putting pressure on Google, media organisations and internet service providers to limit access to pornography - despite it being legal in the US.Google banned porn blogs from making money via ads for adult websites on the company-owned Blogger blog network in June 2013, while Google’s “SafeSearch” has long filtered explicit results from being displayed in searches.AdWords is Google&apos;s advertising platform that places ads on Google sites as well as third-party websites that can use Google to make money. Google made $13.8bn (£8bn) in ad revenue in the last quarter, which accounts for around 90% of the search company’s total revenue.&apos;Make any necessary changes to your ads and sites to comply&apos;Google informed potentially affected advertisers of the change via email.“When we make this change, Google will disapprove all ads and sites that are identified as being in violation of our revised policy,” said that warning email. “Our system identified your account as potentially affected by this policy change. We ask that you make any necessary changes to your ads and sites to comply so that your campaigns can continue to run.”The impact of Google’s policy change on the adult entertainment industry is unclear. Adult entertainment sites have made use of AdWords, but often rely on search results and word of mouth in attracting new users.Just over 350m searches for the wordssex,porn,free pornandpornowere made using Google in May, according to Google AdWords Keyword Planner, making &quot;porn&quot; one of the most common searches on Google.A company spokesperson said that Google updates its policies on a regular basis and has strict guidelines covering sexually explicit content.•Google removing &apos;right to be forgotten links&apos; in Europe
Are these the best of times or the worst of times for the children&apos;s entertainment industry? A panel session at the Children&apos;s Media Conference explored the question, concluding... well, it might be both.The key topic: how television companies, book publishers and other children&apos;s brands can adapt to changing digital habits of their young audiences.“TV is pretty mature: the growth is on tablets, mobiles, it’s in gaming, it’s in online video, and that ultimately is going to change the way the market operates,” said Jon Watts, director of research firm MTM London, who chaired the session.Kate Wilson, managing director of book and apps publisher Nosy Crow, said this feels like the best of times for creating great work, but “arguably the worst of times in terms of consumers’ willingness to pay” for that work.Rob McMenemy, CEO of book publisher Egmont’s international division, agreed that these are tough and exciting times in equal measure. “Life cycles seem to get ever sorter: the time that you have to make your business and make your money gets ever more condensed,&quot; he said.&quot;Yet there has never been a better time for the amount of content and rights out there to go for… And of course you can get quickly get to mass audiences. That’s something we’ve never really had before.”The panel talked about business model struggles, with Tina McCann, SVP and managing director of Nickelodeon UK and Ireland, admitting that: “Advertising is very challenged right now: kids are watching less linear TV. They are still sampling lots of content, but it’s across a proliferation of platforms.”McMenemy said Egmont makes the vast majority of its money from its traditional business: printed books and magazines. “Actually making money from other forms is extremely difficult, whether they be apps or online communities or whatever it may be,” he said. “How much do you risk? It’s not easy to get the money out, and it’s fairly small.”Wilson talked about pressure on reading time for children, and her company’s attempts to prove that “reading is not the most boring thing you can do on a touchscreen”, while Alice Taylor, chief executive of startup Makielab, addressed the challenges of making mobile games for children.“We’re seeing that digital games that are smash hits that produce a crapton of money, generally started on computers and consoles. If they’re ported to or start in app stores, maybe not so much,” she said.“There’s a real pressure in the ecosystem of app stores which means kids can’t pay, because they don’t have credit cards, and parents don’t want them to buy stuff… You can count the number of games that are smash hits that are for kids, not just played by kids, on the fingers of one hand.”By that, she meant that a lot of the most popular and lucrative games being played by children are actually meant for adults: Supercell&apos;s Clash of Clans, for example, which she suggested is being played by children as young as five years old.Even the most successful children&apos;s app companies, like Toca Boca, can&apos;t expect to ever make the kind of money that a Supercell or King (the publisher of Candy Crush Saga) is. “If you compare Toca Boca’s success to Supercell’s success, it’s an order of magnitude tinier,” said Taylor.The session also explored four potential scenarios for children’s media by 2020, challenging the panel to say whether they will come true or not.First, that “digital eats the world” with internet-connected devices becoming the dominant children’s medium, with digital businesses emerging as major media players to compete with the likes of Disney.“It’s totally going to happen!” said Taylor. “It’s happening! It’s happened!” Wilson said that the actual content may be the same – kids will simply be accessing it on a different screen. It will still be TV, games and reading, in other words.Minecraft has shown the potential of games to become huge new children's brands.The second scenario was that the games industry becomes the dominant children’s medium, where the big new children’s franchises start off as games, and where toys and games companies become even more important sources of funding.“If you look at the top 10 kids’ media properties, they tend to be movies, some telly and toys, and games come in where they have spread into those,” said Taylor. But she said they won’t be as dominant on their own: “As part of a bigger IP picture, yes.”“Games are a little narrow in terms of content,” said McMenemy, citing Pokemon as an example, suggesting that its film was an “unmitigated disaster” because there wasn’t enough depth to its characters and world.McCann suggested that “it doesn’t really matter where it comes from: if it’s a great IP, it’s going to work across every platform”, citing the Raving Rabbids TV show on her network, which started as characters in Ubisoft’s Rayman games.Taylor cited Minecraft as the “magical exception… it’s making them money faster than they can wash themselves with it” and suggested that games still provides “an opportunity to break the rules” in a way that film, books and toys can’t.The third scenario: print dies by 2020, with physical book and magazine sales rapidly declining as those media go digital, leaving only a small gifting market for physical books. Children’s publishers shift online, Apple and Amazon are dominant players, but lots more big authors go direct.“Long term, it’s going down, but a nice little fact: the children’s book market year-on-year grew by 11%,” said McMenemy. Why? “Minecraft.”This brought a laugh from the audience: Egmont has the exclusive licensing deal to publish Minecraft books, and McMenemy did accept that other factors have helped the market grow too.He added that e-books and apps for children are growing, but still small – “we’re talking about two or three per cent” in market share – suggesting that children aren’t reading on tablets in huge numbers. “They don’t view them as reading implements, they view them as games devices, or social media in various forms.”Wilson also talked about parental attitudes: many still don’t want their children to have unlimited screen time, so they will (she hopes) continue to buy them books and encourage them to read.The fourth scenario: “A thousand flowers bloom” – thousands of new, small businesses making children’s entertainment, with the big players progressively losing share – even if their big franchises persist – and children flocking from one new thing to another every year.Will the big companies&apos; market share fall? “I think it will be smaller than it is today, but my suspicion is it will still be the majority of the market. Because the big players have the resources to defend it: to attract the best talent, to do the most marketing. They can defend that position,” said McMenemy.He suggested that there will be consolidation among the big companies. “The big will get bigger, and at the bottom a lot of new players. You don’t want to get caught in the middle.”Finally, Wilson hoped that kids will be further enabled to create their own media in the next five years too, rather than just consuming that made for them by companies. The Minecraft generation, again.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children&apos;s media
Facebook’s head of policy, Monika Bickert, has claimed that the company&apos;s emotion experiments were “innovation” and a necessary part of the research needed for new features and developments.Bickert said that “most of the research that is done on Facebook” is “all about ‘how do we make this product better’&quot;, while speaking at the Aspen Ideas Festival on Tuesday.“It’s concerning when we see legislation that could possibly stifle that sort of creativity and that innovation,” Bickert, in contrast to theapology offered on Wednesdayby Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer.&apos;Make sure we’re being transparent&apos;“That’s innovation. That’s the reason that when you look at Facebook or YouTube you’re always seeing new features. And that’s the reason if you have that annoying friend from high school that always posts pictures of their toddler every single day, that’s reason that you don’t see all those photos in your news feed,” said Bickert.Bickert admitted that Facebook’s handling of the research could have been clearer to users, saying that “it’s incumbent upon us to make sure we’re transparent about what we’re doing and that people understand exactly why we’re doing what we do.”“What I think we have to do in the future is make sure we’re being transparent, both to regulators and to people using the product about exactly what we’re doing,” she said.&apos;Emotional contagion&apos;The experiments caused outrage with users and researchers alike over the weekend, when a scientific paper based on the research that involved nearly 700,000 users over one week in 2012.Facebook hid &quot;a small percentage&quot; of emotional words from peoples&apos; news feeds, without their knowledge, to test what effect that had on the statuses or &quot;likes&quot; that they then posted or reacted to.The company&apos;s researchers discovered that tweaking the content of peoples&apos; &quot;news feeds&quot; created an &quot;emotional contagion&quot; across the social network, by which people who saw one emotion being expressed would themselves express similar emotions.The research was conducted without the knowledge of users and has caused controversy as to whether it crossed an ethical line, with paper’s publishers conducting an investigation. The UK’s data protection watchdog, the Information Commissioner’s Office, is looking into the situation to see if any UK laws were broken.•If Facebook can tweak our emotions and make us vote, what else can it do?
Mae is young, sad and angry. She quit college a while ago then skulked back to Possum Springs, the dead-end mining town she grew up in. Now she is living with her parents again, hanging out with the old crowd, doing the same pointless crap. Mae feels like she&apos;s just watching life slip by without her. But somehow she can&apos;t let go of this place.Mae is also a cat.This isNight in the Woods, a beautifully illustrated adventure game that combines a cast of anthropomorphic animals with a witty, heartfelt script that could have come straight from a Sundance-winning indie movie. The player controls Mae as she explores the dour hometown setting, trudging through cafes, parks, and shops, meeting disaffected characters, discovering little personal quests, and jumping on to the roofs and power lines – much to the frustration of her worried parents and crotchety neighbours. It works as a cute and engaging narrative platformer, but it also uses genre conventions to explore deeper issues.Because, really, A Night in the Woods is a game about being sad and angry.Night in the WoodsHow the coder met the artistThe project came about last summer, when coder and musician Alec Holowka met artist Scott Benson on Twitter. Holowka liked Benson&apos;s work, and Benson had been toying with making a game for a while; a collaboration was quickly proposed. &quot;We were batting ideas around,&quot; says Holowka. &quot;I was about to turn 30 and that was a really big deal for me. It&apos;s a whole new chapter – I felt like I was that bit closer to my inevitable demise. We were talking about this and we we&apos;re both dealing with depression in different ways – it was something we could bond over. That feeds into the game a lot.&quot;For his part Benson had just left the ministry after losing his faith; he was having to construct a fresh view on the world and his place in it. &quot;Everyone has to go through something like that: &apos;how do I find meaning forme?&apos;&quot; he says. &quot;There&apos;s a lot of that in Night in the Woods. We joked a few months ago, that this is a game about the inevitability of death … and pizza parties. Mae is 20 and growing out of being a teenager. She doesn&apos;t know what&apos;s going to happen: the town is dying, all her friends are moving away. Even as a 32-year-old I identify with that – the future is so uncertain. You have to understand when to let go of things.&quot;The duo brought in writer Bethany Hockenberry, who grew up in a place very similar to Possum Springs. A lot of the game, at least judging by the E3 demo, is about exploring, drinking it in, talking to people. Mea&apos;s old teacher, a bird named Mrs Quelchy, is hanging out in an underground coffee shop, seemingly avoiding her job. &quot;Get out of this town as soon as you can,&quot; she implores. Another character, Bea, has had to leave college because her mum died and her father can&apos;t cope – someone has to run the family business. Mae&apos;s best friend Gregg has climbed up on a roof and got stuck because he&apos;s a fox and shouldn&apos;t really be climbing on roofs. He&apos;s planning on leaving town without her, and she&apos;s terrified of life without him.But they goof about anyway. There&apos;s a great scene where they go to the doughnut store; the camera switches and gives you control of Mae&apos;s paws as she grabs and eats doughnut after doughnut, her limbs becoming ever more shaky and difficult to control. &quot;I think I can see birth and death and all the things,&quot; she says.The humour over the sadnessThere is a wryness about everything, a sense of absurdity that is of course, underlined by the use of animal characters. The child-like beauty and warm humour of it helps to make the melancholic themes more palatable. &quot;A lot of art games hit you over the head with what they&apos;re about,&quot; says Holowka. &quot;I don&apos;t think that really works. You have to sneak up on it. There&apos;s been a slew of games that have basically said, &apos;here is the meaning!&apos; You don&apos;t have to telegraph it - I think we&apos;ve manged to avoid that so far.&quot;But there certainly is a weight of sadness here, and it is dealt with frankly. &quot;When the game begins, Mae wonders what it would be like to burn down the house with her still in it,&quot; says Holowka. &quot;A lot of people have said, &apos;woah, that&apos;s really dark&apos;, but then games are full of people blasting each other in the face with machine guns. We&apos;ve become accustomed to a certain level of violence and cynicism - if this hits people, that&apos;s good. We&apos;ve all had the experience of lying in our bedroom being really bored, thinking, oh seriously, fuckeverything.&quot;The game won&apos;t just be a straightforward tale of angst and self-discovery though. There seems to be a rumour of something hiding out in the woods, something that could destroy the town. Holowka won&apos;t reveal what it is, but hints that the danger is perhaps more figurative than physical. &quot;It represents that sense of impending doom,&quot; he says. &quot;The game is broken up into four acts and later, a mystery develops, but really we&apos;re using the threat as a concept to get the characters to do different things, to see how they react. It&apos;s not going to turn into an action game.&quot;Being popularOne thing is certain – Night in the Woods is picking up a lot of positivity. It was successfully funded through a Kickstarter appeal last autumn, and was one of the gems of this year&apos;s E3 exhibition, receiving an &apos;Editor&apos;s Choice&apos; award from influential US site Polygon.Benson was unsure of how his rather idiosyncratic first game would be received, but Holowka, who has already worked on several games including the critically acclaimed Towerfall, was more confident. &quot;I&apos;ve gone through that whole cycle of making things I really care about and feeling, like, maybe it&apos;s good, but also thinking, &apos;oh what if it&apos;s a horrible piece of shit and everyone hates it?&apos;&quot; he says. &quot;Judging by the response to our Kickstarter, though, we felt Night in the Woods was going to be something people would like. I&apos;m sure there are some people who think &apos;argh, this is hipster garbage&apos;, but to us it feels honest.&quot;There&apos;s no release date yet – Holowka is saying &quot;2015-ish&quot;. We do know there will be PC and PlayStation 4 versions. Right now, it seems the team is experimenting with supporting the Vita, either with a full conversion of the game, or as an optional second screen to hold Mae&apos;s journal, which she adds to throughout the adventure.There is something in this game that feels natural and real. The snappy dialogue, the archetypal themes, that sense we all have when we&apos;re teenagers – of being scared and lost, of not knowing how to process those emotions. The first truly adult lesson most of us learn is that you have to take your own pain seriously. And then you have to live. Maybe Night in the Woods is about that.&quot;You know there&apos;s an end coming; life is a finite thing,&quot; says Benson. &quot;The question is, what do you do with the time that you have? Well... let&apos;s laugh, let&apos;s just do the best we can.&quot;•The five most disruptive ideas in video game design•Four things we learned at GDC 2014
In 2014, children are playing Minecraft, watching YouTube and playing with apps – but they’re also still reading books, watching TV and playing with toys. Kids are more digital, but that doesn’t mean they’re abandoning traditional sources of entertainment.That makes an event like theChildren’s Media Conferencevery interesting. Founded as an annual gathering in Sheffield for children’s TV creators and executives, in recent years digital has played a growing role.That was reflected in the opening keynote speech at this year’s conference in Sheffield, delivered by Dylan Collins, chief executive of children’s marketing and research networkSuperAwesome, which works with various children’s brands to help them understand digital trends.Collins laid out his thoughts on the challenges facing children’s entertainment companies in the next five years, while encouraging them to work more with the emerging group of “kid-tech” startups. Here are some of the highlights:Most investors are still spooked by kids and technology“We literally and figuratively represent the future of society, and yet most investors think that this is a tough space to invest in. I think that’s an interesting thing, and something we need to address,” said Collins, who is an investor himself.He called for more acquisitions and partnerships between big children’s brands and broadcasters, and inventive startups, suggesting that the latter can become an important research and development lab for the wider industry.“To get to success in the digital space, you need a process of efficient and repeated failure. You need to fail fast! And in the digital kids space that’s true more than ever,” said Collins. “We need to fail spectacularly, really really hard, in both brilliant and sublime ways.”Mobile is the biggest threat to the children’s entertainment industry“The single biggest threat to our digital content industry today is mobile: the thing that everyone thinks is the best thing ever,” said Collins, who noted that children’s app companies struggle to sell paid apps, and worry about appropriate use of in-app purchases and/or advertising.“We make less money in our mobile digital content than a lot of other sectors, and there is huge pressure on marketing costs. The cost of actually getting [content] to kids in a meaningful way has gone up. It’s a basic maths equation: our revenue has come down and our marketing costs have come up,” he said.“Fundamentally, the maths on that does not stack up. If you talk to kids’ apps developers, there’s not a single one who are not a little bit concerned about the sustainability of their industry over the next one, two, five years.”Google and Apple aren’t content companiesCollins noted the importance of app stores from Google and Apple in driving things forward, but warned children’s firms not to over-estimate their ability to help solve these business challenges.“App stores are not content distribution platforms. App stores are monetisation platforms. There’s a very real difference between the two,” he said.“Google and Apple are doing an excellent job in promotion and everything they do, but bear in mind they’re not kids companies. They’re not even content companies. They can’t be expected to do this for us.”Children’s entertainment will split into big and small firmsCollins thinks the children’s entertainment and technology industry is about to become much more polarised in terms of the kind of companies that can survive.“Fundamentally, there will be two types of companies over the next three, four, five years. There’ll be the big ones, who can consolidate and create economies of scale. And then the niche companies who can make and craft beautiful things and charge a premium price,” he said.“That’s it. There will be no inbetweeners. In order to survive in this market, you have to start thinking about which end of that spectrum you want to be: if you’re not in for size, you have to be aiming for the most beautiful, perfectly-crafted piece of technology that you can possibly bring to the world.”A tag cloud showing the results of a SuperAwesome survey asking children what they'd most like for Christmas.YouTube could do to TV what social gaming did to consoles“The internet guys almost always seem to arrive in any industry to spoil the party,” noted Collins, before suggesting that YouTube’s growing role as an alternative to traditional TV for children mirrors a previous disruptive entertainment trend: social gaming.“We watched social gaming start: Zynga, Facebook and web browsers. And all the wisest minds in the console industry got together, looked at it and went ‘Nah, it’s not going to work. People want real graphics, real Hollywood-type experiences,” said Collins, a games industry veteran before founding SuperAwesome.“And then Zynga IPO’d and the console industry largely got eclipsed. We’re seeing the same thing with TV content and YouTube: the internet guys are going in and messing up the furniture.”The economics of YouTube are still challengingYouTube may be big for children, but it’s hard for children’s media companies to make money there – even the big multi-channel networks (MCNs) like Maker Studios, which is being bought by Disney.“Maker Studios was going to hit the wall: they were almost completely out of money. But Disney came along and paid $450m just to get their hands on it,” said Collins.“If you look at what you can generate from TV content, it’s still quite far from the economics of online video content. There’s a gap there, and we’ve got to figure out how to bridge that. It’s going to be several years before the economics of online video can justify a lot of what we see on the TV side.”Even so, Collins noted that YouTube is “the most powerful kids property in the world right now” while pointing to other emerging networks – Twitter’s Vine in particular – as forcing a rethink in the strategy of many media companies.“We’ve talked to music labels whose production budgets are still weighted towards doing a traditional, four-minute music video,” he said.“They’re going to flip that and start investing in six-second Vine clips, because they’re getting as much utility out of kids sharing Vine clips as they would from this 3-4 minute linear content.”The kids will do it themselves“We need to create digital infrastructure of the children, we need to create digital infrastructure for the children, and if we leave it too long, that same digital infrastructure will probably be created by the children,” said Collins.“The change we are seeing with kids is the greatest change we’ve seen in a generation of children since the war. This is the generation of kids that is going to change everything. They are going to create. They are going to destroy.”Collins cited several examples of app developers in their early to mid teens, noting that they’re educating themselves using sites like Codecademy and YouTube.“For the first time in our society’s history, we’re being presented with a generation of kids capable of exceeding our abilities while they are still kids,” he said, citing another survey showing 26% of children claimed to have written some kind of code, while a third had used Photoshop or similar software.“The reason Minecraft exploded was it allowed kids to create: it gave them the tools and empowered them,” said Collins. “As a society, we are woefully under-prepared for this generation, I think.”Teachers are facing a big tech challengeFrom this September, programming will be part of the UK’s national curriculum for primary school children and up, while the gap between the technology used by many children at home and in schools is growingCollins thinks there’s a big challenge brewing for education. “Think about the classroom imbalance between some teachers and students when it comes to talking about anything technical,” he said.“Now imagine what that is going to be like in five years time. It will be the new generation of kids, but it’s probably going to be the same teachers. How are we going to deal with that?”Change isn’t always a good thingDuring his talk, Collins was asked about the negative aspects of digital media and children, including cyberbullying on social networks. He held up his hands and admitted that not all digital change is beneficial.“Change is not always good. I’m not saying going up this curve is going to be without speed bumps and downsides. Change is not always progress: sometimes it’s just change,” he said.“But if we don’t have a sustainable industry, we’re not going to be able to do anything about it, because we’re not going to be around.”•Digital Kids: how children are using devices, apps and media
An independent Scotland could be the perfect testbed for whether a nation can survive using cryptocurrencies instead of fiat money, the assistant governor of Australia&apos;s central bank has suggested.Speaking through a robot from Sydney at the Financial Times&apos;s Camp Alphaville conference in London, Guy Debelle argued that the experience would be similar to Scotland&apos;s own period of free banking in the 18th and 19th centuries, when the country&apos;s banks were given the power to issue their own currencies.&quot;I hear there&apos;s going to be an election in Scotland in a couple of months time,&quot; Debelle said during his speech on the future of money, referring to the forthcoming independence referendum in September. &quot;Those guys have a bit of experience with competing currencies back in the 18th and 19th centuries. So I suppose one possibility is, if the vote for independence actually gets up, they&apos;re going to be short a currency, given that the last time we talked Mark Carney is not entirely clear that he wants to let them use the pound anymore.&quot;The Scots can go back to experimenting with a multitude of currencies, bitcoin and the like, and we can just sit back and see how it goes. A nice natural experiment about the future of money in Scotland – again. Because as I said, they tried this in the 18th and 19th centuries. It worked for a while, but eventually it fell apart.&quot;In the discussion that followed Debelle&apos;s comments, some panelists disagreed – but not with the idea that Scotland should give cryptocurrencies a chance. David Birch, director of digital currency consultants Hyperion, argued that the fatalistic view of Scotland&apos;s previous experiment with multiple currencies was wrong, and that they more successful than history gives credit.&quot;The economic research shows that in Scotland, the bank failures were fewer, and less disruptive, than the bank failures in England at the time,&quot; he said, &quot;Competing note issue in Scotland didn&apos;t end because it collapsed: it ended because of an outrageous extension of the Bank Act of 1844, which extended the Bank of England&apos;s monopoly over note issue north of the border.&quot;Debelle&apos;s comments follow the publication of a pamphlet by the Institute of Economic Affairs, a neoliberal thinktank, calling for Britain to ditch the pound and adopt bitcoin, or a similar form of digital money, as its currency. For Kevin Dowd, the pamphlet&apos;s author, the rationale would be to encourage competition, which would lead to innovation in finance.&quot;The natural analogy is with some of the old, bad, monopolies like British Gas or British Telecom,&quot;Dowd told the Guardian. &quot;Telecoms is a very good example: for a long time, we had a government monopoly, which stifled innovation, and the service was poor. Once that got opened up, competition opened, new innovation prospered, and we got all sorts of innovation that we couldn&apos;t possibly anticipate, and we&apos;re a lot better off for it.&quot;Control the platform, not the paymentsBut at the Camp Alphaville, one panellist argued that all present were putting the cart before the horse. David Galbraith, an entrepreneur who was one of the co-founders of Yelp and co-creators of RSS, said that innovation in payments wasn&apos;t going to happen directly, whether or not it was in bitcoin or through the conventional banking system.&quot;I&apos;m basically an internet nerd,&quot; Galbraith said. &quot;We normally try to replace middlemen with a platform. But if you look at innovation in payments, I&apos;m not so sure it&apos;s going well.&quot; Citing more than 600 mobile payment startups, Galbraith pointed out that all of them were attempting to introduce a new payments system on top of already existing platforms.Similarly, the need to control the platform payments come from means that &quot;bitcoin is irrelevant,&quot; Galbraith said. &quot;It&apos;s opposed to market forces, which favour platform monopolies.&quot; If the future of money did come from the internet, he argued, it would come from one of those monopolies. &quot;It&apos;s not inconceivable that Facebook de facto becomes a bank, they have the scale. But Apple could have done that a long time ago, but it hasn&apos;t. Why? Because the multiples in being a tech firm are better than banking, so why go into banking?&quot;•Mystery bidder wins auction of Silk Road&apos;s nearly 30,000 bitcoin
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA review of early Android Auto and Apple CarPlay support &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson:Perhaps the most cheering element of the support both platforms have received from major manufacturers is that so many of them seem to be planning to support both, even in the relatively short term. Given that the biggest objection from many users to the whole concept of a Google- or Apple-powered in-car system is that they don't want to have to choose their car purchasing options limited by their choice of smartphone, this is a welcome trend. The best outcome for consumers would be in-car systems that either come with both platforms pre-loaded, or with the ability to activate either at any time. It seems that Volvo, Honda and Hyundai may be moving in this direction already, which again should be a cause for celebration.Not sure there's much celebration at Microsoft's offices.BlackBerry Passport review &gt;&gt; CrackBerry.comThis is not your traditional BlackBerry. It's unlike anything you've ever held and an entirely new form factor. With this device, BlackBerry has created its own niche market. You won't find any university students using this. Don't expect the passport to be your go-to for selfies, or your music player at the gym. The much-loved Q10 was and still is a phenomenal device. It has now grown up and you are in for a treat.The Passport is a completely different feel when you pick it up. It's not the classic design, not at this size. For a second it felt like I was picking up a sexy new twist to the original Gameboy and that's a compliment. The keyboard has a different feeling too. It's too wide for one hand. The keys are smoother than anything before. They're almost a tad slippery. I've been told that they have been improved upon since this generation of prototype. The backside had a felt-like feeling to it. Not like the Q10, but more like the Z10 and was easy to grip. With a phone this size and weight, the grippiness goes a long way.…I can say now that it's a strong device that makes you feel important, powerful, productive and ready to take on the world.A remarkable-looking phone. Though it probably won't persuade people to switch to BlackBerry, it could well persuade current owners to stay. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)The Apple enterprise invasion &gt;&gt; VMware End-User Computing BlogErik Frieberg is VP of marketing, end-user computing, at VMWare (which makes virtualisation products):Perhaps the biggest takeaway from the results is that Windows is no longer the platform of choice in the enterprise with users overwhelmingly preferring Macs. User preference is the top reason given by IT administrators as to why their organization supports Macs with 73% of IT administrators identifying it as the main driver.As a result, it should come as no surprise that the study found that 66% of businesses are already using Macs in the workplace today. But as we all know, end-users will work around corporate IT if they don't get their way but the study found that a large majority of companies – more than 70% – officially support Macs as a corporate endpoint.Sample of 376 IT professionals, so potential for plenty of margin for error. The contrasting view of the IT administrators probably isn't a surprise.Android Annoyances, Chapter 1 &gt;&gt; Rusty RantsRussell Ivanovic (of app developer Shifty Jelly) liked Google I/O. But he's not so keen on Android's permissions model - such as this set for the Brightest Flashlight app:Wait what? This app wants to write permission to my SD Card, it wants to install shortcuts, access my location, get the ID of my phone and access the network? I mean I know it's the brightest but all that seems a bit excessive.Android fans will no doubt tell me that this is great, I've been saved from this horrible app that is trying to take advantage of me! That's all well and good, but what happens when a must have app (like Facebook or Twitter) comes along that you really want to use but there are one or two permissions you don't want to give it? On iOS, annoying popups aside, I can use Facebook but completely turn off its ability to access my location. On Android? Nope.Does anyone testing it know if this is any different in Android L? Judging by the "important API changes", it isn't, but it would be useful to clarify.Surprised? Amazon's gimmicky Fire Phone is a flop so far &gt;&gt; Into MobileSurprised? Amazon's 3D-ish smartphone, the Amazon Fire Phone isn't doing so hot in the sales department.While we don't have cold hard numbers to go on here, we can see that the Fire Phone is number 68 on Amazon's Best Sellers in Electronics list, and that's just the 32GB version. The 64GB doesn't even make it on the list. Yikes.Not that surprising for a product launched in mid-year, no. The test will come at Christmas - and also if (when?) Amazon launches cheaper models.New research shows almost one in five in-app purchases on Android are fraudulent &gt;&gt; SwrveSwrve provides mobile app marketing:Our latest analysis (details of the methodology are below) found that almost one in five in-app purchases on Android smart devices are in fact fraudulent transactions delivering no revenue to the app developer. A full 19% of all purchases are fraudulent, which both impacts total revenue, but perhaps more importantly can lead to poor decision-making in data-driven organizations unable to filter out the counterfeit "noise." When running in-app marketing campaigns or A/B testing user experience, revenue numbers reported may be wildly inaccurate and thus suggest ROI is delivered when it may not be the case. Which as you can imagine is something of a problem.More anecdotally, we've seen instances in which for limited time periods, up to 90% of all revenue events by value are fraudulent – a situation in which it becomes almost impossible to gather clean revenue data in most analytics and marketing platforms.19% seems like a lot. It doesn't give a figure for iOS.Windows Phone market share: crash and burn &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:The latest Kantar Worldpanel numbers for smartphone market share may not be surprising, but they are grim indeed for Microsoft. In the heart of the Windows empire in the United States, Windows Phone's market share dropped from 4.7% to 3.6% between May 2013 and May 2014. In Germany, the decline was from 6.2% to 5.9%. In Brazil, the share remained flat at 5.5%. In China, Windows Phone saw a collapse from 3% to o.6%.This may seem like just another spring, a season among others. But look closer — we are in fact witnessing the final hope for any meaningful future for Windows Phone being snuffed out.Windows Phone didn't lead the iPhone in any of the markets that Kantar reported in the three months to the end of May - even including Italy, where it has briefly in the past. While it might be gaining new users with every sale, it's hard to see it ever becoming part of a triumvirate - as Kuittinen goes on to point out, it's being slaughtered by cheap Android phones in developing countries too.Facebook Mood Manipulator &gt;&gt; lauren mccarthyFacebook Mood Manipulator is a browser extension that lets you choose how you want to feel and filters your Facebook Feed accordingly.Options: positive, emotional, aggressive, open.Product Strategy Means Saying No &gt;&gt; Inside IntercomDes Traynor's simple-yet-excellent guide to why actually, you don't want to put all those features in. All are good, though this one might have the most resonance for most users:"But we can just make it optional."This leads to death by preferences. Making features optional hides the complexity from the default screens in the interface, but it still surfaces everywhere else. The visible cost of this is a messy interface with lots of conditional design and heaps of configuration. The hidden cost is that every optional feature weakens your product definition. You become "a time tracker that can also send invoices and, sorta, do payment reconciliation, but not reporting, yet, I think, I don't know."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Nearly one in five of the most visited sites on the internet are being blocked by the adult content filters installed on Britain's broadband and mobile networks.A Porsche car dealership, two feminist websites, a blog on the Syrian War and theGuido Fawkespolitical site are among the domains that have fallen foul of the recently installed filters.TheOpen Rights Group, which campaigns for digital rights, surveyed the 100,000 most popular sites as ranked by digital marketing research firmAlexa, and found that 19,000 of them were blocked by at least one fixed line or mobile internet service provider.The UK's four mobile networks have used filters for a number of years, with some imposing them on all pay-as-you-go subscribers.Following a push by David Cameron, broadband companies including TalkTalk, BT, Virgin Media and Sky have caught up, introducing adult content blocks that offer parents the choice of screening out potentially harmful content. Every household will be asked whether they wish to install a broadband filter before the end of 2014. The filters screen out pornography, suicide and self-harm related content, weapons and violence, gambling, drugs, alcohol and tobacco, but users can also opt to block dating, music and film piracy, games and social networking."Filters can stop customers accessing your business, block political commentary or harm your education," said Jim Killock, executive director at Open Rights. "The government has told everybody that they have to take child safety extremely seriously and that filters are in some way an answer to that. People are being pushed into filtering lots of content that they simply don't need to and is not dangerous to children."Marielle Volz, an American who had just moved to the UK with her husband and young son, had no internet access at home and wanted to read an article about recovering from childbirth on her mobile phone.But the feature,  "Stop acting like 'bouncing back' from labor is even possible", was published by Jezebel.com, a website owned by the respected digital publisher Gawker Media, and which is currently blocked by her mobile network, Three.Volz said: "I was so excited to move to a country with sane maternity leave policies, only to find I couldn't even read an article about it!" Three imposes an adult content filter as default for all pay as you go customers.A spokesman for the network said the Jezebel block was under review and that customers could report any wrongly filtered material via its website.Philip Raby, who runs a Porsche brokerage based in Chichester, found his website had fallen foul of O2's filter. He sent emails and made calls, but was unsuccessful in having the ban lifted until he began tweeting about the problem. "We must have lost some business as a result," said Raby. "It doesn't look great telling people the site is not suitable for under 18s!"A spokesman for O2 said: "The vast majority of sites are categorised correctly but with the millions of sites now connected to the web and the wide variety of content, mistakes can happen."Syrian War commentator Aboud Dandachi's blog has been screened out by EE, O2, Sky and Vodafone, according to Open Rights Group's research, although a spokesman for Vodafone said it was now visible on his filtered phone.Sherights.com, which focuses on sexual health, violence against women and lesbian and gay rights, relies like many sites on traffic to its pages to earn the advertising revenue that funds its content. It was blocked by TalkTalk in April, and the bar has since been lifted.Sherights editor Maureen Shaw said: "The effect of filtering boils down to advertising revenue, which is based on site visitors. If people who would normally be interested in accessing our content are not able to view the site, it directly impacts our bottom line."The Guido Fawkes website is being blocked in households which have selected to screen out all social media, according to TalkTalk. The category covers Facebook and Twitter, but also blogs and chat forums, and www.order-order.com is classified as a blog.TalkTalk, whose filter is called HomeSafe, said customers could email Homesafe.classification@talktalkplc.com to report wrongly blocked sites. A spokeswoman said: "We welcome feedback to ensure we are continually improving the product."
The organisers of a video game tournament based around the battle strategy title Hearthstone have been criticised for limiting entry to male players only.The event, a Finnish qualifier for the International e-Sports Federation (IeSF) World Championships, is taking place during the Assembly gaming exhibition in Helsinki at the end of July.A website pagethat provides information about entering the competition,originally stated&quot;The participation is open only to Finnish male players.&quot;The ruleset was re-posted byusers of the social news service Reddit, provoking widespread derision. A spokesperson for the qualification heat, Markus Koskivirtatold PC Gamer, &quot;Your information is indeed correct, the tournament is open to Finnish male players only.&quot;In accordance with the International e-Sports Federation&apos;s tournament regulations, since the main tournament event is open to male players only. This is to avoid possible conflicts (e.g. a female player eliminating a male player during RO8) among other things.&quot;Based in South Korea, the International e-Sports Federation presents itself as an international representative body for professional gaming. Formed in 2008, the organisation has arranged a series of major gaming tournaments around the world. On its Facebook page, the IeSF states that its aim is &quot;to promote e-Sports as true sports beyond barriers.&quot;However, it seems that one barrier that has proven insurmountable is gender. The IeSF splits entry into its world tournaments into male and female categories, so national qualification heats have to do the same. The organisers of the Finnish qualifier have stated that they are pushing for better inclusivity.Answering criticisms of its stance on the Facebook page, the IeSF originally stated, &quot;The decision to divide male and female competitions was made in accordance with international sports authorities, as part of our effort to promote e-Sports as a legitimate sports.&quot;It later suggested that gender segregation would allow female players a chance to compete in what is a male-dominated sport. It aslo stated, &quot;IeSF is very close to get (sic) e-Sports recognized as a true sports like it should be. Part of that efforts (sic) is to comply with the international sports regulations. For example, chess is also divided into male/female leagues.&quot;However, the World Chess Championship, the game&apos;s major competition, is open to both men and women players – as are the top tier competitions in many non-physical sports.As the controversy spread from social media to specialist gaming news sites, the stance seems to have softened. A new statement at the head of the Facebook page states:&quot;In the last hours we have received lots of feedback from you regarding the IeSF 6th e-Sports World Championship, particularly regarding the male/female tournament division.&quot;Our top priority is to promote e-Sports in the best ways we can. We believe that listening is important, and we&apos;re now collecting your opinions from the social media, and we will update soon.&quot;Hearthstone is a fantasy strategy game in which players build decks of cards displaying various warriors with different skillsets – these decks are then used in turn-based battles against other players online. The game, which is developed by World of Warcraft creator Blizzard, has 10 million registered users.E-sports is becoming increasingly popular around the world. Major tournaments in South Korea are televised to millions of spectators, while a recent championship event for the strategy combat game League of Legends attracted enough spectators to fill Wembley Arena. Most tournaments do not segregate in terms of gender.The Guardian contacted both the IeSF and Blizzard for comment, but none was received by publication time.
Managers in Silicon Valley call it the “Dave rule”: to assure proper gender balance you must have at least as many women on your team as guys named Dave.It is an insider joke delivered, depending on who says it, with a smile or wince, because women are indeed vastly underrepresented in the technology industry.It sounded even less funny this week after a female former executive of Tinderfiled a sexual harassment lawsuitagainst the company, claiming she was ousted amid a barrage of sexist and racist comments.Whitney Wolfe, the former vice-president of marketing for the dating app, said Justin Mateen, the chief marketing officer,called her a “whore”and that Sean Rad, the CEO, ignored the abuse when she complained.Tinder&apos;s parent company, IAC, has suspended Mateen pending an investigation, but that did little to containaccusations that Silicon Valley was a frathouse culturehostile not just to women but also black people, Latinos and those over a certain age.The dominance of young white and Asian males in startups and corporate behemoths has been under renewed scrutiny since May when Google publishedits first diversity report, revealing that 70% of its global workforce is male. Of its US staff, 61% are white, 30% Asian, 3% hispanic and 2% black. Facebook, LinkedIn and Yahoo! followed suit, revealing similar disparities.The reports earned plaudits for transparency. Google was praised for subsequently announcing a $50m project to encourage and train female programmers.Tinder's Justin Mateen was suspended following allegations of sexual harassment at the company. Photograph: /PRBut interviews with tech workers and observers in San Francisco and the Bay area underlined the multiple challenges in transforming the industry&apos;s culture and demographics.One manager of a 20-strong software engineering team at a well-known company said he would like to hire more women, but his only female worker recently moved to another project. “Now we don&apos;t even apply the Dave rule,” he said.Socially awkward geeks struggled to make accomplished female coders feel welcome, he said. “Some of the younger ones especially have a hard time relating to women as ordinary people.”Sara Haider, 28, a female programer who headed a team at Twitter before moving to the anonymous app Secret, said the key was for women to start young – and be tough.&quot;The best way to get more women in the industry is to have girls coding. It comes down to the small decisions you make as a child. I was always into geeky things and started coding when I was nine.&quot;Haider said women needed to show no fear in male-dominated environments. &quot;I&apos;m physically not [intimidated]. If anyone gave me any crap I&apos;d just beat them up,&quot; she laughed.The show Silicon Valley mocks coders' reputation for poor skills relating to women, but has also been criticised for only featuring one regular female cast member. Photograph: HBOShe lamented that womenoften undersold themselvesin wage negotiations even if they were high performing: &quot;If managers don&apos;t take that into account then women will be under-compensated.&quot;In May a group of nine women in techposted a manifestoin which they complained about being harassed, belittled and groped. “What we want most is for people to read and understand what death by a thousand cuts feels like, and then understand why we feel sad and angry at the tech industry. We also want you to understand that more still needs to be done.”Fred Turner,a Stanford University experton the technology industry and American cultural history, said Silicon Valley&apos;s entrepreneurs and managers espoused meritocracy but often used “likeness” to themselves as a shorthand for quality. “Oh, he&apos;s like me, he must be good.”California&apos;s hippy communes in the 1960s abjured formal rules and bureaucracy and espoused egalitarianism, yet white males ended up running them, reflecting stereotypical societal norms – a pattern of patriarchy repeated by startups, said Turner.Another alleged Silicon Valley sin – ageism – punishes men and women. A survey by the company PayScale found that of 32 leading US tech firms only six had an average age over 35 - a seeming reflection of the famous claim by Facebook&apos;s Mark Zuckerberg that young people were “just smarter”.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, 30, once said that young people are 'just smarter'. Photograph: Ben Margot/APExecutives and venture capitalists in their 30s, 40s and 50, terrified of looking “avuncular”, routinely seek Botox and fillers, said Seth Matarasso, a San Francisco dermatologist. “They go the gym, they alter their diet, they dress young – and then they come here, the final frontier, facial work.”The clinic is the second biggest dispenser of Botox in the US, according to Matarasso.Some tech clients enter via a back door to avoid being seen, he said. “It has to be quick, something they can do on a lunch break, and it has to be surreptitious, very under the radar.”He said he tried to dampen expectations of appeasing the cult of youth. “I have to tell them that a little bit of filler or squirt of Botox may make you feel more confident but it won&apos;t get you a new job.”
China&apos;s fast-growing handset maker Xiaomi says it sold more than 26m smartphones in the first half of the year, almost four times the 7m it sold in the same period a year ago, and is on track to reach 60m handset sales by Christmas.Established in 2010, Xiaomi only released its first smartphone in 2011, but founder Lei Jun&apos;s reputation as &quot;the Chinese Steve Jobs&quot; has helped the company attract a cult following among younger consumers.The company sold 7.2m smartphones in 2012 and 18.7m in 2013, with the total reaching 26.11m in the first half of 2014. These totals, Xiaomi said in astatementon Tuesday, mean its mobile division “already has a considerable user group”.The 26m shipment was 30% more than Taiwanese rival HTC, once the world&apos;s biggest Android smartphone maker, shipped in the whole of 2013. HTC has been struggling to find profitability, and cut capacity in 2013 to 38.6m devices - suggesting that Xiaomi will outsell it this year.The increase in sales, which produced a 150% rise in revenues to 33bn yuan renminbi (£3bn), means Xiami devices outsold Samsung in China for the second time in April,according to market research fromKantar, with its budget RedMI device the top selling smartphone in the country. Nearly a quarter of new users previously owned a Samsung handset, according to Kantar.Xiaomi&apos;s strategy is to sell devices at rock bottom prices, via online shops and with minimal marketing spend, in order to recruit users for the company&apos;s software and internet services. Its phones use a customised version of Google&apos;s Android software.It already outsells Apple in China, and the size of its domestic market means two of its handsets – RedMI and Mi3 – were among the world&apos;s top 10 bestselling smartphones in April, said Hong Kong-basedCounterpoint Technology Market Research.Xiaomi sells its cheaper RedMi handsets for $130 unlocked, and its higher quality Mi3 for $330, undercutting similar handsets from Apple and Samsung.Havingrecriuted senior Google executive Hugo Barrain September 2013 to run international sales, Xiaomi has announced plans to expand this year to more than a dozen fast growing markets, including Malaysia, Indonesia, India Thailand, Russia, Turkey, Brazil and Mexico.Valued at $10bn in a fundraising last August, privately held Xiaomi hopes international growth will push smartphone sales to 150m units in 2015.•Lenovo, Xiaomi, Alibaba and more: the Chinese technology companies poised to dominate the world
Facebook’s second most powerful executive, Sheryl Sandberg, has apologised for the conduct of secret psychological tests on nearly 700,000 users in 2012, which prompted outrage from users and experts alike.The experiment,revealed by a scientific paperpublished in the March issue of Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences, hid &quot;a small percentage&quot; of emotional words from peoples&apos; news feeds, without their knowledge, to test what effect that had on the statuses or &quot;likes&quot; that they then posted or reacted to.“This was part of ongoing research companies do to test different products, and that was what it was; it was poorly communicated,” said Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officerwhile in New Delhi.“And for that communication we apologise. We never meant to upset you.”The statement by Sandberg, deputy to chief executive Mark Zuckerberg, is a marked climbdown from its insistence on Tuesday that the experiment was covered by its terms of service. The secret tests mean that the companyfaces an inquiryfrom the UK&apos;s information commissioner, while the publishers of the paper have said they will investigate whether any ethics breach took place. Psychological tests on human subjects have to have &quot;informed consent&quot; from participants - but independent researchers and Facebook have disagreed on whether its terms of service implicitly cover such use.Facebook’s first public comment on the experiments came as the social network attempted to woo Indian advertisers as part of its efforts to tailor adverts to users outside of the US. The aim of the government-sponsored study was to see whether positive or negative words in messages would lead to positive or negative content in status updates.The company&apos;s researchers decided after tweaking the content of peoples&apos; &quot;news feeds&quot; that there was &quot;emotional contagion&quot; across the social network, by which people who saw one emotion being expressed would themselves express similar emotions.“We take privacy and security at Facebook really seriously because that is something that allows people to share” opinions and emotions, said Sandberg.The UK data protection watchdog, the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO),is investigating the experimentto determine whether Facebook has infringed on UK law.The social network alsofaced stern criticism from commentatorsand researchers, over is handling of the experiment which was not explained to users and therefore was performed without their permission, with some referring to it as &quot;creepy&quot;, &quot;evil&quot;, &quot;terrifying&quot; and &quot;super disturbing”.Facebook lateradded a “research” policy to its terms and conditions, four months after the experiment took place.•If Facebook can tweak our emotions and make us vote, what else can it do?
Google’sfirst smartwatcheshave hit reviewers&apos; hands in the US and Android Wear is being put through its first paces.Google hopes that Android Wear – its new software for smartwatches and other wearable devices – will convince users that smartwatchesare actually useful.Joanna Sternfrom the Wall Street Journalthinks Android Wear’s secret weapon is Google Now.Thanks largely to Google Now, the online personal assistant that prompts you with information you need, these feel like the first watches that are truly ‘smart.’ But there&apos;s still too much smartphone in them. I don&apos;t want something on my wrist that looks and acts like a phone.You can also just tell the watch what to do. Its microphone is always listening for a voice prompt—&quot;OK Google&quot;—and spoken commands such as &quot;search the Web,&quot; &quot;send a text,&quot; &quot;set a reminder,&quot; etc.&quot;OK Google, text Mom: I&apos;m going to make the 3 pm train,&quot; I said into the watch as I was running through Penn Station. Even though my phone was buried in one of my many bags, the text message fired off.And yes, when I raise my arm to my mouth, even to set a reminder to pick up toothpaste, I feel like a Secret Service agent.Anick Jesdanunfrom the APsees less as more.In its first iteration, Google&apos;s Android Wear software for computerised wristwatches isn&apos;t so much about innovation as it is an effort at simplification.But Wear, an extension of a smartphone, isn&apos;t going to work for everyone or every Android device.Android Wear requires a companion smartphone running Android 4.3 or later. That covers KitKat and the later versions of Jelly Bean, but according to Google&apos;s own stats, only about a quarter of Android devices have either. For a variety of reasons, many recent phones can&apos;t be upgraded. And of course, no iPhones.And as Jesdanun points out, no Dick Tracy moments:You can&apos;t use the watch as a speakerphone for calls, the way previous Samsung smartwatches allowed. But you can make calls or answer ones that come in. The call still goes through the phone, but that&apos;s not a problem if you have a Bluetooth headset.Gizmag&apos;s Will Shanklinlikes how quiet Android Wear is, good for using it in public.One thing that surprised me about Android Wear is how quiet it is. while you do talk to Android Wear, it doesn&apos;t usually talk back. It just shows you what you need to know on your screen.That isn&apos;t a complaint. On the contrary, I think Android Wear hits this part right on the head.That&apos;s not to say the watches aren&apos;t constantly buzzing on your wrist with notifications.Like most smartwatches, Android Wear is largely about notifications. But while other watches simply forward a few lines of text from your smartphone&apos;s notification centre, Wear handles alerts more maturely. With Wear, you don&apos;t just read a few words from an incoming message. You can also read the full message (other watches usually cut off longer emails), see your friend&apos;s contact picture in the background, view your conversation history and reply by voice. It handles SMS, email and Hangouts (though you can&apos;t start a new Hangout, only reply to an existing thread). It even lets you archive Gmail messages when you&apos;re done with them.But what&apos;s missing is the apps, which is probably be expected at this stage given that the devices haven&apos;t been released for sale yet and Android Wear has only just been released to developers.What&apos;s missing right now is third-party app integration. And even when those start popping up, we still won&apos;t see full &quot;apps&quot; per se. It will be more like developers updating their Android smartphone apps to add Wear widgets. I think this is the ideal way to handle wearables. This isn&apos;t a standalone platform that can run independently from your phone, so why pretend like it is? The last thing we need is another isolated platform with its own app store.Ars Technica&apos;sRon Amadeo sayshaving Android in the name doesn&apos;t mean it can do anything on its own.Without a tethered smartphone, Wear is nearly useless. It can&apos;t access the Internet or use voice commands, leaving you with only a handful of basic chronographic functions like starting a timer or stopwatch. Your first step after installing the Wear app is therefore to turn on Bluetooth, pair the watch with your phone, and give it access to the notification API.Despite having small screens Android Wear&apos;s easy to tap screens make using the watches a bit easier.One nice touch is that the touch targets of Wear are also much larger than the icon that represents them. Blue action icons will actually trigger from a touch anywhere on the screen, not just within the blue circle, and things like the time/notification card on the home screen are actually just a full screen 50/50 split. Making the touch targets deceptively large helps with quickly using the watch.And while third-party support isn&apos;t as well developed as it could be, most apps work because of Google&apos;s past Android updates.Because Google laid the groundwork for Android Wear one year ago with Android 4.3, the OS has out-of-the-box compatibility with most apps.Android Wear also does a better job of being controlled via voice, removing the need to pause after activating the voice recognition with the &quot;OK, Google&quot; hotword, for instance.Wear does buffer voice input after the hotword, so you can quickly say, &quot;OK Google, set a timer for five minutes,&quot; and it will catch everything.Dieter Bohnon the Vergeexplains that Android Wear is fairly simple to use, for the most part.Getting around the watch is simultaneously dead simple and a little complicated. It&apos;s dead simple as long as you treat the watch as a dumb terminal to your phone and don&apos;t worry about finding those advanced features. You simply swipe up to scroll through your notifications, swipe right to dismiss them, and swipe left to access more options for each one. It gets complicated when you want to dig into some of the options; they&apos;re so buried under hard-to-find &quot;Start&quot; and &quot;Settings&quot; menus that I can only assume Google wants to you mostly ignore them. Fortunately, you can do exactly that most of the time.Plus, deleting an email from your wrist is certainly satisfying.It&apos;s a small happiness to get an email you want to immediately destroy and be able to immediately destroy it from your watch. It&apos;s a small happiness to glance down and see that the weather or package-tracking information you want is sitting right there. But for every time Android Wear gives you exactly what you want, there&apos;s another time that it frustrates you. If you have more than one email stacked up, for example, you can&apos;t manage them from your watch — you&apos;ll have to go to your phone for that.While most are waiting with baited breath for Motorola&apos;s large, round smartwatch, the 360, the first two Android Wear-powered smartwatches are the LG G Watch and the Samsung Gear Live.Mario Aguilar from Gizmodorates the LG G Watch, but only really has eyes for the Moto 360.Not yet. If a smartwatch is a thing you desperately want, the LG G Watch is the prettiest hardware you can buy right now, but you should definitely wait until the end of the summer to see if the stunning Moto 360 is any good. You should also wait until Android Wear&apos;s various quirks have been addressed, which we&apos;re hopeful, if naively so, that they will be promptly.Aguilar also observes on battery life:On full charge you can expect more than a full day of average usage with the screen set to always on. If you set the screen to turn off when the phone is inactive, your battery efficiency goes way up.But Tech Crunch&apos;sDarrell Etherington writesthat LG&apos;s buttonless design can be a bit confusing.The buttonless design of the LG G Watch presents some interesting challenges; figuring out how to turn the device on took some time, for instance, and I had to eventually resort to reading the included paper instruction booklet to find out that you have to put it in the magnetic charging cradle to power it up.While Chris Davies from SlashGearthinks the Samsung Gear Live&apos;s design wins, but don&apos;t try using it outdoors.Up front is a 1.63-inch touchscreen using Samsung&apos;s favored AMOLED technology. It&apos;s minutely smaller than LG&apos;s IPS LCD panel, but higher resolution at 320 x 320 for a total pixel density of 278ppi. Display-fanciers I spoke to at Google I/O were divided on the bottom-line quality of the screen, but it&apos;s ideal for the wrist: bright colors, eye-catching, and with smooth graphics.Where it struggles is outdoors, with sunlight visibility fading versus the LG&apos;s screen (though to be blunt, neither is especially sun-friendly). Android Wear&apos;s bold graphics look great indoors, however.What about battery life, though?It&apos;ll obviously depend considerably on what you use your Android Wear smartwatch for - notifications are relatively low-intensity; voice commands and navigation are more demanding - but I always managed to get through a full day of use before I needed any sort of recharge.But with either smartwatch arguably Seth Weintraub from 9to5 Googlehits the nail on the head.Perhaps what’s most important about Android Wear compared to say Google Glass, is that it is understated. Most folks won’t know your watch is a Google device and unless you invoke it, probably will think you have a normal, if slightly bulky, wristwatch… something that society has long ago accepted wholeheartedly.•Google I/O 2014: smartwatches, Google Fit – and Android L
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski, we hear about an innovative messaging system that works even if WiFi and cellular networks are down. The app is calledFirechatand its creatorMicha Benolieltells us about this game-changing communication tool for Android &amp; iOS, and why - despite all evidence to the contrary - it may actually be good for telephone companies.On the subject of telephone companies, British Telecom's broadband service experienced a major crash last week, the Guardian's telecoms correspondentJuliette Garsidejoins Aleks to discuss the twitter storm that ensued as the outage spread across England.Are you feeling happy, or sad? Answers to those simple questions turned out to be quite thorny, after a psychology research study published this week revealed that the social network Facebook manipulated our feeds to learn about our emotions. Aleks is joined by Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurand Guardian tech reporterAlex Hernto discuss whether Facebook are in the right or the wrong over this experiment.And, finally, Guardian apps expertStuart Dredgediscusses the latest app update by the Berlin-based audio social site SoundCloud and why their focus on listeners rather then creators might mark a shift in direction for the company.
Where were the FA cut finals held between 2001 and 2005 while Wembley was being rebuilt?If you said Cardiff you’d still have 1,000 miles on your clock in Google’s new fun trivia game based on Google Maps called Smarty Pins.Nailed it.The free game starts the player with 1,000 miles and asks them to put a pin in a spot on the map the answers a trivia question. The questions range from the easy to the devilishly hard and cover a whole range of categories including arts, science, geography, sports, entertainment and history, plus rotating featured topics which currently covers the World Cup.Answer incorrectly and the game deducts miles from your odometer corresponding to how far as the crow flies from the correct answer the player placed the pin. Fast, correct answers earn up to 15 extra miles to keep the player’s journey going longer. When the odometer hits zero it’s game over.The game is a surprisingly fun time waster, even if geography isn’t your strong suit and those that do well can share their scores via Twitter, Facebook or Google+.•Google starts removing links in response to &apos;right to be forgotten&apos;•What is Songza and why is Google buying it for a rumoured $39m?
Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak describes a Samsung smartwatch as “worthless” and says he could only stand using it for half a day.Wozniak says he loves the idea of a smartwatch and bought the £300 Samsung Galaxy Gear, released in September 2013, to try out Android-based smartwatches. Despitehis love of Google’s Android softwareand his view that Appleshould release an Android smartphone, Wozniak’s experience of the device was poor.“That was the only technology I bought to experiment with that I threw out after half a day, sold it on eBay because it was so worthless and did so little that was convenient,” Wozniaksaid of the Galaxy Gear talking to Xconomyat the Flying Car conference in Milwaukee last week. “You had to hold it up to your ear and stuff.”Smartwatches need bigger screenWozniak believes that smartwatches will not be useful until the screens get bigger than the current sub-two-inch screens currently available on smartwatches from LG, Samsung and Pebble. He previously suggested that plastic folding screens may be the answer, but the technology to make folding screens practical for consumer gadgets has not yet been proven.“I want my smartphone [on my wrist], but I really want the whole thing,” said Wozniak. “I don’t want just a little Bluetooth connection to the smartphone in my pocket because then it’s just an intermediary, an extra thing I buy to get what I already have and have to carry anyway.”His comments reflect a trend seen in the adoption of wearable technology by consumers. Around 40% of UK consumers ended up abandoning thembecause they got bored with the ideaor simply forgot to put them on, according to research by CCS Insight.Fewer than half a million smartwatches were in usein the UK by March this year, according to data from research company KWP ComTech.The story is similar in the US. One-third of American consumers have also stopped using a smart wearable device within six months of purchase according to data from Endeavour Partners.Like unripened fruitSamsung admitted its Galaxy Gear smartwatch was not up to scratch,likening it to an unripened fruit, before replacing it with theGear 2 smartwatchthat abandoned Google’s Android for the Korean manufacturer’s own Tizen software, which was later pushed to the older Galaxy Gear.Google recently unveileda series of smartwatches– includingthe Samsung Gear Live– based on new Android Wear software, which simplifies the experience and leverages Google’s notification system and intelligent digital assistant Google Now.Google hopes that the new software can make smartwatches compelling for consumers, offering more information in a just-in-time fashion and avoid the abandonment issues seen by most of the other smart wearable devices.•The future of smart wearable depends on being simple - like Yo less is more•Google Glass launches in the UK for £1,000
The virtual reality technology Project Morpheus is &quot;the new frontier of game development&quot; and represents a significant investment by the company, Sony&apos;s games chief has said.Speaking to the Guardian, CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment Andrew House, said, &quot;It&apos;s definitely more than an experiment. We&apos;ve made some commitments; we&apos;re putting significant investment into the product.&quot;Revealed at the Game Developer Conference in San Francisco in June, Project Morpheus is a virtual reality (VR) headset which puts two high definition screens in front of the wearer&apos;s eyes, providing an immersive 3D view of the game world.The device also includes movement tracking technologies, so players can move their head to look around the virtual scene. The product will work in conjunction with Sony&apos;s PlayStation 4 console, but no release date has been announced.Although the concept has been around for several decades, virtual reality is only now emerging as a realistic mainstream consumer technology. Headsets launched in the early nineties featured low-resolution screens and significant lag between player movements and on-screen action causing motion sickness.In 2012, however, a start-up tech company named Oculus successfully crowd-funded a new VR headset on the Kickstarter site and has since sold over 100,000 early versions of its Oculus Rift device to developers. A consumer launch is expected next autumn.For Sony, virtual reality represents a new way to boost consumer electronics sales. 3D TV has largely proved a failure, as many consumers were unimpressed with stereoscopic 3D effects in the living room. But virtual reality potentially provides a much more complete experience.&quot;We do now think that we can get to this point of delivering a magical sense of presence - where your brain tricks you into thinking you&apos;re actually in this place,&quot; said House. &quot;We think there&apos;s something there that could be really, really interesting for a next frontier of game development.&quot;&quot;Developers are passionate about VR&quot;Another important element for Sony is engaging with the game development community. The company&apos;s PlayStation 4 console is in burgeoning competition with Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One, and both want to attract the most talented game makers to their machines. The huge popularity of Oculus Rift among games coders and designers has encouraged Sony to think that Project Morpheus is a good way of securing talent.&quot;With Oculus we saw this groundswell of game development that didn&apos;t necessarily have a monetisable or a business option, but [developers were] so passionate about this space that they were doing this essentially in their spare time,&quot; said House. &quot;It struck that me that if there&apos;s a variety of game developersshowing interest in this space then it&apos;s probably time to jump in and see if we can play a part and give them the tools they&apos;re looking for.&quot;The big question is whether mainstream users will be willing to sit in their living rooms wearing virtual reality headsets. There has been much enthusiasm within the games community, but technologies like this have been largely untested among the wider consumer base. It may be that sales of the Google Glass device, which offers augmented reality technology, provides a useful analogue.Asked about the mass market potential of the device, House replied, &quot;I don&apos;t know, but I think that at the very least it&apos;s going to be another really interesting advance for the PS4 ecosystem and another way to deliver brand new experiences. That&apos;s what we&apos;re all about.&quot;•Sony unveils Project Morpheus, a virtual reality headset for PlayStation 4•Sony&apos;s Project Morpheus brings virtual reality to mainstream console gaming
Having taken iPhone and Android by storm, social app Yo has now beenreleased for Windows Phone smartphonestoo.The single-use app, which pings &quot;Yo&quot; notifications back and forth between its users, already had more than 1 million users before its latest expansion.Developed in Israel, the app is backed by $1.2m of seed funding, with its developers hoping to prove that it is more than just a novelty app championed by journalists and Silicon Valley execs for a joke.&quot;The past few weeks have been incredible, with millions of users discovering how simple it can be to stay in touch with just with a Yo,&quot;said creator Or Arbelin a statement. &quot;We are going to keep bringing that experience to as many users as possible and the new version is an important step in that direction.&quot;There are plenty of sceptics, but Yo is already showing potential when linked with other internet services.For example,IFTTT has launched a dedicated Yo channelto link the app with other gadgets and digital services, including using it tocontrol home lighting(if the lights are from Philips&apos; connected Hue range) and calling a user&apos;s phone to help them get out of a meeting.Meanwhile, aYo hackathon in late Junesaw developers coming up with other uses for the app, from notifications of server downtime and bookmarking songs playing on the radio for later listening, through to a toaster capable of yoing its owner when their toast is ready.The hackathon has also spawned a charity campaign,YOTHEWORLD, which is trying to raise money to fund surgery for a Haitian child with a rare heart defect.The Windows Phone app, IFTTT channel and hackathon cap an eventful month for Yo, although it has not all been good news for the fledgling startup.Yo was hacked in mid-Juneby a group of students, who claimed to be able to access users&apos; phone numbers as well as sending notifications from any account. Yo has since patched that particular security hole,hiring one of the hackers to help.•The 30 types of Yo
Demand for large-screen phones is growing emphatically in the UK, new data shows, with phones bigger than 4.9in accounting for nearly one quarter of shipments in the first quarter of 2014.Tracking company Context, which monitors shipments of phones to retail suppliers, resellers and corporate accounts in the UK, says that there has been a dramatic rise in the number and proportion of smartphones with screens measuring 4.9in or above, compared to the iPhone 4 and 4S, which measure 3.5in, and the iPhone 5, 5C and 5S, which measure 4in.The data confirms a growing consumer interest in larger smartphones, and comes ahead of what is rumoured to be a new, larger iPhone in the autumn.Shipments of screens over 4.9in grew from just 7% of the total in the first quarter of 2013 to 23% in the same period in 2014, according to Context&apos;s data.Screens below 4.2in - taking in all the iPhones, and also some smaller Android phones - went from being 62% of shipments in the first quarter of 2013 to 48% in the first quarter of 2014.Smaller screens - such as the iPhone - are still popular but demand for larger ones is growing, according to data from Context. Photograph: PR/ContextIn absolute terms, shipments of iPhone-sized screens fell only slightly, from 1.37m to 1.3m. But those sized 4.9in and above grew rapidly, from 0.14m to 0.66m.&quot;Giant&quot; phones - with screens larger than 5.9in, such asHTC&apos;s One Max- saw the most rapid growth. From fewer than 100 sales in the first quarter of 2013, their sales grew 100-fold, peaking over Christmas - though even then only consisted of 1% of the burgeoning market.All that points to a trend which Apple cannot resist, suggests Jeremy Davies of Context.&quot;Apple are going to have to do a 4.7-inch phone,&quot; he says. &quot;But this isn&apos;t cannibalisation of the existing market. The overall market seems to be growing.&quot;Separate data provided to the Guardian by Chitika suggests that Samsung has begun to slightly erode Apple&apos;s position in smartphones - but that other vendors are seeing little change.Web statistics collected from Chitika&apos;s advertising network comparing June 2014 with January 2014 shows that Apple&apos;s share fell slightly, from 49.7% of browsing to 48.9%, down 0.8 percentage points. Samsung&apos;s share rose from 21.4% to 22.8%.The main loser was BlackBerry, which saw its share fall from 16.8% to 15.0%, and Nokia, which fell from 2.8% to 2.5%. HTC, whichreleased its M8 One flagshipin March, saw a small rise, from 3.0% to 3.1%.Chitika data on UK smartphone browsing share, Jan-June 2014, shows a fall for Apple and BlackBerry and rises for Samsung and HTC. Photograph: /PR/ChitikaThe figures are normalised to 100%, so that falls do not necessarily mean a fall in ownership of phones, but a change in the mix of overall ownership. The UK smartphone market is still expanding, though more slowly than in previous years.•Leaks point to Apple plans for two larger-sized iPhone models in 2014Apple is widely expected to launch larger-screened models of iPhone in the autumn, where it is expected to take advantage of the &quot;adaptive display&quot; function in its iOS 8 software to allow third-party apps to work on bigger screens without specific rewriting.
Sid Meier&apos;s Civilization series of strategy games has been entrancing bedroom empire-builders since the first title was released in 1991 for PCs. 23 years on, the franchise is getting a new lease of life on smartphones and tablets.Publisher 2K Games has launchedCivilization Revolution 2, an iPhone and iPad sequel to a game released in 2008 for consoles and handhelds, before being ported to iOS in 2009 then Windows Phone in 2012.2K says the new game is the first to be developed exclusively for mobile devices, with the iOS release to be followed later this year by a version for Android.As with previous versions, the game involves playing as a historical world leader, building a civilisation from its earliest days through to the space race through a mixture of science, diplomacy and war.The new game adds new units, technology, buildings and wonders, as well as beefed-up graphics compared to its predecessor. For veterans, the inclusion of jet fighters, lasers and even Silicon Valley will spice up an already-engrossing game.Civilization Revolution 2 also notably shuns the dominant free-to-play business model in mobile gaming. It costs £10.49 to download from the App Store, with no in-app purchases.That&apos;s likely to be welcomed by Civilization fans worried about the potential for a controversial free-to-play reboot along the lines ofElectronic Arts&apos; Dungeon Keeperearlier in 2014.However, the high price (by app standards) could put off casual players who haven&apos;t grown up with the Civilization games. As with all paid games, there is scope for 2K to experiment with price drops in the future, though.The game&apos;s release is part of a wider resurgence for the Civilization franchise. The next game for PC and Mac,Civilization: Beyond Earth, will be released later in 2014, taking its action to the surface of a hostile alien planet.Earlier in the year, meanwhile, several Sid Meier games – including Civilization III, IV and V – was sold as a pay-what-you-like collection on the Humble Bundle website,generating $1.7m of purchases in its first two days.•The Guardian&apos;s weekly 20 best iOS apps roundups
A secure email startup that has raised more than $328,000 on crowdfunding website Indiegogo saw its PayPal account frozen, then restored this week.Swiss company ProtonMail has beenraising money for its encrypted email servicesince 17 June, having far exceeded its initial goal of $100,000. PayPal is one of the main ways backers can pledge to its campaign.This week, the company&apos;s chief executive Andy Yen criticised the payments company after ProtonMail&apos;s PayPal account was being restricted pending further review.&quot;When we pressed the PayPal representative on the phone for further details, he questioned whether ProtonMail is legal and if we have government approval to encrypt emails,&quot;wrote an unimpressed Yen in a blog post.His company switched to a mixture of credit card and bitcoin payments before its account was restored on Tuesday (1 July), enabling it to extract the funds already donated through PayPal.For its part, PayPal has said the restrictions were due to a technical problem. &quot;We have contacted ProtonMail today to solve this and can confirm that ProtonMail is able to receive or send funds through PayPal again,&quot; a spokespersontold security firm Kaspersky&apos;s Threat Post blog, while apologising for the error.With the restrictions now removed, the controversy is likely to prove beneficial to ProtonMail as it enters the last 16 days of its crowdfunding campaign, with stretch goals including mobile apps if it raises $500,000, encrypted chat at $700,000 and encrypted file storage if the campaign tops $1m.Developed by staff from the European Center for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Geneva, the service will offer end-to-end encryption of emails for its users, with servers hosted in Switzerland: &quot;Outside US and EU jurisdiction so all user data is protected by strict Swiss privacy laws&quot;.This week&apos;s events will lead to more scrutiny of PayPal&apos;s policies regarding restrictions on accounts, particularly of crowdfunding companies.In September 2013, its chief risk officer Tomer Barel promised an overhaul of its policies, following media coverage of limits placed on the accounts of startups includinganother encrypted-email service, Mailpile.&quot;Because the model is so new, it is potentially open to abuse. PayPal has a responsibility to ensure that the system remains secure, in compliance with Government regulations around the world, and that consumers who contribute to these campaigns understand where their money is going,&quot;wrote Barel in September.&quot;Some of PayPal&apos;s competitors solve this by simply refusing to allow their payment systems to be used at all for crowdfunding. We don&apos;t believe that&apos;s the right approach because, when done right, crowdfunding is a powerful catalyst for innovation. However, it&apos;s clear that our existing policies and processes aren’t working quite right for this particular fundraising model.&quot;Among the changes promised by Barel were that a senior member of his team would review every crowdfunding campaign using PayPal for donations.•Email is broken, but Dark Mail Alliance hopes to fix it
The latest company to be bought by Google is US-based streaming music service Songza, in a deal that the New York Times claims isworth more than $39m.Songza hasn&apos;t launched outside the US and Canada, so it&apos;s not very well known outside North America. While the reported price is small beans to Google, it could be a very important acquisition for the company&apos;s streaming music ambitions.What is Songza, then?Google provided a neat summaryin its Google+ post announcing the deal: &quot;They’ve built a great service which uses contextual expert-curated playlists to give you the right music at the right time.&quot;Available asAndroidandiOSapps, Songza has a team of people creating playlists to match various times of the day and week; activities (from working out and driving to cooking and &quot;being single&quot;); and even different weather conditions.In 2014, this may not sound that special. Spotify&apos;s Browse page offers playlists tuned to your current time, situation and mood, created by an internal editorial team built followingSpotify&apos;s acquisition of Swedish music startup Tunigoin May 2013.US rival Beats Music has a feature calledThe Sentence: a multiple-choice form that tells it what you&apos;re doing and how you&apos;re feeling (&quot;I&apos;m at the beach and feel like celebrating with my family to the 80s&quot; for example) before serving up a relevant playlist.In 2012, whenSongza relaunched its servicewith its &quot;Music Concierge&quot; option for contextual playlists, it was pioneering, and its steady growth in the US – it had 5.5 million active users by the end of 2013 – was the spur for those bigger rivals to introduce similar features.That&apos;s what Google is buying: a popular personalised radio app with a team of playlist curators, and lots of data on how people have been listening to that music – never underestimate the importance of data in a Google acquisition.For now, Songza will continue as a standalone app. &quot;We aren&apos;t planning any immediate changes to Songza, so it will continue to work like usual for existing users,&quot; explained Google&apos;s announcement.&quot;Over the coming months, we’ll explore ways to bring what you love about Songza to Google Play Music. We&apos;ll also look for opportunities to bring their great work to the music experience on YouTube and other Google products.&quot;Songza will also bring Google some lessons on charging for streaming music. Originally free, in 2013 itintroduced a subscription tier called Club Songza, charging $0.99 a week for users to remove ads and be able to skip more songs.At the moment, the Google Play Music All Access streaming service costs $9.99 a month in the US – that translates to £9.99 in the UK, matching Spotify, Deezer and other rivals – although Google is also preparing tolaunch a second subscription service under YouTube&apos;s brand.Songza could be useful for both, as they try to build up a head of steam against competition from Spotify, Deezer, Rdio and other streaming services, including the now Apple-owned Beats Music.The bigger story here, just as it was forRdio&apos;s acquisition of music app TastemakerXearlier in the week, is about discovery: streaming services wanting to be more accessible to mainstream music fans who may be intimidated by the idea of plunging into a catalogue of 20m-30m songs.One final under-reported point about Songza: Amazon could have owned it since 2010. Songza in its current form launched in 2012, but it started life in 2007 as a music search engine for people to search for songs online and create playlists from them.In 2008, it wasbought by a digital music store called Amie Street, which in turn wasacquired by Amazon in September 2010. The team behind Songza stayed independent, and eventually relaunched as apps with the Music Concierge feature.•Five big challenges looming for Spotify and streaming music
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWordPress plugin with 1.7m downloads puts sites at risk of takeover &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaWebsites that run WordPress and MailPoet, a plugin with more than 1.7 million downloads, are susceptible to hacks that give attackers almost complete control, researchers have warned."If you have this plugin activated on your website, the odds are not in your favor," Daniel Cid, CTO of security firm Sucuri,warned in a blog postpublished Tuesday. "An attacker can exploit this vulnerability without having any privileges/accounts on the target site. This is a major threat, it means every single website using it is vulnerable."Summertime blues: Microsoft insiders brace for cuts &gt;&gt; GigaomMicrosoft's fiscal year ends tomorrow, and with 25,000 new Nokia employees aboard as of April, the time is coming for cutbacks, according to sources close to and inside the software giant.To be fair, things have been looking up for Microsoft of late – last week's Office 365 outage aside. Microsoft's cloud strategy has won good reviews, with Microsoft Azure now generally seen as number 2 (albeit a distant number 2) to Amazon Web Services in public cloud.  And the company's third quarter earnings came in better than expected.But, Microsoft took on a ton of expenses with the $7.2 billion Nokia buy, which is intended to bolster its mobile story against Apple and Android devices, and insiders said something has to give. Nomura Securities analyst Rick Sherlund has characterized the deal asan acquisition not even a mother could loveand expects Microsoft to lose $1 billion in the first year of ownership.New caption suggestions for the pic of Satya Nadella and Stephen Elop in the mountains, maybe.Android Wear review: the everything inbox &gt;&gt; The VergeDieter Bohn:There are basically two kinds of people in this world: those who check their phone immediately when it buzzes and those who don't. If you're the sort that does, you're going to enjoy having your inbox on your wrist. When something comes in, you can quickly glance down to see what it is without completely ignoring whatever you're doing. You can act on some of them too, thanks to Android's rich notification actions. That means that you will be able to play and pause music from apps that put those controls in the notification center, for example.It's a small happiness to get an email you want to immediately destroy and be able to immediately destroy it from your watch. It's a small happiness to glance down and see that the weather or package-tracking information you want is sitting right there. But for every time Android Wear gives you exactly what you want, there's another time that it frustrates you. If you have more than one email stacked up, for example, you can't manage them from your watch — you'll have to go to your phone for that. There are other hassles, too. Android, unlike iOS, doesn't put those little numbered badges on your icons. That means that if you dismiss a notification, it's solid gone and I have accidentally swiped the wrong way on my watch several times.(Thanks @GambaKufu for the link.)Android Wear software review: smartwatch software that doesn't suck &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaRon Amadeo:Wearables will never be an "essential" piece of technology, and that's not the standard by which they should be judged—a smartwatch is a luxury item that's tied to your smartphone and doesn't really introduce any new functionality. What a good wearable can do, though, is let you do stuff faster and easier than you can with your smartphone, and it's by that standard that Wear is a useful product. The days of having to find, turn on, and unlock some lost piece of plastic are over, and now addressing that ever-present beep just takes an effortless glance at your wrist.You won't be able to perform 100% of the normal smartphone actions from your watch. You'll be able to see a notification, delete a boring e-mail, and send a quick text reply; and you'll be able to verbally look up things with Google. That's about it. I think there's value in a device like this, and Wear will become a steady part of my personal tech loadout from now on. On the other hand, if you're looking for a watch that will let you do away with your smartphone, that product doesn't yet exist.No mention in the four-page review of battery life, which seems like a relevant element.I/O thoughts &gt;&gt; Rusty RantsRussell Ivanovic develops for iOS and Android, and went to his first Google I/O:Sundar [Pichai] has united all those divisions into one coherent functional team with one common vision. Talking to various Google Engineers at the event it was clear they all had the same sentiment.In previous Google keynotes there were always things announced that you knew were going absolutely nowhere, but this year that changed. Android 'L' preview is an amazing OS, with great visual design that excites me about the future of that platform. Android Wear is a really good 1.0 implementation of what I personally want in a smart watch. Android TV looks like the platform I've been begging Apple to build for the last 3 years, and while I have to reserve judgement until it comes out later this year, I'm excited about it. Android Auto is something I want in my car right now, it's just that good. Perhaps if you had to pick one thing that is a "that's nice, but let's wait and see" it would be their Android in the home implementation. Much like Apple's HomeKit it all comes down to how many hardware vendors actually adopt it before it becomes useful.(Thanks @undersinged for the link.)Google reins in Android device makers &gt;&gt; Re/codeIna Fried:On the watch front, for example, the biggest choice a hardware makers gets to make so far is deciding whether to use a square or circular hardware design: Their decisions limited to the size and type of screen, how big a battery to include and some flexibility around which sensors are included. As far as software customization goes, they can come up with a few watch faces, but not much more. That makes it tough for for any one hardware maker to stand out.The restrictions are also applied to new Android-enabled TVs and devices. Companies can either offer it as a set-top box or built into TV sets.Google says the moves make its software more consistent, especially for those using multiple Android-based devices.But as Fried points out, that sucks value - and so profit - away from the device makers and towards Google.Advancing our encryption and transparency efforts &gt;&gt; Microsoft TechNet BlogsMatt Thomlinson is VP of Trustworthy Computing:Over the past six months, we have been working across the industry to further protect and help ensure your mail remains protected. This includes working closely with several international providers throughout our implementation, including, Deutsche Telekom, Yandex and Mail.Ru to test and help ensure that mail stays encrypted in transit to and from each email service. I'd like to thank each of these companies and the community for the hard work they've put in, and for making this additional engineering investment a priority.This encryption work builds on the existing protections already in many of our products and services, like Microsoft Azure, Skype and Office 365, and some improvements we have made over the last six months. A few examples include enhanced message encryption in Office 365 as well as Azure's addition of ExpressRoute, a service that enables businesses to create private connections between Azure datacenters and infrastructure on their premises or in a colocation environment. This is a significant engineering effort given the large number of services Microsoft offers and the hundreds of millions of customers we serve around the world.Christensen vs. Lepore: a matter of fact &gt;&gt; TechCrunchThomas Thurston built a dataset at Intel which he later refined to test disruption theory. He says it's effective - much more so than "only 25% of businesses survive their first 10 years":The theory's accuracy is also disproportionately higher for big financial wins, as opposed to small wins. I bring this up because some people look at exceptions like the iPhone, Tesla and Ralph Lauren and fret that the models somehow miss blockbusters. This too is a question of fact, not opinion, to which there's been considerable analysis. The bigger a win, the greater the odds current Disruption-based models will catch it. I just used examples like the iPhone and Tesla because they're well known.As if it weren't enough, Disruption Theory has also proven highly replicable. It's rules-based, not a fuzzy art form. More than 1,000 corporate managers and students at schools including Harvard and MIT have been tested both before, and after, specific training in Disruption Theory (over 8,000 observations). When asked to make blind predictions about the survival or failure of real (but disguised) businesses, test subjects with no training averaged 35 percent accuracy, whereas after being trained the average accuracy rose to 65 percent. This demonstrated that anyone following certain Disruption-based rules can achieve similar results — a hallmark of good science.He hasn't made the dataset available - perhaps because it's far too valuable to a venture capitalist like himself.Tchau Orkut &gt;&gt; Orkut BlogOver the past decade, YouTube, Blogger and Google+ have taken off, with communities springing up in every corner of the world. Because the growth of these communities has outpaced Orkut's growth, we've decided to bid Orkut farewell (or, tchau). We'll be focusing our energy and resources on making these other social platforms as amazing as possible for everyone who uses them.We will shut down Orkut on September 30, 2014. Until then, there will be no impact on current Orkut users, to give the community time to manage the transition. People can export their profile data, community posts and photos using Google Takeout (available until September 2016). Starting today, it will not be possible to create a new Orkut account.Orkut, the service, may be going away, but all of those incredible communities Orkut users have created will live on. We are preserving an archive of all public communities, which will be available online starting September 30, 2014.Orkut, Buzz.. Google has killed more social networks than most companies start.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
The new era began at 2pm on 15 November 2013; the day that PlayStation 4 arrived in North America. A message went out from the official Xbox Twitter account. It read: &quot;congratulations on your launch Sony.&quot; A little later, official Xbox spokesman Larry Hyrb tweeted Sony Worldwide Studios chief Shuhei Yoshida to offer his personal accolades. &quot;Thanks Larry, your turn next week! :D&quot; Yoshida-san politely replied.Far from a momentary exchange, this affable goodwill has continued. Ina recent interviewwith industry news site Gamesindustry.biz, Xbox chief Phil Spencer praised the success of Playstation. &quot;You look at what Sony has sold, and congratulations to them,&quot; he swooned. &quot;They&apos;ve had a great launch.&quot; Then on Monday,Yoshida spoke to Eurogamerabout Microsoft&apos;s showing at the recent E3 event in Los Angeles, stating, &quot;The attitude was great, like from Phil Spencer. I read and listened to his interviews, and he&apos;s a reasonable, smart guy, compared to some other people who used to say some unbelievable things.&quot;Frankly, this new relationship of mutual respect has frightened and mystified gamers. As long as consoles have been around, there has been intense, at times destructive, rivalry. In the 1970s Atari fought with Coleco, and Coleco fought with Mattel, the trio often running TV commercials thatdirectly ridiculed the games of their competitors. In the home computer boom of the 80s, the rivalry between ZX Spectrum creator Clive Sinclair and BBC Micro founder Chris Curry was so fierce it would later inspire a TV drama.And if you want raw savagery, you only have to look at the Sega v Nintendo years of the early 90s. When both companies were called in front of a senate hearing about video game violence, Nintendo US chairman Howard Lincoln launched a scathing attack on Sega for the violence portrayed in Mega Drive titles like Mortal Kombat and Night Trap. Indeed, developer Tom Zito, who worked with Sega on Night Trap, was quoted in the book The Ultimate History of Video Games, claiming that Nintendo has orchestrated the whole hearing in order to get Sega into trouble. Yes, that&apos;s in trouble with the US government.In many ways, gamers have supported and encouraged these bitter feuds. In the playground, owning the coolest console was always ridiculously important, and fans really got behind their chosen manufacturers like a sports fan gets behind their team. You had to be SpectrumorCommodore 64, SegaorNintendo, PlayStationorXbox, and you expected the manufacturers to back you up in your fight against the godless heretics on the other side.You can&apos;t have a console war in the boardroomPerhaps the newfound respect is a sign that the industry has matured. The average age of a gamer now is 35, and you can&apos;t refuse to talk to the marketing executive at your firm because they own an Xbox One not a PlayStation 4 so they smell. At the same time, consoles are no longer the kings of the gaming block. Smartphones have created a massive new audience of casual players, and the PC has had something of a renaissance thanks to the Steam digital games service and the rise of indie developments like Minecraft. It&apos;s not me v you in consoles anymore, it&apos;s us v them.In some ways it&apos;s a shame. Great game design, great art even (OK, let&apos;s not go there right now), is born from conflict and chaos, not from cosy chats and shared admiration. Grudging respect is fine, but I half yearn for the days when we spent so long with our consoles of choice that they became part of our identity, and identity is always forged in opposition.Maybe there will be a tiff. Maybe Spencer will have a sly dig at how Sony is relying heavily on the forthcoming next-gen update of PS3 hit The Last of Us to excite potential PS4 owners. Maybe Yoshida will do anotherfunny videoabout the latest Microsoft PR disaster. But surely, this uneasy, obsequious truce cannot last. We&apos;ve had the love story, now let&apos;s have the fiery break-up album.•E3 2014: Sony hits with Uncharted 4, GTA 5 and Grim Fandango•Microsoft at E3 2014: from Halo 5 to the return of Crackdown - the key points
The US Marshals Service had one winner in itsauction of nearly 30,000 bitcoin, a spokeswoman said on Tuesday, without revealing the name of the successful bidder.The US Marshals Servicehad earlier revealedthat 45 bidders registered, each putting down a deposit of $200,000, and that 63 bids were received. The winner was notified on Monday evening and the transfer of bitcoin took place Tuesday, according to Lynzey Donahue, spokeswoman for the USMS.In October 2013, the US government came into possession of the bitcoins when itarrested San Franciscan Ross Ulbricht, now 30, and charged him with runningthe Silk Road, an online black market.Several prominent participants have come forward to say that their bids were not accepted.Alan Silbert, founder and CEO of online bitcoin luxury marketplace BitPremier,estimatedthat $20m worth of bids went unsatisfied, and that those bidders may now try and fulfil their demand on the open market.Other bidders entered the auction in syndicates. Investment firm SecondMarket received 186 bids from 42 bidders, but said it was outbid on all blocks, while Pantera Bitcoin&apos;s syndicate also failed to get hold of any bitcoin.The auction drew 63 bids from 45 registered bidders on Friday. The price of bitcoin rose on Tuesday, adding to Monday&apos;s gains. It was last priced at $652.02, up 2% on the session, and has gained more than 15% since 25 June, according to digital currency exchange Coindesk.Hedge fund Pantera Capital, bid below the market price, according to Pantera chief executive Dan Morehead, and said Monday it had been outbid.Bitcoin Shop Inc, which trades on the over-the-counter market OTCQB, said in a release on Tuesday that its bid had also been rejected. The virtual currency ecommerce company bid directly in the auction as well as through a syndicate organized by SecondMarket.&quot;Bitcoin Shop will continue to evaluate investment opportunities such as this in the future,&quot; the statement said.Speaking to the Guardian before the results were announced, the CEO and co-founder of Circle, former Macromedia CTO Jeremy Allaire, said that the mere existence of the auction was likely to be a boon for the currency.&quot;I think it&apos;s a very legitimising activity. The fact that the federal government of the United States is saying &apos;this is a legal asset, and we&apos;re going to liquidate it like other financial assets&apos; is a big deal.&quot;Some have questioned whether reports from the bidders are to be trusted. Isabella Kaminska,writing in the Financial Times, pointed out that the individuals and companies reporting on failed bids &quot;may have an interest in proclaiming that their bids were unsuccessful or that the accepted bids were higher than expected (even if they they were not)&quot;.Writing later on her own blog,Kaminska went further, suggesting that &quot;the whole auction was a sting.&quot;&quot;For, if I was the government stuck with a bunch of bitcoin I couldn’t shift because everyone knew my coins were the Silk Road batch, I too might be inclined to &apos;launder&apos; the association away via a sealed auction that would make everyone assume that the coins were no longer on my book but actually still were,&quot; Kaminska said.
The British Psychological Society's ethics committee and research ethics reference group have serious misgivings about the recent "experiment" by Facebook (Report, 29 June). Facebook sought to modify peoples' emotional states by selectively withholding postings with emotional content. This appears to contravene all four principles of research ethics as set out in the Society's code of human research ethics and a recent set of principles agreed by most British learned societies involved in social science research.It infringed the autonomy and dignity of individuals by interfering with the personal decision-making as to the posts that people wished to make to their chosen groups and, most importantly, by failing to gain valid informed consent from the participants. The scientific value of this study would seem to be low, since there is already a strong body of literature which confirms emotional contagion as a social process. The intervention was socially irresponsible, in that it clandestinely meddled in people's social lives with consequences that are very likely to have had significant negative effects on individuals and groups.There has undoubtedly been some degree of harm caused, with many individuals affected by increased levels of negative emotion, with consequent potential economic costs, increase in possible mental health problems and burden on health services. The so-called "positive" manipulation is also potentially harmful. The BPS  promotes the highest level of ethics and standards in both research and practice in its guidelines for researchers, teachers and practitioners. The Society'sEthics Guidelines for Internet Mediated Researchis available online.Professor Kate BullenChair, ethics committee,Professor John OatesChair, research ethics reference groupBritish Psychological Society
Why do people exercise their"right to be forgotten"by Google? The websiteForget Me, which launched last week and offers users a submission service to Google with templated forms that tick all the search engine's legal boxes, has released a breakdown of its customer's motivations.Invasion of privacy accounted for 306 of the 1,106 submissions that Forget Me filed to Google as of Tuesday, with disclosure of&nbsp;home address the largest subcategory (66 submissions). "Negative opinions", "redundancy" and "origin, nationality or ethnic identity" follow. Sexual orientation appears way down the list of privacy-related reasons for removing web pages, below disclosure of income and philosophical belief. Forget Me's sample of just over 1,000 submissions represents a small percentage of the 40,000-plus requests received by Google, but is still large enough to indicate the&nbsp;most pressing concerns.Of all the forms filed and transferred to Google in the company's first week of operation, 22% – the greatest number of users by nationality – come from the UK, followed by 18% from France (Forget Me's parent company, Reputation VIP,&nbsp;is based in Lyon) and 10%&nbsp;from Germany."When you fill in Google's form, you need to indicate the pages you want to suppress but you also need to write a text explaining why the pages are 'irrelevant, outdated or otherwise inappropriate'," says Bertrand Girin, the CEO of Reputation VIP. "The text will be judged by Google on certain criteria – whether the information is obsolete, for instance. These are legal terms. What we wanted to do was create texts that people could understand easily. So we wrote 30 different cases. 'I've been fired by my company and that's a problem because I need to find another job,' for instance. We then asked lawyers to write the texts that correspond to these cases." It is too early to know the company's success rate compared to that of other applicants.Girin is good-looking, in a charismatic black poloneck. This information appears in visual form on the first page of a Googlesearch on his name. That is the kind of influence Reputation VIP can exercise. (To compare, the first page of a&nbsp;Google search on my name shows a photo of me wearing amaternity dressfor a feature dated 2007: that is the kind of influence I exercise.) Forget Me is currently free to use, while subscribers to&nbsp;Reputation VIPpay a monthly fee of between €500 and €300,000.Forget Me's categories of user and their reasons for wanting to assert their right to privacy are interesting. But, of course, they can only reflect the predetermined "cases" that Girin's team devised: the service can protect your privacy, not your individuality. You might be anonymous, but you'll always be data.
Twitter has hired Anthony Noto, a former Goldman Sachs banker who was part of the team that took the social network public, as its new chief financial officer.Noto replaces Mike Gupta, moved sideways to become &quot;senior vice president of strategic investments&quot;, in the latest reshuffle at the social network as Dick Costolo, the company&apos;s CEO, tries to assuage fears of slow user growth.Joining withan annual salary of $250,000– as well as $80m in Twitter stock to vest over a four year period – Nato&apos;s previous role at Goldman Sachs was as a managing director in the technology, media and telecoms sector of the group. While in the role, he oversaw Twitter&apos;s initial public offering.Welcome@anthonynotoand looking forward to@mgupta&#39;s new role leading strategic investments!&mdash; dick costolo (@dickc)July 1, 2014Thanks@dickcThrilled to start my new role as Head of Strategic Investments.  Looking forward to having@anthonynotoon the team&mdash; Mike Gupta (@mgupta)July 1, 2014In a previous reshuffle this summer,Twitter said goodbye to Ali Rowghani, the company&apos;s former chief operating officer. Rowghani, a former Pixar finance chief, announced his exit on Twitter, telling followers it had been an &quot;amazing ride&quot;.Goodbye Twitter.  It&#39;s been an amazing ride, and I will cherish the memories.&mdash; Ali Rowghani (@ROWGHANI)June 12, 2014@ROWGHANIThank you for being an incredible executive &amp; partner. Twitter could not have succeeded without you.&mdash; dick costolo (@dickc)June 12, 2014Twitter did not give a reason for Rowghani&apos;s exit, and he was known to be well-liked inside the company, as well as one of Costolo&apos;s closest lieutenants.The company&apos;s share price spent the first half of the year slumping from a high of $73 in December 2013 down to just $31 in May, as growth in the service tailed off and Costolo admitted it had a real problem in bringing new users on board. But in June, the shares recovered, rising 30% month on month.•Twitter COO and &apos;Mr Fix-it&apos; Ali Rowghani resigns suddenly
Uruguay and Liverpool star Luis Suarez may have exited the World Cup in disgrace after biting Italian player Giorgio Chiellini, but the incident is proving an inspiration for mobile app developers.Polish firm Playsoft has beaten its rivals to the punch – or, indeed, the chomp – by developing a mobile game called Suarez Soccer Bite. It&apos;salready available for Android devices, with iOS to follow when the game is approved by Apple.The entirely-unofficial free game challenges players to &quot;soccer bite with your friends&quot;, gnashing away at Italian players while avoiding the temptation to bite the referee characters and get a red card. The friends aspect comes through Facebook challenges.&quot;The idea to create this game came up on Friday afternoon, and two programmers and two graphic designers jumped into a development marathon to deliver the game after the weekend,&quot; said Playsoft&apos;s Pierre Olivier Monteil.&quot;We are happy with the result that we achieved in such a short period of time and hope people will enjoy playing it.&quot;Whether Suarez&apos;s lawyers will be quite so keen on the idea – particularly its fake endorsement from the star – &quot;By far the best Soccer Bite game. I am training on it&quot; – is another story entirely.Suarez apologised to Chielliniearlier this week, after being handed a four-month ban from football by the sport&apos;s governing body FIFA.&quot;The truth is that my colleague Giorgio Chiellini suffered the physical result of a bite in the collision he suffered with me. For this I deeply regret what occurred,&quot; said Suarez in a public statement.&quot;I apologise to Giorgio Chiellini and the entire football family. I vow to the public that there will never again be another incident like this.&quot;Even before the new app,internet users had turned Suarez&apos; latest on-field biting incident into a meme, swapping doctored images on social networks. Meanwhile, one wagcreated a trailer for imaginary movie The Suarez of the Lambs, with Luis playing the Hannibal Lecter role.•20 best Android apps and games this week
