The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, warned newspapers last night that increasingly fevered coverage of rape allegations against eight Premiership footballers could prejudice any future trial.Lord Goldsmith's intervention came in the wake of widespread coverage of allegations by a 17-year-old girl that she was attacked in a central London hotel by the footballers.The allegations were carried on the front pages of several newspapers yesterday, as well as on broadcast media and the internet, where websites carried the names of players rumoured to be involved.The Daily Sport meanwhile published the name of a club it claimed was at the centre of the investigation, accompanied by an editorial which said it would be "foolhardy" to name individuals.As investigators from Operation Sapphire, Scotland Yard's specialist sex crimes unit, viewed CCTV footage and completed a forensic search of rooms at the Grosvenor House hotel, where the attack is alleged to have taken place, concerns were raised at the prospect of the players' names becoming public.David Blunkett, the home secretary, is keen to avoid legislation and is known to be concerned that if the footballers' names do become widely known the case could be cited by MPs in favour of legislation to restrict what the media can report in such cases.The case, which follows recent police investigations into alleged sexual offences by television celebrities Matthew Kelly and John Leslie (neither of whom was charged), could also have an impact on the Sexual Offences bill, which is due back before the Commons later this month.Currently newspapers and other media are bound by defamation laws and the Contempt of Court Act, which is intended to prevent prejudicial information reaching the public domain but is rarely invoked.Both the home affairs and culture, media and sport select committees have proposed an amendment to the bill that would make it illegal for newspapers to publish the name of anyone being investigated for a sexual offence until they have been charged.Before this case arose Mr Blunkett instructed officials to attempt to engineer a compromise. He is particularly concerned about the role of the police in the naming of players, and has asked the Association of Chief Police Officers for assistance in preventing officers leaking information to the press.Mr Blunkett has also sought to engage the assistance of the media. In the summer the Home Office wrote to Les Hinton, the chairman of the Press Complaints Commission's code of practice committee, seeking a hardening of the voluntary code which governs newspaper journalists.In his guidance to editors Lord Goldsmith said he was concerned that evidence in the case was not distorted by "potentially prejudicial reporting", and warned editors not to allow their staff to approach potential witnesses."Although there have not yet been any arrests, and there may not be any, if there are to be criminal proceedings ... editors should not engage in conduct, nor publish material, including comment, that may create a substantial risk of serious prejudice to the course of justice in these prosecutions."The attorney general's warning, echoed by the Metropolitan police last night, emphasises the scale of interest in the allegations, which first emerged in the Sun on Monday. Football has never had a higher profile, and were eight of the game's leading players to face such serious charges the trial would be a huge story.The combination of celebrity and sex tests the media's powers of restraint like no other however, and there are fears that the players could be named in a similar way to Leslie, who was named in connection with an alleged sexual assault on Ulrika Jonsson by TV presenter Matthew Wright.Paul Gilbert, a media lawyer at Finers Stephens Innocent, said that a swift conclusion to the police investigation was crucial both to the fair treatment of the individuals involved and the interests of justice. The police yesterday said they had begun liaising with the crown prosecution service, but declined to say whether charges were likely."The longer this goes on without the police either bringing charges or dismissing the girl's allegations the more likely it will be that the names leak out," Mr Gilbert said."The papers, particularly the tabloids, will not give up on it, and the longer the police leave it the less chance there is that a fair trial can be held. If the speculation goes on for a while and charges are brought the defence will be able to show the judge a pile of newspaper cuttings and claim he will not get a fair trial. That is not in the best interests of justice."Mr Gilbert said that the internet posed problems that the contempt laws were ill suited to combat. "It adds a whole new facet to the problem. You have a completely unregulated environment to which millions have access in which rumours abound. In the eyes of the law, however, I think there is still a difference between a rumour on a website and one published in a newspaper."The Internet Service Providers' Association called for clarification of the law regarding their role in police defamatory or prejudicial material published online."At the moment it is very confusing when it comes to defamation," said a spokesman. "As internet service providers we are not publishers, yet at the moment we are having to act as judge and jury on what we take down, taking responsibility for content. That is not right, a judge needs to decide this."Caught in the web of publicityMatthew KellyIn January the Stars in Their Eyes presenter was arrested over allegations that he sexually abused teenage boys. When the news leaked out Mr Kelly was the subject of lurid tabloid stories about his private life. Five weeks later Surrey police said they had found no evidence to substantiate the allegations and he would not be charged.Pete TownshendAlso in January, Pete Townshend made a public statement after the Daily Mail revealed that Scotland Yard was investigating a "legendary British rock star" in connection with an inquiry into child pornography. Townshend claimed he was doing research for a campaign against child pornography. In May he received a caution for accessing a website containing child abuse images.David BeckhamA story about David Beckham on celebrity gossip website Popbitch in November circulated, via emails, around the country. Lawyers were called in and the defamatory material was removed.John LeslieAmid speculation last October over the identity of the unnamed rapist in Ulrika Jonsson's autobiography, John Leslie was named by TV presenter Matthew Wright in connection with the story. Two papers reported the slip, prompting stories about Leslie, who was sacked as a presenter of ITV's This Morning. Jonsson never named him and no police charges were brought against him.&#183;Sally James Gregory
"In a multicity press conference, Jim Allchin, group vice president of Microsoft's Platforms Group, said via a satellite broadcast that Windows XP Media Center 2004 provides 'experience computing,' where software, hardware and services are shaped around particular user experiences and tasks, such as downloading music, viewing digital photos and accessing online content. With Windows XP Media Center 2004, he said, consumers now have a seamless, integrated solution for engaging in multimedia experiences, rather than having to perform different tasks on various IT and consumer-electronics devices and applications," reportsCRN."We've moved from designing feature by feature to designing complete scenarios that influence not just software, but also hardware and services requirements," Allchin said. "The best example of experience computing that we have today is Windows XP Media Center Edition 2004."Note: You can't buy XP MCE unless you buy it loaded on a new PC.
"SuSE Linux AG on Tuesday introduced the latest version of its open-source operating system, designed to take advantage of 64-bit PCs while still supporting 32-bit environments. When SuSE Linux 9.0 hits the streets on Oct. 24, the new operating system also is expected to feature a preview of the upcoming Linux 2.6 kernel, improved partitioning capabilities, and support for Microsoft Windows' NTFS (New Technology File System)," reportsInformation Week."SuSE Linux 9.0's greatest hope for sales could be its relationship with chipmaker Advanced Micro Devices Inc, which last week formally launched its 64-bit Athlon 64 PC processor, says Gregg Rosenberg, chief technology officer for Ricis Inc., a systems integrator and service provider specializing in Linux. "We've had a lot of dialogue with architecture and engineering firms about 64-bit Linux on the desktop," he says. "But it's not going to have to be on everyone's desktop."
A coroner yesterday called for greater public vigilance to combat the danger of internet chatrooms.The East Sussex coroner, Alan Craze, said greater police resources should be assigned to end the threat to the young and vulnerable from "anonymous" criminals who live in a "fantasy world".A man leapt to his death after meeting another man at a chatroom site detailing suicide methods, an inquest heard. Michael Gooden, 35, from Camberwell, south London, arranged to meet Louis Gillies at Beachy Head cliffs near Eastbourne. The pair had discussed suicide at the internet chatroom, which lists the best ways, and places, for suicide.Mr Gooden jumped to his death on June 7 2002. Mr Gillies, of Glasgow, was charged with assisting a suicide.But on the day of his trial at Lewes crown court, he was found hanged at his Glasgow flat.Mr Craze recorded a verdict of suicide in the case of Mr Gooden, a postal worker.He said: "Many people are becoming increasingly worried about chatrooms. Now there is this case of encouraging, aiding and abetting, assisting the suicide of another.He called for greater police resources to tackle internet crime, and for public vigilance "if children and others start to show signs of undue influence following the use of the internet".
Sony appeared yesterday to have lost a long-running battle to get its popular PlayStation 2 games console recognised as a personal computer - a move that could have netted it millions of euros in back customs duty.The Japanese electronics group argued that the machine was every bit as sophisticated as a computer, contending that it contained a PC-comparable microprocessor which allows it to process data just like a computer.Sony was not splitting hairs for the sake of hair-splitting;   its motives were purely mercenary. The import tariff for computers coming into the European Union is much lower than that for games consoles and a ruling that the PlayStation 2 was a computer could have forced customs authorities to pay back millions in duties.Europe's court of first instance in Luxembourg ruled against Sony yesterday saying that the definition of a computer could not be stretched for commercial reasons to include a PlayStation. "It is quite clear that it is intended mainly to be used to run video games."The machine would have to be reclassified because of a legal technicality but with no effect on its tariff status.The European commission, which classified the machine as a games console, said it was satisfied with the decision while Sony played down its disappointment.The bizarre legal battle is about to be overtaken by events anyway. From January 1 of next year computers and games consoles will be allowed into the EU at zero tariff.Yesterday's ruling coincided with a surprise announcement from Sony that it would drop the price of the PlayStation 2   in Britain by &#163;30 to &#163;139.99 in the run-up to Christmas.The move, which executives said was designed to bring the UK into line with the rest of Europe, will make the Sony machine more competitive compared to its two rivals - Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube.
is that some people abuse it. So we have the situation where a poster in our comments boxes on Onlineblog is lobbing increasingly absurd, off-topic ramblings, spiced with the occasional libel, from behind the mask of a false name and email address (although we've got his IP address, of course).So here's the deal. We're all for free speech, but if you want to shoot your mouth off in such a way, go build your own blog, and bore your own audience to tears. Post comments here, and there are a few ground rules - the same rules followed by 99% of posters.If a comment to a post is off-topic, I'll delete it. If it's libellous, I'll delete it. By all means continue in the Online tradition of robust reader comment - we'll still sleep at night (hey - someone once wrote in to say I should be renamed "Neil McWintel, for his slavish devotion to all things Microsoft." How much can a comment hurt?). But over-step the pretty obvious boundaries and your comments will get deleted.I'll see how things go over the next few days. If things don't improve, I'll turn off the commenting facility, as quite a few owners of high-profile weblogs have had to do over the years. That would be a shame. The debate here has been one of the most rewarding things about running the weblog. But we can always continue the chat in private, via email, with the many readers who have something interesting to say, or who at least have the courage to have a go at us using their real names.
ThePress Associationreports that Sony is lowering the price of the PlayStation 2 from £169.99 to £139.99 from tomorrow, in time for the Christmas sales period. It's also going to launch a special edition silver version, with two controllers, for £149.99. You can pick up a GameCube or Xbox for £129.99.
TheSan Francisco Chroniclehas an interesting piece about the launch of the Musicmatch music download service, which is one of many that targets Microsoft Windows users. It includes a paragraph that says: "Last week, Dell Computer Inc said it was working on its own downloadable music service. That fueled industry speculation that Dell was somehow involved in Musicmatch's new service. But Musicmatch said Dell is not involved in the project."Trivia point: Dell Computer Corp (not Inc) changed its name to Dell Inc at its annual meeting in Austin, Texas, in July. Not so trivial point: This was part of sending out a message that could be paraphrased as: "Hey, Dude, you'll soon be getting a lot of things that aren't computers."
Microsoft will share more details on the next version of Windows, code-named Longhorn, at its Professional Developers Conference next month [October 26-30]. However, the company likely will keep the new user interface, dubbed Aero, under wraps," reportsIDG News."Perhaps more important to developers is that Microsoft will give PDC attendees the scoop on Avalon, the little talked about engine underlying the Longhorn user interface. Microsoft has described the technology as 'a brand new client platform for building smart, connected, media rich applications in Longhorn.' Developers at the show will be told how to take advantage of Avalon in their applications."
Computer games aficionados awaiting Conflict: Desert Storm numbers 3 and 4 can rest easy.   Under a deal announced yesterday, publisher SCi Entertainment has negotiated the minefield of bust companies to rescue Pivotal   Games - the developer of the best-selling battle games - and guaranteed the future of the series.Pivotal was a subsidiary of Kaboom Studios, which went into receivership two weeks ago, and had developed the best selling Conflict series for SCi - Desert Storm 2 went to number   one in the charts on its release this month. SCi normally avoids owning any games developers whose product it publishes, but since it owned 10% of Pivotal and wanted to keep the development team together it made an exception. It has paid &#163;2.36m for the assets of the business."The team at Pivotal had designed a good product and SCi wanted to keep them together," said an SCi spokesman. "It was a good price and it also means it will not have to make royalty payments in future. The team will continue to work at their location in Bath."
I find that to be true. Another thingprom dressesthat seems related to me: when themens underwearfocus of a band is several differentdirect tvsongwriters writing their own material hosting and alternately using the rest of thebuy hosting onlineband as back-up or as session musiciansorder ring tones(and even more noticeably when a bandcat foodhas initially been more of the collabourative,brasholistic bent), the music is seldombuy dog food online
Could the weblog confessions of a businessperson really boost the bottom line?It's something I've been asking a lot since going to a conference on the subject this summer in Boston. Blogdom's biggest names turned up for the Jupiter-organised event, from the always-controversialDave Winerof the Berkman Center at Harvard University, to everyone's favourite Microsoft employee (by dint of her blog),Beth Goza.The most interesting story to come out of those few days - by quite a long chalk - was Winer's announcement of a political weblog campaign in New Hampshire, in an attempt to influence the next presidential elections through the medium.But the discussion on the subject we were all there for - using weblogs in a business setting - was rather less enlightening. There was a vague notion that blogging was cool, so should have some kind of business relevance, perhaps as a PR tool, although no one was very sure.Such uncertainty didn't stop the New York Times announcing, a few days later, that "the corporate blog is catching on". But it was noticeable that the paper's evidence for such optimism was thin on the ground.Supporting quotes came from public relations people, academics and publishers - the kind of people, in other words, you might expect to have a weblog anyway.It's not that weblogging is, as some might tell you, suited only to the self-indulgent whining of young, middle-class technocrats. Long after the term "weblog" is forgotten, the impact of what the word means will live on.Being able to publish words, pictures and - ultimately - multimedia to the web without specialised geek skills will remain a important advance, and have a broad impact on the nature of online media.But the nature of how a business communicates - both internally and to the outside world - has never been as hindered by such technical considerations. There are broader concerns that suggest business weblogging will not be adopted in the way being touted today.First, there are the obvious legal and regulatory concerns. Any journalist can tell you how tricky it can be to drag public comment out of a company without first routing through the sanitising filter of a press office.The notion that more than a few companies might relax their external relations strategies enough to allow weblog communication, willy-nilly, between staff members and the outside world, is absurd, no matter how many consultants insist such communication might actually have a beneficial effect on a company's image.Even if senior managers trust staff not to give away the company's commercial secrets - and many don't - there are still enough worries about libel and (for publicly listed companies) stock market disclosure rules to have the legal department waking in sweats for months to come.This, of course, all presumes weblogs are to be used as something that faces customers, employed in some rather vague corner of a company's marketing mix. But all this does not rule out using weblogs internally, in some kind of knowledge management effort, and it is in this field that they show some potential.The most interesting thing I saw at the Boston conference was a demo, squeezed in during a coffee break away from the throng, of a blogging package devised byTraction Software, a small US software maker. It was different because Traction exists primarily to share information internally.The key elements of blogging were present and correct in Traction's package: it was easy to use, information on the web pages it built was presented chronologically, there were lots of hyperlinks to information, and you could quote and comment.But there were also the kind of features vital for work in a business of any size: the ability to set levels of access for different users, to make something public or to keep it private, to put flags and categorise entries so they relate to different bits of workflow.It was refreshing to see a package which saw weblogs not just as an online confessional - an extension of the way consumers use the technology - but also as a tool that could make work a little easier and more rewarding.In short, it was a lovely piece of software, but there remains one flaw that no fancy programming or sensible consideration of purpose can overcome, a flaw that remains a challenge for any business blog booster.While blogging's earliest advocates operate on the "information wants to be free" principle, many businesses would shudder at the very thought."Information is power" is a more likely mantra in many organisations. Whenever you hear those three words, you're hearing the signal of the kind of closed information culture where there's also a heads-down, bunker mentality utterly unsuited to the openness required for a convincing weblog, be it an external PR effort, or knowledge-sharing internal one.There are plenty of areas of business where people are judged on their knowledge, and the competitive edge - and thus the safety of everyone's jobs - is the thickness of a single good idea. Share it all on a weblog, with competitors or (worse) an office rival? You must be kidding.And, alas, changing that kind of culture is going to take far more than merely installing a smart piece of software on a server, and encouraging everyone to blog on.
Musicmatch on Monday announced its entry into the digital song-selling business, and sources say PC maker Dell will be one of the first companies to promote the new download service to consumers," saysCNet."As previously reported, the Internet music software company's service, which will provide a new online rival to Apple Computer's iTunes and to BuyMusic, uses the popular Musicmatch Jukebox software and is distributing music in Microsoft's Windows Media format."USA Todayhas also covered the story.
"Some companies are reducing or eliminating e-mail in a bid to staunch the spread of disruptive computer viruses and spam. The Weymouth Club, a Boston-area health club chain, is cutting off some PCs to the Internet. Merrill Lynch last month banned employee use of AOL, Yahoo and other outside e-mail services to better protect its network. The Sports Section, a photography company in Atlanta, forced its 100 employees to change e-mail addresses six months ago and also banned the use of Web-based e-mail addresses," reportsUSA Today."Phones4U, a mobile-phone retailer in England, has gone so far as to ban its 2,500 employees from e-mailing one another. Customers can still e-mail the company."
TheRegisterreports this morning that Vodafone is not going to build its own network ofWiFi(wireless internet) hotspots. Instead, the company is going to resell use of existing operators' networks to its users, using an SMS text message billing system. This looks like a smart idea. There are alreadyconcernsthat there are going to be way too many hotspots for a limited number of WiFi users, and many of the best locations - the places where businesspeople congregate, like airport lounges and hotel lobbies - are already bagged. Worse, there's a real fight on for quite a limited number of users at the moment. While the user base should grow quickly as more laptops come with WiFi as standard (thanks to Intel's Centrino technology) a late arrival like Vodafone would have to pay premium prices to join the party in any meaningful way. This way, the mobile giant can minimise risk and focus its efforts on 3G mobiles, while still offering its business customers a service that's likely to become quite popular in the medium term.
Commercial media companies are to ask the Government for tough restrictions to be placed on the BBC's internet activities, including a cost ceiling on its internet budget and a demand that it provide links to the news services of its competitors.Major media bodies including News International, IPC Media, the Commercial Radio Companies Association, Associated Newspapers and Guardian   Newspapers, are to submit a response to Philip Graf, who is heading the Government's probe into the BBC's internet activities, within the next few weeks.Under the umbrella of the British Internet Providers Association, the groups are seeking to mount a response to a BBC-commissioned report by KPMG, which argued that the corporation was not damaging its rivals' internet services.Proposals sought by the companies include that BBC   Online should be scaled back to being a 'news portal' and that it should release its internet source codes to commercial organisations.BIPA will also ask the Government to block spin-off projects such as iCan, the grassroots political site which the BBC is set to launch in October, and to limit regional websites.It will ask the Government to restrict the BBC's use of its website to promote programmes, magazines and services. Graf was appointed   last month to investigate mounting concerns that the BBC's internet activities were queering the pitch for the commercial sector.BIPA and other interests have complained that the BBC has spent far more public money than the original &#163;25 million it was mandated to spend on interactive services.They argue it uses licence-fee cash to promote its own programmes and products online.
"Vivendi Universal Games said Friday the developers of Half-Life 2, the most heavily anticipated video game of 2003, will not release the game Tuesday as originally planned."As of Friday afternoon, online retailer Amazon.com showed the game being released Dec. 1, while EBGames.com showed it shipping Nov. 14, and GameStop.com showed it being released Feb. 2 of next year."Comment: a candidate for the least surprising announcement of the year.
"The maker of the Segway Human Transporter has agreed to recall the motorized scooters because riders have been injured falling off when its batteries are low. The Consumer Product Safety Commission announced the recall Friday, saying that three people had been injured. One suffered a head wound and needed stitches," reportsAP.
Well, someone has had a look at a pre-production sample of a Mitac, and it is a desktop replacement-style machine. Morehere.
A decade ago Korean company LG was best known in the UK for rolling out competitively priced - but not very attractive - VCRs and TVs. Since the mid-90s though the company has re-invented itself, and now delivers products to rival those manufactured by its Japanese and European rivals.Much of its transformation is down to the far-sightedness of its management team of a few years back, who gambled heavily on several emerging technologies and have seen a good return on their investment.Today the company is among the world leaders in both plasma and LCD screens, is very strong in home entertainment systems and has pioneered the connected appliance market with devices like its internet fridge.Now the company is hoping to repeat that success in a new market - mobile phones. Although it is a major player in Korea LG has up until now ignored the very competitive UK market. This is set to change with the arrival of a pair of new handsets, the first of which, the 7100, goes on sale this week exclusively through the Orange network, for around £240 with contract.It is getting very crowded in the camera phone market with excellent models like the Sharp GX20 (available via Vodafone) soon to be joined by great-looking handsets including Samsung's E700 and Motorola's V600.LG is, however, determined to stand out from the crowd. The small  (89x46x24mm) clamshell 7100 not only sports a very usual design, but also is crammed with innovative features.There's something very 1950s sci-fi in the handset's silver and black finish and odd-shaped protruding aerial. This is heightened by the large circular organic LED on the fascia - a first for a mobile phone - that delivers caller id, date/time, signal strength and battery power information. It can moonlight as mirror too.Another first is the siting of the camera lens - not on the main handset - but on the side of a circular barrel at the top of the phone.Flip the clamshell open and there's a small (2.8 x3.5cms,128x160 pixels) but reasonably bright screen 65k colour screen. It certainly isn't in the same league as the screen on Sharp's GX20. But, unusually, the screen can pivot through 270 degrees. So for example you could choose to have the main screen permanently on the front of the phone. The lower part of the clamshell features large-ish easy to use buttons that control an intuitive icon-based menu system.In terms of features the 7100 has pretty much all you'd expect from a mid-range camera phone. There's a selection of three games (plus Java should you wish to download more from the Orange website), a melody ringtone composer, 32 polyphonic ringtones and voice recording and dialing. There's also easy access to Orange's ever-improving selection of Wap sites. And while there is a very basic organiser there is no Bluetooth.LG has made a real effort with the phone's camera. It is the first camera phone to include an integrated flash (Siemens has a very good flash built into an external camera that accompanies several handsets in its range). There's also a zoom that magnifies up to 4 times and brightness options, and the phone takes image up to 640x480 resolution.The images it snaps are on the whole of reasonable quality. While the flash improves shots in lower lighting it isn't really powerful enough to make much of a difference in - say - a very dark room.Actually snapping the images is rather trying process. Adjusting the camera's parameters, to - say - switch the flash on or choose a higher resolution image is a painfully slow, as you are invariably looking at the icons at an odd angle. Getting the lens in the optimum position to take an image is also a trial. It is best to swivel the screen around so it is front on. Even then, lining up the image can take several seconds. The LG 7100 certainly isn't point and shoot.Once you've snapped the image sending it is fairly simple and it can be whizzing away to another phone after just four clicks.Battery life is reasonable with three hours talk time and eight days' standby.If you can live with the awkwardness of the camera the 7100 is certainly worth considering. It has an interesting design - the organic LED screen on the front is a real talking point - and its selection of features is quite impressive.I wouldn't swap it for my Sharp GX20 though, which clearly has the edge in terms of screen resolution and camera performance. But Orange customers with a taste for the quirky might find the 7100 a phone to cherish.LG's website
The games industry has long been regarded as playing second fiddle to more established forms of entertainment such as film and TV.Games are seen as add-ons that merely provide those two mediums with financial support in the form of tie-in titles, rather than being regarded as a serious and powerful entertainment medium in its own right.The gaming world is also blamed like a naughty schoolboy when things go wrong, as we saw recently when Grand Theft Auto III was accused of influencing a shooting spree by two American teenage boys. Gaming might be popular, but it remains misunderstood by many people and inaccessible to even more.Now the games industry is trying to work out how to shake off these stigmas and look to a more serious future.If the industry is to achieve its potential then it will need restructuring from the ground up, according to Gerhard Florin, the Senior VP and MD of Electronic Arts' European publishing wing. Although games sales figures for Europe stand at a healthy $6bn, Florin told MCV magazine: "Our businesses are not built for the size of the business today, so that means attitudes and practices must change."Florin believes that the European games market can expand to as much as $20 billion by 2008, but only by broadening its target audience beyond the two established core audiences of the below-18 and 18-35, predominantly male, age groups."There is room to grow," claims Florin, who cited the need for gaming to adequately target the female and family markets. "But to be a mature market, we must behave like a mature market. Gaming overall is still too narrow."Earlier this year Laura Freyer, the director of the Xbox Advanced Technology Group, advanced the view that - even with good business practices and responsibilities in place - gaming is still mired by the "just for geeks and guys" stereotype.Freyer also claimed that the majority of games were too complicated for a mass-market audience and claimed that developers "don't focus on gameplay. Instead they make a beautiful game that is no fun. You want a game that is challenging but never frustrating."Should the games industry take Freyer's mixed message to heart? Not immediately. Games are not created with one type of gamer in mind. For every player who enjoys a simple pick-up-and-play game there are many who want something deeper. There's no reason why complexity shouldn't be fun, and the millions of people who play  games like Championship Manager, the Civilization series and even The Sims games would certainly agree.The last thing that an intelligent and innovative industry like gaming should have to do is dumb itself down.But Freyer's claim that gaming does suffer at times from a less-than-desirable "geeky" image is certainly true, and the shaking of the shackles of perceived geekdom is going to be one of the most important issues that the games industry faces over the next few years.Although that image is slowly being eroded by the rising number of female games players, with a recent study by America's Entertainment Software Association claiming that more 18+ women are playing games than young boys, the industry still hasn't adjusted the way it markets games to address this.A case in point is the advert that accompanied the launch of the Gameboy Advance-SP - a guy in bed playing on handheld, with his sleeping girlfriend next to him, and the tagline: "The second best thing to do in the dark". The image did nothing to dispel the "it's for guys" image.In basic monetary terms, because it has become a multi billion dollar entertainment form, the games industry is being forced to take a good look at itself and its business practices. But image-wise it is still stuck in a rut and, if it wants everyone else to take it seriously, it's going to have to take itself seriously first.CHARTS - FULL PRICE SOFTWAREOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-TrackConflict Desert Storm II (PS2, Xbox, PC) SCI - £39.99Colin McRae Rally 4 (PS2, Xbox) Codemasters - £39.99Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (Xbox) LucasArts - £37.99Rugby 2004 (PS2, PC) Electronic Arts - £39.99Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.99Star Wars: Jedi Knight - Jedi Academy (PC) Activision - £34.99The Italian Job: L.A Heist (PS2, Xbox, GC) Eidos - £37.99Great Escape (PS2, Xbox) SCI - £39.99Beyblade: Let it Rip! (PL) - £19.99Pokemon Sapphire (GBA) Nintendo - £29.99
"Yahoo upgraded its Yahoo Messenger service in June by adding features designed to prevent IM spamming, and gave its users until September 24 to upgrade to this new version. The problem now appears to be that the new version of Yahoo Messenger doesn't play well with the Trillian application, something that had been expected. Cerulean Studios didn't immediately reply to an e-mail request for comments about this matter, but a message on its Web site acknowledges the problem and says the company is working hard to resolve it," reportsIDG News.
A giant international child pornography ring involving thousands of internet users from 166 countries, including Britain, has been smashed, German police said yesterday.Police and the interior ministry in the eastern German state of Saxony-Anhalt said that, working with international investigators, they had "achieved one of the greatest successes" in fighting child pornography."We have destroyed one of the world's largest active international networks," said the state's justice minister, Curt Becker.Seven people have been arrested in the United Kingdom following tip-offs from German police.German investigators suspect that at least 22 people in Britain were involved in the network.The National Crime Squad and the National Criminal Intelligence Service first received information on the suspects last December, and were sent further details a fortnight ago.These have now been circulated to British forces.Three victims featured in child pornography images discovered by the investigation in the UK have been identified.Earlier this week, German police raided more than 500 houses across the country in Operation Marcy - a year-long investigation into child pornography.Up to 1,500 police officers seized an astonishing haul: 745 computers, 35,500 CDs, 8,300 discs and 5,800 videos. Some 530 suspects in Germany are now being questioned, including priests, teachers and police officers.The investigation was coordinated with Interpol and the German federal crime office, and led officers to 26,500 internet users around the world - all of whom had swapped illegal images."The trail led everywhere," said a police spokesman in the eastern city of Magdeburg."It stretched from North America to South America, and from Saudi Arabia to Australia."The authorities in Germany uncovered a total of 38 internet swap circles, featuring still pictures and film."The pictures became more brutal, and the children younger," said Susanne Hofmeister, a spokeswoman for Magdeburg's federal prosecutor's office."We recovered one photo of a child only four months old. The people looking at these images came from all walks of life, and from all age groups. Many of them were actively working with children."She added: "Most of the images we discovered were of children from poor countries."The investigation began in July 2002 when police raided the apartment of a 26-year-old man in Magdeburg.They discovered on his computer the email addresses of 1,000 pornographic "trading partners".A court decision in the eastern city of Halle then forced an internet service provider to turn over evidence it had on the suspects, including 38,000 email addresses.One man in the southern state of Bavaria was found to have 26,000 illicit photographs in his flat. "According to the information we now have, many of the suspects are extremely dangerous paedophiles," said Klaus Jeziorsky, Saxony-Anhalt's interior minister."A not insignificant number of the suspects discovered in Operation Marcy were already known to police - particularly for sex crimes."The market for child pornography is growing," he added. "Millions are earned and the potential profit allows the last inhibitions to drop."In Germany, the distribution of child pornography carries a comparatively lenient three month to five year jail term, while those convicted of possessing pornographic images can receive a maximum of one year in prison or a fine.MPs from Germany's opposition Christian Democratic Union have called for the sentences to be toughened."Every case of child pornography is a document of the sexual abuse of a child. Every look at that image kills a child's soul," Mr Becker said last night.The raids follow operations in five countries in May, which led to 21 arrests, including seven in Germany.
Oh, my spam-protected friends. You have no idea what life is like without that security. It's not simply that everything you type into Google leads you straight to porn - thereafter, every porn site you might have accessed (were you so minded) will email you each night, telling you about its new and improved content.OK, sometimes I'm asking for it - for example, if you do a search on 'anal' + 'porn' + 'sales figures' (it was for a piece!), there's no one to blame but yourself (even then, I felt unfairly harassed. I woke up one morning and the  very cleanest of 168 subject lines in my inbox was 'come kiss my puckered... ').Other times, it's not my fault, but I could have done more to protect myself. If you're looking for the quote from Britney Spears about President Bush, you could find better search terms than 'britney' + 'bush'. But how can I possibly anticipate rude things proceeding from 'dog' + 'IQ test'? 'Crayfish' + 'varieties'? (Actually, that was for a crossword. The answer was langouste, since you ask.)Try it right now. Try 'Geneva' + 'convention'. I will bet my below-averagely intelligent dog that there are 617 porn stars called Geneva in the world, and more than half of them have some interesting, er, conventions.
German police today announced that they have cracked what is claimed to be one of the biggest child pornography networks in the world.The internet-based ring, which involves some 26,500 people in 166 countries, was broken using computer files seized from one man last year that contained a huge email distribution list.It contained the names of individuals who use the internet to swap pornographic images of children as young as four months old.Members of the network accessed the material on the internet via a password system. A "manager" checked to make sure participants were contributing, as well as viewing, pornographic images. If not, they were thrown out.Some of those involved in the ring were known "high-grade paedophiles," said Curt Becker, the justice minister of the state of Saxony-Anhalt. The suspects could face jail terms of up to 10 years if convicted.In a sweep codenamed Operation Marcy, involving some 1,500 police, 502 premises were raided across Germany this week. Officers seized 745 computers, at least 35,500 CDs, 8,300 computer discs and 5,800 videos.The investigation was triggered in May 2002 when a German internet business association filed a complaint against a Magdeburg man identified only as Marcel K.Officials said the 26,500 suspects worldwide included individuals in the United States, Australia and Switzerland, but did not give further details.In Germany, 530 people - all men - have been identified as suspects and are being investigated for possession or distribution of child pornography. Police said the German suspects ranged from teachers and sports instructors to police officers and a priest involved in youth work.
"Aoccdrnig to rschearch at an Elingsh uinervtisy, it deosn't mttaer in waht oredr the ltteers in a wrod are, the olny iprmoetnt tihng is taht frist and lsat ltteer is at the rghit pclae. The rset can be a toatl mses and you can sitll raed it wouthit porbelm."In a press release issued today, Dr Richard Shillcock, of theInstitute for Adaptive and Neural Computation in the School of Informatics[at the University of Edinburgh], said: "We are trying to model what the brain does on computers and, somewhat reassuringly, we've noticed computers behaving like humans as they read words. In our model, the effect is due to the fact that the human brain is divided in two hemispheres and, when the eye first lands on a word, the two parts of the word are initially projected to opposing sides of the brain. In this theoretical framework, some of the reading problems observed in dyslexia are due to differences in transfer of information between the two sides of the brain."
Financial TimesEditorial, September 25"In deciding to close most of its internet chatrooms, Microsoft has killed three birds with one stone. It has distanced itself from a worrying risk of litigation, won plaudits for its social responsibility and closed an unprofitable part of its business ... Microsoft should not be blamed for taking a commercial decision. But the praise that has been heaped on the company by some children's charities is excessive."While all paedophilia is disturbing ... paedophiles unfortunately have other ways of meeting children, on and off the internet ... The internet is so new that it is hard to keep sight of the fact that most of its problems are old ... Existing laws are often applicable to these problems but both law enforcement and cultural mores have yet to catch up. Without dismissing the horror of sexual abuse, it is clear that the frenzy about paedophilia is not based on any startling new problem. Parents should be cautious but not paranoid ... Chatrooms should no more be shut down as a matter of public policy than playgrounds, telephones, schools or indeed text messages because they, too, have been used by paedophiles."Philip HensherIndependent, September 25"The reason that Microsoft &#91;is&#93; closing down the UK chatrooms is that a series of cases of misuse and abuse have surfaced ... Young teenagers have thought they were talking to someone their own age ... Subsequently, they found they were talking to adults ... intending to abuse them ... The question is whether the provision of the service creates the conditions for child abuse, or whether it is just a convenient medium ..."Perhaps an abuser does start more easily because the internet allows him to disguise himself so thoroughly ... If we could be sure that this was the case, then there should be no hesitation in closing down chatrooms ... But it doesn't seem undoubtedly true ... However many people are currently using &#91;Microsoft&#93; chatrooms for these disgusting purposes, it can't be thought that when the chatrooms close down the problems will vanish."Daily ExpressEditorial, September 24"After a spate of horrendous cases where youngsters were groomed by paedophiles over the internet, it is obvious that online chatrooms carry enormous risks. But while the government has dragged its feet over introducing legislation to curb their abuse, the industry itself has had the good sense to see that enough is enough ..."Without access to mainstream chatrooms such as &#91;these&#93;, paedophiles will find it much harder to contact targets. Until a way of safeguarding these sites can be found, Microsoft's example must be followed by every other service provider if every parent's online nightmare is to be wiped out."SunEditorial, September 24"Parents will salute the wise decision ... &#91;Microsoft&#93; is worried that paedophiles are using &#91;chatrooms&#93; to prey on children and groom them for sex. This move by the world's leading internet service sends out a vital message to the rest of the industry. No company can properly moderate a big instant-access chatroom. Our children would be safer if they were all shut down. Precious lives must not be put at risk."Guy KewneyTheRegister.co.uk, September 25"Microsoft Network &#91;MSN&#93; was always a blatant example of ... anti-competitive actions. It was launched because Bill Gates came to realise that AOL was a bigger force on the net than Microsoft, and he 'invested' heavily in &#91;MSN&#93; ... Now ... reality dawns on Microsoft. MSN makes no money, and indeed loses millions every month; and so it's clawback time ..."Closing chatrooms may be a great idea if it stops children being abused - so will it? The evidence of the past two years is that, actually, a moderated chatroom is a great place to catch predatory paedophiles. You put a moderator online, and they pose as an innocent pre-teen, looking for excitement. And ... the paedophile, who is pretending to be a pre-teen kid himself, is taken in, and arranges to meet the policeman ... If Microsoft goes ahead and closes down MSN chatrooms, the effect will be that kids stop looking for chatrooms, right?   Hardly - there are too many. And some of them are moderated, of course, but others are not. Microsoft could, if its prime concern was care for the kids, pay moderators to maintain good order in its chatrooms. That, of course, would cost extra money."David RowanTimes, September 25"With paedophiles lurking behind every mouse-click, an altruist as public spirited as Mr Gates saw no alternative but to disconnect &#91;the&#93; chatrooms ... You might as well laugh out loud at the man's sheer audacity. Microsoft ... had some far more pragmatic reasons ... Chatrooms do not generate much revenue ..."Besides ... regulators have come knocking at Microsoft's door - in this case the Home Office, keen to enforce chatroom guidelines designed to give children greater protection. And if that will cost money, so will the potential flood of legal claims for negligence. Far cheaper in the long run ... is to let teenagers take their idle chat to the smaller websites - even if these sites, unlike Microsoft, could never afford to employ that expensive chat-monitoring hardware known as human beings."
"Microsoft says it will collaborate with a consortium that promotes [a Japanese] open operating system for consumer electronics called TRON, in a move aimed at making its software compatible with a system that operates nearly 60 percent of the world's microprocessors. TRON is distributed free of charge and is used in a wide range of products from digital cameras to car engines," reportsReuters.Comment: TRON has appeared here before, on September 5,below.
"No 1 personal computer maker Dell Inc on Thursday said that it would launch a music service and begin selling a digital music player, a flat panel television screen and a new handheld computer in the fourth quarter," reportsReuters.Update:APandIDG Newsnow have more details.
Rival companies have accused Microsoft of cynical commercialism for pulling the plug on its internet chatrooms.The company posted messages on thousands of its chatrooms yesterday telling users that the services will be withdrawn on October 14. More than 1.2 million people a month use its UK chatrooms.MSN - the internet arm of Bill Gates' Microsoft empire - said it took the decision after a series of high-profile cases involving children being abused by adults they had met in internet chatrooms.The move was welcomed by children's charities, but other providers of internet services condemned it. The announcement was seen by some analysts and on online message boards as having more to do with business and revenues than a moral crusadeAlex Kovach, managing director of Lycos UK and Ireland, said the move was "irresponsible", and added that the industry should be focusing on how to provide a safe environment for chat."People leading the internet should be moving towards regulated chatrooms," he said. "But people like Microsoft are creating risks by turning their back on chat and putting their head in the sand."He said that chatrooms were here to stay. "Our chatrooms have 100 supervisors in the UK, we have records of internet providers' addresses and we are Home Office compliant," he said. "People should be working together to make it a safer environment rather than abandoning it altogether."Mr Kovach said there were commercial motives behind Microsoft's decision. "Microsoft is finding it difficult to make money from chat and is moving people towards instant messaging, which has a better ability to make money," he said. "Yet they have claimed the moral high ground. Really, this is missing the point."Freeserve, another UK internet service provider, also accused Microsoft of cloaking a commercial decision with concern for child welfare."We are bemused that MSN has managed to pull off something of a PR coup with this announcement, giving the impression of being respectable and responsible," it said in a   statement. "Our view is that what they are doing is nothing short of reckless. All MSN is doing is sending chatroom users underground. MSN's one million-plus chatroom users are not going to stop using chat, MSN are simply moving the problem elsewhere."Freeserve requires all chatroom users to register with it, so it knows who they are. There are moderators in chatrooms for younger users.Virgin.net, which closed its chatrooms two years ago, was more cautious. Peter Tuomey, its sales and marketing director, said: "We felt it was the responsible thing to do to move away from chatrooms. Even in moderated chatrooms there is no visibility, so you can't see who A is chatting to."MSN said it had invested for years in moderators and also had a dedicated child protection officer, but that the level of abuse was such that it could no longer guarantee children's safety.Gillian Kent, MSN UK's director, said: "We felt it necessary to make these changes because online chat services are increasingly misused. These changes will help protect MSN users from spam and inappropriate communication."In the US, MSN's unmoderated chatrooms will have access through credit card subscription only. There are moderated chatrooms in Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and Brazil. But MSN's chatrooms in the Middle East, Latin America, Asia and Europe will close.Oliver Letwin, the shadow home secretary, called on the government to consider allowing chatroom providers to be sued if their service was used to groom a victim.David Blunkett, the home secretary, said he would consider imposing penalties on internet service providers.He said: "I am not going to dismiss any proposition that the opposition brings forward on this, because we have been very collaborative about this. We have strengthened the law."If there is more that needs to be done, let us do it, but not at a rush. We have to see if the legislation is sufficient, and whether individual or chatroom contact is more dangerous."
Banking online has never been more popular. According to the payment services group (BACS), who are responsible for the processing of direct debits, credit s and standing orders, the number of people using the internet to bank has risen from 3.5m in 2000 to 7.8m at the end of last year.You can now do just about all your banking without the need to talk to another human being. Paying bills, transferring funds, checking account balances, starting the process of switching banks; everything can be done with a few clicks of the mouse.Aside from the high street banks' internet services, there are also a growing number of online-only banks. Four of the main players in this field are Intelligent Finance (IF), Egg, Cahoot and Smile. Each one has a different approach to reeling in new customers.Intelligent FinanceThe Halifax online arm, Intelligent Finance (IF), provides a range of financial services including current and savings accounts, credit cards, personal loans and mortgages.Its site is simple and easy to navigate, with all the available products, along with their interest rates, plastered on the front page. The credit card rate is 8.9%, while the Direct Access savings account pays 3.55% interest.IF's emphasis is on offsetting and flexibility. The idea is that you hold all your financial accounts, such as your current account, savings, credit card and mortgage, in one place, but in separate 'jars,' and offset your credit balances against your debit balances. There are illustrations and demonstrations showing how the products, and combinations of products, work on the website.In theory, this can save you a lot of money. According to IF, if you have a 25-year mortgage of £100,000 but hold £10,000 in your savings and current accounts you could save £18,362 and pay your mortgage back two years and eight months early.Current account customers get a Switch card and chequebook, and can withdraw money from Link cash machines, and make deposits by transferring money from external accounts, or by sending a cheque to IF.Intelligent FinanceEggEgg, the Prudential's internet offering, claims to be the world's largest purely online bank. Its site is straightforward and easy to use. It incorporates an account aggregator so you can manage all of your bank accounts on one web page.The bank offers a range of services to customers, including a credit card, savings accounts, personal loans and mortgages as well as ISAs and a selection of insurance products. There is no Egg current account, though.At the moment, the Egg card charges a standard APR of 13.9%, and there are usually special introductory offers to lure in new customers.Existing customers can get preferential rates on certain products. For example, you qualify for a 10% discount on travel and home insurance if you pay with an Egg credit card.In order to access money held in an Egg savings accounts you need to make a transfer into an external current account, which can take three to four working days.EggCahootCahoot is Abbey National's online arm. Its products include current and savings accounts, a credit card, a flexible personal loan, mortgage, insurance and share dealing.The site also has a shopping page, where you can buy CDs, books, clothes, holidays and wine from a selection of online shops.You can get a chequebook and debit card with a current account, and can access funds via Link cash machines.You can't use Abbey National branches to do your banking. You can make a deposit of up to £10,000 over the counter at most post offices, or you can send cheques in the post. Alternatively, you can set up direct debits to transfer money into your online accounts.The credit card APR depends on a customer's credit rating. Although the majority of customers are offered the lowest available rate of 8%, according to Cahoot, each application is looked at separately. If your credit rating is not up to scratch you still might be offered a credit card, but with a higher APR.CahootSmileSmile is owned by the Co-operative Bank and offers current accounts, credit cards, savings accounts, investments, including online share dealing, loans, and mortgages.It also has a shopping site where you can buy a bizarre mix of alcohol, flights and roadside rescue services.The bank has a number of special offers designed to persuade customers to buy into the whole range of different products. For example, if you have a current account with Smile then the credit card comes with an APR of 9.9%, compared to 10.5% for those without. Current account holders can also get 0.75% more interest on savings and 0.50% more on mini-cash ISAs.For people who are interested in share dealing but not ready to risk real cash, there is an area called 'The Game' where you can register and play the stock market, using real share prices and information, with £100,000 of fantasy cash.Smile has jumped on the premium bank account bandwagon, and offers a current account called Smilemore, which costs £6 a month. For that you get free travel insurance and Green Flag roadside assistance, along with a few other benefits.Smile
It's a lazy weekday afternoon, and Naughtyangel is gently goading some fellow chatters in one of the Microsoft Network UK chatrooms. "EVERTON ONLY WANT TO SHARE COZ THEY GOT KNOCKED BACK 4 THERE NEW STADIUM." People enter and leave the chat, each coming and going reflected while it happens by a new line of text on the scrolling window. Another member finally responds to Naughtyangel: "Yeah. LOL". Another user urges other chatters to "turn ya whispers on".Over in the Grapevine Scotland chatroom, they're also trading insults, this time about the stinginess of other members. A message pops up, from a member who claims to be a married women in her 40s living in Edinburgh - asking: "Any men want to play in whispers?"This is just a snapshot of a few minutes' activity on the busy network of MSN chatrooms earlier this week, before yesterday's announcement that the company would be closing, on October 14, the hundreds of unmoderated chatrooms, used by 1.2 million users in the UK.To the uninitiated, this looks like a fairly banal world, but MSN has admitted rising levels of spam and - more significantly - what they call "inappropriate communication", has forced its hand.The "inappropriate communication" is not the publicly traded insults. The clue to its real nature lies in the regular exhortations to go to "whispers" - a facility built in to the chat software that allows one-to-one communication between individuals, which no one else can see.Unseen and unchecked by anyone other than those taking part, these secret chatrooms, warn campaigners,   can be the places where net paedo-philes prey on children, "groom" them, and even attempt to arrange real-world meetings. Only by shutting down the chatrooms can MSN be sure it is not providing a facility for paedophiles to find new victims.Matt Whittingham, MSN UK's head of customer satisfaction, points to the rise of spammer activity - where spammers both collect emails from chats, and spam the chats themselves - as contributing to the closure.But the major factor, especially in the UK, has been the well-publicised instances where paedophiles have preyed on children in those chatrooms. "When you add all that inappropriate communication together, we felt it was time to draw a line," he says.John Carr, internet consultant to NCH Action For Children, has welcomed what he calls a "momentous" move by MSN. "What this represents is Microsoft turning its back on the old internet, and saying 'we are a family-friendly, consumer-facing company and we want our products to be safe for families and the broad consumer market'," he says.Thanks to high-profile court cases vividly reported in the tabloid press, chatrooms are quickly becoming synonymous with paedophilia. In July, the Sun tracked down a 46-year-old married father of two who used Freeserve chatrooms in an attempt to meet a 12-year-old girl for sex.And last month Judge Gerald Gordon was widely quoted hitting out at the fact he could only jail a trainee teacher, who had attempted to buy a girl of nine for sex over the internet, for 18 months. He had been caught by a trap set by US customs' agents, who had set out to lure paedophiles using popular chatrooms. Judge Gor don added the internet was "a feeding ground for fantasy" which could lead to "serious criminal offences".But despite the public concern over chatrooms, at least one expert on paedophile behaviour says shutting them down may not be the best way to protect children.Dr Rachel O'Connell, director of the Cyberspace Research Unit at the University of Central Lancashire, is a widely quoted expert in the methods paedophiles use online to groom their victims. She acknowledges that chatrooms are "very risky", and says there are a high number of instances of grooming taking place. But she also warns MSN's sweeping action may not have the positive effect intended."I suspect this is perhaps a bit of a knee-jerk reaction," she says. "It doesn't grapple with the issue. The first point of contact may be in a public   chatroom moderated or unmoderated, but it will quickly migrate to a private chatroom or on to instant messaging systems."O'Connell warns that when chats disappear from view and move to private "whisper" chats, or instant message exchanges which can now be carried on via mobile phones, it becomes harder to monitor what children are doing."Microsoft obviously feels it can't ensure the safety of those children in those unmoderated chatrooms, so they are taking them away, but this will not solve the problem," she says. "I think the likely effect of this will be an increase in children using instant messaging programs, and the paedophile strategies will adapt to this."Should that happen, the MSN move could even accelerate the grooming process, warns O'Connell. "I think it will speed up the transfer from public   chatrooms into instant messenger and mobile communications. I don't want to be inflammatory, but there is the likelihood now that we will displace children into an environment that you cannot moderate."MSN insists it has thought through the implications of its move. "The last thing we would want is to make the situation worse," says Whittingham. "The NSPCC and the NCH both support this; they think it's a positive move towards making the internet a better, safer place in the UK."But free speech advocates also have reservations about the effects of the move. They express fears that, in the rush to do more to protect children on the web, general principles of free speech may be trampled."Obviously, paedophiles using the internet to stalk children is a problem," says Ian Brown, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research. "On the other hand, I don't think we should be pushing further to stop that if, in the end, we're talking about having to spy on all internet users just on the off-chance one of them might be doing this."There might be a better measure that people could take to reduce the risk - education of parents and of children in how to use the internet, for example."Carr, an internet safety campaigner for the past seven years, dismisses such concerns as being from the days of the "old" internet, and says the radically changed medium needs new rules. "The old internet was run on the rules of the senior common room," he says. "It's in transition, becoming a mass consumer product. When the interent first burst forth on the scene, nobody imagined it was going to be in the bedrooms of 13-year-old girls in Peckham."In a perfect world, kids would behave well, parents would be attentive, and life would be simple and straightforward. But that's not the way it is."Every day in the British courts there are child pornography cases stemming from the internet. And every month - it certainly seems like that in the last year or so - there has been one or more cases of a child being abused following a contact first made on the internet, in a chatroom. You can't ignore that."Carr even suggests that the identity card scheme currently being promoted by the Home Secretary, David Blunkett, should have an "online element" to tie citizens' online identities to their real world personas. "What I hope is that this will give a major boost to looking for a more reliable   way of verifying people's online identities," he says."People only behave badly because they think there's little or no chance of them being caught. That, incidentally, ties in with the whole spam thing and other kinds of identity theft and online fraud. The chatroom thing is just another aspect of the same problem."Frankly," he adds, "I don't see how until we've solved that central problem any of these things are going to be satisfactorily dealt with."That's a notion that would horrify the FIPR's Brown, who believes the dangers online are being blown out of proportion. "The internet is a lovely scare story for newspapers that don't really understand it," he says. "But we've had phones for a long time, and people can stop children in the street and stalk them in playgrounds. I don't think the internet is quite as strange, as different, as dangerous for children as some people try to portray it as."Society will get used to it, and children will actually learn from their parents and from their schools."Dr O'Connell also says education is vital for children who venture online by themselves. "There is no backup programme of education," she complains. "They &#91;MSN&#93; are going to reassure parents. I can see from a company's point of view that they want to create the illusion of a trusted brand, and that they're taking responsibility and finally coming out and saying 'it is unsafe, and this is our response'. But what they're not doing, what they should have done, is say: the people we are trying to protect is the kids."
Publishing your own personal web pages used to be a technical affair. You could use software to make the actual creation of the page simple. But you would likely still need to learn the mechanics of transporting (or uploading) the finished pages to a web server to make them viewable to the world.Weblogs - more specifically, weblog software - have changed all that. Weblogs are pages filled with the author's (or authors') observations about life or a specialist subject, with lots of links to other locations on the web. The pages are presented in reverse chronological order, often with the facility for visitors to leave comments on each post. They are archived by day, week or month.If you want a web page, but don't want to spill your heart out to millions, don't be put off by the image of   weblogs. The significance of weblog software is that it makes it easy to publish on the web. The software automates the tedious bits of updating and managing the page, leaving the author to simply work on the words (and photographs) in each post. The software handles the comments, the uploading process and the archiving.There are various competing software packages, mostly free or at a low cost to individual users.The most famous - and popular - is Blogger, the pioneering weblog service now owned by the Google search engine. Its strength lies in its flexibility; beginners can take the easiest route of having their weblog stored on its BlogSpot service, and not have to get their hands dirty with HTML code to create their first blog. More advanced users can use Blogger to power sites hosted on their own servers, and build complex templates to display   their weblog content. Online still uses Blogger for its Onlineblog.com weblog.However, other weblog services are starting to move ahead of Blogger in ease of use and functionality.Most notable is TypePad, used to run the Guardian's KickAAS weblog. Pricing starts at $4.95 (&#163;3) a month, rising to $14.95 for the Pro version, but that includes web space for your site. Most TypePad users use the service's tasteful range of pre-built templates, which can be customised through the TypePad website. The Pro version allows users to get stuck into the raw HTML code. TypePad is feature-rich, but is a little more complex than the easiest-to-use services.Fitting into that category is AOL Journals, a new blogging service being offered only to AOL subscribers. AOL boasts you should be able to set up your site in "less than three minutes". You get a clean, functional page, but   don't expect anything too cutting-edge.Another easy-to-use blogging service is the Europe-based 20six, which claims a two-minute set-up time. The service is free - for the moment - and has some neat features including the ability to post text or photographs from your mobile phone.If what you crave is flexibility and total control, there's Movable Type. It lives on your webserver, where it can be installed in a fiddly process. In return, you get a rich array of features.Bloggerwww.blogger.comOnlineblogwww.onlineblog.comTypePadwww.typepad.comKickAASwww.kickaas.typepad.comAOL Journalshttp://hometown.aol.com20sixwww.20six.co.ukMovable Typewww.movabletype.com
With records dating back more than 1,000 years, Britain's archives cover just about everything, from census returns to Elizabeth I's love letters - as well as millions of feet of film and video. Put on a single shelf, these records would stretch 1,300 miles, or fill 900 articulated lorries.One statistic is unlikely to raise many eyebrows, though: the typical archive user is white and over 50. And according to the government, that has to change.Making Britain's archives socially inclusive is on the political agenda. Getting more archive content online and - crucially - making it easier to access is seen as the key to changing the user stereotype."Engaging people in new ways will broaden the appeal of archives," says Justin Frost, senior policy adviser at Resource, part of the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. "Part of the problem is that archives are seen as very academic and they haven't got stuff that the majority of people would be interested in. But they do."Resource has set up a taskforce for archives that will report to the government early next year. Key recom mendations will include a new gateway for UK archive searches and a registration facility that will allow online history archives - even personal ones - to come under the same umbrella. There will also be extra money to get new archives on the web.Many of Britain's public and private archives are well represented online. But trying to find what you want can be frustrating. With millions of images and documents scattered across hundreds of sites, it's a game of chance - and that can be off-putting for inexperienced net users. Britain's online archives simply duplicate the fragmentation that exists in reality.The proposal to create a national archive network with a single portal will radically simplify searches.The idea of a portal smacks of the bad old days of dotcom mania - but this is one area where it could make sense."It will enable global searching of UK archival heritage," says Frost. "At the moment, there are networks for archives in universities, there's a network for archives in Scotland, a network for archives in Wales and the National Archive's own collections... but with this portal, the user wouldn't see any of those - it would just come in with their search terms."But will any of this help make Britain's online archives an engine of social inclusion? The recently launched Moving Here website - with images and stories documenting 200 years of migration - is the kind of project the government wants to encourage."This is the first opportunity we've had to put things online in a major   way," says Sam Walker, director of the Black Cultural Archives at Brixton in south London and a contributor to Moving Here. "We tried some time ago to establish our own website but we had limited resources and were not able to do anything on a large scale."Growing public interest in such online archives has caught many unawares. The enthusiasm is fuelled in   part by the popularity of television history programmes, but the driving force is broadband. The 1901 census website - which allows users to name-search ancestors - has racked up more than 56m user sessions in the past year.Fast internet access is increasing demand for new types of animated historical content, too. In what could be the shape of things to come, the British Library has developed a web version of its Turning the Pages technology. This creates the illusion of 3-D page-turns with zoom-in magnification, allowing scrutiny of valuable manuscripts that rarely see the light of day, while audio commentary and text explanations add a valuable interpretative dimension.Big bandwidth also means a growing appetite for moving pictures. Broadband makes video downloads for personal and educational use feasible for the first time. The BBC is keen to tap this potential audience and is considering how best to digitise and share more than 1.3m hours of TV and radio recordings.British Pathe, meanwhile, was among the first to get a complete film archive online, with lottery backing from the New Opportunities Fund.All this is undoubtedly boosting the popularity of archives. But there are risks. The increasing prevalence of broadband-friendly content - such as video - is not much good if you're stuck with a 56K modem. And that could exacerbate the digital divide.At the other end of the spectrum, the growing popularity of archives on the web is creating a new problem for cash-strapped archives on the ground: once people have seen the content online, they want to go and look at the real thing."We don't have the resources to satisfy the demand," says Sam Walker, at the Black Cultural Archives. "People say you've got a very good resource - but there's no money. Whatever we do, we continue to find ourselves on the margins."LinksMoving Herewww.movinghere.org.uk1901 censuswww.census.pro.gov.ukBritish Library -Turning the Pageswww.bl.uk/collections/treasures/digitisation.htmlBritish Pathe film librarywww.britishpathe.com/index.cfmLinks to 150 lottery-backed sites with archive contentwww.enrichuk.netReal-world archive collectionswww.a2a.pro.gov.uk
A 22-year-old man embarked on a sexual relationship with a 14-year-old girl after meeting her in a Microsoft internet chatroom, a court heard yesterday.David Hipperson travelled from his home in Hitchin, Hertfordshire, to Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, and booked into a hotel with the teenager on three occasions for their secret meetings.The defendant pleaded guilty at Leamington magistrates court to one count of gross indecency with a girl under 16.The court heard how Hipperson began corresponding with the teenager, who lives in Leamington, in the chatroom. She told him she was a 16-year-old student.Hipperson was arrested on August 26 at a hotel in Leamington after the girl's parents alerted officers.Sentencing was adjourned until October 16.
Microsoft virusA little beauty popped into my mailbox today: it claims to be the latest security update from Microsoft, and everything about it appears genuine. The attachment is named Installer636.exe. Am I right to think this is a virus?Andy WhitehouseJack Schofield replies:Yes, Microsoft never sends updates by email, just puts them on its website. The attachment is a worm called Swen or Gibe.F, which tries to exploit a security problem fixed more than two years ago. (Search for Microsoft Security Bulletin MS01-020.) If you run it, it tries to disable your firewall and anti-virus software, then send itself out via email, the KaZaA file-sharing network, and Internet Relay Chat (IRC) messaging. Since you have not run the attachment, you can simply delete it. Users who have run it could find it is a bit messy to remove. However, Symantec offers a free removal tool and full manual instructions athttp://securityresponse.symantec.com.The latest important security patch for NT versions of Windows (NT, Windows 2000 and XP), dated September 10, can be downloaded from Microsoft Security Bulletin MS03-039, with full details inMicrosoft Knowledge Base Article 824146. This fixes buffer overruns in the RPC routines like the one exploited by MS Blaster.Only predictWhy don't word processing packages use predictive text? If it   makes text messaging so much quicker, why not apply the same idea to programs used to write larger documents?Paul FisherJS:There have been predictive word processors around for at least 20 years, and I used to have Brown Bag's MindReader on a 5.25in PC floppy disk. They have never become popular, but they can be very useful for dyslexic and disabled users. Inclusive Consultancy and Training Ltd has a web page that mentions some of the predictive programs available, such as Penfriend, Prophet, andCo:Writer. You can find links in the TechDis accessibility database atSussex School of Education. Some programs work with sound cards for voice dictation.Network startWe have two Dell computers: an old one running Windows 98SE and a new one running Windows XP Home. Can they be linked with a cable, and if so, what kind of cable and where does it go? If we get broadband, can both be connected?Steve BallantyneJS:Both machines can be connected using an Ethernet (10baseT) network and, for preference, a small box called a hub. Ethernet does not care which operating systems you use, and will connect PCs, Macs, Unix boxes, handhelds and games consoles. Each machine needs an Ethernet connection: most new ones have an RJ-45 port, which looks like a phone plug, only bigger. You will probably have to install an Ethernet card in the old Dell. You can connect the machines to the hub using Cat 5 cable (aka UTP or unshielded twisted pair). Seewww.motherboards.org/articlesd/for some helpful photos.If you want to share broadband, you will probably need an ADSL   router rather than a simple hub. For extra convenience, at much higher cost, you can get a wireless hub and fit each machine with a Wi-Fi wireless Ethernet card. Avoid using USB connections.  To avoid a flood of mail: yes, you can connect two PCs directly using a crossover cable, but it is better to buy a cheap hub.Bye NAVWe have installed AVG anti-virus and want to know how to uninstall Norton, which has not been updated for six months.Peter DuthieJS:It should be possible to remove Norton AntiVirus and other programs by using the Add/Remove Programs applet in Windows (Start| Settings|Control Panel). If that does not work, Symantec's service and support site provides a removal utility for NAV 5.0/2000/2001/2002/ 2003 athttp://service1.symantec.com. If you don't have NAV2003, also see How to uninstallNorton AntiVirus 2000/2001/2002. Mac users can get instructions fromhttp://service1.symantec.com.Backchat&#183;Avram Dumitrescu wanted something to let him know when selected web pages were updated. Dave Stockley from UK-basedWordcraft Internationalsays "our product - The Newwwws - seems ideal. Martin Pratt says "by far the best program I've come across for web watching isWebsite Watcher. If you are willing to pay &euro;30 for a licence, it's the most feature rich and configurable software I've found". There is a free 30-day trial version.
As companies rush to outsource their business processes to lower cost locations such as India, what does it mean for British IT managers and corporate information officers (CIOs)? Ariadne Capital, a venture capital business, is hoping to enlighten some of them. It is taking a group of interested CIOs to India later this year.Even with the additional costs of setting up an offshore subsidiary, it can pay off. For example, salaries can be up to $90,000 a year for an onshore programmer but only $15,000 for one with the same skills offshore.Bundeep Singh Rangar, chief operating officer of Ariadne Capital, says: "There are all sorts of ways of managing work carried out in offshore sites. You can outsource it to a third-party like Wipro of India, you can insource it by creating a wholly owned Indian subsidiary, or you can get involved in a joint venture with a local company that has expertise, but where you have the option of taking over the company eventually. Or you can buy a local company that meets your needs."We will be taking the CIOs round to meet mainly US companies that have already outsourced or insourced in India. India is a big country, and computer-chip companies are not going to need to visit the same areas or existing businesses as those interested in financial services or those interested in general manufacturing." Rangar says different options will suit different companies and that the obvious outsourcing locations like Bangalore are no longer the best places to get cost savings: growing demand has already caused labour costs to rise.Rangar got involved in helping to put work offshore when he was brought in as interim chief executive at a start-up, MeMediaGroup, by venture capitalists backed by Lord Jacob Rothschild and Lord Maurice Saatchi.While there, he got involved in launching Clickwalla.com. "We got the website developed in India by Pugmarks, including content and functionality, because of the huge cost saving," he says. "It cost one tenth of what it would have cost to develop in the UK."Typical savings for outsourcing are 30 to 60% - probably slightly less for insourcing. This has attracted multinational giants such as GE, American Express, Dell, British Airways and Proctor &amp; Gamble. According to Rebecca Scholl, principal analyst at the Gartner Group and author of Offshore Insourcing versus Offshore Outsourcing: "All these companies   use a mix of outsourcing processes to third parties, and insourcing, where they run their own offshore centres."Services outsourced include basic financial services such as accounts, issuing of invoices, payroll, administration of human resources benefits and call centres.BA has even hived off its Indian centre - called WNS, for World Network Services - into a separate company, selling a majority stake to a private equity firm, Warburg Pincus. Now it does work, such as seat allocation, for other airlines, too.Another British travel company that has got the outsourcing bug is eBookers, founded by Indian-born Dinesh Dhamija. It has a strategy of buying up bricks-and-mortar businesses and cutting costs by putting much of their transaction work offshore. Dhamija is planning more acquisitions and wants his company's   sales to increase to $1bn next year."I can book hotels, car hire, flights - all by calling an eBookers number where I will be served by Indian staff," says Rangar. Lastminute.com, the online travel booking company, also keeps the cost of some transactions down by using India-based staff.But whatever the application, IT managers will have to get involved. Richard Lister, a partner specialising in global outsourcing at international law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, says: "As well as being clear about what the business objective of going offshore is, IT managers will have to identify what systems used onshore will be needed to underpin the business process that is moving."They will also need to look carefully at any existing onshore outsourcing contracts to see what base-line assumptions about the level of use will be affected."Contracts, such as software licences, may be affected by a change in the number of users. Other issues include data protection and customer confidentiality. "If an organisation is planning to have data accessed from India or China, where the transfer of data is outside the EU," says Lister, "they will need to have the right contractual arrangements in place, and this will vary according to whether the offshore entity is acting as a data controller or a data processor."Rangar points out that it is possible to set up systems in a client-server fashion, so that although data may be processed offshore, it is stored onshore. "For example," he says, "Russian programmers working for one of our Silicon Valley start-ups can develop applications and send them to California to check that they run correctly. But they cannot access the US-based source code."Ensuring business continuity and creating a foolproof disaster recovery plan could be a big headache for IT managers with no offshore experience. Nagendra Bandaru, head of telecoms service providers in Europe for Wipro Technologies, says: "If you outsource to an experienced third-party service provider, the IT implications of an offshore move are fairly simple and not particularly expensive."He says that "if you want to set up any kind of operation in India, you will have to have a huge communications pipe costing around &euro;100,000 (&#163;69,510) a year. You will also need firewalls and virus protection software to avoid cross-infection and security breaches between on and offshore sites".Bandaru believes most companies will need the same IT infrastructure offshore as they have onshore, but if they outsource to a third party, the cost will be spread across its customer base. A thorough audit of security plans should be carried out too, he says.But Scholl says: "IT managers often consider issues like the quality and cost of offshore labour and security. What they overlook is the human dimension. After the fact, what disappoints companies most is projects that aren't on time and on budget, poor project management and lack of good governance rules. They usually blame management skills at the offshore location, but it takes two parties to have a misunderstanding."Bandaru warns: "If companies choose the wrong supplier, particularly one with insufficient knowledge of the IT skills so vital to getting a big offshore business project right, the cost of reassignment to another supplier will be very high."Nor is offshore outsourcing always the cheapest option. Transversal, a Cambridge-based software company, argues - based on cost-benefit studies for companies such as Sony Computer Entertainment Europe and Direct Line - that up to 80% of inbound customer contact could be handled using web self-service. It says the average call handled in India costs &#163;1.30 compared to less than 30p for web self-service.Nevertheless, offshore outsourcing and insourcing is likely to continue for some time. Forrester Research predicts that during the next 15 years, 3.3m US services-industry jobs and $136bn in wages will move offshore and the Communications Workers of America, which organised a protest outside a Silicon Valley offshore outsourcing conference recently, says 400,000 US jobs have already gone offshore.
Finding NemoTravellers Tales/THQ, Xbox, PS2 &#163;39.99, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;As a kids game based on a movie, Finding Nemo has no right to be this good. Usually a movie licence is an excuse for lazy design and formulaic gameplay. Combine this with a game whose target audience is pre-teen, and it is safe to say that the majority of console owners may overlook this. More fool them.Nemo is a lovely looking underwater adventure that will enthral kiddies, but also keep adults involved. It seamlessly mixes movie and game footage, and plays as well as it looks. One moment you'll be fleeing from sharks, the next navigating through a forest of jellyfish. It also gets the feel just right. Currents ebb and flow, and controlling Nemo brings back pleasant memories of Ecco the Dolphin titles. But while Nemo never touches the frustration levels of the Ecco games, it isn't as easy as expected. Later levels, in particular, will cause adults a few problems.Likewise, a lack of signposting can cause confusion as to what to do next. It won't win any originality awards, but Finding Nemo is a polished and enjoyable movie tie-in.Greg HowsonConflict: Desert Storm IIXbox, PS2, &#163;39.99 Pivotal/SCi, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Conflict: Desert Storm - a rare British-developed and published game - was one of last year's surprise hits, so the swift emergence of a   sequel is no surprise. Wisely, SCi has avoided any temptation to rock the boat. Thus, it is a squad-based military shoot-'em-up, set in the 1991 Gulf war, in which you command four-man SAS or American Delta Force squads. It is not the most sophisticated of the myriad military games - the graphics are little better than adequate, and storyline has been pretty much eschewed in favour of atmosphere - but it is one of those rareefforts that amounts to more than the sum of its parts.It is, in other words, designed for gamers rather than military fanatics. It has plenty of arcade-style elements, such as auto-aiming, which frees you to concentrate on tactics. As does the superb artificial intelligence, so crucial in squad-based games.Your squad includes specialists and, naturally, you can call on authentic modern military technology such as air strikes, so your progress through the missions involves working out how to eliminate obstacles. It is much easier to take out tanks, for example, from the rear, so to get into the right position, you might have to take out a wave of attendant soldiers. Up to four people can play cooperatively on the Xbox and two on the PlayStation 2, but it is a huge pity that full Xbox Live support is lacking. Nevertheless, Conflict: Desert Storm II is wonderfully playable and addictive.Steve BoxerEnclavePC, &#163;29.99 Starbreeze StudiosAtari/, &#42;&#42;&#42;With its addictive action combined with traditional role-playing elements, Blizzard's Diablo series typifies PC hack 'n' slash games. But when it comes to console hack 'n' slash titles such as Enclave, released on the Xbox more than a year ago, you're dealing with a different beast and one that doesn't always settle well when moved to a new PC home.Enclave's storyline is the usual fantasy tale of good versus evil, would-be despots and Conan-style sword and sorcery. You can choose the light or dark path at the start of the game, each of which gives you different missions and unique starting characters. However, the way you complete the missions on either side isn't vastly different.The graphics engine is beautiful, and combines with an eerie soundtrack to make some very atmospheric environments. Combat, however, is a basic affair that may bore PC users.If you already have the Xbox version, not a lot has changed. If you're looking at it with fresh eyes, however, you'll find a beautiful-looking, yet shallow, adventure with simplistic combat that belies its console roots.Rhianna Pratchett
Like most smug Macintosh users, I was indifferent to the most recent threat to civilisation as we know it - the Sobig      worm. Our mail server at work has a scanner, so that worm never reached me. Even if it had, it would not have worked.The first I knew of a new epidemic was getting messages from people I hadn't emailed telling me I had sent them a      "virus" (the now generic term) because my email address had turned up in the "reply-to" field of worm-infested emails.I thought no more of it until I heard a couple of guys discussing it on the tube. One said words to the effect that the      people who wrote viruses must be really clever so how come they didn't get a job with Microsoft. His comment set me      thinking, because surely the main characteristic of the viruses that currently circulate is not that they are smart, but      that they are dumb.The parallel with the natural world is illustrative. Take the case of everyone's favourite evil virus, Ebola. This is so      virulent that it kills up to 90% of infected hosts within one to two weeks. There is no known cure. So how come the      entire population hasn't dropped dead from haemorrhaging, shock or renal failure? The "organism" is just too deadly: it      kills too quickly and has too short an incubation period, so the pool of infected people doesn't grow.In fact, it shrinks      rather rapidly. Having terrible consequences doesn't make a virus successful.       If a parasite kills its hosts too quickly, then it destroys its own ecosystem: a lesson from nature here, surely. A clever      virus would leave PCs largely unaffected through its incubation period. But what if a worm, virus or trojan horse was      created by people who were really clever? What kind of things would this Àberworm do? It is fun, if not irresponsible, to      speculate.The line of thinking developed above indicates that a worm focused on information monitoring and gathering would be      more useful than one that actually damaged or altered information. Imagine a worm that simply mailed everyone's email      address books to a secret hideout on a Caribbean island hitherto overlooked by cartographers. Once at the hideout, the      address books would go into a giant database that drew a map of who was in others' address book.This "six degrees of freedom" database would be priceless to investigative journalists, conspiracy theorists and gossip      columnists. Better still, the worm could go through your browser cache and send back the lists of URLs you had visited      recently: a nice up-to-date database of email addresses against URLs might be jolly useful, especially for blackmailers      and industrial espionage hobbyists. What if the worm just surreptitiously, and over a period of time, sent copies of      every file on your PC back to its evil master?As the old saying goes, information is power. Simply knowing everyone's email address, from the prime minister to      Cameron Diaz, would be kind of fun. But knowing who had been emailing who, what they had been looking at on the web      and what documents they had been working on, would be wonderful.
EncyclopaediaKnowledge circleEveryone knows the internet has undermined encyclopaedias which have been forced online to survive. It is also well known that the likes of Google have undermined online encyclopaedias because search engines are a one-stop source of everything. So, welcome to a new (printed) encyclopaedia published by Dorling Kindersley with - wait for it - Google. This 450-page tome (&#163;25) is in full colour but each page also has a word you can key in to a (child-protected) website for more information. For instance, the music page directs you to an online page telling you how to read music.www.dke-encyc.comMobile phonesThree multiplysMobile phone network 3 is lining up new versions of two of its original handsets. In the stores next week is the successor to the Motorola A830, the A835. It features videophone facilities, an integrated camera, AGPS for finding restaurants or shops, MP3 playback and Bluetooth. Following later in the year is the NEC 616, the successor to 3's most popular handset the NEC 606. The new model keeps the original's clamshell design, but is smaller, lighter and offers longer battery life.In a busy week for 3, the company has also announced a deal with MTV Europe to offer subscribers music video clips, news and live performances. Also new is international video calling. Subscribers can make video calls to 3 phones in Italy, Sweden, Austria, Australia and Japan. Calls cost &#163;1.50 per minute for the UK, or &#163;2.00 per minute when roaming in other countries.www.three.co.ukBoy racersUK-based website Firebox has introduced a mini wireless car racer, the &#163;19.95 Phone Racer, which is controlled via a mobile phone. Users can control the car by pressing keys on their handset. The racer is only compatible with Nokia handsets that feature a hands-free mini jack. It will be joined soon by a mini car from Sony Ericsson, the CAR-100, that works in a similar way using Bluetooth wireless technology.www.firebox.comAudioPlay timeOne of the major players in the MP3 hard disk personal audio market, Archos, has taken the wraps off its new player. The Gmini 20 is a 20Gigabyte model that's slated to go on sale in the UK in November. Slightly larger and heavier than the Apple iPod, the Gmini sports an unusual rectangular design with a large blue LED. The player is compatible with Windows and Mac PCs and plays both MP3 and Windows Media Audio (WMA) files. It can be upgraded to incorporate additional software downloaded from Archos's website. Other features include Madwaves software for the easy creation of MP3 dance tunes and an integrated FM tuner. Price starts at &#163;250 for a basic model.www.archos.comDigital camerasTrust breaks barrierTrust has delivered the first five megapixel digital camera to retail with a price tag that dips under the &#163;200 barrier. The &#163;190 Trust 910Z Powercam   Optical Zoom features 3x optical and 4x digital zooms, sports a 4cm TFT LCD monitor and boasts video and webcam facilities. Images are saved on to either its 15MB of internal storage or a Secure Digital (SD) or MMC card. Other facilities include a range of automatic shooting options and a flash with red-eye control.www.trust.comZooming aheadFujifilm has unveiled a digital camera that boasts one of the most powerful zooms available to consumers. The SLR-style FinePix S5000 features a 10x optical zoom, which the company believes equates to a 370mm focal length in terms of 35mm cameras. The new model takes 3.1 megapixel images, sports a 1.5in TFT monitor and saves images on to an XD storage card. Other features include multiple exposure modes, high-speed shooting at up to five frames per second, and video capture at 30 frames per second. It costs around &#163;450-500.www.fujifilm.co.ukPrintersReturn to senderDell will supply prepaid return envelopes with its new range of printers and cartridges, to be launched in the UK on October 1, helping it comply with forthcoming European rules forcing vendors to provide recycling for their products. Cartridges will be available only from Dell, which will sell recycled laser printer cartridges at a discount to new ones, with recycled inkjet cartridges to follow. The printer software will link to the Dell website for re-ordering when a cartridge gets low. The cheapest Dell printer, the colour inkjet J740, will cost &#163;60, and for &#163;5 more, the A920 has a built-in scanner. Dell's laser printers will start at &#163;200.BroadbandPrice dropThe price of broadband continues to fall with several ISPs (Gio Internet, Bolt Blue) now offering 512kbps ADSL connection for around &#163;20 a month, while Metronet has a pay-as-you-go broadband service from &#163;10 per month. Now Bulldog has taken the step of offering a 1Mbps connection (twice as fast as conventional broadband connections) for &#163;23.49 per month - over &#163;10 cheaper than its rivals. The deal runs until the end of September. The catch is users can only download at 1Mbps speeds during evenings and weekends - between 8am-6pm. Monday to Friday the connection reverts to standard 512mbps speed. Installation is also slightly higher than some of its rivals at &#163;70. The offer is available to customers   who live near any of the 450 BT exchanges whose loop the company has unbundled in the past two years.Cable company Telewest offers a 1Mbps service for between &#163;35-40 depending on whether customers subscribe to its phone service, while BT has plans to introduce a 1Mbps service for consumers in the near future. Bulldog is also offering a 2Mbpsservice for &#163;39.99 per month, and in central London offers 4mbps for &#163;66.99 per month.www.bulldogdsl.comwww.telewest.co.ukwww.metronet.co.ukwww.giointernet.comwww.boltblue.comPC-makerAcer wants everyone to throw away their DVD player, music system, TV, radio and computer and to replace them with a single device, namely the Enjoyment Centre.Described as a multi-functional home system, the Acer Aspire RC500 and RC900 have six modes of operation, which can be selected using a remote control: Video, TV, Music, FM radio, Photo Album and Computer.USB, Firewire and seven memory card options are provided for downloading digital images and a DVD/CD recorder can play or make discs. Both systems use a wireless mouse and keyboard but the monitor is limited to 15in or 17in flat panel. Next year Acer will be releasing larger 30in screens. Acer's system is based on Windows XP but offers similar features to Microsoft's Windows XP Media Center Edition, which is about to be launched in the UK with a flood of new machines.www.global.acer.com/products/Stat of the weekMobiles are all-pervasiveThe huge success of mobiles is illustrated opposite - 95% of 20 to 24-year-olds already have them and the ratio of 5 to 9s with them has risen from 2% in 2000 to 11% en route for 18% by 2006.Source:www.mobileYouth.org
British governments so often seem to get things wrong that the latest "anti-spam" action should come as no surprise. The quotation marks have been added because if it does have any effect, the new regulation seems more likely to encourage spam.The law says that, from December 11, it will be illegal to send spam, but the explanatory note adds: "Regulation 22 (electronic mail) applies only to transmissions to individual subscribers (the term 'individual' means 'a living individual' and includes 'an incorporated body of such individuals')."This seems to mean you can't spam private email addresses, but anything that looks like a business address is fair game. I expect this to prove an expensive disaster for   British businesses, because of the filtering problem.At the moment, you can filter out the bulk of unsolicited email because it is selling Viagra, penis extensions, fake university degrees and similar rubbish. But soon you may have to filter out spam from British businesses trying to promote things you are thinking of buying, or already use. Moderate filtering will probably let a lot of this spam through, leading to a huge waste of productivity while users delete it. However, aggressive filtering could well block lots of genuine email, leading to lost orders and other business disasters.You have to wonder why our rulers have attempted something so utterly clueless as to try to distinguish between "private" and "business" spam. I can only   imagine they have been nobbled by the direct marketing lobby.The regulation does require spammers to give you a simple way of opting out of further communications and, in theory, you will be able to stop persistent offenders by complaining to the Information Commissioner. I expect most people will feel this is too much like hard work for the negligible benefits. Either way, the government is never going to finance the thousands of staff that would be required if people did complain.The government's pusillanimity is in marked contrast to the admirable stance taken in Italy, under the same European anti-spam directive (EU e-privacy directive 2002/58/EC). This says, bluntly, that to send email advertising without the informed consent of the addressee is against   the law: if you do it you face hefty fines or from six months to three years in jail. (I would prefer to see spammers chopped into small pieces and boiled in oil, but this will do for now.)But it is not worth moving to Italy. None of the European laws now being enacted to meet the EU's deadline are going to have any effect on the vast amounts of spam that arrive from other continents. And this is likely to get much worse in the near future.Unfortunately for us, there is one big government that is even more clueless about spam than ours. The US, acting for big business interests, still looks likely to legalise spam, so your mailbox will be buried in junk email from American businesses, about which even the Italian government can do nothing.LinksUK directive (22ff)www.dti.gov.uk/industry_files/word/regulations_20030918.docEuropean Directivehttp://europa.eu.intBabelfish machine translationhttp://world.altavista.comItalian government statementwww.garanteprivacy.it/garante/doc.jsp?ID=272444Spamhaus on US lawswww.spamhaus.org/newsdog.lasso?article=117www.ariadne.comwww.freshfields.comwww.forrester.comwww.gartner.comwww.wipro.com
Before we try to computerise government, it's a good idea to find out what it does. Not on the level of social contracts and national security, but nitty gritty stuff like collecting taxes, paying benefits and clearing up our mess.These are the "transactional services" the government wants to be available via electronic channels by the end of 2005, the e-government target. Estimates of the number of services vary alarmingly, from about 400 to twice that number. Everyone agrees, however, that most are run by local, not central, government.The Improvement and Development Agency (IDeA), a central agency funded by local government, reckons that local authorities provide about 700 services to people, business and local communities.This week, the agency published the answers to an interesting question: which of these services do people use most?The answer is a surprise: half of all public transactions handled by local authorities in England and Wales are bookings for sport and leisure. That's 332 million transactions a year. Add enquiries to public libraries and that adds up to nearly 80% of all the 681m contacts that councils receive each year by phone, letter, personal visit or web/email.These transactions, then, seem to be prime candidates for automation. But they are not. A quick search around some of the leading online councils in England this week didn't turn up a single one where it was possible to book children's swimming lessons online. (The search was complicated by   the widespread outsourcing of pools to private operators with dismal web sites.)By contrast, it is now unusual to go to a local authority site and not find a button for paying council tax online.Yet, according to the IDeA survey, based on figures collected by the Institute of Public Finance, payment of council tax ranks only seventh by volume of transactions, one place below waste management.An emphasis on revenue collection is understandable. With 3% of council tax unpaid nationally (much higher in some boroughs), councils have a duty to keep all possible channels open. The trouble is, there is no evidence that web channels increase compliance: people likely to pay electronically are also those most likely to pay by direct debit.The new figures suggest local authorities might be better advised to concentrate on e-enabling bookings for municipal squash courts. Although such services are often seen as lightweight and expendable compared with functions such as social services and education, they are important. And, unlike welfare benefits, they are used more or less equally by people both sides of the digital divide.Of course the choice is not quite so simple: when setting priorities, councils need to take into account factors such as the cost of processing transactions. But, if they are interested in meeting the national e-government target, which says that key online services must have achieved "high levels of use" by the end of 2005, swimming lessons for three-year-olds might be a good place to start.
Numberless gripesI was fascinated to read Michael Cross's article on the proposal to make the 10-digit NHS number a national identifier (Eyes on the child, September 18). Especially as no one seems to have bothered to tell us our NHS numbers.I used to know my old-style NHS number, issued when I was born in 1951: four letters followed by three digits, and the digits matched the entry on my birth certificate.Each January I transferred my NHS number from diary to diary. I could write it on dentist's forms and tell it to new GPs after moving home. When our three children were born, I carefully noted their NHS numbers in my diary. But a couple of years ago, I discovered that all the old NHS numbers had been abolished, and we have all been given new ones.Would a bank change everyone's account numbers without telling them the new ones? A few weeks before his 16th birthday, my son got a letter from the government giving him his new National Insurance number for life. But the NHS apparently doesn't think it worth telling us the numbers they use to record us.Alan Burkitt-GrayLondonAccess by designSte Andreassen's comments (Feedback, September 11) serve to further emphasise the need among the web design community for guidance on accessibility matters. With no clear legal benchmark and complex technical guidelines, it's little wonder that so many designers - and managers   - have yet to embrace the subject with the full attention it deserves.A well-designed website can make the most of the latest web technologies such as multimedia, while at the same time accommodating the needs of those who are unable to use these technologies.Building accessibility into the design of a new website is neither time consuming nor technical. There are techniques and skills to learn, but the rewards are potentially great. With the market for accessibility growing, accessibly skilled designers will find they have a distinct benefit over competitors.To help web designers, the newweb access centrerun by the RNIB provides all the information needed to produce accessible websites: from the business, legal and moral cases for accessibility through to advice on design and implementation.Judith BelfordGroup e-commerce DevelopmentStandard Life,EdinburghSecurity consciousFurther to the debate on Microsoft Windows vulnerability to viruses, compared to Unix-based systems such as Linux and Mac OS X, Windows leaks like a teabag compared to Mac OS X and Linux. This is not due to the latter's relative obscurity, but is because Unix is simply more secure than Windows. Here's why.1.Windows XP has five communication ports left open by default in its operating system, enabling malicious attacks from the internet to sneak in. It was one of these ports that let the Blaster virus in. It is the security equivalent of leaving the doors and windows open and going on holiday. Microsoft apparently can't fix this until the next Windows OS, two years away. Macintosh OS X and Linux systems close all these ports by default.2.You cannot install any software on a Macintosh or Linux system without an administrator password, which the system needs to prompt for - thereby exposing any malicious   install. XP allows for potential background install.3.An Administrator user on a Windows XP machine can alter and access all parts of the Windows system allowing a virus with appropriate access permissions to wipe out the system. On Unix-based systems, only the root user can do this. The root user is disabled by default on Mac OS X.Mac OS X and Linux are safer, full stop - a result of years of open-source development.Stephen McGannEssexVirus harmI do not believe Linux is immune to viruses and that is why I said: "I do not doubt that viruses would be possible". The point I was addressing was the relative ease with which someone might exploit security threats. My letter two weeks ago was edited, and when I wrote, "such a virus" I was referring to the Sobig virus (mentioned in the deleted sentence) which I do believe is not possible on Linux.The Slapper worm, which targets the Apache web server running on Linux, appeared last November but came and went without much effect. By comparison, the Slammer worm, which targets Microsoft SQL 2000 server, caused a dramatic slowdown of the entire internet within hours. Apache runs around 65% of all websites, so I leave you to make your own conclusion.Joseph HaigManchesterMotorola updateHaving read your article in today's paper about the new Motorola A920, I would like to correct the comment about business use and email. The A920 has an email client that allows access to email without going via the browser. This can be automated to allow near-realtime updates directly to the handset.Mark DaviesHead of marketing, 3 for Business
Love spyNow you can catch your cheating lover, just by sending them an e-card. "Because the e-mail appears to be a regular greeting card, the recipient will open the e-card and LoverSpy will be automatically and silently installed!" exclaims the site. The program then monitors their e-mail and records passwords for you, which could be useful for all sorts of nefarious purposes. No, I have not tried it. It would be nice to think it was a spoof, but there are lots of spyware products around, such as eBlaster and SpyBuddy. Have you run any unsolicited attachments recently?http://gokgle.uswww.spectorsoft.com/spy-buddy.htmHelp!CSV is holding its annual Make a Difference Day on October 25, and this year, IT4Communities hopes more IT professionals will get involved. MADD is a way to encourage people to volunteer to help their local communities, and IT4C suggests things like training, installing hardware and software, or building simple websites. The organisations also want volunteers on both sides of the big day.www.csv.org.ukwww.it4communities.org.ukHurricane seasonIn Hertford, Hereford and Hampshire, hurricanes hardly happen, as Eliza Doolittle learns to say in My Fair Lady/Pygmalion. However, anyone can track them via the Hurricane Advisories site - which also offers links to "hurricane cams" in eastern US states and the Caribbean - Hurricanes.net, and the US government's National Hurricane Center. HowStuffWorks has a good section on how they work, while Canada's hurricane site has a special section for kids.www.hurricaneadvisories.comwww.hurricanes.netwww.nhc.noaa.govwww.howstuffworks.com/hurricane.htmwww.ns.ec.gc.ca/weather/hurricane/kids.htmlTop docsHere's one for the BBC: produce a series about the 100 documents that shaped Britain's history, such as the Magna Carta, and let people vote on the most important. The Americans are doing it now at Our Documents. You can examine documents such as the Declaration of Independence, Bill of Rights and the Gettysburg Address in image form, via transcripts and PDF files. Then you can take the link to US News magazine to read articles, join the forums and vote. The project has been sponsored by America's National Archives and Records Administration, and President Bush turned out for the high-profile launch last Wednesday.www.archives.gov/exhibit_hall/featured_documents/magna_cartahttp://library.byu.edu/~rdh/ eurodocs/uk.htmlwww.ourdocuments.gov&lt;A HREF="http://www.usnews.com/vote"Web awardsThe Webby Awards get the most publicity, but they are not the only game in town. The Web Marketing Association has a rival scheme and has just announced its seventh annual list of winners, with Disney Online picking up the Best of Show prize. Bizarrely, there isn't a simple way to display the complete results, but searching for www picks up most of them.www.webaward.org/winners.asphttp://disney.go.comIkea GamesThe Ikea Game is simple: you are given a list of names and you have to guess what the product is. For example, is a Rigga a cushion, a table, a mirror or what? If you want to cheat, Stern has published an article on Ikea terminology (Waren Sie schon mal in Klippan?), and as I learned from the Internet Tourbus, Margaret Marks has blogged the essentials. Garden furniture is named after Swedish islands, while carpets get Danish place names.www.iamcal.com/games/ikeawww.margaret-marks.comwww.TOURBUS.comAnother worldIBM Fellow Mike Cowlishaw has finally released a version of his programmable World Globe for Windows, 12 years after the 16-bit OS/2 original. Since Mike created the Rexx language, loved by many former Amiga owners (not to mention Sinclair QL and Palm users, etc), all PMGlobe commands can be used in Rexx macros.www2.hursley.ibm.com/pmglobewww2.hursley.ibm.com/rexxNew and notedScrabBlog has a new addresswww.puzzleblog.comMicrosoft Office onlinehttp://office.microsoft.comGoogle coding competitionwww.google.com/codejamSix of the bestAlternatives to GoogleVivisimohttp://vivisimo.comThree in onewww.teoma.comAll The Webwww.alltheweb.comSearch deephttp://turbo10.comRedesigned oldiewww.altavista.comMetasearch kingwww.dogpile.com
Of course you know there's more to business than developing a product or service, selling it often, and banking the money. Running a business also involves the back-office stuff - keeping records, filling in forms, collecting and distributing numbers.There's an upside to the numbers game if you can keep on top of things. The taxman needs to know the difference between your income and expenditure - but so do you.Most obviously, uncollected receivables mean lack of cash. Unpaid bills can ruin your relationship with suppliers and maybe your credit rating. But more generally it's important to understand where you're making money and where you're spending it: that way you can tweak the business to make money (or at least to save it).Many small businesses try to manage their accounts by hand, typically by entries in a ledger book. That's the cheap option... until you cost in your time and the likelihood of human error. A spreadsheet is a much better option, and many accountants will advise on what you need for simple book-keeping. Self-produced accounting spreadsheets can become quite sophisticated, thanks to the plethora of functions in Excel and its (few) competitors, and of course they're great for analysis and "what-if" forecasting.The best alternative is to use a purpose-built accounting package. Setting things up might take a bit of time, but it won't be as long as designing a spreadsheet application from scratch for yourself.Thereafter it's a question of regularly and religiously entering invoices issued and bills received, payments to and from your bank account, and (depending on your business) payroll and stock matters. All the right entries will be made automatically in the right places. You'll b offered the chance to generate invoices, chase payments, chose the right time to reorder, maybe even juggle your bank accounts to take maximum advantage of deals on rates. And you'll be able to produce the kind of reports that will help you make management decisions for the business - exactly the kind of information that is tricky to produce any other way.Key issues that financial reporting can highlight:&#183;Over-reliance on particular customers and/or suppliers: time to look for alternatives?&#183;Habitual late payers: do you need a firmer approach? A discount carrot as well as a Late Payment of Commercial Debts (Interest) Act stick?&#183;Substantial purchases from particular suppliers: any chance of a better discount?&#183;Comparisons with the same period last year: are things getting better? Where are the crunch points?&#183;Profitability per job: why the variations?&#183;Breakdown of costs: is the mix as expected?&#183;Projections for the near  future, based on past experience: are you likely to get in enough cash to meet your obligations/cover your plans?&#183;Budgeting: have you set realistic targets? Are you hitting them?If you have a company registered at Companies House, a balance sheet is required: this summarises your business in terms of its assets and its liabilities - what you owe and any long-term debts like bank loans. The balance sheet should also show an analysis of the equity in your business.If you operate as a sole trader or as a partnership, the detail required from your end-of-year accounts isn't defined in law - the accounts must show a true picture, but you don't normally have to produce a balance sheet. In practice, though, a balance sheet is a good idea - tax inspectors like them and it will impress your bank manager.You aren't required to use an accountant at all unless you're running a limited company with sales of more than £1m and a balance sheet total above £1.4m. On the other hand, accountants know the rules - which means they also know the wrinkles. A good accountant should minimise your tax obligations, while keeping you the right side of the law. In larger or more complicated businesses, an accountant would probably sell themselves more on the basis that they can show you how to run your business more efficiently and more profitably. You could certainly try asking the accountant to justify their fee in terms of business results, perhaps in terms of some previously agreed goals.Which software?Very small business? Not many customers, not many invoices to issue, not many suppliers to pay and bills to record? You can probably live with a personal finance management program like Intuit's Quicken or Microsoft Money - designed primarily for home users and geared to managing your bank account, but these days provided with enough extras for practical business applications.   n Quicken XG (about £60; seewww.intuit.co.uk/quicken) can do estimates, invoices, statements, track accounts receivable and record customer payments, and even handle payroll. You can also create a few of the basic business reports - balance sheet and P&amp;L, outstanding invoices, accounts receivable and accounts payable.&#183;Microsoft's Money doesn't yet have the business-oriented bits in the UK version of its latest incarnation (Money 2004) but the existing Money 2002 Personal &amp; Business (www.microsoft.com/money) isn't at all bad - looks good, easy to use, includes options for two dozen business reports and charts. Discounted to around £55.  Bigger business? Or one with plans to grow quickly? Multiple currencies, multiple companies, multiple bank accounts? Look at a fuller-featured accounts program. Typically you'll get a much more rigorous approach (which means more accountancy jargon) with a lot more reporting options.&#183;The best-seller is Intuit's QuickBooks Pro (www.quickbooks.com). It comes in various incarnations, all distinguished by a good collection of standard reports (as many as 125 of them) plus a commendably easy and non-technical start-up (there's enough heavy stuff later to keep any accountant happy). Entry-level QuickBooks Regular at £150 does the books, Pro adds a lot of analysis for £300, Premier does strategic planning at £450. Two tips for QuickBooks users: don't overlook the export-to-Excel button on all reports. And check out Mastering QuickBooks Reports, a downloadable ebook - $9.95 fromhttp://myquicktraining.com/mastering&#183;QuickBooks uses a tabular spreadsheet-like accountancy layout for much of its presentation, but MYOB Accounting 11 (www.myob.co.uk, RRP £233 but widely discounted to around £180) takes a different approach - illustrated menus and natty explanatory flowcharts for specific operations. It can be a bit long-winded, but it does make things much simpler. And reporting is excellent, particularly because of its good links to Word and   Excel.&#183;Omni Accounts (www.omniaccounts.co.uk) is another clever candidate. You buy a basic package for a tenner, then specify add-on modules for as little as £2.50 each. The integration is seamless, but you end up with a package that does exactly what you want - and no more. That's the theory, anyway. You have to know what you do want from your financial management, which makes some hand-holding essential. But it's a neat alternative.
&#183;Intel has come up with an international wi-fi hotspot finder atwww.intel.com/products/mobiletechnology/hotspots/finder.htm. The UK list is reasonably comprehensive, but surely hi-tech Helsinki has more than three hotspots?&#183;BA is offering a free one-way upgrade to First Class on full-price return fares in Club World. Book for travel before December 12 on 0870 850 9850.&#183;Back in July, I wrote that the US was tightening up its visa waiver scheme, and that travellers with criminal convictions should make sure they knew the rules (www.usembassy.org.uk/cons_web/visa/niv/vwp.htm). A spokesman for the US embassy has asked me to clarify that the rules haven't actually been  changed. However, the Bush administration is becoming stricter in its vetting of visa applicants, and would-be visitors are advised to apply at least three months before they plan to travel. Eventually, it may even be possible for the criminal records of British citizens to be made available electronically to US immigration officials. Once you have a B-1 or B-2 business visa, it's valid for a decade.&#183;Air Southwest (www.airsouthwest.com) is launching three new routes on March 1: Manchester-Bristol, Manchester-Plymouth and Bristol-  Plymouth. Eastern Airways (www.easternairways.com) will fly between Birmingham and Inverness on weekdays from October 26.&#183;The first direct link between Edinburgh and New York-Newark takes off next June on Continental. The airline has also introduced EliteAccess - a guarantee that anyone paying the full economy fare won't be allocated a middle seat, priority baggage handling and faster boarding.www.continental.com/uk/&#183;New Sofitels (www.sofitel.com) have opened this summer in Chicago, Washington DC, Cologne, Bangkok and Shanghai. More hotel chains are offering female business travellers preferential treatment: Bangkok has a "Women's Club" dedicated to them.
Our regular section in which independent experts come to the aid of readers with IT problems. This time our panel consists of ihotdesk director Preet Chahal; Jeffrey Manning, wireless product marketing manager at Enterasys Networks; Chris Sharp, managing director of accountancy systems company FourFront and Andrew Pearson, executive vice president of Workshare.&#183;There has been a lot of concern about viruses lately and presumably not all are detectable/curable until there's a known problem. What elementary precautions can I get my employees to take?PC: Make sure the PC has a good anti-virus package installed and the pattern files are kept up to date. Perform regular scans on the hard drive. For an individual connecting to the internet ensure you have a software firewall or hardware firewall in place. The company network should also have a firewall. This will block Trojan, denial of service and port scan type viruses, eg MS blast worm. If you have a Microsoft-based PC keep the operating system secure by downloading the latest Microsoft updates fromhttp://www.windowsupdate.com.Do not open email attachments from unknown sources or follow instructions to make changes to your PC. Be wary of any suspicious subject type. Do not forward chain emails, these can contain adverse instructions. A number of hoax viruses follow this pattern. Do not install applications or download unknown files onto your PC without checking with your IT administrator.&#183;I spend at least three days a week working from my laptop away from the office. I'm keen to use the wireless networking "hotspots" that are being set up in hotel foyers, airports and railway stations. But isn't there a security risk here? I am worried that hackers - or even unwitting colleagues - in the vicinity will be able to read my personal email and confidential files. What precautions can I take?JM: Hotspots are what they are, public venues. Mobile business professionals accessing sensitive corporate information should consider using VPN solutions for secure tunnelling in public environments, and all users should use a hotspot WLAN the same way they would use their mobile phone in a public setting. If a user is concerned about the information they are about to transmit, then they  shouldn't do it. If you were on your mobile phone discussing highly sensitive business deals, you would be certain that there was no one within earshot or not say anything at all. In public venues we do not necessarily enjoy a reasonable expectation of privacy because we have thrust our sensitive information, be it voice or data, into the public arena.&#183;My handmade cosmetics company is using a multi-level marketing (MLM) strategy as the route to market. Our salesforce is growing and we need an IT system to automate the process. We have limited IT resources and budget - what are our options?CS: Made famous by companies like Tupperware, Avon and Anne Summers, multi-level marketing, or MLM, has now found its home on the web. Using web-based MLM via a bureau, you would be able to expand your sales force while managing the entire process from customer orders, calculating sales commissions, signing up new sales agents and monitoring the entire genealogy through your website. One of the key benefits to the small business is that the bureau is likely to shoulder some of the risk. There should be no upfront software costs (a monthly charge is the norm) and as it is a web-based service there will be no internal maintenance requirement. 
 
If you buy back office software you will be into a minimum £10,000 for software and set up, plus around £1,200 for hardware, and then the salaries of however many staff you need to employ to manage the system. If you go the bureau route the starting cost is on average £1,500 set up costs plus £650 per month to include the online hardware rental - so the savings are pretty hefty.&#183;In light of the government's recent "dodgy dossier" scandal, I am concerned about my own levels of document confidentiality. How can I ensure that important documents that a number of my employees are working on remain secure and confidential?AP: While huge steps have been made to increase the security of company  information in recent years, hidden document information is often overlooked. Every time a Word document is created and amended, invisible data tracking the author, amendments and editing time is added to the document. When multiple people work on a document, a complex trail quickly builds and, as documents are sent back and forth via email, this document metadata increases the risk of unintentional exposure to sensitive information, like who amended what and when (as highlighted by the recent "dodgy dossier"). With over 100 million Word users worldwide document collaboration will only increase as more businesses work electronically. Therefore companies must ensure correct processes are put in place to manage this. As a first step, Sending final documents in PDF format ensures third parties cannot see how documents were created. If you need to send Word documents, turn on the "track changes" function to see what data is visible to others and then decide to accept or reject them. Check the document properties too. Where groups of people share multiple documents inside and outside of the company, software to automate the control and removal of document metadata should be considered.
Renewed terrorist threats, crippling power cuts, and a spate of major computer viruses have done much to raise the profile of disaster recovery services in recent weeks.Quick to cash in on this, IT suppliers have been busy repackaging their solutions to appeal to one of the most vulnerable sectors of the market - the SME.According to the British Chambers of Commerce, 80% of businesses affected by a major incident either never reopen or close within 18 months. Such claims appear to have been borne out in New York, where two years after September 11th, many small businesses in the area have yet to get back on their feet, if they indeed ever do. The role of business insurance and facilities back up cannot be underestimated.It comes as no surprise that it is the smaller company that is least likely to have such measures in place."SMEs wrongly believe that business continuity planning needs to be complicated, costly and time consuming," says Michael Butler, risk control strategy manager at insurance company Axa, which by happy coincidence just happens to offer a business continuity advisory service aimed at the more modest enterprise. He uses the same marketing pitch that many IT vendors have now adopted when targeting such services as SMEs: that good business continuity planning is no longer just about protecting critical business assets, but about its potential effect on the company's image.Someone who knows this only too well is Ashley Carr. As managing director of a PR agency, and one representing IT companies at that, he now sees disaster recovery planning as a central concern for his company, following a major burglary last summer.Previously, ITPR, which has an annual turnover of £1.3m and 18 staff based at a single office, had relied too heavily on physical security measures at its premises to protect its major business assets. When thieves managed to violate these, it was time for a serious rethink. "It was a shocking case of shutting the door after the horse had bolted, but the experience made us sit up and make some serious decisions," Carr says.Carr puts the physical costs of the burglary at "the thick end of £20,000", most of which was covered by insurance. Yet it was the potential intangible costs to the business that provided the real driver for change.Following the burglary, it had taken ITPR five days to restore normal business operations. "If we had had a new client, or if we'd had to respond to a press crisis, this wouldn't have looked very good," he says.Like many small companies, ITPR did not have a generous IT budget to play with, so it was important to prioritise any new measures. Says Carr: "We decided that, for our clients, we needed to be up and running within 24 hours, rather than within minutes as a bank might need to be."The company now maintains a spare server at an external site, which keeps a current back-up of the company's database and email systems. Two members of staff have responsibility for managing this. As a small company, ITPR decided it couldn't afford the luxury of a specialist disaster recovery service, but feels the current measures are sufficient.Yet Nigel Strutt, a senior consultant at Mason Group, which audits companies' disaster recovery processes, notes that business continuity may have to be more formalised in future if small companies want to attract business from larger enterprises. This is a requirement of ISO 17799, a formal IT security standard that is becoming increasingly recognised by larger organisations - including most government departments. Strutt: "It's an obvious step for business customers to take a formal interest in their core suppliers' back-up plans, because they need to know that they are going to be around in future."As a result, many smaller businesses may soon have no choice but to consult the growing choice of IT solutions that are now being marketed to them. These fall into a number of categories.While externally managed disaster recovery services (where an IT company manages secondary systems remotely on a company's behalf) have been prohibitively expensive for SMEs, there are now offerings on the market which have been specifically packaged for the smaller budget.Synstar and Adventi are examples of specialist IT support companies which target their business continuity/disaster prevention services at SMEs. Their message is that prevention is better than cure, and Adventi claims to have attracted 130 SMEs as customers in its first 12 months of operation.Meanwhile ihotdesk provides a bespoke disaster recovery service starting at £5,000 a year, which includes rapid recovery of critical systems such as email and contact management systems. One of its customers, Phoenix Equity Partners, pays around £25,000 a year to ensure that, within 24 hours of any incident, its staff would be able to work remotely as if they were at their own desks. The company's financial controller, Roger Parry, comments, "As an FSA-regulated company, we have a responsibility to provide an appropriate disaster recovery environment. Following 9/11, the necessity for these plans became all the more apparent."HSO is one of an increasing number of IT service providers to offer an online data back up service to SMEs. The service, HMO Vault, makes back-up automatic, gives companies a copy of their data off site without the need to invest in any additional equipment, and enables rapid recovery of data. This costs £250 a month for a company with 40-50 staff. At a more basic level, BT Business's Datasure service allows business users to back up, store and recover files from any PC connected to the internet for £17.85 per quarter plus VAT, and Thinking Safe charges £10 a month for a single-person business backing up 1Gb of data.Companies that prefer to control their own disaster recovery processes can invest in a growing choice of hardware products. Uninterruptible power suppliers which guard against power surges and power loss can cost as little as £80. Network-attached storage systems which aim to make it easy to mirror data between units can cost as little as £800 now (from Iomega) for a Windows-based system. Meanwhile, a software package such as Symantec's Ghost products, costing less than £40, can be used for cloning disks rapidly.Microsoft, its software the subject of several nasty computer viruses recently, is fighting back with the imminent launch of Small Business Server 2003, which includes a remote access capability enabling users to continue working seamlessly from an internet cafe or a colleague's premises in the event of a crisis at their offices.Communications must form a vital part of any disaster recovery plan. Phone-based solutions include Call Navigator, a self-managed virtual switchboard service from Reality Telecom, which costs less than £300 to set up, plus the cost of the calls. The service redirects phone calls seamlessly in the event of a switchboard problem.But above all, the key to good business continuity planning is to do just that: plan. It's all very well having alternative equipment or services lined up in the event of a major incident, but if staff don't know what the contingency plans are, the strategy will fall at the first hurdle. This makes training as important as any investment.For PR agency Lewis, which set up a comprehensive, if simple, disaster recovery programme following the events of September 11th, this means everyone in the company has some basic information. They all know the details of an alternative office location, they all have each others' home phone and email details, and they know to make sure they are sitting by a landline to receive a call after a crisis has occurred.Further InformationFor further information, there are several organisations dedicated to providing advice on disaster recovery planning. Check out:&#183;Survivewww.survive.com&#183;The Business Continuity Institutewww.thebci.org&#183;Intellectwww.intellectuk.org&#183;London Resilience Team (government/London Business Link site)www.londonprepared.gov.uk&#183;Business Continuitywww.businesscontinuityexpo.comThe Risk Management Expo 2004, a specialist business continuity show taking place in March 2004 at London's ExCel venue; the online version of this exhibition starts this month
E-procurement is not regarded as one of the most fashionable areas of IT. But increasing numbers of local authorities across the country are eagerly embracing this new way of online trading - and are expecting their SME suppliers to join them.By 2005 all local authorities will be required to purchase online to meet the government's electronic trading targets. The knock-on effect is that businesses that supply them will also need to become e-enabled so they can participate.By using e-procurement strategies, the government hopes local councils and suppliers will manage to reduce costly administrative processes such as paper-based invoicing and telephone-placed orders.Initially large swathes of SMEs greeted these developments with a large pinch of scepticism. They saw e-procurement systems as crude buyer-driven applications that would simply drive their prices down. While there is still some truth in this allegation, there is also evidence emerging that e-procurement systems are providing SMEs with valuable opportunities to market themselves online to council customers.Take Key Engineering, for example. The Preston-based company has joined the Roses Marketplace, an electronic trading hub which has been created by a partnership of nine north England local authorities. The marketplace supports e-tendering and catalogue-based purchasing. Key says it expects to do £80,000 worth of business a year through this system."We felt there was more future dealing with councils through a joint marketplace. We can put our electronic catalogues on the end users' screens. It saves us ringing up all the time," says Alan Keighley, Key's managing director. "If they know the price, they can pull an order down from the screen and fire an email off to us."Keighley says the online Roses Marketplace is giving the company a lead into other local authorities. But he is aware that competitors could soon be snapping at his heels. "There are competitors who are not doing e-procurement at this moment in time. Most are beginning to realise if they don't get on with it quickly, they are going to fall by the wayside."Ken Kyle, managing director of Best Value Procurement, which manages the Roses Marketplace, denies that e-procurement is difficult for SMEs to understand and use. "If you can buy from Amazon you can do e-procurement," he says. "It's not as difficult as some people make out."He believes that as more SMEs join council e-procurement systems they will also start buying from each other. "We're developing online supplier communities. Suppliers themselves can use these systems to start looking for their own suppliers."Despite the new business opportunities that council e-procurement systems can offer, it is still proving a struggle in some parts of the country to enrol SMEs. Bristol City Council will shortly be launching a new e-procurement system in partnership with other public sector bodies. But so far the council has only managed to recruit 15 SMEs.Russell Darling, account services manager for Bristol City Council, expects more to join quickly. "We're very confident. We've had positive feedback and we have people on the phones explaining the advantages to SMEs. We're also having regular events where we're inviting suppliers along."The city council must be trading online by 2005. We want to support our suppliers to develop their systems to help us achieve that goal. We have developed an affordable and flexible package," says Darling. The council is offering suppliers a 200 page online catalogue of their products and services for about £240.Sage, the accounting software company, has linked up with the council and is offering SMEs a transactional email product that allows companies to send and receive invoices to the council via the web. With about 500,000 SME customers in the UK, Sage's entry into the local council e-procurement market underlines its potential for growth. "Without question it's a growing market," says Kevin Hart, business development manager for Sage e-service. "However there are many SMEs who are not aware of how e-procurement will impact their business."Currently the government is running a national e-procurement project which is providing guidance and support to councils on how to encourage SMEs to sign up to new e-procurement systems. Martin Scarfe, chair of the national e-procurement project, says: "When you talk to SMEs the message you often get is that they don't know what is going on. Councils must tell local suppliers what they are doing and suppliers must contact their councils and find out more about their e-procurement plans."He adds that by joining a local council e-procurement marketplace an SME can increase its visibility among council buyers and reach new public sector bodies for no additional marketing expense.Peter Duschinsky, managing director of The Imaginist Company, which is helping to manage the national e-procurement project, has a starker message for those SMEs who have so far failed to seize the marketing opportunities that e-procurement potentially offers."There is an important reason to join: it's called survival. Their customers are changing and their business may be under threat. The early SME birds are getting the worms."Essex County Council says it has 700 suppliers linked in with its e-procurement system and estimates that about 40% are SMEs. Not all of the SMEs have electronic catalogues but they do have the facilities to receive online orders from the council. "I don't want to patronise SMEs. In our experience they have been very progressive," says Adrian Gibson, procurement manager for Essex County Council. "I don't think SMEs are any slower than the general supplier community. The big challenge for councils is to demonstrate that e-procurement can make a business difference to SMEs and we are doing a lot to prove that it can."Links:National e-procurement project:www.nepp.org.ukUK Online for Business:www.ukonlineforbusiness/supplieradoptionBest Value Procurement:www.bestvalueprocurement.co.ukSage:www.sage.co.uk
Quietly, and while the rest of Europe was watching Sweden mourn Anna Lindh, Estonia went to the polls and voted by two to one to join the EU. And so, by an overwhelming majority, did Lithuania. Most recently Latvia voted 67% in favour.Along with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary and Slovenia, the three Baltic states will join the EU in May next year. Bulgaria and Romania are expected to follow in 2007. The DTI expects trade with eastern Europe to boom in the next few years, and getting there - which used to be both expensive and inconvenient - is gradually becoming easier.News of the yes vote came just as the Scandinavian airline SAS announced that it had taken a 49% stake in Estonian Air (www.estonian-air.com) - a carrier which bucked the prevailing trend by making a profit of 1.1m euros in the first half of 2003. Tellingly, it cut its fares to London and Paris just before the referendum in an effort to win over Estonians who were still sceptical about the benefits of EU membership. Estonian Air is not a no-frills airline, but it is starting to behave like one: London-Tallinn returns in late October start at £145.Eastern Europe does have a low-cost airline: SkyEurope (www.skyeurope.com). With a hub in Bratislava - and Vienna, Brno and Gyor all within an hour's bus ride - SkyEurope serves four countries: Austria, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. London flights leave from Stansted.So far, Ryanair has steered clear of the eastern bloc, leaving EasyJet to ply the Prague route. "We rule nothing out. We consider any airport," a spokesman for the Irish airline told the Guardian cagily. Is he worried Ryanair  may be left behind? "No. We're Ryanair. In our experience, the low fares drive the destinations. People will travel if the price is right." It's reasonable to guess that any new Ryanair routes to eastern Europe will have an eye to tourism rather than business.Until eastern European routes start to become truly competitive, you can often save a considerable amount by searching for connecting flights (often via Swiss, Austrian Airlines or LOT) on the bigger travel sites. The Trade Partners website (www.tradepartners.gov.uk), as ever, has some excellent local advice, as does the British-Polish Chamber of Commerce (www.bpcc.org.pl). British embassies can usually put you in touch with tour agents and interpreters , though managers increasingly speak English rather than Russian. "The management structure &#91;in Poland&#93; is a much younger one than we're used to here," says David Bax, the international trade adviser at Business Link Kent.Paperwork is not a problem. Visas are not required for stays of less than six months, says David Scott, the managing director of Scott's Real Life Tours (www.scottstours.co.uk), which specialises in arranging travel to the former Soviet Union. Britons were one of the first nationalities to travel visa-free to the Baltic states, chiefly because Margaret Thatcher  relaxed visa requirements for Baltic visitors when the countries were trying to break away from Moscow. When they did, the gesture was reciprocated.Further east, obtaining a visa for Russia is becoming increasingly time-consuming. The rest of the breakaway republics are slightly more amenable, but Scott still advises travellers to organise their visas via Scott's or a competitor if they want to avoid hours of queueing. Alternatives include Thames Consular (www.thamesconsular.com) and Russian Gateway (www.russiangateway.fsnet.co.uk).
