I've paid for most of Bill Gates's garden shed. While the Microsoft chairman has been busy building his dream techno-home outside Seattle, I've been setting up some small companies' systems. I need to give every employee word-processing and spreadsheet abilities and I need these to be compatible with everyone else's. And that means using Microsoft Office.With individual copies of OfficeXP Professional coming in at around £500, it certainly isn't cheap. Even with bulk licences, buying for over 250 people, you should be paying around £350 per user. For a small or medium-sized company, the fact that everyone has standardised on Microsoft products provokes serious costs.It need not be that way. This month is the second anniversary of OpenOffice.org - the free alternative to Microsoft's costly version. It does the same thing, works on standard documents, and costs nothing. Zero. Nada. Download it and it's yours. You can even copy it and give it to your friends.How is this? Well, Open Office.org is the result of an ungodly combination of old-school software philosophy, programmers with ambition, and a large corporation looking to get one over on its rival.Here's the story. Sun  Microsystems - one of the  biggest computer companies  in the world - was examining its yearly accounts, and found  that it was paying arch rival  Microsoft millions of dollars in licence fees and upgrade charges. Meanwhile, Sun's own operating system, Solaris, was suffering from the lack of a workable Office-style product.If they could develop an office suite of their own, they reasoned, not only would Solaris benefit, perhaps they could even save money in the process.But developing an office suite is difficult. As so many people use Microsoft Office, any new rival must support the file formats used within Word, Excel and Power Point. To not be able to open a business associate's email attachment, just because it's in Word98, would be a disaster.The problem is, Microsoft does not make the file formats public. The way Word saves its files is actually a company secret. Producing a rival, then, is not an easy matter.Looking for inspiration, Sun found a group of German programmers called Star Division. The group has managed to reverse engineer Microsoft's formats and produce a fledgling product called StarOffice which could, with luck, open and save into the necessary style. Sun bought StarDivision, and put the money it would ordinarily give Microsoft in licence fees into creating a rival product that it could market.But then came the killer move. Sun released the source code (the raw building blocks of the program) to the general public under a special copyright licence known as GPL. It called this OpenOffice.Doing this allows three things to happen. First, the program becomes free. Anyone can download it, share it or give it away. You can even sell it, as long as you don't change the conditions under which you got the program.Second, by releasing the source code, it allowed versions to be compiled for Windows, Linux, Solaris, and Apple's OSX. Suddenly, Linux and Solaris users had a Microsoft-compatible office suite for free.And third, the change in licence meant that anyone could look at the source code and provide improvements. Sun, by revealing their source to the world, invited hundreds of skilled enthusiasts to improve the product. They did.The move has certainly been a success. To date, over 8.5m copies of OpenOffice.org have been downloaded, not to mention the millions of people who have had it from magazine cover CD-roms, or passed over by friends.Openoffice.org is still, and will forever remain, free to download and use. StarOffice remains available, but apart from a tiny number of extra features, the two products are precisely the same. When you buy StarOffice, you're paying Sun for packaging, and manuals, but essentially it's the same thing as the free version.So, is it any good? Yes, remarkably so. I'm as much a "power-user" as anyone, and I've not been able to find any downside at all. Everyone can still read my documents, and I can read theirs. For a free download, paid for by Sun's need to save its own cash, it's nothing short of a bargain.This idea - of developing something for your own needs, then giving it away - is an old computing tradition that is rapidly finding a way into the business software world. There are free versions of every software package you paid for.From OpenOffice.org to Apache webservers and MySQL databases, commercial offerings of the big software companies are being replaced by volunteers working for the common good. Now, small companies need not spend thousands on software just to be able to do business, without having to change machines, or operating  systems, or move their data to strange formats.Happy birthday, Open Office.org: I didn't buy you, but I'd buy you a drink.www.openoffice.orgMicrosoft Office: Look up prices
When Cellar Society director Adam Phelps needs to hire freelance catering staff, he sends a text message. His company organises tasting and gastronomic events in Britain and around the world and with just six full-time staff on the payroll, it has an ongoing requirement for freelance workers.Until recently, checking the availability and willingness to work of suitable staff involved making phone calls to perhaps dozens of individuals on the company's database. It was a time-consuming and costly process, and one that had to be repeated for each event.     However, since July of this year, the company has been contacting suitable candidates by SMS. Phelps, or one of his colleagues, composes a single message, which is then routed simultaneously to the mobile phones of dozens of freelancers, inviting them to respond if available. "It's saving us time and money," says Phelps.The Cellar Society experience illustrates how text messaging, once considered the exclusive preserve of flirty teenagers with hyperactive thumbs, is now coming into its own as business tool. The Mobile Data Association estimates that around 10% of the 1.4bn or so SMS communications sent by Britons every month are business related.The majority of these are sent from one handset to another, but if you find that too limited and clunky, an alternative is to adopt a PC-based system that allows you to compose and receive messages in bulk, just as you would email.This technology has been adopted enthusiastically by the likes of Cadbury and McDonald's to facilitate national advertising and marketing messages that go straight to the consumer's mobile phone.However, solutions providers are keen to stress that bulk texting has many applications for businesses of all sizes. "This is not just for A-list companies - it is for regular businesses," says Richard Lander, managing director of text marketing company Brand2Hand.As is the case with Cellar Society, a bulk texting system can provide a cost-effective channel to communicate with full-time or freelance staff. Equally, when linked to an existing database, it can become part of a customer relationship management process."You can use texting to send out reminders when payments are due," says Stephen Anderson, marketing director of SMS software provider Redrock. "Or a car dealer could text customers when vehicles are due for a service."And as Mark Lennard, sales director of SMS messaging company Grouptext, points out, once customer names are on a database, text is the ideal means to publicise and facilitate special promotions."A nightclub might send a message to its members at 8pm on a Friday evening offering £1 off a bottle of lager. The recipient shows the text message at the bar to claim the discount," he says.All of these things can be done at relatively low cost, but you will need software that will enable you to compose, send and receive messages, plus a means to access GSM networks. There are a number of options available.One approach is to buy in software that sits on your office system. For instance, Redrock offers a desktop package that is designed to connect to existing database and customer relationship management and database applications such as ACT or Goldmine. This has the advantage of enabling you to integrate text messaging with your existing business processes.Thus, the same alerts that remind you to contact a customer by phone can be used to trigger a text message. Once created, the messages are sent via the internet to Redrock's own servers, from there they are routed on to the appropriate mobile networks.A cheaper, but perhaps less flexible alternative is to use an online service provider. Like Redrock, Grouptext will supply desktop software, but its core product is browser-based and costs just £150 to set up. Once registered, text messages are purchased in batches, with prices starting at 7p each.Brand2Hand also offers a browser-based solution (£50 a month, plus the cost of messages) and a range of online tools designed to faciliate marketing campaigns.   In addition, the company will advise on how best to implement an SMS strategy - whether in the guise of marketing, customer relationship management or internal communications."We are happy to get involved with clients at the concept planning stage," says Richard Lander. "We will help them find the most appropriate way of working."   Text messaging can be a cheaper alternative to mailshots or voice calls, but it is expensive when compared to email, as the networks charge for every message sent.It is possible to transfer the cost to the recipient through reverse billing (where the recipient is charged) or premium response lines (where replies are charged at a higher rate). Many operators allow you to do this, but it can be a hot potato to grasp."There are a lot of horror stories about people who receive marketing messages that ask them to text back a response. When they get the bill, they find they have incurred a premium charge. We don't get involved with that," says Mark Lennard.Certainly, charging without the express permission of the recipient is not going to help you to win friends and influence people.And two-way messaging can prove an administrative headache. Let's say you text 200 customers with news of a new product. If a quarter of those recipients reply by SMS to request more information, you will have 50 messages in your SMS inbox - all awaiting action. Simon Blackburn, managing director of SMS solutions provider Switchfire, argues that the answer is to minimise human intervention."If you have any degree of interaction, you need to automate and you need to be able to handle the information intelligently," he says.Switchfire specialises in this kind of system. Blackburn cites the example a solution created for a youth employment agency that accepts micro-CVs from candidates in the SMS format. When the text messages arrives, they are analysed by Switchfire's "fuzzy logic" software and appropriate vacancies are automatically posted back to the individuals concerned, all untouched by human hand.While Switchfire builds bespoke solutions to blue-chip clients such as banks, Blackburn says that the same functionality is available to small firms at an affordable price as a managed service.Of course, you can do all this and more using email or web-based interaction, and SMS messaging is a limited medium. However, it has the advantage of immediacy and ubiquity in that you can communicate with customers or staff or even unemployed teenagers when they are on the train, standing at a bus stop or while waiting in   a hotel lobby.For businesses, that is the joy of text.A deep shade of emeraldAn Irish organic meat producer is using SMS technology to enable customers to access information about its meat products.Based in County Clare in the west of Ireland, Greenstuff Limited packages a range of beef and lamb products, all produced organically on Irish farms. As a point of principle, the company promises that each individual product package can be traced back to the farm where it was raised."The organic customer tends to be a concerned customer," says director Conor Brennan. "The more reassurance you can give them the better."Greenstuff's traceability pledge is possible because under EU animal regulations, livestock must be tagged and their path from field to slaughterhouse tracked and recorded. By storing this information on its own database, Greenstuff is able to provide information on the provenance of its products.It works like this. Anyone buying a Greenstuff product - available in the UK through specialist outlets such as Fresh and Wild - will find a unique code stamped on the packaging. The consumer then has the option of emailing or texting the code back to Greenstuff and a return message will provide details of where the meat originated.Initially, the service was available via the Greenstuff website, but was subsequently extended to SMS using Brand2Hand technology in order to provide customers with a more convenient way to send a query. "Now customers can do it in a store," says Brennan.In the future, there are plans to provide a full medical and feed history.www.greenstuff.co.ukwww.switchfire.comwww.brand2hand.co.ukwww.grouptext.comwww.redrock.co.uk
&#183;New routes launched in October include Paris CDG-Bristol (from £93 return) and CDG-Aberdeen (from £174 return) on Air France (airfrance.co.uk). Ryanair (ryanair.com) begins flying from Stansted to Strasbourg on October 31, although with only two flights a day in each direction and awkward return times (10:15 and 22:55 into Stansted). In April, easyJet will start flying to three European cities from Newcastle.&#183;If you spend a lot of time on Virgin trains, you might like to indulge in a brief reverie about the long-awaited Pendolinos and Voyagers atwww.virgintrains.co.uk. Both trains will have at-seat audio. The Pendolino has power points at every seat, while the Voyager limits them to Club Class (formerly known as First).&#183;Readers under pressure to cut down on travelling expenses should know that Virgin Value fares (which are only available in limited numbers) have to be booked three, seven or 14 days in advance. The Manchester to London fare, for instance, rises from £20 to £40 as the day of travel approaches. A standard open return currently costs over £172.&#183;Farewell Go...by summer 2003 the Go circles should all have been smothered under Easyjet's lurid orange. In the meantime, the two companies will still be run separately, so you cannot exchange a Go and an Easyjet ticket. Booking continues atwww.easyjet.comandwww.go-fly.com.&#183;There are rumours that Eurostar may soon begin discounting tickets a few days before departure in an effort to fend off competition from the air.Eurostar.co.ukhas just been redesigned, but it still doesn't function properly on some browsers. TryLastminute.com's Train Tickets section if yours is one of them.
Everyone who writes about travel has their achilles heel, and mine was south-east Asia.I've never had the chance to visit the region. So I was very pleased to track down Luke Mellor, a self-employed consultant who specialises in training investment bankers and frequently travels to the far east.Mellor's typical itinerary might involve flying to Taipei in Taiwan, moving on to Hong Kong, and then flying to Singapore before returning home. He books all the flights, hotels and rental cars himself."When you're self-employed," he explained ruefully, "you travel economy." His favourite  travel site - "I'm almost reluctant to tell you about it for fear that the secret's out" - is a Malaysian-based site, Asia Travel Mart (www.asiatravelmart.com).Business travellers are often reluctant to book on a site based outside the UK or US - and sometimes for good reason. But Mellor says he has never experienced any problems with it. He used to book a hotel by asking a business contact in the city for a recommendation and then ringing up to negotiate a discount.Asia Travel Mart, however, invariably beats them. "The only difficulty is that they quote a rate for a standard room," he adds, "and they don't always have internet access."Nevertheless, he believes that south-east Asia is about three years ahead of the rest of the world in terms of internet access. Pan Pacific in Singapore (singapore.panpac.com), he says, stands out: "They have broadband in every room for about £6 per day and plenty of IT support you can call on."If you want to see more hotel recommendations, the little-known APM business travellers' guide (www.apmforum.com/travel/hotels.htm) is a good starting point, in particular for Malaysia and Bangkok. It publishes a gossipy email, Asia Travel - "lean and nosy like a Chao Phrya river rat" - which regular visitors will probably enjoy (www.apmforum.com/hariini).
 
At the top end of the market, the Peninsulas in Bangkok and Hong Kong (www.peninsula.com) have plenty of fans. For cheaper rates, the local E-hotel Japan (www.e-hoteljapan.com), Hong Kong Net (www.hongkongnet.net) and Hotels Online Singapore (hotels.online.com.sg) are all possibilities. The latter has an under-$50-a-night section.Mellor also praises Asia Travel Mart's multi-stop flight booker, which allows travellers to search for flights on up to six legs of trip - a rare thing, as even Expedia's multiple destinations search (www.expedia.co.uk) only offers up to five.Local travel agents, especially in Hong Kong, can often be equally helpful in finding cheap one-way flights. The well-established Tiglion (www.tiglion.com), based in Wanchai, is one. BSR International (www.bsr.com.hk) is another. At the time of writing, Expedia quoted £432 for an economy single from Hong Kong to Singapore; Tiglion offered one for £180. Most agents are happy to courier a ticket to Britain for a reasonable fee.Many people travelling to Japan or Korea for the first time are unaware that their mobile phone won't work on the local networks. Several UK-based companies will rent a handset to you and set up a number. They include Adam Phones (www.adam-phones.co.uk), Mobell (www.mobell.co.uk) and Cellhire (www.cellhire.co.uk).For more general advice on travelling to and from local airports, business etiquette and how much you should expect to spend on meal, the initially uninspring Trade Partners UK (www.tradepartners.gov.uk) turned out to be the most useful. (Consult the online APM guide atwww.apmforum.com/travel/asiarestaurants.htmfor restaurant picks). Select the country you're travelling to and then choose Visiting from the menu.It's also a fantastic source of cribbable statistics on the UK's trade with every country in the world, if you have to produce a report when you get home.
Betty Williams leaves her flat in Aigburth every Wednesday and takes a bus that winds into the centre of Liverpool and drops her by the Liver building. Betty takes a short walk to the offices of the Liverpool Housing Action Trust where, on the first floor, she enters a small studio. There, she takes her role as camerawoman on an innovative internet television station. Betty Williams is 84.Once the building belonged to Cunard, the most famous shipping company in the world, but now Tenantspin.org - a community television station - occupies a part of it. For the past three years, Tenantspin has broadcast a weekly hour-long show on the internet based around the subject of Liverpool's housing problems. Williams's flat is one of 67 that have been marked for demolition by Liverpool city council. Next month, she will leave the flat that has been her home for 38 years and move into a new one."I first heard about Tenantspin when there was a computer installed in the block of flats where I live," explains Williams, a retired secretary with the Liverpool Post and Echo. "Somebody came to give us a bit of tuition and Fee Plumley, who was in charge, came up and helped me with my own computer, which I was having a few problems with."When she'd fixed it she said, 'we could use you on the crew' and I didn't even know what she was talking about. But I did as I was told and came down. I just got drawn in after that."Tenantspin's  audience might be small, but Sky and the BBC are interested in developing the idea. Fellow scouser Robert Kilroy-Silk is being courted as a host, and recent guests have included the writer Will Self, the actor Margi Clarke and Bill Drummond of the KLF, an 80s dance music outfit. Superblock, a one-hour Radio 3 drama based on the experiences of people living in Liverpool Housing Action Trust, will be broadcast in January.Tenantspin is part of the Superchannel network - a Danish organisation based in the Bl&#229;g&#229;rdsgade district of Copenhagen. It supports 27 similar community channels across Europe and hosts more than 1,000 independently produced shows.The trouble is that not everyone living in the blocks has the internet at home. However, each of the 67 condemned blocks has a communal flat belonging to the tenants' association, where Liverpool's Foundation for Art and Creative Technology (Fact) has installed a computer. Fact has also established a placement scheme where local university students mentor older tenants in the art of computing.Many tenants involved in the scheme now have their own computers. But there remains a communal feeling to the transmissions as tenants huddle round the block computer every Wednesday."It's a bit like when TVs first came out and people would stand in front of shop windows and all watch," says Alan Dunn, programme manager of Superchannel. The tenants get help and training from Fact and Superchannel, but since March, the tenants have been able to operate the station entirely on their own.Why does Betty Williams do it? Partly it is a chance to meet her friends at the station. Participation in Tenantspin has taken her to Copenhagen to explain to Danish pensioners how to run community TV on the internet. Fellow Tenantspinners have taken the message as far as New York.The experience of Tenantspin is also about to be replicated much closer to home. Four years ago, the government announced its New Deal for Community (NDC) - a &#163;2bn programme to regenerate Britain's poorest housing estates. Over the next 10 years, NDCs will be developed in 39 neighbourhoods: housing estates of 1,000 to 4,000 households. The government hopes these NDCs will help streamline public services by introducing IT to every home.The Ocean estate in east London is one of the poorest communities in Britain, despite being only two miles from the City of London. More than half the residents speak Bengali as a first language, and the majority of English speakers are over 60. There is a small community of Somali refugees, mostly war widows and single mothers stuck at home. A super-fast IT network is seen as one way to engage these people with the wider world.A little over three years ago, a project called Ocean Online was established on the estate. It has since been consulting more than 9,000 residents about how they want the &#163;56.6m allocated to it as part of the New Deal. The resounding answer was investment in IT.Ocean Online is currently building its own intranet - a privately maintained computer network - that will connect every household to a range of public services and to the wider internet. But once you've built such a network, what exactly do you do with it?One plan involves studding the estate with webcams - effectively an online version of CCTV - that allow the residents to watch over each other. This is not without its problems. There are fears that thieves could use such a system to watch for victims, and there are obvious issues of privacy. One solution might be to restrict access to a number of paid neighbourhood wardens, with full access to the cameras restricted to a few trouble spots. Some even suggest that a scheme like this could represent a kind of democratisation of CCTV."To pay for someone to sit there and watch CCTV is expensive, and basically we cannot afford security guards," says John Fisher, Ocean Online's IT manager. "If you put a camera outside a walkway, for example, residents could check it out on their screen before leaving the house." Intercoms could also be wired to the network. If you saw a crime occurring, you could email the video to the local police station, says Fisher. The idea is a mix of Foucault's Panopticon and curtain-twitching for the internet age.These kinds of community networks will also carry adverts for local jobs, training opportunities and advice about drugs. Local schools and nurseries and council offices will be connected. Tenants will be able to report faults or watch live footage of a local street festival. One pilot project in Knowsley, Merseyside, already shows video footage of children looking for parents to adopt them via an interactive television network.The biggest challenge facing Ocean Online is how to connect every home to the network. Take-up of computers on the estate is very low and more than a third of households do not even have their own phone line. Ocean Online is considering giving every home its own PC. But this throws up more questions. Who will own it? Will tenants be allowed to download their own software?   What happens when a tenant leaves? What about those who already have a PC?It's also very expensive. The Ocean estate has more than 2,500 households, and even cheap computers cost &#163;500. IT support is an extra cost and there is the cost of cabling and maintaining the local network. Other NDCs are considering leasing reconditioned computers to their residents, while others are installing set-top boxes to work with digital TV. One NDC in Lambeth has managed to win sponsorship from IBM to provide computers for their estate.Wiring Britain's poorest estates is taking longer than expected. Earlier this year, official figures showed that NDCs have failed to spend two-thirds of the cash allocated to them. "There is no precedent for this," explains Steve McFadden of Fluid, one of the architecture practices employed to consult NDCs.   "NDCs are an entirely new kind of infrastructure. They are not part of local government and they are not part of national government. They are also a bottom-up phenomenon and I think many of these organisations have been finding their way."There are dissenting voices, too. Three miles south of the Ocean estate is the Isle of Dogs, a peninsula topped by booming office developments in the north around Canary Wharf, with a hinterland cut off from the new prosperity.On the Samuda estate - which is too small to benefit from an NDC - near the southern tip of the isle, residents have been participating inwww.youhavebeenwatched.org.uk- a community programme based around existing networks. Lisa Haskell, the programmes coordinator, argues that more effort should be placed on using existing community networks, rather than spending millions of pounds building new ones.Internet television stations and community intranets, however innovative, can never replace somebody's home. But the success of such projects is measured in the renewed confidence they give to people. As Betty Williams says: "It's the reason I bought my own computer. I wanted to still be part of this world."Britain's housing estates might be on the wrong side of the so-called digital divide but that does not mean the latest technology has no place there.Next week, residents on the Mozart estate in Queen's Park, north-west London, will take part in an experimental project, created by the digital art collective, MongrelX. The project will look at how communities might use the new multimedia messaging services (MMS) on the latest picture phones. Orange has donated two dozen Nokia 7650s. For three days from November 6, local residents can borrow one of the phones, and they have been invited to take pictures of surveillance cameras. Those who take the best images will get to keep the phones."This is an area that is classed as a socially excluded group of people. But these people have a much stronger idea of community than most of us. They really know how to pull together," says Alexis Johnson, head of education at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London. For the past three years, the institue has been running the new media training centre in the Mozart estate. It offers free digital training for the local community and has an annual budget of &#163;150,000.Children come to the centre to surf the net and play games. "Soon they start to enjoy making Flash animations; they love cartoons, so they see they can create their own. The adults initially see it as a way to communicate with relatives outside the country. They move on to internet surfing and creating websites," says Johnson. The institute has also set up a mentoring scheme where young people teach their elders how to use new technology.The multimedia messages will be sent back to the media centre and to other local organisations for mentally handicapped people and senior citizens. Westminster City school and a block with a large Bangladeshi community will also take part. The images will then be displayed at the institute in central London as part of a month-long digital festival."In a way, the digital training is just a means to an end," says Johnson. "It's a means to getting people to feel like they're part of something. Once that confidence has been built up, they know that can achieve things they want. They can apply for that job they thought they weren't good enough to do."
Credit card fraud on the web is the curse of e-commerce and it can hit small and medium-sized businesses especially hard.John Sollars, sales manager of StinkyInk, which sells printers and ink cartridges, knows only too well what impact fraudulent orders can have on an e-business.Between the end of July and the middle of August this year, he received £25,000 of orders that were created by credit card scams, and the family-run business almost went bankrupt. The volume of orders he was receiving meant he had to borrow money to fulfil them. Servicing the fraudulent orders was a hugely stressful experience."Because of the scale of the orders, I ran out of credit. I couldn't afford to service all the orders I was getting," says Sollars.The experience of Sollars is typical of other victims of credit card fraud who believe that attacks on merchant sites are coordinated once a weakness is exposed.However, Sollars was able to tackle the problem when he joined a new free web-based service for SMEs, called Early Warning, which alerts e-businesses to the details of any previous credit card fraudsters so they don't make the mistake of trading with them again.As soon as Sollars logged on to the site, he put in the details of the fraudulent orders to share them with other businesses. He found that a lot of them had already been reported.Early Warning was established by Andrew Goodwill, the managing director of UK ComputerParts, which came up with the idea of SMEs sharing data on credit card scams after being the victim of fraudulent orders himself.The site has already exposed an individual in Nigeria who was buying goods using a stolen credit card and arranging for them to be sent to the address of a freight forwarding company, from where they would be forwarded to Africa. Not only were small businesses losing money, they were also losing their goods.The Early Warning site has attracted more than 350 members and is growing daily. So far, details on about 2,500 false credit card orders have been listed.Goodwill says: "The problem is massive. We got an email from one company saying that they wanted to join our scheme. We accepted them and within 24 hours they had emailed us back saying they had gone bust because of credit card fraud."He explains that many SMEs are processing credit card transactions, having them authorised and then receiving charge-back letters around four weeks later saying that the money has to be refunded, because the genuine cardholder never sanctioned the payment."In a high street store, the retailer is guaranteed to be paid because the card has been swiped and signed. On the  internet there is no guarantee you will be paid."Goodwill says the most common items that are being bought with stolen credit cards are ink cartridges and laptops. "Once fraudsters attack your site they are relentless. They are worse than a virus."Visa says that online fraud costs UK retailers £55m a year. The credit card giant has launched a new online payment authentication system, Verified by Visa, which is supported by most of the major banks. It says the new initiative will protect SMEs from fraudulent offers. If they do everything by the book, Visa says SMEs are guaranteed payment. The scheme relies on 3-D Secure technology, which can be licensed from vendors."This is a virtual handshake on the net between the cardholder and the merchant. It enables both parties to authenticate themselves. It will make a big dent into fraud and it will reduce the charge-back rates," says Robert Littas, senior vice president of risk management for Visa in Europe.But is he aware of the problems that SMEs registering on the Early Warning site have been experiencing? "I really sympathise with them. They do all the checking that they can do. It's very frustrating. This new system will reduce the fraud."
MasterCard is also stepping up efforts to tackle the problem with its own secure online payment system. But despite the introduction of the new schemes, which are yet to be fully taken up, analysts believe that credit card companies are facing a huge challenge."They are taking measures, but they are up against a pretty well organised and determined criminal fraternity," admits Graham Titterington, a senior analyst for Ovum.The Interactive Media in Retail Group (IMRG), which represents online retailers such as John Lewis, British Telecom and Lastminute.com, as well as SMEs, has been asked by its members to set up a service to share information about fraudsters."Fraud is an inevitable part of commerce. But it is a huge problem and it is growing very fast. All the liability and risk has been with merchants,"  says James Roper, the chief executive of the IMRG, which is talking with the Early Warning  site about the possibility of sharing data.Despite the actions of the credit card companies, the IMRG and its members fear that smart fraudsters can still find ways around sophisticated online payments systems.Roper says that there are even cases of children using credit cards to arrange for deliveries to be sent to derelict houses. He adds that local police forces simply don't have the resources to follow up isolated cases. "It's getting to the point where it is becoming a major problem for everyone and it needs an industry solution."The IMRG plans to unveil its service at the end of this month. There is an urgency about tackling the problem, not only because fraud is hitting SMEs especially hard, but because online shopping is growing and retailers want to minimise their losses. Any attempts to halt fraud have to be handled carefully because the retailers don't want to inadvertently publicise ways in which sites can be defrauded.At the same time, however, the IMRG and its members fear that if credit card fraud on the web is allowed to continue unchecked it could damage irreparably the image of e-commerce for companies of all sizes.Meanwhile, John Sollars of StinkyInk says that he is looking into the new fraud protection schemes that are being offered by the credit card companies. When he first became the victim of credit card fraud, he thought about giving up on e-commerce altogether. But then he changed his mind."I had spent so much effort setting the business up," he explains. "Things are starting to build up gently. If I hadn't had the fraud in August, I would have a reasonable business by now."www.early-warning.org.ukwww.imrg.orgwww.mastercard.comwww.visaeu.com
It seems so long ago, but back in June I wrote apieceabout a new commenting system for weblogs called Enetation, being run by an 18-year-old called Robert Taylor. I hoped he'd do well, as commenting systems have generally struggled to cope with demand, and his was quite a neat solution.Things, alas, have not gone smoothly, as those of us who use the service (I've got it on another weblog) will testify.When the system is not down (and it's down a lot), it causes a horrendous drag on the speed of your blog. And this morning, instead of the little "comment" buttons that normally appear under entries, there's a rather long message saying the service is down - but wouldn't be if the weblog owner had stumped up for the "pro" version. A conversation onEnetation's forums(look for the link off the home page) explains what's going on: Taylor says Enetation is "dying out" through its own success. He has signed up some 33,000 users in five months, and Taylor's early confidence that his hardware and bandwidth could cope has vanished, to be replaced with clear irritation that users are moaning about the service, or lack of it.But I'd have to side with the users on this. If you offer a service, even a free one, you should provide it. The responsible thing to do is close off new subscriptions (as the other comments services have) if things get overloaded. That's because users will only pay for this kind of service if they've seen it work well in the past. Better to have 10,000 happy customers than 33,000 unhappy ones, because a higher percentage of happy campers will make a contribution. Hearing the service is "dying off" is unlikely to have the cash flooding in either - you want the service to stick around after you've made your contribution.The only consolation for Robert is that people much older, and with a lot more cash behind them, have made very similar mistakes in the move from free to fee. But, in the meantime, it looks like it's time to start looking around for a new commenting system, again...
The panel is made up of Richard Berends, technical director of LANKind UK, Russell Lewis of Learning Tree, Sebastian Gray, director of IT Lab and Gavin Russell, technical director of Wavex Technology.&#183;My company is a network of a dozen home-workers. Most of them now have ADSL or cable broadband. Some use Macs and some use PCs. How can we use our broadband to provide a phone-to-phone or intercom service that uses telephone handsets (not silly headphones) between us all?Phil Turtle, marketing consultantRB:Short of investing in emerging Voiceover IP (VoIP) technology, the only thing I could suggest is using MSN messenger or ICQ, both which have voice capabilities. However, either choice will require soundcards and headphones, speakers or microphones. This works fairly well with inexpensive headsets that can be bought at local PC retailers.RL:In theory, it makes sense to use your workers' internet connections for voice conversations. Indeed, there are several software applications that do this, offering free calls via the internet. However, these fall short due to the quality of the connection across the whole internet. Although you may have good bandwidth access to the internet, you don't get the same bandwidth all the way across to your correspondent's computer.The solution to this is to interconnect offices directly, so you own the connection and can dedicate the bandwidth to your communication. Install VoIP software to convert speech into internet packets. Bear in mind that this can be an expensive option, offering limited benefit compared with the regular telephone system.SG:VoIP allows you to make telephone calls over the internet. Although flagged up as "the next hot thing" for many years, it is only now becoming a viable technology. If you buy a VoIP-enabled telephone switch this will let you connect each home user. The Mitel 3340 platform (mitel.com) offers a good choice of handsets and is built specifically for VoIP applications. A big word of warning: depending on the quality of connectivity you may find that voice quality is poor and with bad delay on it.GR:Look at a free application for PCs from Microsoft called Netmeeting (< A HREF="http://www.microsoft.com/netmeeting/" TARGET="_NEW">microsoft.com/netmeeting/), and for Macs an application called CUSeeMe (support.fvc.com/cumac/). Netmeeting and CUSeeMe use VoIP standards. Also, by buying inexpensive webcams you can see each other too. The Logitec Pro 4000 has a built-in microphone (< A HREF="http://www.logitech.com" TARGET="_NEW">logitech.com/).   For VoIP to function, every machine needs to be able to communicate with every other machine. The easiest way of achieving this is to ensure all your home machines are on the internet, using appropriate firewall software. Each broadband connection set-up also has to be NO NAT (Network Address Translation).  Each machine will need speakers and a microphone. With Netmeeting and CUSeeMe, each person will need to know the others' IP address (four numbers separated by dots), which acts as a phone number.&#183;I can't send emails to AOL addresses. It's incredibly frustrating. Many of the journalists I deal with have AOL addresses and I either have to print off my emails and fax or post them, or forward them to my husband so he can send them on from his office, which leads to all sorts of confusion.Tracey Williams, PR consultantRB:This is an interesting one: without more information it is only possible to speculate. I have three answers that may be plausible:1) Does you have their email addresses right? Have one of the AOL users mail you and see if you can respond. It could be as simple as that!2) Is there a spam or blacklist facility on your mail server? Possibly it has a ban on AOL as an anti-spam measure. Depending on the mail products involved, this could be the issue. How can you get around this? Look in your local settings for any banned destinations; if you have none, then discuss your needs with the mail server administrator for them to adjust the server configuration.3) Does the mail server have a macro redirection set for "aol.com"? It is possible to set up mail servers to send mail for certain "addresses" to other destinations using macro substitution. This facility allows you to send a message to, say, fred@homeworkers; the mail server would redirect that to a specific post office automatically without the user knowing that this has happened.RL:It would be interesting to read the routing information usually hidden in the header of the email, or sent back to you if you receive notification from AOL that your message failed.One thing worth considering is that before AOL delivers email to a subscriber, it verifies the sender's mail server by doing a "reverse look-up", a little like checking there's a return address on an envelope. If AOL can't verify the sender's domain name, it won't deliver the email, in case it is spam or junk mail.Ask your network administrator or ISP if anything has been done to prevent "reverse look-ups" or hide the mail server's DNS record, because that may prevent delivery of your emails to AOL accounts.SG:If the mail is being rejected or simply not reaching recipients it is likely that the sender is using an ISP that is blacklisted by AOL as a spam mailer (get your ISP to check mailabuse.org for their SMTP server).GR:There are two methods you can use to deliver email, either directly to its destination (referred to as using DNS: Domain Naming System/ Service) or you may send email to your ISP to deliver on your behalf. It is all about how you set up your email server.Problems with AOL often arise as a result of trying to deliver mail directly to AOL's email servers, because AOL uses various security measures to prevent people spamming (sending unsolicited email to) their customers. However, passing email through an ISP often resolves this.Ask your ISP for their SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) relay host; they will give you an address similar to SMTP.ispname.com. Your email server or email software can then be set up to use this, as opposed to DNS.
Making sure your technology doesn't damage the environment is, of course, an excellent idea, which is why you're so often urged to upgrade rather than bin your old computer when your needs change.The law is changing to introduce the WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directive, which will compel suppliers - not the small business customer - to dispose of used computer equipment when it's reached the end of its useful life.All of which is useful, but there's much misunderstanding about technology and ecology. All that's universally understood is that people don't act upon issues of conscience as much as they say they want to.Survey after survey says people want to eat free-range eggs in principle but don't spend the money when it comes to the checkout, and the same is true of computers. There's no such thing as a free-range computer, but people tend not to buy second-hand or refurbished if they can avoid it: if your livelihood depends on these things, you're not going to jeopardise it over a stupid thing like a principle, are you?There are ways of trying to buy eco-friendly systems, and many people opt into them, but they're not always as green as they seem. Remanufactured toner cartridges are the classic example; you buy it and you feel pleased because it re-uses old components and it does the planet some good, right?That's not necessarily the case. Research conducted by Hewlett-Packard (biased, obviously, but stick with it) suggests that the vast majority of remanufactured and recycled toner cartridges still end up thrown away when they're empty, so they prop up landfills just as badly as any other waste.HP instead asks people to buy new cartridges and send them back; they will then take in all the re-usable bits, melt some of the rest down and stick it into more new cartridges. And yes, they've done their sums on the energy used to make the process work.It's not only HP. Kyocera has for a long time sold itself on the green ticket. Dell and other manufacturers take care not to put extra rivets into their computers, making everything snap into place instead - and they sell the corporates only what they need and build to specification.Businesses and sole traders who have tried to buy a replacement computer without a monitor and keyboard will know it's not always possible unless you're buying in bulk. (I was once told: "You want a computer without a keyboard? That's not going to work.")And no, we don't need to be told "it'll be a useful spare" - the last three unwanted keyboards were also supposed to be "useful spares" and they're still mouldering in my attic.This may be interesting to small businesses, but experience suggests that it's not a major issue at the moment. Ask yourself, and be honest, how much thought you've given to what happens to your computer equipment when you no longer need it. Not a lot is the usual answer, but by 2004, thanks to the WEEE directive, you'll be liable for fines if you just dump it.So what are the options? Take all the programs off and flog it to the staff? That can be a good way of getting rid of it, and the equipment stays in use. But there are drawbacks: software licences will not be transferable if you want to continue using the same software on your new system, which you might well.Also, the cost of buying software is likely to put your staff off getting a new system at all - a copy of Microsoft Office and Microsoft Money will nudge them over £400. Add whatever you're charging for the hardware, then factor in the fact that new computers with office suites, plus a printer and camera, can be had for £700 and you realise you're not going to get much interest.Depending on the age of the equipment, can you be sure it will comply with all the health and safety regulations you'd want to pass on to your staff?
Again, depending on the equipment's age, staff buying a family computer may want up-to-date graphics and sound for the latest games that your old kit can't produce.Giving the equipment to charities is another option, of course - they're notoriously cash-strapped and many will be pleased to take it. None of this addresses the fundamental issue, though: there is likely to be residual value in any computer you own, never mind that putting it on a skip will release cadmium, mercury and chromium into the environment.Specialist businesses like Selway Moore (www.selwaymoore.com) advise on when to dispose of ageing technology; they'll even buy it from you, assuming it's usable by someone - and will take care of selling it. For now, they focus on medium-sized companies; if a business plan can be developed so that the smaller contract can become viable for them, they'll be there.So talk of recycling and remanufacturing is only useful in a limited way. What business owners need to bear in mind is managing the life cycle of their technology. It's an asset like any other and can be managed - just because it's past it in your eyes doesn't mean it no longer has any value.The WEEE directive should, in theory at least, take a lot of pressure away from the smaller  trader; even if your supplier has gone bust by the time your equipment is due for retirement  there's an agreement between the major manufacturers that they'll take up the slack, collect it and dispose of it ecologically.The thing to do now is to make sure that any supplier contracts have specific clauses about the disposal of old equipment; if you use a small supplier, don't assume they know about this stuff.Now, does anyone want a spare keyboard?
Despite the snail's pace at which some industries cottoned on to e-business, even the most conservative sectors eventually came to see some potential benefit.Take the chemicals industry. On the surface, the sector seems untouched by the new-fangled ways of the internet. To a large extent, it is. But within that there are pockets of progress.For Oxford Chemicals, a manufacturer of aroma chemicals for the niche food and fragrance industry, the decision to collaborate more closely with customers and agents was cemented two years ago, after its IT contractor at the time threatened to withdraw support for the manufacturer's enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems.With NestlÀ and ICI-owned Quest among its customers, Oxford Chemicals wanted to use technology literally to forge stronger links with its client base, and also to snatch a competitive advantage from rivals who didn't.For a company producing up to 450 products a year, with the capacity to produce 200 more, the existing ERP system had gone as far as it could. It would never be in a position to give the company the computing power it would need to win more international business, and had started to threaten the Teesside firm's growth.     "The ERP system was difficult to interrogate, making it impossible to identify the root causes of problems," explains Oxford Chemicals' managing director, Dr Richard Smith."Basically, we were never 100% sure that our figures were accurate. And when we looked at our future plans, we knew the old system didn't have the collaborative features, like e-business with external partners, nor would it allow us to integrate other IT systems on the site," he adds.So the decision to upgrade was made, but it was never going to be straightforward."Being a smaller company, we needed a system we could implement quickly and which would allow us to continue work as we implemented it," recalls Smith.The company opted for the SAP R3 system, after the vendor introduced a scaled-down version of its ERP systems for SMEs. Implemented by SAP systems integrator Plaut Consulting, the system took three months to fully integrate into Oxford Chemicals' existing network, but it took orders, issued invoices and dispatched goods on the new system the day it went live.The manufacturer had limited resources, and was able to negotiate with Plaut for an off-the-shelf SAP system pre-configured to the standard business processes of the chemical industry and around 70% pre-configured for Oxford Chemicals' specific requirements, at a cost of £200,000.The system now links the customer services department to inventory and manufacturing elements of the enterprise."We now have a much clearer picture of what our customers require and how quickly we can meet those requirements," claims Smith."Now, when a customer places an order by fax, phone or email, customer service staff can immediately give them a lead-time for delivery, whether or not the material to produce the goods is in stock. In the latter case, the SAP can calculate the additional time needed by us to order materials and produce the goods. In short, it drives the placing and manufacture, and leads the scheduling of production in the company."Smith is loath to put any of the benefits of the new ERP system in financial terms."One main improvement at Oxford Chemicals since we introduced the new system is that we've been able to lower the number of admin staff and increase numbers in the doing and making areas. In other words, we have more customer-facing staff and less who have to process admin. The system has made the tasks less arduous, allowing staff to improve customer service and make more products."He added that inventory had been cut, stock turns had been improved and the monthly reporting burden reduced by 50% in terms of the days required to produce reports and accounts.The next phase of Oxford Chemicals' systems development will include linking directly into the SAP systems of customers and agents, here and abroad.So far, this has been successful with one client, the Duckworth Group, one of Britain's largest flavouring and fruit compound manufacturers. Duckworth now places orders from its purchasing system, which are electronically transferred directly to the sales order system at Oxford Chemicals using a tool from SAP called Business Connector. On receipt of the order, the sales order system automatically sends an acknowledgment back to the purchasing department.But other link-ups will be delayed until it is possible to integrate even more closely - right into the manufacturing process - by adding new SAP application modules to the ERP system."When material is in stock to produce the requested goods, it automatically sends an invoice. But when it is not in stock, and it has to be manufactured, that information cannot as yet be sent back. The second half of next year should see other linkages," says Smith.Oxford Chemicals is also a member of Elemica, an online trading exchange for the chemical industry, and plans to integrate its ERP system first with the exchange itself, then with individual members.In a bid to offer more than the ability to place orders over the internet, Oxford Chemicals is also trying out a web-based link with an agent who has access to the manufacturer's customer and orders databases from its website. Linked to the back office, the agent can pull up the histories and status of recent sales."We'll role this out to all our agents next year, and then offer it to our major customers, eventually allowing every customer to place orders directly over the web," says Smith.
It's Thursday so Online is, naturally,online. And since it's thelastThursday of the month,Business Solutionsis inside too, full of goodness for those of you who are concerned with how technology works in small and medium-sized businesses.This week marks the end of an era, of sorts, which should also (I hope) explain some of the meaningful silences on here over recent weeks. We've been jolly busy, as next Thursday we're relaunching our technology coverage on Guardian Unlimited. We're doing some much needed housekeeping: the Online section will be easier to find on the site, and we hope a searchable archive of Ask Jack will bring a smile to the faces of all those who currently cut out and keep his columns.But in addition to all that, we're going to bring you Online content through the week - not just on a Thursday. We'll have more daily analysis, plus a few new features and interactive things to keep y'all entertained. Onlineblog will also become a little more closely integrated with Guardian Unlimited, although things like the address and RSS feed will remain unchanged. Stay tuned...
So we have a supply chain. You're managing it and putting yourself firmly in control of how and when everything arrives at your business premises. If you're agreeing with that analysis, you're someone the size of Flymo or Ford, because smaller people don't actually get to work like that in real life.Those smaller people - the component manufacturers, the servicing companies - are normally part of a chain of supply, rather than at the top; as such, they don't get to dictate the shape of the supply chain. Instead, they just get told, "You're doing it like this", so that's how they do it.This can lead to unlooked-for side effects; people wanting to trade with more than one supplier may find it difficult to streamline their contacts and, in some cases, can end up having to use more than one IT system to manage all of their suppliers.A case in point is Godfrey B Davenport, a family-run distributor of lawnmower parts in Shrewsbury. As might be expected, it works with a number of suppliers, such as Qualcast, Flymo and Honda. The snag is that, since these have taken their orders electronically for some time, their systems aren't the newest. In fact, almost every supplier has its own system, with which the smaller trader has to work."Some of them spoke to us first," confirms Godfrey B Davenport's joint MD, Chris Davenport. "But mostly it was a case of, this is how we'll be doing things, you can do it this way or take a walk." Only not in so many words.Before big businesses start to appear too much like the villains of the piece, it's worth bearing in mind the number of suppliers they actually have. Deutsche Telekom in Germany is one company that buys a lot of supplies from the SME channel. In fact, when it decided to consolidate on to an internet-based procurement system, it found it had 18,000 line items to assimilate.It changed over to electronic procurement and now, comments Patrick Meyer, corporate communications manager at e-marketplace specialist Commerce One, "if you want to do business with Deutsche Telekom, that's how you have to do it."But imagine trying to consult with each individual supplier in a list of products that large; you can see why the companies involved insist that small players follow their lead.None of which helps the smaller trader much, and help from the obvious sources - that is, the people who are meant to tell you how your new system will work - is not always forthcoming.Davenport confirms that the larger companies told his company how the new system was going to work and left the smaller business to sort out how that would happpen.This is where government schemes, including UK online for business, can help: in spite of recurring cynicism about the government and its business services, there is some quality advice available.Wendy Ashton, UK online for business manager at Business Link Humber, stresses that no products or vested interests are ever pushed - though she admits that this is one of those instances in which a smaller business will most likely have to take what its large suppliers offer in terms of procurement systems: "Electronic Data Interchange", or EDI as most of them are known. "There's nothing they can do about that, but we can help them prepare for the opportunity as best they can."Purists will tell you that this is not the best way to manage your supplies. It's all simpler on the internet, which is a view that has some justification.Nevertheless, to use the Davenport example, if you want to deal with the big guys in lawnmowers, or car parts, or any number of other industries, you'll deal with the technology they throw at you because that's how they work. Yes, of course you can turn around and say "We want you to do things our way", but they're unlikely to change for one small dealer. "I often have a moan at them, but it doesn't seem to do any good," jokes Davenport.The thing is, despite the grumbles from people who would rather not work in that way, it sort of functions. There are advantages to the private systems. It's all but impossible to misdirect an order or some piece of information, as is commonplace on the internet.The private networks on which these systems are based have security at their heart and no internet links to attract would-be hackers. Orders rarely go astray, and many systems can be tweaked at the receiving end so that they work with stock control technology for the smaller business.The real difficulty is the multiplicity of these systems. It's rare that a business will need only the one link, unless it's a dealer tied to a single supplier. Davenport has EDI from some suppliers, internet technology from others and proprietary systems that don't adhere to any agreed standard from others."None of the systems fit all our requirements," he says. Fortunately, his previous career was IT, and so is able to sort out immediate problems; the majority of smaller suppliers, who don't have any dedicated technical support, could have a problem with the multiple feeds of information going into the company.The thing to remember is that advisers can usually counsel on practical means to make it viable.Jargon-busterEDI:Electronic Data Interchange, an older form of sending information across the wires.Internet:In this context, "internet" means "based on internet technology" - so you can see it on a web browser.Proprietary:Technology designed in-house to meet a   single company's need.
The irritating thing about customers is that they tend to buy things from you.The problem was illustrated well in an episode of Channel 4 sitcom Black Books, when a customer asked for a book and misanthropic proprietor Bernard answered, no, they couldn't, they'd only take it away and he'd have to order another one.If this is the way you feel about your company, there's a good chance you'd be better off with the careers section of the Guardian; however, there is some truth in the idea that stock control and purchasing can be a trial.This is why there is a set of technologies which, together, go under the unwieldy title of "supply chain management" or SCM. The essential idea of SCM is to take charge of your suppliers - to control what comes into and goes out of your company and when, and to join up all of the processes as far as possible.For example, you might want to accept an order for something over the internet: if you're fully e-business savvy, you should be able to start the picking list process through a warehousing application, and preferably send off an order for replacements. Ideally, all of this will happen without human intervention.Wendy Ashton, UK online for business manager at Business Link Humber, believes awareness of what is possible is increasing among the smaller business community, but, as always, the problem is finding the time and resources to make it work. "It tends to be that they don't jump until they're pushed," she says.This often means smaller companies, that might supply or buy from blue chip companies and end up buying into SCM by default. Companies such as Commerce One, who have a vested interest in getting people to buy electronically, have also noticed that small businesses are coming into the area."It's more of the stick than the carrot approach, but once there, they become educated to the value of the idea," says Catherine Stenson, Commerce One's UK marketing director.   Indeed, there are good reasons to go through the process, and the costs are dropping, explains Dominic Regan, sales and strategic marketing director of software supplier G-Log. "For example, access to a standard web browser enables smaller traders to collaborate in the supply chain, with fast access to data that can link to other involved parties."Kay Kennedy, managing director of supply chain specialist Nationwide Business Solutions, considers a basic system, for which one might pay £10,000, would pay for itself in a very short time. For that price, you could expect a consultant to come in with an intranet/extranet solution - in other words, a system based on internet technology so that you could communicate internally via websites, while customers and offsite colleagues could access the same information with a password."For smaller businesses, we would recommend they integrate this with an existing purchase order system - we can then link this up to email, fax or SMS depending on how they want orders confirmed." Options like giving customers and suppliers a "cooling-off" period before orders are processed can also be put in.The savings come from not having to attend to every order personally. "In the best cases, that can mean employing one less person," says Kennedy. But costs remain an issue. Earlier this month, the Institute of Directors put together research with IBM and Ariba that concluded that "spend management" was vital in the current economy. Of 160 companies surveyed, 85% agreed that purchasing had a direct impact on profits; 63% of mid-sized businesses were acting on the issue, with 70% agreeing that technology was a major factor in helping them to get their processes under control.Never forget, also, training and support that's on offer from government and other agencies. UK online for business, Ashton points out, is attached to no vested interests or IT vendors and will offer a completely unbiased view of an organisation's needs.In spite of pressure felt by some to sign up to this technology, they can reap the benefits: "Having an electronic relationship with a supplier is often the first step to getting into e-commerce," says Ashton, and many organisations benefit from this once they have started.Indeed, the difficulty with SCM appears to be more to do with the name and the impression it gives than the cost and complexity of much of the technology involved.There are still systems available that cost hundreds of thousands and take years to implement, but increasingly it's possible to take only part of the technology, and build from there only once it has proved its worth.Automating supplyIf you're considering automating the flow of items into and out of your workplace, consider the following:&#183;Ideally, consider industry-standard systems only. Kiren Patel (see case study) liked the simplicity of Electronic Data Interchange, but stuck with Windows technology because it was easier to change once it was established.&#183;If your supplier insists you buy electronically in one particular way, assume they mean it - smaller traders are unlikely to buy in sufficient quantities to have much clout with the larger companies.&#183;Check the free information available - UK online for business will send its literature on supply chain management free of charge, or you can download it from the website.
When Kiren Patel started to take charge of his father's business, Sussex-based Clarke's Stationers, in the early 1990s, the 28-strong company was making a loss and had no technology installed at all."There were a lot of paper processes happening," he says. Ten years later and the company is trading profitably, mostly because of the focus Patel has put on automating the goods inward and outward.The most visible step the business took to achieve this was the inevitable website. "In order to become experienced I had to make a few mistakes," says Patel; he started off with a local web design company which, he says, told him what he needed on a website when electronic trading was as much a fashion statement as a means of doing business."Customers didn't like it; they said it didn't do this and it didn't do that. They didn't want anything flashy, they wanted something simple to handle."  He therefore set about matching a website to his customers' requirements and his own back office system, and elected to outsource the design from a consultancy in Bangalore."If I'd gone for a British firm they'd have charged me per hour rather than per project; I was quoted £80,000 for the whole thing in the UK and paid a total of £11,000 in Bangalore."Unusually, the whole IT system was designed from the ground up rather than bought off the shelf, and it took around eight months to implement fully, during which time Patel had support from UK online for business. All customers now place their orders electronically, and the orders link into the back office system immediately."The order comes in and is automatically linked into the back office systems, it raises a picking list document and tells us in which bay the item is or that we need to order it." Manual systems then take over as the company didn't want to automate its stock control as it didn't believe in the "just in time" school of stock: "We have in-depth stock and it turns over quickly," says Patel.Procurement is also handled electronically, with departments being allocated a limit as to what they may spend. If they need to go over the limit the system sends an email to Patel immediately so he can authorise it or not."I can get this from anywhere; I can work from home so if I need to see a client on Friday afternoon I don't have to rush back to the office. None of that was possible before technology."The other area in which technology has transformed the business is in internal communications. Spread across three sites, communications had been poor in the company, explains Patel:"People needed to ask the Brighton retail premises something and would phone them maybe five times in a day when they were busy," he says. "So we agreed that Brighton would instead read all emails and respond to them at 5pm every day - treating it systematically like any other correspondence."The results have been extremely positive. On the business-to-business side the number of orders has gone down but the value to the company of each order has increased, so the business is more profitable. Patel feels more in control of the company than he did before and annual turnover has doubled to £4m in the last couple of years.Fifty-six people now work for the organisation and thanks to the website the business is now selling internationally as well.
&#183;UK online for business, the government's scheme to promote electronic trading, has launched a series of booklets on technology for smaller businesses. The free publications are entitled "CRM &#91;customer relationship  management, see Business  Solutions September 2002&#93; and Supplying Electronically", "Extranets and Supplying Electronically" and "Personalisation, Transforming your business".The organisation is also launching yet another push to get more UK businesses using broadband - director Liz Grant welcomed the recent announcement that there are now one million broadband users in Britain, but that still leaves another 58 million to go.&#183;Companies concerned about the security of their emails may be interested to hear of iProof, a new company setting up web mail for small and large businesses alike. The service allows you to use your own email address and audits the message so you know exactly where it's been and who's seen it. The company claims that it protects attachments as well as the emails themselves, and insulates clients from a number of business threats. Details atwww.iproof.biz/dev&#183;Big Red Computers has launched a scheme in which employers can get discounts for their employees' personal computers. Essentially the company supplies a computer to an employee below the list price and the employee pays for it on a "salary sacrifice" scheme. The PC isn't taxable from the employer's point of view and the employee is effectively locked into an employer loyalty scheme. The service includes full installation and set-up at the employee's home. Big Red can organise financing, enabling the employer to recover all costs immediately and repay through the employee's continuing contributions.
Details atwww.redpc.co.uk&#183;Organisations concerned about their data back-up - which should be everybody - may be interested to note the new offering from Sony, the StorStation back-up appliance. This looks like a computer (and, being Sony, it is very shiny) but has none of the processing power, just storage. The company believes its product is simple to set up and the minimum  capacity is 2.8 terrabytes - which in layman's terms is a hell of a lot, although everyone thought that when the first one gigabyte PC came out.&#183;Orange Internet is ceasing to operate in November - or is it? The company has emailed all of its customers to inform them that Orange Internet is no longer going to function and urging them to join Freeserve or their own choice of alternative instead. What isn't universally clear is that it's only the physical connection to the net that's going; the email addresses and GPRS connection - to which many Orange business customers have signed up - will stay in place. If your internet connection is likely to be affected then the way to retain your existing email address is to go into your email settings and find the section that specifies that your outgoing mail server requires authentication; tick that box, don't attempt to dial the service through Orange and you should find your business uninterrupted. Details atwww.orange.co.uk/orangeisp&#183;Business planning software specialist Palo Alto Software is launching into the  UK with products designed specifically for this market. They are called Business Plan Pro 2003 and Business Plan Pro 2003 Premier, the essential difference being that the latter allows for collaboration in a partnership on documents whereas the basic model is a single-user product. They link to spreadsheets and calculate VAT and other business essentials and aim not only to crunch the numbers but to get people thinking methodically about their business plan. Companies interested in business planning software may also be interested to look at IntelligentApps, which is an extension of some of the functions in Microsoft Excel. Checkwww.clearlybusiness.comfor the Palo Alto offering andwww.intelligentapps.co.ukfor the latter.&#183;Many small business owners have noticed over time that their cheap printer has turned into a substantial overhead as the cost of toner cartridges is factored into the equation. This is why Strydent Software has announced InkSaver, a utility that should save on the amount of black and coloured stuff coming out of a printer at any given time. The company reckons that cartridges can be made to last up to four times as long as before (though note the "up to" bit there) and it supports most of the major brands of printer. The software costs a princely £29.99 and aims to start repaying the customer for the investment very quickly. Go towww.strydent.comfor details.&#183;People troubled by spam (or "junk emails" in English) will be pleased to see that the new version of SurfControl, which also covers filters for obscenity and hate mails, will attempt to control the flow of unwanted missives. The software is an antivirus package as well and is aimed at the upper end of small to medium enterprise - but a downloadable 30-day trial version is available atwww.surfcontrol.com/downloadsfor anyone wanting to investigate.
When tales of online success are drowned out by the crashing of another dotcom, gaming site Neopets comes as welcome relief. The fact that the site is a British creation that conquered America where countless pop stars failed only adds to the appeal. It is a hit with children and adults - but has attracted criticism from those who claim it is manipulating its younger users.The premise of the site is simple. To register, one chooses a "neopet" from a variety of options ranging from the cuddly to the downright bizarre. The user then plays games in order to gain "neopoints", which are used to buy food, toys, weapons and even educational tools for the demanding pet.An online hybrid of Pokemon and Tamagotchi is perhaps the most succinct description.The site was created by English students Adam Powell and Donna Williams in 1999. Then, the aim was to "keep university students entertained, and possibly make some cash from banner advertising", Powell explains. It was only when 500 people a day began signing up to the site that they began to realise the full commercial potential of the venture, and the site was bought by American market researcher Doug Dohring the same year.While the games themselves are familiar, based on old favourites such as solitaire, Minesweeper and Tetris, the site's distinction lies in creating a purpose for winning points that rival gaming sites lack. Where MSN's and Yahoo's game zones seem to cater for the   obsessive and competitive, Neopians (as they call themselves) believe that the ultimate object of their endeavours is the health and wellbeing of their virtual pet.The site's most striking feature is the absence of popup or banner adverts. In fact, it is possible to use the site for long periods without apparently being sold a single product. Compared to its banner blanketed rivals, Neopets' marketing strategy is far more subtle and, say some, insidious.Dohring calls the technique "immersive advertising" - or, in other words, online product placement. In the Neopets universe, kids can quench their pet's thirst with Sunny Delight, brush its teeth with Crest toothpaste, or take it to the Cartoon Network Theatre.The strategy has attracted criticism from Ralph Nader's    consumer group Commercial Alert, which believes that young children may not realise they are being sold a product when they use the site. In defence, Powell points out that children are not compelled to play the sponsored games or use sponsored items, and compares the promotions to kids "watching   a 30-minute cartoon and being sold Barbie and Transformers during the adverts".While the ethics of immersive advertising are debatable, its success is harder to deny. Dohring's research claims that awareness and preference for a particular soft drink among Neopets users rose by around 4% after   it was introduced to the site. Earlier this year, the 40 millionth virtual pet was registered. Powell hopes that a film or cartoon may soon be produced on top of the range of furry pet accessories currently available.Neopets claims to have been the most popular site in the United States last year in terms of average time spent per person on the site, and fourth if scored by total page views. This last statistic is misleading. Many of the games and activities feature the constant refreshing of pages, artificially increasing the number of page views. However, even taking into account this creative use of figures, the site stands as a prime example of the appetite for innovation and the power of word of mouth in the competitive teen market.Seewww.neopet.com
Vodafone has thrown a big stone into the highly competitive waters of the mobile phone market with the launch of its new mobile internet service. Not only is it using a Vodafone-branded model but a Japanese one to boot, the Sharp GX10. Following so soon after Orange's launch of its own - made in Taiwan - branded model and Hutchison's plans for its 3G models, it amounts to an Asian invasion to challenge the Divine Right of Nokia, Ericsson and Motorola to dominate. Someone is going to get hurt.The launch of these phones will also change the balance of power in Orange and Vodafone's shops, as its salespeople would be less than human if they didn't push their own branded models with tied-in, value-added services.A multimedia phone, looking like a Japanese iMode handset, the GX10 takes miniaturisation to a new level. It packs in a camera, as well as the usual services into a phone weighing only 107g, the lightest serious camera-phone I have come across by a distance. This compares with 154g for Nokia's (still impressive) 7650. The GX10's very stylish clam-shape design lures the user into Vodafone Live!'s walled garden of paid-for services.A single push of the navigation button gets you into camera mode, a second click takes the photo, the third one saves it and before you know where you are, you have sent it to a friend. It will cost 36p per photo, though in an attempt to establish a decent user base, the service is free until February.If the other phone can't receive the picture, then a text message is sent indicating a web site to find it on. Once you are inside the walled garden of services, it is all too easy to start downloading games - at up to &#163;5 a throw added to your phone bill.When Vodafone sent a posse in a special coach to the Guardian offices to demonstrate the scope of the phone, the location-based service ("Find and seek"), which tells you where nearby restaurants and so on are, pinned us exactly to a tiny street opposite the office. Impressive. However, subsequent attempts   in different parts of London were often a mile or more off-beam.Vodafone Live! works through a bundled-in GPRS service claiming to be "always on" to the internet. However, as with other GPRS phones, it doesn't actually give you an always-on experience: merely, it is always ready and willing to try to find you a connection. The word "Connecting" appears on the screen regularly, and you often have to wait a while to get through. GPRS is now providing the sort of service we were lured into believing Wap would have done a couple of years ago.The thing that is really "always on" with GPRS is the ticking of the meter, since you are paying for   downloads according to how many data bits are transferred, rather than time on the phone. The payment for downloads, of course, goes to Vodafone, not to the site you were looking at (say, Google), let alone the information providers for which Google is the conduit. Remember, the medium is the money.You can also download impressive-sounding polyphonic ringtones (from &#163;2.50p), screensavers (&#163;2.50p), wallpaper and games or indulge in instant messaging - all charged to your phone bill. Vodafone is effectively your bank for online transactions. All your emails or voicemail messages can be accessed through a single mailbox address.The mobile scene is changing rapidly, and not necessarily to the benefit of the consumer. Service providers such as Vodafone, not satisfied with merely providing the network, are now piling heavily into the content business.Meanwhile, handset manufacturers such as Nokia are also trying to erect walled   gardens through which to sell their value-added services (like Club Nokia). The danger is that independent providers of games and other services will not get a look in unless they are lucky enough to get inside the walled gardens. Lack of strong competition could keep prices high.However, independent games can be accessed through Nokia's 7650, which, in addition to being one of the three phones that supports Vodafone Live! (the other is the Panasonic GD87), also offers downloadable Java applications including games.The GX10 costs &#163;199.99 (with contract) and claims up to 210 minutes of talk time. It is a formidable new phone. It is not only stylish, light and easy to use but has a big screen and a decent-sized keyboard, something the new Microsoft phones have had to compromise over. Clamshell phones, very common in Japan and South Korea, have not yet taken off here. If they do, Nokia had better have a Plan B ready.
Like a recovering alcoholic, the patient first denies the problem. Government IT projects are not particularly disaster-prone,
    say civil servants and IT companies, only more likely to be exposed when they do go wrong. Private companies can write off or
    conceal their IT failures; governments, generally, can not.In part, the excuse is valid. Governments have no monopoly on IT
    failure. According to research by the Standish Group, a US consultancy, only 28% of all large IT projects - private and public -
    are on time, within budget and achieve what they set out to achieve.Yet there seems to be a peculiar inevitability about
    government computing fiascos. This month alone, we've had revelations of IT glitches with the 2001 census and of a year's
    delay to a new national firearms register.Sure, there have been success stories, such as the launch of a service to issue
    babies with NHS numbers at birth, but this is tackling a shortcoming we have known about since 1996. Fortunately, the patient
    is now moving beyond denial.Two years ago, representatives of IT companies and government agencies agreed to meet for
    confidential group therapy through a club called the Senior Forum. There, they have found the courage to stand up in front of
    their peers and announce: "My name is Sir Humphrey. I have an IT problem."Such sessions are bearing fruit. This week, the
    forum announced three initiatives aimed at keeping IT projects on the straight and narrow. First, computer contractors will
    have to appoint a senior executive to take personal responsibility for a project's success, not just for winning the contract.These "senior responsible industry execu tives" will work with their government opposite numbers - "senior responsible
    owners" - to ensure that projects don't run out of control because no one's in charge. The forum also adopted a code of
    practice for procurement and new procedures to ensure that contracts are placed to get best value for money over their
    whole life, not just awarded to the lowest up-front bid.These new measures are on top of the compulsory medication already
    being doled out to central government IT projects by the Office of Government Commerce. Under this "Gateway" regime, all
    projects are to pass through independent reviews at set stages, to check if they are going astray.So has the government
    kicked its addiction to IT project failure? Sadly, we can't be confident. For although everyone agrees that the new therapies
    are a good idea, they can do little to tackle an underlying cause of disaster: the extra complexity inherent in working with
    government. And the reasons for this are buried deep within government's genetic code.A commercial company has a single
    objective - to make profits. A government organisation has to satisfy citizens, political leaders and its staff. It has multiple
    stakeholders, who will have different ideas about what they want from the system and how to judge its success.To make
    matters worse, government's objectives are prone to change. New legislation can make an IT system obsolete overnight.
    Ministers also have a habit of introduc ing schemes - criminal records checks for teachers, for example - without considering
    their implications for IT.Meanwhile, public bodies have to buy their systems in a peculiar way. Private companies usually order
    a pilot system and, if it works, quickly roll it out across their organisation. If government wants to do the same thing, it has
    to hold a full open tender, sometimes lasting years, between the pilot and the rollout. The result of such procurements, say
    experts such as Professor Rob Macredie of Brunel University, is almost always inappropriate or simply out of date.Macredie
    says the solution is to dispense with big IT systems altogether, in favour of a fluid approach. "In the financial sector, up to
    70% of code is never accessed. It's for exception handling. Why bother? Why don't we just have people doing that?"Government would do well to listen. For, although everyone welcomes its new honesty and resolve to tackle IT fiascos, the only
    guarantee that it has put the problem behind it would be to give up computers altogether.
Move over Big Brother, now big mother and father want to keep their eye on the camera. Conspiracy theorists can sleep easy, however, as the latest application for webcam technology isn't an infringement of civil liberties. The "nanny state" is being taken literally with the creation of Scotland's first designated virtual internet nursery.Technotots, situated appropriately on the edge of Dundee's burgeoning Wester Gourdie Technology Park, is merging the care of pre-school children with a grounding in basic computer skills, e-toys and purpose-written educational software. The nursery's daily goings-on will also be accessible, exclusively by parents, via the net, using a series of unique passwords.Costing more than &#163;100,000, the cutting-edge nursery is now going "live" on the web, having spent the past year convincing the Care Commission (the regulatory body with whom all day-care nurseries in Scotland must be registered) that the systems they have in place are 100% secure. While similar "virtual nurseries" are operating in England, notablyThe Lighthousein Leicester, Technotots has undergone lengthy legal discussions, and a stream of computer experts confirms the security of the technology and the impenetrability of the web cam images to anyone other than registered parents. In an ironic, and somewhat infuriating, twist, it now transpires that the Care Commission's approval wasn't even necessary for the nursery to begin sending images to parents via secure webcam.Angela McGoldrick, managing director of Technotots, is delighted that the way has been cleared for webstreaming to begin, and reiterates that the care and safety of the children is of paramount importance."If there's any unauthorised activity or repeated attempts to gain access to the sites, then the user will be automatically locked out of the system_ similar to an ATM keeping your bank card. The user information is given back to the nursery on a daily basis so that we know exactly what activity has gone on. Parents using the service have to issue us with their ISP details. If there's any activity we're not sure of, we can then trace it back via the ISPs and the logged IP addresses."With childcare on the net a particularly emotive topic, the security measures are necessarily stringent and comprehensive. Although certain security details remain understandably under wraps, the backbone of the technology is built around 128bit SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) security encryption. Secure servers feed the information from the public domain into the virtual. Technotots operates two separate servers, one   within the nursery building holding all the webcam images, which are then transferred via a direct KiloStream secure information line to a server hosted by the monitoring company that installed the system. They monitor all net usage while being privy only to the activity and not the webcam images. The images are held within the nursery and are only available online to parents who have the appropriate passwords.Response to the "internet nursery" has been extremely enthusiastic. Out of 58 registered children attending, only one parent has declined to take advantage of the webcam facility - apparently due to lack of interest in the technology rather than a lack of faith in its safety.Satisfied participant Marion Lewis said of the service: "It's reassuring that the nursery is so confident in what they do that they are happy for any parent to log on at any time to ensure their children are being properly supervised and cared for."With the government's enthusiastic advocacy of e-literacy, such virtual nurseries pursue the ethos that children should be "accustomed" to computers before entering the primary school environment. With its specially designed mice and infant-friendly software, Technotots and others of its ilk look set to augment the traditional plasticine and crayons with silicon, pixels and MS Word.Seewww.the-technotots.com
Olympus DS-330Olympus's latest digital voice recorder has attracted attention because it is the first to ship with a USB cradle, and it supports both Windows PCs and Macs. This makes it an attractive proposition to people who use speech recognition software such as Dragon's NaturallySpeaking and IBM's ViaVoice. However, it is not cheap in the UK, at &#163;169.99 for a 16MB machine, and it has other drawbacks.The DS-330 weighs 75g with two AAA batteries, and is impressively small, much like an MP3 player. It is also easy to use, though the controls are a bit fiddly. It works well for dictation if you hold it about four inches away from your mouth: further away, you may not get a comfortable volume. It also works well at a few feet if you switch to conference mode, but the higher microphone sensitivity naturally picks up more background noise. It does the job, though it would probably do it better with an external microphone.However, sound quality is much lower than you get with a good cassette recorder or MiniDisc recorder, and is also mono. This comes from using DSS (Digital Speech Standard) files, which are much more compressed than MP3 or WMA (Windows Media Audio). The advantage is that you get about 2 hours of recording time in standard mode, or five hours in LP mode. But I would have liked the options to save in other formats, and an SD slot to expand the memory.The DS-330 provides fast file transfer to Olympus's DSS Player software on a personal computer running Windows 98SE or later, or Mac OS 8.6 or later. The player offers the option of converting DSS files into standard wav format. (This is a one-way trip: you cannot convert wav files to DSS.) Conversion is vital if you want to attach voice messages to emails - you can't expect the recipient to have a DSS player - or feed it to a speech recognition program or whatever.But the major hazard   with the DS-330 is that the microphone is sensitive to any slight noises your fingers make when handling the device. If you have fidgety hands, you could spend a long time listening to magnified rustling sounds.Free TVYou should now be able to watch Freeview - 30 free digital television channels plus digital radio - on your PC or TV thanks to Hauppauge's &#163;129 DEC2000-t digital entertainment centre. The DEC2000-t is a very small set-top box, and can be connected to a PC via a USB cable. One reason for doing this is to record TV programmes to your hard drive. Hauppauge says you can store "up to 20 hours of programmes" on a 30GB drive. Freeview is backed by the BBC and BSkyB, and was launched yesterday to replace the failed ITV Digital.www.hauppauge.co.uk/dec2000/dec2000main.htmHands upPalm duly launched its new range of advanced handheld computers on Monday, catching up with progress in the PocketPC market. These   are the first machines to run Palm OS 5, which uses technology from Be Inc, and an Arm-based processor, the Texas Instruments OMAP1510. The Tungsten W is also the first machine from Palm to have a built-in keyboard, rather like the Handspring Treo, and the first with GSM/GPRS phone capabilities, which will be supported in the UK by Vodafone. The Tungsten W also comes with VersaMail email software, and tools to handle Microsoft Office documents.The colour screen has a resolution of 320 by 320 pixels, like a Sony Clie, rather than Palm's old 160 by 160. It will be available next year, and is expected to cost &#163;599 without contract. The second model is the Tungsten T, which has a circular joystick-style controller and a sliding design to hide and reveal the text entry pad. Instead of GSM, it features Bluetooth short-range wireless connectivity. It can be connected to both PCs and Macs, and costs &#163;399 inc VAT.www.palm.com/uk/products/tungsten-t/specs.htmlPD2Jadetec has launched a version of the Pen Drive that works with USB 2 to provide   a "read speed" of 7MB per second. The pen-like storage device holds from 64MB to 512MB of data on Flash memory chips, and plugs into a USB port for data transfer. Prices range from about &#163;50 to about &#163;300, inc VAT.Tiny DellDell has launched its smallest PC, the OptiPlex SX260: the chassis is less than 10 inches square and only 3.4 inches thick. It has a drive bay compatible with Dell Latitude notebook PCs, but like most notebooks, it doesn't have any PCI or AGP expansion slots. Dell is targeting "tight spaces such as computer labs, point-of-sale solutions, and cubicle environments". You can also attach it to the back of a flat screen for the all-in-one effect. The SX260 weighs 8lb and is already on sale at Dell's website. Prices start at &#163;600 for a system with a 1.7GHz processor, 128MB of memory, Windows XP Pro and 17in monitor.www.euro.dell.com/countries/uk/enu/bsd/products/model_ optix_optix_sx260.htm
Last week, I joined 200 other Swindon Town fans down the pub for an evening of passionate football discussion.But while the beer flowed freely, this gathering bore few other similarities to the normal get-togethers of football fans. Instead of talking about what tactics to use on the pitch, we were debating the merits of outsourcing the club's commercial activities. Instead of debating the variable form of star forward Danny Invincibile, we were exploring the ins and outs of company law.This wasn't just another meaningless talking shop for fans: the club's managing director and a director joined in, and listened carefully to the answers they got back. Thanks to the meeting, they promised to try to get a fan on the club board of directors before the end of the year.This is the new face of football - or, at least, the face of that growing portion of the national game that is struggling to keep its doors open. Football clubs, falling one by one into financial trouble after the collapse of ITV Digital, are turning to the fans they once considered only as customers to save them.Fans, in turn, are getting organised to grasp the opportunity for a far bigger role in the clubs they love - and they are doing much of their mobilising over the internet."The web has been very useful for us," says Tony Norris, chairman ofTrustSTFC, the Swindon Town supporters' trust which organised the fans' forum. "It allows us to get everything from the latest information to downloadable membership forms to the fans, and saves us money."It also makes it very easy for us to see what the various parts of the support feel about the way the club is being run."Norris is not the only football club activist to see the benefits of using the net to promote the cause. Across the country, the internet is providing the glue to bring together fans from different backgrounds, even scattered across the globe, who all have a common passion.If you love football, a visit to theClubs in Crisispage can be a depressing read. "A club in crisis," the front page notes dryly, "is not a club where your chairman won't put his hand in his pocket for another &#163;10m player."Instead, the site tracks the state of some 28 clubs that are in a dire state. One has gone: Airdrieonians, the Scottish football league club, ceased to be in the spring.Others teeter on the brink of collapse under the weight of accumulated debt. This site lists them all, details their predicaments, and includes the calls for help, from various supporters' groups to fans of   other clubs. The site is run by Brighton and Hove Albion fans, who credit the internet for raising awareness of their club's plight in 1997."It was early days for the web," says Clive Tinkler, editor of the site, "but without it, we would never have been able to get the word around so quickly about the problems at the club."Today, he says, clubs doing a good job of using the net includeBrentfordandWimbledon Independent Supporters' Association, which has played a leading role in creating AFC Wimbledon after the original club decided to move to Milton Keynes. "They are doing particularly well, although you don't envy their position," says Tinkler. "They're a hard act to follow."With so many historic clubs facing the wall, the clubs in crisis site makes a sad roll call. But there are tales of hope among the despair. Chesterfield fans, for instance, have emerged as owners of their club after crisis engulfed the Spireites last season. Theirwebsiteboasts the Chesterfield Football Supporters' Society, which has taken over the club and is now the largest supporters' trust in the country.The site spreads the word   about how the society works, and publicises the countless ingenious ways - from telephone services to affinity deals with local estate agents - fans can help make a few pounds for their club.The Chesterfield fans are the first in the country to gain control of their club, fulfilling the dream of many fans' groups. Many trusts, however, are still at an embryonic stage. That is where the government-backed Supporters Direct organisation comes in, helping the local ringleaders form legally watertight societies and run elections for officeholders.Supporters Direct aims to help fans get representation on, or ownership of, their clubs, and theorganisation's websitehas a wealth of information, such as how to set up trusts, reports on the state of football and the latest news from around the country.Trusts are also encouraged to go online to research the often complex company structures behind their clubs, and unearth new information about who owns, and runs, what. A few well-directed searches, or emails, can often uncover what used to take months to dig out of the clubs themselves.As Norris puts it: "The regimes at clubs don't recognise what information is now available online, and how easy it is to access it. The balance of power is shifting."And it's the net doing much of the heavy lifting. Although, as my evening out showed last week, the pub is unlikely to be shifted as the favoured forum for some passionate debate.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:JacquesChirac (Chris2)Current Topic:You're all invited to the NewsRoom's annual virtual Halloween party! Come as your favourite newsmaker of the week and join in the debate!TBlair:votre position est tres stupide monsieur*AngusDton has entered the NewsRoom*Host_JacquesChirac:how dare you speak to me like that!TBlair:don't interrupt me!AngusDton:shut up u french twatTBlair:LadeezMan is that u?AngusDton:yesMrX:good costume LadeezMan u look just like himAngusDton:shut up who r uMrX:BroncoAngusDton:I know but who r u sopposed 2 beMrX:I cant tell u*winona has entered the NewsRoom*winona:hey room any1 got anything I can stealMrX:hi pashwinona:whos thatMrX:Broncowinona:whos MrX thoMrX:cant tell youHost_JacquesChirac:Bronco has chosen to come as someone who can't be named for legal reasonsTBlair:Je really must protest M le Presidentwinona:hi pigletAngusDton:I get it nice one M8TBlair:hi pash. Lovely dressMrX:thank u AngusD have u got any coke 4 meAngusDton:yes I always hav lots. Woud u like a prostitute w thatwinona:thanx. Got any sissors, I need to snip the tags offMrX:cheers*HarryPotter has entered the NewsRoom*HarryPotter:hooray for Gryffindor!MrX:jenni@boughtledgerAngusDton:too easywinona:harry potter aint in the news, jenni@HarryPotter:this is great! Who is MrX?MrX:cant tell you but I am v badHarryPotter:ooh, does your name have a j in it?Host_JacquesChirac:not to be a spoilsport, HarryPotter, but he really can't tell youAngusDton:MrX can I buy a vowelHost_JacquesChirac:it's not even something we should joke aboutwinona:MrX can I steal a towelTBlair:pissez-vous off, aersehouleHost_JacquesChirac:actually this whole thing is a legal minefield*Osama_bin_Laden has entered the NewsRoom*Osama_bin_Laden:happy haloween satan loversTBlair:well I must say I don't find that very funny&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
SOSIt can be tough dealing with British bureaucracy even if you grew up with it. But if your first language isn't English, then problems such as immigration, applying for benefits, looking after someone who has just come out of hospital, dealing with bailiffs and council tax or just getting married are even harder. Multikult could help. It's a London Advice Service Alliance site developed with a little National Lottery money. It offers help in 11 languages including Albanian, Arabic, Farsi, Somali and Turkish, as well as English. Lasa's many other efforts range from a welfare rights site for advice workers to a series of online computer guides.www.multikulti.org.ukwww.lasa.org.ukFree artKaren Eliot has launched Liberati, a non-curated online art exhibition that follows on from artist Sal Randolph's Free Biennial in New York. Eliot says Liberati is part of the Official Liverpool Biennial, but is being run as a free art project. For the value of the opposite approach, see Crossfade - a joint project by the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, the Goethe Institute and ZKM in Karlsruhe.www.liberarti.orgwww.freebiennial.orgwww.sfmoma.org/crossfadeHoodie watchDavid Beckham's cool new microsite has just opened at, erm, Marks &amp; Spencer, which is flogging a range of Beckham clothing to boys aged up to 16. The site includes fashion tips, credited to DB07 himself, records to scratch, a wheelie bike game, a ball to bounce, and so on. And if you can't live without, say, a pair of Beckham Picture Pyjamas, you can buy them online. Mock if you will, but you can't buy a decent hoodie from the Issey Miyake or Jean Paul Gaultier sites. Whoops, Beckham doesn't do one either....www.marksandspencer.com/davidbeckhamwww.isseymiyake.comwww.jeanpaul-gaultier.comMultibabelLost in Translation is a site that illustrates how a phrase or saying really can become corrupted, especially if it is mechanically translated many, many times. Type something in, click Babelize, and the site sends it off to five different languages in turn, using Systran machine translation. I tried "I think, therefore I am" and got back "I imagine therefore to the morning".www.tashian.com/multibabelRoad behindThe Museum of British Road Transport has opened a colourful website, though it is no substitute for the physical museum, which is based in Coventry. Apparently, MBRT has more exhibits than the National Motor Museum at Beaulieu, though not everything was made locally, which is the proud boast of the Ipswich Transport Museum. Actually, the UK now has so many transport museums that they have an association: the National Association of Road Transport Museums. However, its map of member sites does not provide a complete guide to places of interest. Sandtoft Transport Centre, the home of Britain's largest collection of working trolleybuses, is one notable omission.www.mbrt.co.ukwww.beaulieu.co.ukwww.ipswichtransportmuseum.co.ukwww.nartm.org.ukhttp://freespace.virgin.net/neil.worthington/sandtoft98.htmXXX gamesToys "R" Us and Wal-Mart say they won't sell Acclaim's latest BMX biking game in the US. BMX XXX reportedly has "full-action nudity", and prostitutes and pimps as characters. Acclaim says its game is actually a spoof. (Well, you can have female characters topless and select breast size, which probably amuses the target market.) Either way, the videogame business is hotting up, with Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Private Dancer, a lapdancing game, on the way. Private Dancer is being produced in the UK by industry veteran Geoff Brown, with Spearmint Rhino as the sponsor.www.bmxxxx.comwww.rockstargames.com/vicecitywww.privatedancergame.com18 holesIf you have half an hour to waste and could do with some exercise, give your mouse-clicking finger a relaxing work out at Mini-Putt 2. This Flash-based, 18-hole challenge is the improved version but has the same easy putting system as the old one. Ebaumsworld's site also has an amusing helicopter game written by Seethru.co.uk, which would have looked great on a Sinclair Spectrum.www.ebaumsworld.com/minigolf2.htmlwww.ebaumsworld.com/games.shtmlClick hereThere are probably more websites that make charitable donations than you suspect. Gareth Ford Williams has collected and categorised them on a tidy website that makes charity clicking easy.www.makethatdifference.comNew &amp; noted&#183;Being rude about "annoying" celebrities is the main feature ofwww.mickhucknall.com, which is not owned or run by Simply Red's Mancunian crooner.&#183;Sex in America:http://tlc.discovery.com/convergence/sex/sex.html&#183;Albert has updated and redesigned its search engine:http://websearch.albert.com* The Dancing Man has moved to:www.festivals.co.uk* Optical illusion:www.nthellworld.com/forum/Six of the bestWi-FiWi-Fi Alliancewww.wi-fi.netCommunity netswww.freenetworks.orgUK Hotspotswww.zdnet.co.uk/news/specials/wifi-hotspotsNewshttp://80211b.weblogger.comForumswww.80211-planet.comTechnical helpwww.practicallynetworked.com/support/trouble shoot_wireless.htm
Any disasters during the writing of Steve McQueen?Towards the end I spent at least seven hours a day at the computer screen. I did tend to come away with goggle eyes and stiff buttocks, so it might have been a good idea to buy a more comfortable chair! On one occasion, I reopened my PC in DOS mode by mistake, and it took me three days to get out of it. Another time, all my word files spontaneously refused to open - something to do with a terminal error 30PZ20 or some such. I've still no idea why it happened, but for a while I thought I'd lost everything. I took my computer to a man on Archway Road who fixes things and somehow he managed to retrieve the files. He'd never seen anything like it. Apparently, it was all to do with the convoluted way I go about things. I now back up my work every day.Is spellchecker the writer's godsend?I can't spell at all - never have been able to. My agent and my editor are probably more grateful for it than I am. I'm also peculiarly keen, some might say obsessive, on word count. I also couldn't live without cut and paste_ I wrote the beginning of the book on a typewriter but there's no way I could do that now. I got a Compaq Presario 1600 with an integral DVD though I've only ever watched one film on it.Does men and women's computer use differ?My boyfriend is far more computer-literate than I am. He gets annoyed about the convoluted way I do things on my PC and frequently shows me short cuts. He runsPro ToolsandLogic Audioon his Mac but every time he tries to tell me how they work, I fall asleep. My keyboard is full of bits of old sandwich and Bombay mix, so the mouse pad doesn't click properly any more. His computer is always immaculate.Instant Messaging?I don't really use it. Every chatroom I've been to has been full of indecipherable nonsense. But it's interesting to gatecrash the conspiracy theorists, and mess with their heads. I love SMS but for some reason, wrds wtht vowels really annoy me. I have aNokia 3410, which has Snake II. Needless to say, I'm addicted!Broadband?I am onBlueyonderbut I don't have broadband. I'm thinking about getting it because I log on and off about 10 times a day and I hate having to wait. My content adviser refuses to let me look at anything without asking for six passwords. I've turned it off a hundred times but it keeps turning itself back on. Another trip to Archway Road beckons.Favourite sites?www.paradisepoker.com;www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus;www.tropicalplaces.co.uk;www.hotelsazerbaijan.comandwww.amazon.co.uk- because I still love the sound of a new book falling through my letterbox in the morning.Visit:www.louisewener.com
For ordinary human beings, music is the closest we come to the sublime. The history of recorded music is the history of
    better and better access to the sublime.We have the recording industry to thank for this. In little more than 100 years, the stable musical universe of church and
    hearth has been blown apart. Music is every where, and anyone in any reasonably developed place can be exposed to hours of
    new and varied music daily.Much of the music we listen to now would not even have been possible without the recording industry. Music and recording
    technologies have worked together. 
    As a result, the contribution of the recording industry to the fund of human happiness cannot be underestimated. Which other
    business can claim "bliss" as a day-to-day value?There can be few better examples of the role technology can play in social
    and cultural change. Music and our lives have been immeasurably improved by the efforts of the music business. So it's doubly
    disappointing to watch the recording industry miss an epic opportunity, perhaps on the scale of the recorded music revolution
    itself.The latest giant misstep involves a new CD format called Super Audio. To understand why, you need to understand how the
    listening habits of fans are changing. For this purpose, I'm going to invite you into my kitchen. On the counter is a
    two-year-old Macintosh computer with a flat screen - our Kitchen Cube.On the Cube, Apple's excellent iTunes MP3 application
    cleverly catalogues more than 35GB of recorded music - 23 days of continuous music, it tells me. Almost all of this music has
    come from the big stack of CDs gathering dust in our sitting room.To call this Macintosh our jukebox is to hugely understate
    its meaning to us. To this machine, my wife and I have entrusted 8,000 tracks by hundreds of artists - a vivid summary of our
    lives as influenced by music.The kitchen is the social hub of our home. We spend most of our time there and since we've added music to the room, we
    listen to more of it, from a greater variety of artists and sources than before and we listen to it in very different ways. 
    It takes a while for old musical habits to fade.In the early days, choosing something to listen to would be much like choosing a
    CD. Think of an artist, flick through the library for an album. Double click to play. With time, though, new ways of selecting
    sounds emerge. How about dialling up a mood or an ambience? Type "happy" (65 tracks by 47 artists) or "light" (37 tracks) or
    something more abstract like "you're" (32) or "red" (24) into iTunes and see what you get: a playlist linked across genres,
    periods and artists by a loose, often surprising, theme, creating unexpected connections.Tighten the theme for something more specific or just "shuffle" the entire library for one surprise after another. Or play only
    the tunes you've listened to most in the past few weeks - or only the ones you've never listened to. This is a radically
    different way of encountering music and one I don't need to tell you is not possible in any other format.So we, like millions of others, are busy inventing a new relationship to music, weaving it more tightly into our lives.
    Remarkably, though, all of this has been done despite the recording industry. It might even be illegal. And Super Audio, the
    latest development in the ongoing drama of geeks v suits, is a particularly insidious twist. You see, Super Audio CDs won't play
    in a PC, so I can't add the apparently pristine sound from these discs to my library.So, as the "digital hub" takes hold and
    early adopters reorganise their musical lives around MP3s, the industry is planning to take us down a new technological dead
    end. Instead of adapting to new habits - coming up with a way to charge for file sharing, for instance - they have devoted
    millions to a spurious enhancement to quality inaudible to ordinary music fans and left the next generation of eager
    consumers out in the cold. Far from bringing us closer to the sublime, the record business is ready to close it down.
When? Not yet, but warning notes were sounded at the Agenda conference, reportsCNN. "China produces 600,000 engineers a year and 200,000 of them are electrical engineers," said [RayBingham]. By contrast, the US last year granted 70,000 undergraduate degrees in electrical engineering and 37,000 graduate and doctoral ones. Worse, last year 54% of engineering doctorates went to foreign students. And anyone who doesn't think a proud nation's technological strength can wither in a couple of decades just has to look at the UK.....
No, people are still not willing to pay for the trillion or so CDs that AOL uses for everyday carpet-bombing, but there is an eBay market for "collectible discs sportingdesigns by celebritiessuch as movie star Tom Cruise and fashion designer Donna Karan". Sorry, no point in searching your mags or junk mailbags: the celebrity discs were only given away at Bloomingdale's in New York on the day AOL8 was launched.
Nintendo may be fined by the European Union, reportsReuters. It has been accused of "collaborating with distributors to limit cross-border flow of its products in an effort to raise wholesale prices" in 2000.
Following a death in a Korean games room, a 27 year-old Taiwanese man has collapsed after playing computer games for 32 hours non-stop, reportsVNUnet.
Blogger.com, the web publishing tool that works behind Onlineblog and around 749,000 other weblogs, was attacked by hackers late yesterday (UK time), and closed for around two and a half hours. Lots of accounts, including ours, were broken into and the word "hacx0red" left in the blog address field of our settings, which messed up the RSS feed.I was impressed by the speed of Blogger's reaction: recovering the service in two and a half hours using redundant servers was pretty impressive. Above all, it shows the operation has become a lot bigger since the last hacker attack late in 2001, when it took weeks for full functionality to return to the service.Then, before he started charging for Blogger Pro, CEO, CTO and teaboy Evan Williams had to do all the work himself, using a dial-up connection from his parents' house. That Blogger Pro cash seems to be getting spend well, on staff and servers.Still, it's very alarming that it even happened, and I hope the Blogger guys don't let their swift recovery obscure the fact they just had a major security breach that's going to send lots of their more advanced users into the arms ofMoveable Type,GreymatterandRadio Userland. Those apps might not be as easy to use, but do allow you to host the whole thing yourself - meaning you're not relying on someone else to manage security properly, or keep the servers up.Of course, that's a responsibility many people could do without. But it does lead on to the interesting question about the future of centrally hosted web services. Since we're seeing online services big (Microsoft) to small (Pyra) being hit by hackers, do we just assume the centralised future we're being sold by various people is going to be a rather messy one?News.comhas coverage of the attack, while Evan Williams'webloglinks to other coverage.
A scheme that offers every councillor in the country the opportunity to launch their own website has today been unveiled despite the risk it poses of flouting electoral law.The project, known as EasySite, was launched today by the Local Government Association (LGA) and the internet service provider Poptel Technology. It will cost a typical council almost £13,000 a year.The LGA admits that if councillors use the sites for political campaigning the project will breach the Representation of the People Act, which bans public funding for political purposes.The websites, which would be maintained by councils and councillors themselves, will cost each authority £20 a month per councillor, on top of £25 set-up charge.The scheme, due to piloted in 10 councils, involves an elaborate series of safeguards to ensure the websites are not used for electioneering.Visitors to the site will be urged to complain if they think the site has been used for political campaigning. If complaints are upheld the sites will be taken down.The sites will also be suspended during elections.Guidance published on a website promoting the project concedes that irresponsible use of the sites could breach electoral and libel laws, and expose councillors to legal action.It adds:  "The LGA remains interested in this project despite these risks."A highly risk-averse approach to this new technological opportunity would be to deny the vast majority of councillors the opportunity to exercise - and enhance - their representative skills."Nick Cull, the LGA director of information and research, added: "We will be working with pilot authorities over the coming months to ensure that the standards we have planned work in practice."Paul Evans, Poptel's project manager, said: "The public have an increasing expectation that they should be able to access their representatives 24 hours a day."He added: "The EasySite solution aims to make it quick and easy for councillors to develop, manage and improve their own site."He insisted that fees for the service were a "cheap price to pay to increase local democracy".Three-quarters of the fees charged will go to Poptel, the LGA will benefit from the remaining 25%.
"IBM researchers at its Almaden Research Center in San Jose, California, have built and operated a computer circuit in which individual molecules of carbon monoxide move like toppling dominoes across a flat copper surface. One circuit is so small that 190 billion could fit on a standard pencil-top eraser," reportsReuters.
Microsoft boss Bill Gates handed out MSN8 CDs in New York at the launch ofMSN 8, which is developing into a rival to AOL -- as if AOL Time Warner didn't have enough problems of its own. Extreme Tech has areviewcomparing the two, which concludes that "MSN 8 is the way to go".
Unstrunghas an entertaining piece on thetwo million3G handsets being ordered by Hutchison, and the relationship between Hutch and NEC, who are making the handsets. There are pictures too - and the suggestion, at the end, that the issue of handing calls from 3G to GSM networks hasstillnot been fixed yet.
As a brand normally hard to ignore, Microsoft will prove even more difficult to avoid in the coming months.The US software giant has launched a $300m (£200m) advertising  campaign to promote MSN 8, the upgraded version of its internet service provider, marking a fresh attempt to break into the market still dominated by arch rival America Online, which released its AOL 8.0 a week ago.America Online, despite building a commanding lead in the internet  service provision market with 35 million subscribers worldwide compared to MSN's 9 million, is facing slowing subscriber growth, plummeting advertising sales and is beginning to look vulnerable.Early reports are that with MSN 8, Microsoft could finally have a  product in place that might begin to close the gap.It is regarded as a substantial improvement over the old with a personalised welcome screen, more sophisticated e-mail with previews, a search capability and a 'smart' anti-spam filtering system that learns the kind of messages that a user finds offensive.It also introduces parental controls including a weekly report card for parents detailing which sites children have visited. Finance and photo software and the Encarta online encyclopaedia are built in.In contrast the AOL 8.0 improvements, backed by a $100m marketing campaign, are more cosmetic. The latest version gives the choice of just six different welcoming screens making the service less personalised, its e-mail system is less advanced and only makes a limited effort to help avoid spam.Perhaps the most significant AOL 8.0 development is the acknowledgement that users are frustrated with the volume of pop-up advertising, which will no longer be accepted.Early reviews suggest that MSN might have finally overtaken its rival in user experience.Walter Mossberg, who writes on technology issues for the Wall Street Journal and a long time supporter of America Online said he believes that MSN has "now surpassed" its larger rival.It is not surprising that America Online may have taken its eye  off the ball - despite being by far the largest internet service provider in the world, the business has become a mighty headache for parent company AOL Time Warner.During the third quarter of the current financial year, America Online advertising fell by 48% on the same period a year ago - the fourth successive quarter of decline.The service added 206,000 subscribers bringing its total to  35.3m but the additional subscription revenue was not enough to offset the drop in advertising and revenues were 7% lower at $2.2bn.Investors are throwing their hands up in despair at the lack of  progress in America Online. It was supposed to supercharge  growth of the traditional media businesses in Time Warner but instead has proven a drag on earnings and share price.But America Online does at least now appear to be alive to the challenge and will not wait for another year before unveiling its next upgrade while also placing the service under new management under the auspices of Time Warner veterans and an outsider, Jonathan Miller, who joined from Barry Diller's USA Interactive.In the most recent quarter, MSN recorded revenues of $427m, less than a fifth of the sum generated by America Online, and is thought to remain unprofitable.But Microsoft is in the market for the long term. The company  is sitting on a cash pile of $40bn and is perhaps even more feared by rivals when it is coming up from the rear than in its more usual role as the dominant player.
Hollywood's figurehead body  has joined the entertainment industry's major trade associations in  lobbying private companies to end file sharing on their networks.The Hollywood Reporter says that letters have been written by the motion picture association of America (MPAA) to more than 1,000 of America's most powerful companies urging them to stop employees pirating and sharing copyrighted material at work.An excerpt from the letters, which will be sent within the next few days,
reads: "We have recently become aware that piracy of music, movies and other
creative works is taking place at a surprisingly large number of companies, 
including a number of Fortune 1000 companies."It appears that many corporate network users are taking advantage of fast
Internet connections at work by publicly uploading and downloading
infringing files on P2P services and also distributing and storing such
files on corporate intranets."The MPAA has joined forces with the recording industry association of
America, the national music publishers' association and the songwriters
guild of America.The groups point out that allowing employees to use computer systems for piracy wastes resources and exposes employees, and the companies themselves, "to significant legal liability."
Britain's computer games industry is an impressive success story by any standards. While manufacturing companies are floundering, computer games developers are still on a roll. Thanks to the legacy of the nerds who cut their teeth on the Sinclair Spectrum and BBC B computers in the 1980s, Britain now has a flourishing games sector. However, there is a yawning gap between the success of developers, which accounts for nearly 16% of global sales (including Grand Theft Auto 3, which was No 1 in the US), and the success of UK games publishers, whose global share is only 5.7%, according to a Department of Industry report published yesterday. The word "only" is relative, of course. If Britain's motor industry had 5.7% of the global market there would be dancing in the streets.Britain now has only one games publisher with world clout, Eidos, which has itself been in trouble. This week it delayed the new version of its Lara Croft game, Tomb Raider, until next year. It is taken as read in the City that Eidos will be taken over by a foreign company leaving the UK with no major home-owned publisher. Games are beginning to look like the film industry. Britain has plenty of stars, directors and technicians but mainly appearing in US-financed films. The difference is that the computer games industry is now bigger than films and growing faster. Games are starting to be as expensive as films to produce. A budget of &#163;2m is not unusual and Sony's latest game, the Getaway (which includes film-like reproductions of London streets) cost &#163;5m to produce.The DTI report contains a shedful of helpful hints but little to guarantee UK publishing will not wither away. There is no law that UK developers should be owned by US, French and Japanese corporations but that is how it is going. With only one publisher left fighting with its back against the wall, it sounds just like the plot of any one of the numerous games that Britain has produced.
Microsoft's new colour smartphones will give Nokia, Ericsson and the others, which use the rival Symbian operating system,      a serious run for their money. Orange is the first to market with its own model and will be followed by Samsung and the      British company, Sendo whose delayed launch is expected "before Christmas".Both the Orange and Sendo phones have large easy-to-read 13-line screens that are bigger than the shrunken key pads      beneath. Both offer a dizzying array of services including GPRS web access, infrared, voice recording, calendar and contacts      (synced with your PC), email, SMS, MMS (multimedia messaging), Windows Media, camera and video.Also, there are very      impressive games able to run a mobile version of Tomb Raider as well as bundled offerings like Rebound.The £170 Orange phone is smaller and heavier than the Sendo Z100 which will cost up to £199 (both include camera      attachment). The Orange is easier to hold but the convex keypads and navigational button are less user-friendly than the      Z100's multidirectional joystick.I downloaded my Yahoo mail OK to the Orange phone and speedy access to Google using GPRS enabled me to download an entry      from the Encyclopaedia Britannica before using the route planner for the London Tube (there is another for the Paris      Metro). I also downloaded a new screensaver ("Autumn leaves") from the web in under 15 seconds.I didn't get a guidebook but it was surprisingly easy to find the phone's functions intuitively. Unlike the Sendo it hasn't got      Java but an extra memory card supports games and services.       My (pre-release) Sendo Z100 weighed barely 100g compared with Orange's 120g. It also includes a featherweight,      detachable, phone. Like the Orange, it doesn't come with Word but Sendo claims it will be able to open Word attachments.It is made in Britain and a lot of thought is going into making it user friendly. If they can iron out the remaining bugs by      launchtime it will be a very serious competitor.       The trouble is that the market is already very crowded. The Nokia 7650, with built-in camera, may be heavier but it is easier      to navigate with its excellent joystick. The Sony-Ericsson T68i packs triband, GPRS, colour and MMS into an 88g phone      (excluding camera).Whether the market can support new phones from companies without a current user base is a moot point. Hutchison, which      has just launched its 3G phones, is also aiming at people who currently use other companies' phones. Microsoft-flavoured      models have the advantage of a huge PC-user base, but they are up against an entrenched Nokia.Whether Microsoft phones win will depend less on technology than marketing. The technology is awesome but the truth is we      are spoilt for choice and consumers are getting very confused about what is on offer. Let battle begin.
Microsoft's new colour smartphones will give Nokia, Ericsson and the others, which use the rival Symbian operating system, a serious run for their money. Orange is the first to market with its own model and will be followed by Samsung and the British company, Sendo whose delayed launch is expected "before Christmas".Both the Orange and Sendo phones have large easy-to-read 13-line screens that are bigger than the shrunken key pads beneath. Both offer a dizzying array of services including GPRS web access, infrared, voice recording, calendar and contacts (synced with your PC), email, SMS, MMS (multimedia messaging), Windows Media, camera and video. Also, there are   very impressive games able to run a mobile version of Tomb Raider as well as bundled offerings like Rebound.The &#163;170 Orange phone is smaller and heavier than the Sendo Z100 which will cost up to &#163;199 (both include camera attachment). The Orange is easier to hold but the convex keypads and navigational button are less user-friendly than the Z100's multidirectional joystick.I downloaded my Yahoo mail OK to the Orange phone and speedy access to Google using GPRS enabled me to download an entry from the Encyclopaedia Britannica before using the route planner for the London Tube (there is another for the Paris Metro). I also downloaded a new screensaver ("Autumn leaves") from the web in under 15 seconds.I didn't get a guidebook but it was surprisingly easy to find the phone's functions intuitively. Unlike the Sendo it hasn't got Java but an extra memory card supports games and services.My (pre-release) Sendo Z100 weighed barely 100g compared with Orange's 120g. It also includes a featherweight, detachable, phone. Like the Orange, it doesn't come with Word but Sendo claims it will be able to open Word attachments. It is made in Britain and a lot of thought is going into making it user friendly. If they can iron out the remaining bugs by launchtime it will be a very serious competitor.The trouble is that the market is already very crowded. The Nokia 7650, with built-in camera, may be heavier but it is easier to navigate with its excellent joystick. The   Sony-Ericsson T68i packs triband, GPRS, colour and MMS into an 88g phone (excluding camera).Whether the market can support new phones from companies without a current user base is a moot point. Hutchison, which has just launched its 3G phones, is also aiming at people who currently use other companies' phones. Microsoft-flavoured models have the advantage of a huge PC-user base, but they are up against an entrenched Nokia.Whether Microsoft phones win will depend less on technology than marketing. The technology is awesome but the truth is we are spoilt for choice and consumers are getting very confused about what is on offer. Let battle begin.www.sendo.com/dev
For more than 20 years the VHS VCR has been a permanent fixture in British living rooms. Yet the days of mangled tapes and impenetrable timer systems could be at an end for TV recording seems finally set to go digital. Hard disk based video recording systems and DVD video recorders are moving steadily towards the mass market with prices for both expected to fall to under &#163;200 by the end of next year. The systems are far superior to VHS in terms of ease of use and recording quality and both boast innovative features that are much more intelligent than even the most sophisticated tape-based machines.Hard disk based video systems debuted in the UK in October 2001 in the guise of the TiVo, a box that BBC Director General Greg Dyke predicted would change TV forever. Since then a host of manufacturers have unveiled similar products that allow consumers to record programmes on to a hard disk (usually around 40GB enough for around for 40 ours of programming). The recorders are often allied to easy-to-use electronic programming systems. Some work intelligently, guessing the kind of programmes viewers would like to see and then automatically recording them.After a hesitant start, sales of hard disk recorders are on the increase with both TiVo and Sky claiming healthy figures. Sky's Sky+ box (essentially a digital TV decoder with an integrated hard disk and programme guide) has apparently sold over 30,000, and with a   price-cut for the crucial winter selling season, the broadcaster is confident that figure will rise significantly.By the end 2003, almost all the major consumer electronics manufacturers are expected to sell a hard disk recorder in their range and new features such as audio storage and the option of swapping recorded programmes via a broadband internet connection, could be available.The biggest weakness of hard disk recorders is that they only store programmes temporarily. So, in the short-term, the box that's most likely to supersede your VHS VCR will be a DVD video recorder. Launched last year in the UK by Philips and Panasonic, these archive TV programmes on DVDs that can store up to 4.7GB of video - enough for about two hours of excellent quality footage.In spite of industry fears, consumers don't appear to be too phased by the trio of incompatible DVD recording formats - DVD-RW (Pioneer, Sharp), DVD+RW (Philips) and DVD-RAM (Panasonic, JVC, Samsung), currently on sale.Another concern, that discs recorded on one machine would not play on other DVD   machines, seems also not to be troubling buyers, perhaps because of the growth in write-once discs (DVD-R and DVD+R) which are compatible with most DVD players.Arguably the real issue that determines whether or not DVD recorders are successful is price. After starting at &#163;1,100, DVD recorders can now be picked up for &#163;400, and that price is likely to fall further."When the price hits &#163;300 the real growth will occur," predicts Philips spokesperson Andrew Burslem. "You'd pay that for a DVD player and VHS recorder - with a DVD recorder you are getting them in the same box."Chances are that the video recorder of the future will look a lot like the HS2 launched earlier this month by Panasonic. "Consumers are always going to want to have a hard copy of certain programmes," argues Panasonic's Robert Wojcik, "so we have a hard disk recorder and DVD-RAM video recorder in the same box. Users get the flexibly of the HD system, with the option of archiving on to DVD."Although its price of &#163;1,000 limits its purchase to a few thousand wealthy early adopters and home entertainment die-hards, within two years these combis could be available from a variety of manufacturers (Philips and Toshiba have similar products in the pipeline) and priced at well under &#163;500. Perhaps then those days of fuzzy pictures will seem like a distant memory.The end of the VCRDVD recordersPhilips DVDR1000Mk2 &#163;1,000Philips' high-end DVD recorder. Its key feature is Progressive Scan, which delivers superb quality images, though this only works with plasma screens and not conventional TVs. There are other image-tweaking systems for standard sets. It records on to rewritable DVD+RW and write-once DVD+R discs that are compatible with most DVD players.Philips DVDR880 &#163;500Popular DVD recorder due to its price (it is available on the web for around &#163;400) and simplicity of use.   Records on to rewritable DVD+RW and write-once DVD+R discs. Camcorder users should also note that it is available for &#163;600 in the guise of the DVDR890 sporting a digital input and easy editing facilities.Panasonic DMR-E30 &#163;550Budget Panasonic recorder that stores video on rewritable DVD-RAM discs. As these are housed in a caddy they are incompatible with almost all DVD players. Users can however record to write-once DVD-R discs that will play back on most machines. A neat feature is the player's Time Slip facility that enables users to pause and rewind live TV.Hard disk recordersTiVo PVR10 &#163;229 plus subscription (either &#163;200 or &#163;10 a month)The original hard disk recorder. Stores up to 40 hours video on its 40GB hard disk. Also boasts innovative features such as its intelligent recording option that archives programmes it thinks you will like based on programmes you have previously recorded.Sky+ &#163;250 plus &#163;10 a month subscriptionSky's excellent hard disk recorder and digital TV decoder combi has just been upgraded. Users can now archive radio and rewind live TV as well as easily record programmes that are stored on its 40Gb hard disk. In early 2003, Sky promises to add a facility that will enable users to record two channels simultaneously.Panasonic DMR-HS2 &#163;1,000Arguably the hottest home entertainment product of 2002, the HS2 combines a 40GB hard disk and DVD-RAM/DVD-R recorder. The user can timeshift using the hard disk and then archive programmes on to DVD. There's no sophisticated electronic programming system, so in order to make timed recordings users will have to re-acquaint themselves with the VideoPlus+ systems as used on VCRs.
No One Lives Forever 2PC 	&#163;34.99 Monolith/ VU Games 	*****The best way to describe the stealthy first person shooter No One Lives Forever 2: is  Austin Powers blended with Metal Gear Solid and a dash of Thief II.The game features the return of super spy Cate Archer, a 60s version of Lara Croft with accessories to make even James Bond jealous.  The story picks up a year on from where the original left off, and Archer is again  trying to save the world from the nefarious criminal organisation Harm by preventing the outbreak of a nuclear war.Thankfully, the developers have listened to the criticisms of the first game and made sure the sequel improves on almost every aspect. The stealth elements,    which never really got into their stride, are now some of the most challenging features. Heightened enemy AI and realistic use of sound, so even disturbing a wind chime can mean a swift and nasty end, mean you are constantly aware of your surroundings.This is one game you have to play with both your eyes and your ears.  One of the rarest qualities in gaming is the ability to be genuinely funny, yet No One Lives Forever 2 manages to deliver time after time, with a subtle blend of tongue-in-cheek - if surreal - humour. The days of no-brainer FPSs, which require you to run gung-ho through level after level of repetitive enemies, are over. Gamers need more from their shooters and this one is right on target.   (RP)Pro Evolution Soccer 2PS2 £39.99 Konami ****There's no doubt about it: Pro Evolution Soccer 2 is the best football game      around. On the pitch there is nothing that comes close to its intuitive passing and realistic movement. Whether it's clinging      to a 1-0 lead, or romping to a 3-0 victory, the Pro Evolution series has always grasped the fundamental fact that scoring is      a rare, and treasured, treat that should occur sparingly.While the Fifa series lets you score regular 30-yard overhead      kicks, Pro Evo knows that a five yard tap-in after a good move is far more satisfying. Overall, the changes on Pro Evo 2 are      subtle. The players now use their strength to hold on to the ball, and don't freeze after being tackled, while the through-ball      is even more exquisite.The Master League has been extended with a third division and improved transfer system, and even      the commentary has been sorted. But the best way to experience Pro Evolution Soccer is in multiplayer. Playing with a      friend on the same side offers some of the most sublime gaming around, as players time their off- the-ball runs. But for a      game that requires you to adopt authentic football tactics, it's a shame that so many names are wrong.Because of      licensing, you can expect Gigsi instead of Giggs and Aragon instead of Man Utd. You can edit names, but it's time-consuming      and a shame, especially as inferior competitors - Fifa and This is Football - have the proper data. This sequel is not a      revolution, and the presentational flaws continue to grate, but Pro Evolution Soccer 2 is still the one to beat. (GH)Colin McRae Rally 3PlayStation 2 Xbox £39.99 Codemasters ****The real Colin McRae has not had the happiest season, but      the third incarnation of the game that bears his name is in fine fettle. Despite a bewildering flurry of new rivals this year, it      remains the best rallying game.Initially, the graphics and attention to detail grab your attention, but as soon as you get      past the preliminaries and down to some serious tail-out action, those become secondary to the feel of the car's handling      and its startling impression of behind-the-wheel realism.Colin McRae Rally 3 may cheat - by making the cars easier to handle      than real rally cars - but it does not feel as though it does. Version 3 has, perhaps, gained a tiny amount of accessibility -      the car setup, for example, has been simplified and has lost some of its fine control - but its most important constituent      parts have received attention.The damage model is convincing (although, if you crash in what would be a terminal manner,      your car is merely returned to the road), the weather modelling is true to life, and the different surfaces (all of which are      represented) demand different approaches.Touches such as the way the plastic tape at the side of stages react to being      run over provide an inordinate amount of joy, although not as much as nailing a tricky hairpin just like the professionals.      Every boy-racer's dream. (SB)
Pop offIf a website is deploying ads that are intrusive or offensive (Online October 17), and this intrusion is greater than the value of the content on the site, I stop going there. I used to visit Football365 almost every day to check out the latest news, match reports etc.Gradually they started to introduce more intrusive advertising, and eventually some Flash bug thing just took over the screen, and refused to move. I couldn't read the text underneath. I stopped visiting the site.  Sites have the right to use these techniques, but we have the right not to visit the site, which will render the advertising campaign worthless.Peter Fletcherpeterf@glasshaus.comPop-up JonI find Jon Bains' dislike of pop-up ads a bit rich coming as it does from someone who is a real-life equivalent: you can scarcely open the pages of a new media magazine with out finding something written by him.Stuart Curranstuart@clara.netWire squatRe your article on wire-free networks (Online, October 17), it is important for people considering "going wireless" to be aware of a couple of other aspects of wireless networking before they go ahead and and buy their equipment:1) Security of data. Unless encryption is enabled anyone with similar equipment may also access their computer and therefore their data. Enabling encryption is often complicated and can be "cracked" in minutes.2) The more people that use wireless services, the more setting-up the equipment requires such as configuring non-overlapping channels or reducing power so as not to disable your neighbour's equipment. Also, if BT roll out this equipment in their intended way, then many people will have to work around the hundreds of "hot spots" that are created outside their houses. This will limit the channels that they can use, and potentially their performance, and without specialist knowledge users may believe their equipment to be faulty.As an aside, I understand that if you live close to any outlet of a particular international chain of coffee shops then you can happily jump on   their network - unless they have now added encryption!Mat Pearsonsmat.pearsons@ mat-home.co.Not gameSo as a nation the UK should be embarrassed because only 4% of our households have broadband compared with 67% in South Korea (Jack Schofield, October 17). And what do the proud Korean households use broadband for? Watching TV and playing online games while their children spend hours in badly lit basement rooms, becoming gaming zombies, smoking and using chatrooms where paedophiles allegedly lurk.Could it just be that UK households have had a look at what broadband has to offer and concluded that they have better ways to spend their time and money? Stop embarrassing yourself South Korea; wake up and get a life.Richard Creerrichard@radixsoftware.co.ukBT talksSeveral of your readers have recently criticised BT over the availability of ADSL broadband as well as the fact that not everyone connected to an enabled exchange can access the technology. To start with the second point, it is unfortunately the case that ADSL cannot deliver true broadband over distances greater than 5.5kms. This means that roughly 5% of all houses served by an exchange are not currently able to benefit. This challenge is faced by all suppliers. BT, along with the rest of the industry, is working hard to develop a solution.As for areas that do not have ADSL, BT has introduced an innovative registration scheme whereby exchanges will get ADSL once enough interest has been shown to justify the investment. This is necessary given the huge costs - and risks - involved and the scheme has proved to be a great success with over 140,000 registrations to date. Preparations are now underway to enable several exchanges as a result.BT is absolutely committed to tackling the issue of broadband availability. Details can be found atwww.bt.com/broadband.Rebecca WebsterHead of Broadband Marketing BT WholesaleSecond winRe Victor Keegan's Second Sight column on second mover advantage (Online, October 10) - at last people are realising the truth. I have in the past attended a top-flight US business school and so was amazed by the prevalence of the term "first-mover advantage" on the lips of VCs and new media gurus in the late 90s. I'd never heard it before except in the context of monopolists or technology owners and don't believe it ever existed. Business school was full of admiring case studies of Japanese companies that had piggy-backed on failed technological experiments and built large companies as second movers! Learn by other people's mistake and achieve scale by avoiding their pitfalls.John Doddsjohnubiquitous@hotmail.com
Until recently considered a huge luxury, flat panel displays will be outselling bulky cathode ray tube displays by the end of the year, reportsReuters.
Peter Mandelson's career as a government minister is memorable mainly for his sudden exits from Cabinet jobs. But a more      honourable legacy remains. As trade and industry secretary in 1998, Mandelson endorsed the idea of appointing an e-envoy,      responsible for guiding the UK into the digital age.Our present e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, is now completing his second year in the post. He is also approaching his first big      political deadline: December 31, 2002, by which time Britain is supposed to be "the best place in the world for e-commerce".       This seems a good time to look at what the e-envoy does, and whether we still need one.An early candidate for redundancy is the title itself - always risible, now just inappropriate. Mandelson lifted the concept      from the US, where Bill Clinton's e-envoy, Ira Magaziner, was cutting a dash in the mid 1990s. The first UK incumbent, Alex      Allan, a civil service high flyer and Grateful Dead fan, seemed in a similar mould.But Allan lasted less than a year. Pinder, a veteran IT chief at the Inland Revenue and Citibank, took over as stand-in at the      end of 2000 and formally in January 2001. Pinder's style is more chief executive than an ambassador. This is just as well      because he has to manage a fair-sized office, based on an amalgamation of the old Central Computer and      Telecommunications Agency (CCTA) and Central IT Unit (CITU).This office, technically part of the Cabinet Office, has four distinct responsibilities. First is the e-commerce target, which,      despite losing its shine with the dotcom bubble, is still taken seriously: over the next few weeks we can expect a barrage of      good news about how well Britain is doing.The second target is internet access for all who want it by 2005. This will be achieved largely through a network of "UK      online centres" catering for people who don't have the internet at home.       Third is the e-government target: all public services are to be available electronically by the end of 2005.Finally comes the e-envoy's original role: to coordinate the government's e-agenda across different departments.       Once the e-commerce target is out of the way, Pinder's job will be dominated by target number three, getting the      government online. And here is a problem. Although Pinder is sometimes described as "IT czar" - this government seems to      have more czars than a Romanov family seance - he has little direct power.Although Pinder supposedly has the prime minister's ear, his writ stops at the doors of individual Whitehall departments.      Over local government, responsible for about 80% of our dealings with officialdom, Pinder's influence is even weaker. The      Local Government Online strategy, due to be announced later this month, will come from the office of the deputy prime      minister, not the Cabinet Office.In fact, strategy will contain nothing of which Pinder would not approve. But examples abound of agencies pursuing      conflicting agendas. The Department of Health's current attempt to cut the number of companies supplying IT to the NHS      does not square with the Department of Trade and Industry's policy of nurturing an e-health industry. The Home Office's      view of security issues frequently conflicts with that of other departments.So why not drop the "e-envoy" flim flam and appoint a chief information officer for government? This is unrealistic, not      least because of the cost of hiring someone to take responsibility for every dud disk drive in the whole of the public sector.       What seems to be emerging instead is an alliance between the e-envoy and the one man with real power over IT projects in      government, Peter Gershon, head of the Office of Government Commerce (OGC).Gershon, a former chief executive at BAE Systems, took a considerable pay cut to join the OGC, set up by the Treasury to      save public money spent on goods and services. Although Gershon's main targets were purchases such as water and      electricity, he is now spending much of his time scrutinising big IT projects. If he is an e-enthusiast, it doesn't show.Whether the Pinder-Gershon double act evolves into a good cop/bad cop routine or something more confrontational remains      to be seen. But insiders on the government IT scene are watching with interest.
RecoveryI lost some very important files after Windows XP failed to start. As I have an upgrade version of Windows XP, I had to reinstall Windows 98 first and then XP. All my programs and files disappeared. I have tried several recovery and unerase programs, available on the internet, but there    was no trace of my lost files. I have an offer from Vogon to diagnose my disk for a &#163;100 fee. Is it worth trying?Peter Fletcherpeterf@glasshaus.comJack Schofield replies:If any version of Windows XP fails to start normally, you should try to start your PC from the XP CD-Rom. At the Welcome to Setup screen, press F10 or press R for Repair, and start the Windows Recovery Console. For more information, see the Microsoft Knowledge Base Article Q314058: Description of the Windows XP Recovery Console. (Search Google for Q314058.)If the PC does not start from the CD, go into the BIOS and change the boot order so that the CD drive is first in the chain. Alternatively, if you have set up floppies for XP, try starting the PC with those. Finally, if your hard drive still uses the FAT file system from MS-DOS - which may be the case if you upgraded from Windows 98 - you can start your PC from a DOS boot floppy. However, if your hard drive has been converted to XP's NTFS file system, DOS will not be able to see it without utility such as Disk Commander orNTFSDOS.Whatever happens, if you suspect data loss, it is important not to write anything to the hard drive. Your data is held in disk sectors, which are accessed via an index. (In DOS, it is the File Allocation Table.) If a file is deleted or lost, the sectors holding the data are not changed, but those sectors are marked in the index as being available. If you save anything to the drive there is a chance that your data will be overwritten. For this reason, the best way to rescue data from a drive is often to remove it from its PC and install it as the second drive in a working system.Experts at firms such as Vogon can recover data by reconstructing the index to file sectors that may be scattered all over a hard drive. This can even be done if the data has been overwritten several times. However, it is not a trivial task, and is correspondingly expensive. Only you can decide whether your lost data is worth it.Even if your files have little or no re-sale value, they may have taken hundreds or thousands of hours to create. If you value your time at, say, &#163;10 per hour, it is usually easy to justify the cost of making regular back-ups. CD-R discs are cheap in comparison.Too many hopsI have been trying to send a message to a friend, and whichever of my email addresses I use, the message is returned: "Too many hops 26 (25 max)".David MonktonJS:When data is sent over the internet, from machine to   machine, one hop is deducted from the total for each transfer. This stops lost email going around forever. However, the "Too many hops" error is always, or almost always, caused by a company or service provider misconfiguring its systems. For example, mail arrives on machine A and someone sets up a routine to forward it to machine B. Unfortunately, machine B is already set up to forward mail to machine A. The two machines bounce the mail backwards and forwards a dozen times until its hop count is used up, then zap it back to the sender. You cannot solve this problem. However, you could send one of the returned messages to the guilty telco whose machines are listed in the headers of your email and suggest they fix it.Silent mouseI'm trying to locate a silent mouse - one that does not click when in use.Martin ConaghanJS:Sorry, I can't find a silent mouse either, but perhaps a reader can help us out. You could always use something likeSemerc's Mouserwith silent switches. Ability.net lists a number of alternative pointing devices for the disabled. You might find a trackball, touchpad, pen, head-   mounted controller or foot pedal that will do what you want in a convenient way. Seewww.abilitynet.org.uk.Anti-GainWhile downloading a Real Audio file, I carelessly accepted the download of software I assumed was essential. It turned out to be Gain or Gator. Lavasoft's Ad-aware promises to get rid of this nuisance, but it requires Windows 98 and I only have 95.Michael HinesJS:Most ad/spyware removal tools need Windows 98 but Spybot runs under Windows 95. See:http://security.kolla.de. You may also find this page useful:www.spywareinfo.com/downloads.htmlXP or not?I was interested in your comments regarding the advantages of Windows XP over Windows 98 (October 10). You did not mention Windows 2000 Professional, which I use on my Sony laptop. Is Windows XP better, and if so, would an upgrade be worthwhile?Richard GrahamJS:XP Pro is better, but unlike Windows 98/Me, both XP and W2K are based on NT   code. You could consider switching to XP Pro if you greatly prefer the new interface, or if you need the enhanced multimedia support, better Windows software compatibility or other new features, but the advantages are marginal. I have no plans to upgrade my own notebook PC from Windows 2000 Pro to XP.Backchat&#183;A query from Phil Clarke (September 26) prompted a discussion of cheap ways to make documents into Adobe PDF files that preserve the layout and typefaces. Bob Margolis says the best alternative for Windows is the combination of Ghostscript (v7.04 or higher) and Ghostview (v4.3 or higher). The idea is to "print" a document to a PostScript printer, saving it as a file. You can then open the PostScript file in Ghostview and use File|Convert (selecting the pdfwrite device) to convert it to PDF. Go towww.cs.wisc.edu/~ghostand follow the links. Also, The Emperor has started a FAQ covering the various resources for creating PDFs athttp://faq.ozoneasylum.com/814.
Ever since Garry Kasparov's sensational 1997 loss to the IBM chess monster Deep Blue, the chess world has thirsted for revenge. But the first opportunity ended in failure in Bahrain on Saturday, when Kasparov's former pupil and successor as World Champion, Vladimir Kramnik, could only draw an 8-game match against one of   the world's leading chess engines, Fritz. But this was just the latest in a long series of human versus computer encounters that illustrate the inexorable march of artificial intelligence (AI).It's a story that began at a Dartmouth University conference in 1956, when several of the founding fathers of AI defined the goals of that infant science. One of them was to create a computer program that could defeat the world chess champion. Success would, those scientists believed, reach to the very core of human intellectual endeavour.By the early 1990s, due in no small part to the successes achieved in computer chess, the interest of the AI community had spread to many other games of skill, including backgammon, bridge, Go and Scrabble. Where exactly are we now in this fascinating struggle?Some "thinking" games lend themselves to exhaustive analysis. Programmers are able to create a huge database containing every conceivable position in the game together with the correct result (win, lose or draw) assuming perfect play on both sides, and the number of moves required to achieve that result. Playing the game perfectly is easy for a program - it just looks up the current game position in its database and chooses a move that maximise its prospects. Games that have been "solved" in this way include Connect-4, Go-Moku (also known as 5-in-a-row) and 3-dimensional noughts and crosses (played on a mind-boggling 4x4x4 matrix), all of which are won by the first player with correct play.The most interesting challenge to game programmers comes from those games for which perfect play throughout the contest cannot be expected for at least several years to come. But in some notable cases the strength of play of the leading programs, although not perfect, comes very close to or even exceeds that of the world's leading human players.In Othello, for example, the strongest programs can now analyse 25 or more moves ahead. This means that, when the game is not quite two-thirds over, a program can see to the very end and thus play perfectly. Little surprise then that the American program Logistello thrashed world champion Takeshi Murakami of Japan by 6 games to 0 in 1997.In draughts too, the world's strongest humans are no longer a match for the leading program, Chinook, which owes its strength to a very deep look-ahead and an enormous database of endgame positions. Chinook has such a huge score against the reigning (human) world champion, Ron King of Barbados, that he will not risk his title against the program in a match.Backgammon presents problems of a different nature because of the randomness of the dice, creating so many possibilities at each move that only a shallow look-ahead is possible. But by applying probability theory together with sophisticated self-learning "neural network" techniques, programs such as Snowy (from Switzerland) and Jellyfish (Finland) have been developed that are capable of playing at or very close to world championship level.Another game with a chance element is Scrabble. Before all of the tiles have been taken from the bag, a program cannot know what tiles are in its opponent's rack and therefore it cannot analyse perfect play until the last few moves of the game.So before that stage of the game is reached, most Scrabble programs rely on the use of a massive dictionary, allowing them to consider every playable word in every position on the board. These techniques are sufficient to enable Maven, written by American Brian Sheppard, to challenge the world's best humans.Shepherd believes that his program is now unbeatable over a series of games but, and probably as a gesture of self-preservation, the Scrabble community does not normally allow computer programs to compete in their tournaments.And what of chess, the original target of the AI community? Ever since Kasparov's sensational loss to Deep Blue, the (human) chess world has been looking for revenge, hence the Kramnik versus Deep Fritz match.But behind the public face of this encounter lies controversy over exactly how Kramnik's opponent was chosen and the way the match rules were stacked heavily in Kramnik's favour.When negotiations for a Kramnik versus computer match commenced in October 2000, the obvious opponent was the German program Shredder, the reigning World Computer Chess Champion. But the match promoter Brain Games Network decided instead to hold a qualifying event to which many of the world's strongest programs were not invited, provoking outrage in computer chess forums on the internet. The qualifying event, held in Cadaques, Spain, was a 24-game match between Fritz and the Israeli program, Junior.The qualifying match itself provoked surprise in the computer chess community, with doubts about how Junior's early 5-0 lead, which it sustained until after the 14th game completely eroded during the next 10 games, thereby causing a tied match and a play-off that was won by Fritz. Junior's surprising defeat, did, however, save Brain Games from the embarrassment of trying to arrange Bahraini visas for Junior's two Israeli programmers, Amir Ban and Shay Bushinsky.Fast forward to Bahrain. The rules for Kramnik versus Deep Fritz (a multi-processor version of the program) could hardly have been more human-friendly. Fritz' programmer, Dutchman Frans Morsch, was required to freeze his code several months before the start and not to make any program changes thereafter.Also, Kramnik was given a copy of the program with which he and his seconds could practice, allowing them to prepare with the utmost thoroughness, playing game after game at home in order to learn all about Fritz' style of play, the strategy it would use in certain opening variations, its strengths and its weaknesses. This was a far cry from 1997 when Kasparov did not see so much as a single game played by the current version of Deep Blue prior to his match in New York.As if all this was not enough of a help, Kramnik was also allowed to train against Fritz using the very same 8-processor hardware that Deep Fritz would use in Bahrain. Added to which the rules stipulated that, if a game reached move 56, Kramnik would have the right to adjourn until the next day and to analyse the adjourned position using Fritz itself, in effect enabling Kramnik to "ask" what it intended to do against whatever variations he was considering playing after the resumption.But despite having all these advantages Kramnik was unable to overcome Deep Fritz and thereby failed in his attempt to gain revenge on behalf of humankind for Kasparov's defeat by Deep Blue.Kasparov's first opportunity of extracting his own revenge on the computer world opens on December 1 in Jerusalem where he takes on the Deep (parallel) version of Junior. The Israeli program is the reigning World Computer Chess Champion, a title won last July in Maastricht where Frans Morsch program, disguised by using the name Quest, finished fourth after losing to Junior in their individual encounter. Kasparov, whose current chess rating of 2,838 is 31 points ahead of Kramnik's, has been adamant that the rules for the Jerusalem match must be fair to both sides. He has asked for none of the advantages given to Kramnik in Bahrain.What peaks will remain to be climbed in this field when Kasparov and his successors no longer have any chance against the best chess programs? Two games proving even tougher to crack than   chess are bridge and Go. Although one or two programs can already handle the play of the cards in bridge rather well, much more research appears to be needed before programs can bid at anything approaching master level, let alone world champion. And while bidding remains a difficult hurdle for programs, so does making use of information obtained about the distribution of the opponent's cards from their own bidding.Go always has been and still is the most difficult classic game to program. Knowledge engineering - the extraction of knowledge from human experts - is at best extremely difficult to achieve because human Go champions appear unable to explain exactly why a particular configuration or shape of Go stones on the board is good or bad. And without such knowledge programs will continue to flounder.The game is so very deep and the number of legal moves so far exceeds that in chess, that a deep analysis of Go is impossible with today's technology. A Taiwanese businessman offered a prize   of $1m for the first program to win a match against a Taiwanese junior champion aged 13 or thereabouts, but he died before the goal could be accomplished and it is probably still a decade or two away. Perhaps Go will be the final bastion in man's attempts to stave off his inevitable intellectual defeat at the hands of the machine.Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The year is 1968. Harold Wilson has just made his famous "white heat of technology" speech to the Labour Party conference. Britain's biggest computer manufacturer, ICL, has just formed, and at the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) in London, over 60,000 people queue to see a new type of exhibition that celebrates the booming new computer technologies.Cybernetic Serendipity ran for two months and featured exhibits from 325 participants from around the world. They showed off the latest in computer graphics and some early computer-composed music. There were robots and drawing machines and the first computer sculpture.The exhibition was the first of its kind in Britain and the curator Jasia Reichardt wrote that it showed how "man can use the computer and new technology to extend his creativity and inventiveness." Now, 34 years later, the ICA is about to throw open its galleries to the art of computing once more.What Do You Want To Do With It? is a month-long festival exploring all aspects of digital technology. A number of talks about copyright and intellectual property will accompany the work in the galleries and a number of performances in the ICA theatre. There will also be a programme looking at the relationship between computer games and the city.This is the second year the festival has run, but the first time it has had use of the ICA galleries. Another major difference this year is that there are a lot more women featured on the bill. The ICA received criticism last year for its lack of female participants in the festival. This year the show has been co-curated by Lena Russell, who also conducts a project called Her Noise that attempts to create networks for women in electronic music."I think it would be inverse sexism to bring in women because they're women," says Russell. "It is really difficult when you are programming for digital media because you get a lot more proposals from men. Electronic music I'm not even going to go into because that is way worse."One female artist on show is Vicky Bennett, who performs under the name People Like Us. Bennett uses "orphan films": found video footage collected from cutting room floors and other material from the public domain.Meanwhile LektroLAB, a collective fronted by Siobhan Fahey, formerly of Banarama, and ex-Playboy model Pippa Brooks, will run a series of workshops in the arts of DJing, VJing (video jockey) and MP3 mixing.Looking back at Cybernetic Serendipity, a difference strikes you: then, the artists on show were obsessed with the future. But now that the vision of the "future" is commonplace, the show seems obsessed with the past.In 1968, the Guardian said Cybernetic Serendipity "lured into Nash House people who would never have dreamed of attending an ICA exhibition before." Now that nearly everyone in the industrialised world has access to computers, will the ICA be able to repeat its success?Useful linkswww.ica.org.ukwww.lektrogirl.com/labwww.peoplelikeus.orgwww.vinylvideo.com&lt;A HREF="http://www.manovich.net" TARGET="_NEW" www.manovich.net
'Wap is dead," Opera Software's chief technology officer was asserting confidently last week. It might seem an easy thing for H&#229;kon Wium Lie to say. Wap, or Wireless Application Protocol, promised the internet on our mobile phones, but didn't come close to delivering.Wap still has a breath left, the system struggles on, but few people know about it, and even fewer make use of its features.Worse, it seems, Lie is not just dismissing this failed technology - he's promising us another attempt to bring a cut-down web to mobile phones. But this technology, he promises, will be different.For a start, Opera's plan is built around today's world wide web, rather than some text-based version of it. The company already makes an attractive, fast and light web-browser for desktop computers; now it intends to bring that software to the mobile phone.At its heart is something called Small Screen Rendering: a system to take web pages designed for screens often 15in or 17in wide, and squeeze them into a mobile phone's 176 pixels of width.To do this, it looks at the pages you request and boils them down to their essential parts. Decorative images are reduced or eliminated. Essential navigational images - such as buttons or story links - are reduced more carefully to keep them readable. The text from the page is stripped out and neatly placed in a column,   the software attempting to interpret the page and place each bit of text next to the right photograph.The demonstration Online saw in London last week was not quite in "real world" con ditions - the web pages were pre-loaded into the mobile phones being used, making it impossible to see how fast - or otherwise - they downloaded over a GPRS connection, or if the pages were slow to display while the Opera system decided what to do.But what we did see worked well. We saw the Guardian Unlimited home page on the demo phones, and it had been neatly reduced to its most vital component parts. Photographs, reduced in size, sat above the stories to which they referred. It was simple to scroll down the page - no moving from left to right - to read the contents. Other web pages, stored on a laptop running a software emulator of the phone system, were similarly neatly displayed.The important thing, says Lie, is that all this happens on the handset - in the case of this demonstration, on a Nokia 7650 picture phone and a yet-to-be-released Sony Ericsson P800. Both have small colour screens, enough memory to hold the applica tion, and the Symbian operating system - a rival to Microsoft's PocketPC platform - to run it all.The hard work being done on the phone brings several benefits, all of which should help ensure this will not fail in the way Wap did.There is no specialised server "interpreting" the pages, which adds big costs for the phone networks, and no need for websites to convert their existing HTML web pages to a new language. "The Wap experience suggests they don't want to deal with different formats," says Lie. "We think HTML has established itself," he adds, with a wry smile.We will have to wait until the first quarter of next year before Small Screen Rendering is available on phones for sale but, with Nokia and Sony-Ericsson both taking part in testing, it could become a pre-loaded feature on a number of new handsets next year.In the meantime Opera 7, the latest version of Opera's desktop web browser due out later this year, will include an emulator to let you see how any web page will look on the smallest of screens.&#183;See examples of the new system atwww.opera.com
Despite the marketplace's apparent disillusion with mobile commerce, many people, like me, remain bullish about its prospects. And some maintain that m-commerce and interactive TV commerce will one day be bigger than web commerce in the consumer market. Yet it is clear that, with the notable exception of SMS, m-commerce has yet to get going. Mobile content providers have gone out of business, mobile banking   services launched in a flurry of activity have been closed down, and mobile portals have failed to generate any real revenues.This cannot be because all the services were terrible or wholly down to the form factor. There must be some kind of mismatch between the m-commerce that consumers say they want and the m-commerce that they are offered. What they want is simple: "ring the car park machine, ticket comes out, &#163;1.80 on your bill". But what they get is complicated: open this account, register, remember these passwords, you must have a credit card, and so on.Where there is a simple mechanism for m-commerce, consumers have adopted it enthusiastically. SMS has proved to be the star in the m-commerce firmament and continues to generate revenues in new and unanticipated areas. Look at the emerging synergies between TV as a delivery channel and SMS as a transaction channel. Throughout Europe, text messaging has become a revenue stream for TV, with voting for Big Brother as an obvious case. Operators keep nearly half of the loot (&euro;0.4 of an average &euro;1 per message) so it's attractive for them too.   What this demonstrates is that where there is a simple and convenient means to pay for things via the mobile phone (in this case using the existing SMS billing infrastructure), consumers seem more than happy to use it.Payments have always been a barrier to m-commerce. I always felt that the lack of suitable money technology in the mobile environment would make many kinds of m-commerce infeasible, because of the limited payment options available. So it did not matter how creative early entrants into the m-commerce space there were, because they had no way of getting paid.This adds significance to an announcement, earlier this year, by Vodafone and T-Mobile, who between them control 80% of the Europe's largest mobile market in Germany, and half of the British market. They are working together on an interoperable mobile payments platform and are hoping that other operators will join them. Under this system, a Vodafone subscriber could spend money from their mobile wallet with a T-Mobile merchant.Some early efforts (as always, Japan and Finland provide the case studies)   seem to indicate that if the method of payment is simple - say, charges added to a monthly bill - and if the authentication method is not a barrier to the transaction, then customers are warm to the concept.Payments, though, are only one aspect of online commerce. The other crucial element of infrastructure is identity management. Right now, if I were to use a mobile banking service I would have to remember (and punch in) all sorts of usernames, passwords, passcode and PINs. When I want to log in to my other bank, I'd need another set and when I want to log on to reserve a train seat, book a cinema ticket or do anything else that m-commerce enthusiasts predict, I'd need yet more codes, PINs and names.If I could log on to anything using my phone just by punching in the same PIN code or, in the future, put my thumb over a fingerprint reader at the bot tom of the key pad, then I might reasonably be expected to use those services more often.Having authenticated myself once in a session, I could browse whatever m- services I liked with the mobile operator passing some standard form of digital identity on to the service providers. Getting this right, it seems to me, is even more important than getting the payments right. Without a simple "mobile passport", too many mobile services will just be too much hassle to use, however easy it is to pay for them. Indeed, it may well be that the long-term role of the mobile phone as a passport (perhaps carrying the same digital credentials as the government ID card in your wallet) is more important, and more transforming, than its role as a wallet.The evidence to date supports the view that m-commerce is going somewhere and reinforces the view that it needs integrated (and simple) payment management and identity management to realise its potential. These elements of infrastructure lag behind the physical networks, but they are coming.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Any favourites from the exhibition?Part of the richness of Game On is that there are favourites from all our personal histories. That was the original aim. In the five-month Barbican run, there haven't been too many exclamations of "where is theOutrunsit-down"?  As the show travels, even more gaming greats will be added. It's funny to see how such favourites asElite, which was great to play at home, are, in fact, the games least played in the exhibition. Although folk want to see the game, they don't want to spend more than half an hour playing any one game.Current favourites?Grand Theft AutoVice Cityis brilliant. Sadly, it's an 18-rated and so we can't show those in galleries. Maybe we need 18+ sections in public spaces so that art and entertainment like this can be displayed in context.To whom does the games community owe its biggest debt?Videogames appeared with the likes of Tennis for Two by Willie Higginbotham in 1958, and then in 1962 at MIT with a game made by Steve Russell and fellow enthusiasts calledSpace War. The science, and massive cost of computers, meant that initially, games appeared courtesy of academic and research institutions. Computers used for space and military research were turned into expensive means for humans to continue to indulge a favourite pastime - playing games!How do you see computer gaming evolving?The surface has just been scratched! All kinds of new stuff is being developed - the platforms and the games themselves. We are just getting into the mass-market videophone age. The platform can become the game with stuff like this kicking around.Any plans to turn Game On into a more permanent exhibition?Once the tour is finished, parts of the show are lined up to go into the permanent collection at the National Museums of Scotland, where the idea for Game On got underway. I hope to persuade an institution such as theBritish Museumto dedicate a new wing to videogames and the people who have made and played them over the past 40 years.Favourite gadgets?The next generations of video cell phones will kick ass. It's cool enough to be able to talk from a beach or bar, and you can add in all the fun folk have with just text and remember the old "a picture tells a thousand words" adage. TheBlackberrystuff is exciting, as isReplay TV.Favourite websites?Ibiza Spotlight;Hot97.com;emuunlim.com/doteaters/;Space-ibiza.com;Kentpaul.comInterviewed by Hamish MackintoshVisit theGame Onsite
