On Monday, Palm is due to announce the first of its Zire range of palmtop computers aimed at consumers. This will be followed on October 28 by the Tungsten range, aimed at corporate and professional users. Palm handhelds with mobile phone features will be launched in a third new range, as yet undated and unnamed. Dividing the product line into separate brands will make it easier for buyers to understand Palm's positioning.That should help the company compete with rivals who use the same Palm OS operating system. These include Sony, which is strong in the consumer market, and Handspring, which announced the Treo Communicator smart phone a year ago. The Zire is expected to appear at a low price - around &euro;100, plus VAT - in transparent blister packaging. It will be the smallest Palm so far, weighing just 109g, and its looks are reminiscent of Apple's iPod music player.Palm's chief executive officer, Todd Bradley, said: "The aim is to bring in a whole new customer who traditionally uses a Filofax." Palm will try to reach these consumers by selling through new outlets, including supermarkets, not just electronics stores.   However, the rumoured specification published by the independentPalm Infocenteris a huge disappointment for Palm fans, being worse than the current consumer machine, the Palm m105. The Zire is expected to have only two megabytes of memory, it won't have the universal connector or come with a hot-sync cradle, and the m105's four buttons will be reduced to two.Also, Zire is still based on Palm's old technology: the Palm OS 4 operating system and Motorola's Dragonball processor. Customers who want the new Palm OS 5 version running on a fast ARM processor will have to wait for the Tungsten range.  Bradley says: "This is really focused on that core Palm use, the mobile professional. The performance will be outstanding." Tungsten is expected to use a 175MHz Texas Instruments OMAP1510 processor, which combines an ARM core with DSP (digital signal processing) circuitry to boost multimedia performance. It will have 16MB of memory and a 320 by 320 pixel screen, instead of the cramped 160 by 160 used by Palm's earlier models.Tungsten will use Palm OS 5, which has built in support for Wi-Fi (802.11b) wireless networking. It also includes technology from Be Inc, which Apple negotiated to buy as a replacement for Mac OS, before it bought Steve Jobs's NextStep instead. Palm OS 4 software is run via an emulator. Palm-based devices have lost some market share to Microsoft Pocket PCs such as the iPaq and HP Jornada, which already have multi   media capabilities, Wi-Fi support and ARM processors. Tungsten should enable Palm to compete at this more expensive end of the market. The third product, which may be called Veld, "is a GPRS-based device totally focused on the enterprise", according to Bradley. It will not have a telephone form factor, but will be a personal digital assistant (presumably a Tungsten) with a headset and a dialler.Palm has been much slower than Handspring to embrace telephony, and Satjiv Chahil, Palm's chief marketing officer, says that although he has tried Palm OS-based phones, he is still happier with his two-piece solution of a PDA plus a mobile phone. Handspring, a rival company started by Palm's co-founders Jeff Hawkins and Donna Dubinsky, has a different view. Hawkins moved Handspring into the smart-phone market a year ago with the Treo range.The aim was to let users replace a trio of products - a mobile phone, a Palm PDA and a wireless email device such as RIM's BlackBerry - with a single lightweight device. But Handspring has not abandoned the PDA market. In Europe, it has just launched the Treo 90, which it claims is the smallest and, at 113g, the lightest Palm-based organiser with a built-in keyboard and a backlit colour screen. It comes with 16MB of memory for &#163;249 including VAT.
Motorola's first 3G mobile phone, the A830, is expected to be available before the end of the year and almost certainly through the Hutchinson 3G network 3.The A830 offers a rich selection of multimedia facilities. A clear break in design, the model has a large screen, relatively small buttons and a snap-on video and stills camera at its head. It is designed to allow users to make voice calls while sending or receiving data, and is compatible with existing 2G (it is triple band so will operate in the US as well as Europe and the Far East) and 2.5G (GPRS) networks.Its headline feature is its camera, which enables the user to take and send images and short video clips. These can either be as part of multimedia messages (MMS) sent   to other phones, or attached as files to emails.The phone also allows the user to download movie clips, which can be viewed on its colour screen. On-board Java enables the phone to download Motorola's latest games and applications, while Bluetooth offers simple wireless connections to PC notebooks and phone headsets.Two key facilities embedded in the phone are an MP3 player and a GPS chip. The MP3 player's music is stored on either a SD/MMC card, while the GPS system enables the user to take advantage of online location-based restaurant, bar or cinema guide facilities. Talk time is rated at 100 minutes, or 90 minutes if the video facilities are heavily used. Standby is around 120 hours. Its price is expected to be in the region of &#163;400.  (AN)In Finn air?Nokia's big-budget launch of its first 3G phone last week ended in confusion after the company refused to say exactly when the device might appear, or how much it would cost.More than 200 journalists were flown to Finland to witness the unveiling of the Nokia 6650 which, like the Motorola A830, is a combined phone and camera.The phone was duly presented, with Nokia's executives boasting of data speeds of up to 128 kbps, 140 minutes of talk time in 3G mode, multimedia messaging and Java and Bluetooth compatibility. Analysts were impressed by the size, battery life, and - most importantly - the promised "seamless" swapping between today's GPRS networks and tomorrow's 3G networks.The problem for Nokia, and the rest of the 3G world, is that this seamless moving between networks has not yet been mastered (although Nokia's big rival, Ericsson, last week demonstrated its solution to the problem). This will mean the new Nokia will not even go into commercial testing until the first quarter of next year. Company executives would not provide any more than the vague promise that it   would go on sale "some time later in the year".Pricing is similarly unclear: Nokia would only suggest from &euro;250 to &euro;750.
Wireless data services are moving along the traditional "hype" curve from the over-enthusiasm of early promoters, through the inevitable backlash from a disappointed marketplace and on into maturity. Having been among those who were not wholly positive about their first experiences with some of these technologies, I think it's time to give credit where credit is due. Therefore, I thought I'd pass on some positive experi ences with wireless data technology and point out that I'm already dependent on some of the services it provides.Wireless PANMy current personal area data network (PAN) is built from Bluetooth. A while back, I remember writing about my first attempts to use the technology in anger and commenting that it wasn't quite ready for prime time. It is now. I have a Bluetooth token that plugs in to a USB port on my Apple Titanium Powerbook. With this installed, the Powerbook connects seamlessly to my Bluetooth phone and I can synchronise my phone's address book and calendar with the Powerbook's address book and calendar. It really didn't take more than a couple of minutes to set the Powerbook and phone to "discover" each other and get working.Wireless LANMy favourite local area data network (LAN) is based on so-called "Wi-Fi" wireless Ethernet, technically known as the IEEE 802.11b standard. When Apple introduced the Airport (its 802.11b product range), I was one of the first purchasers, and I could not be more pleased with it. But even an avid technophile   like me couldn't have predicted just how radically the technology has changed the way people use the internet .Here's why. A short time after getting the Airport, I subscribed to the NTL cable modem service, which has proved to be pretty good and generally very reliable. I've written before how transformative broadband is in the home environment and noted that that is primarily because of the "always on" characteristic rather than higher speed. I rather like the suggestion made by a recent correspondent to Bill Thompson's WebWise column on BBCi that we stop using the phrase "broadband internet" and start using "permanet", as this captures the essence of the service more accurately. The combination of "always on" with "on everywhere in the house" because of the Airport is especially powerful.And easy. A friend of mine   recently installed an Airport in his house, coincidentally also to an NTL cable modem. He told me he was prepared for hours of messing around with IP this and DNS that, but, in fact, just connected the Airport to the cable modem and turned on the power. A minute later, he was surfing the internet from an iMac in another room.Wireless LAN is breaking out into public spaces. BT is launching a service in the UK, Voicestream has launched a service in the US and others are following. I recently used public access Wi-Fi at Schipol airport in Amsterdam and I have to say that it worked perfectly (it costs a few euros for a day). I found myself relaxing in a coffee shop (not one of those coffee shops: I mean the one at the airport) while waiting for my flight, happily catching up on email and browsing around at broadband speeds.Wireless WANMy wide area data network (WAN) is GPRS. As I've said before, I began to value my GPRS connection once I could access my email: now I use it for checking my email all the time and for that one single application alone it is worth the money. My phone, the excellent Sony Ericsson T68i, has built-in POP3 and   IMAP4 clients: this means I can access my inbox with a couple of key strokes and (because of IMAP) keep the inbox on the phone and the inbox on my Powerbook, as well as the inbox on my desktop Macintosh, in perfect harmony. It gets even better: if the email contains a phone number (eg, "call Steve on 5551234") then the mail client will recognise it as a phone number (it also recognises email addresses and web addresses) so that you can dial it with a single keystroke.I do use the (colour) Wap browser over GPRS from time to time, mainly for sports news and results, but I still think the use of the phone to connect to people (by whatever method) is more central to future strategies than its use to connect to content.Wireless worldThe PAN, LAN and WAN technologies discussed here have matured greatly over the past year. Taken together, they give us a glimpse into the wireless world of the future where everyone (and everything) is connected everywhere, all the time. And you know what: I'd already miss this stuff if it was gone.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
My laptop is so far from bandwidth it has a nosebleed. In the village of Kirkby Stephen, in the Eden Valley, on the border between Cumbria and the Yorkshire Dales, getting on to the internet is a major effort. With phone lines shared between remote farmhouses, and mobile phones a cruel fantasy, an internet connection here can drop as low as 12Kbps - if you can get online at all.But all of this is about to change. EdenFaster, a local community organisation, is about to supply broadband internet connections to the entire valley, bringing 10,000 people, 500 businesses and 50 schools online with an internet connection 20 times faster than ADSL for half the price. They're doing it on their own because of a "perceived lack of demand" by telecoms companies. They're doing it wirelessly, and they're one of the leaders in the new revolution in ways to deliver the internet in the UK.Online readers will already know the benefits of broadband. The very fast, always-on internet connections have been available in the metropolitan centres of Britain for a couple of years now. Their benefits stretch far beyond being able to look at websites faster, or download MP3s all the quicker: they change and create communities. Education, medicine, local government, entertainment and jobs are all transformed if a constant internet connection can be depended on.And nowhere else is this more necessary than in the dales. With the average wage only half that of the rest of the country, and a local economy dependent on agriculture and tourism, the introduction of broadband, says Lindsey Annison, EdenFaster's project leader, will revolutionise the way the local community can live. The area's scenery and relaxed lifestyle would be perfect for teleworkers if, she says, they could get online.Mick Keeble, of Croft PLC, which is supplying the Cisco, Enterasys and Check Point kit for the project, says: "The kit itself is commonplace: it's off the shelf. The only difference is how it's being deployed and what it could lead to with respect to the quality of life for the people in this area."The nearest supply of substantial bandwidth is almost 30 miles away, but climb a nearby hill, and on a clear day you can see it. Stick a wireless connection on the same hill, and you can tap into it. Use the same 802.11b, or Wi-Fi, wireless technology as you find built into modern laptops, and you can beam the bandwidth down into the valley. Repeaters in the villages of Kirkby Stephen, Appleby and Warcop can then receive this connection and create a wireless "mesh" between the houses that each customer can then connect to and get online. Because this mesh acts as a local network, the system also creates a "walled garden" - where local services are delivered at even greater speeds than over the wild internet. The internet is reached via a "gateway" that can be restricted - perfect for the local schools. What's more, with this approach, as each subscriber comes on, it only makes the local network technically all the stronger and more resistant to failure.The "walled garden" (the Walled Garden of EdenFaster, naturally) is a clever idea. It will allow local businesses to supply local services, and it gives scope for other projects that would be much more difficult over low-bandwidth connections. Live video is one project, video on demand another, and EdenFaster is now investigating using Voice over Internet Protocol technology to allow for a voice service to replace the expensive and poor quality local phone service. Cabling, it seems, may soon be irrelevant.The vast majority of broadband connections in the UK are with either cable television systems, or with ADSL, a nifty technology that converts standard copper phone lines   into high-speed connections.For rural areas, however, cable TV is not on the cards, and ADSL presents a number of technical problems. In much of the Eden Valley, the phone lines are aluminium, and not copper - rendering ADSL impossible. Plus, here, as in many areas around the country, it might not be economically feasible to install. BT Wholesale, which installs ADSL equipment into telephone exchanges, has set threshold figures of the minimum number of subscribers that must order ADSL before it converts the exchange.This threshold is a matter of controversy. Earlier this year, the pressure groupBroadbandforBritain.co.ukcommissioned research into the exact number needed per exchange before they considered it to be economically feasible to install ADSL. Although BT quotes figures of between 200 and 750 consumers, BroadbandforBritain and the research firm Ovum, found a figure closer to 50 was high enough. Given a base of 40 residential and 10 business customers, "an entrepreneurial service provider taking advantage of the latest DSL technology would see rapid payback on their capital investment"."It's a long way from the 200 to 550 that BT are quoting," says BroadbandforBritain.co.uk's Andy Williams. He says the UK is missing "a cohesive nationwide policy toward broadband rollout, and there's a   lack of education about what broadband can do".For such a rich country, he says, we have a lot of catching up to do, and "BT, although it is a private company, it has a tremendous amount of public responsibility".BT disclaims the report. It says that because the UK is more hilly and the exchanges more remote than in the rest of Europe, at least 200 subscribers are necessary. It says the fact that other companies can gain access to the exchanges to install their own ADSL equipment - but haven't - shows that it really isn't feasible in many areas. At least without hundreds of customers. Plus, they say,   they are involved in projects with radio meshes, such as EdenFaster, and satellite services, to try to find which solution works the best.The cost factor, it seems, is key. Not so elsewhere, where national governments have been funding broadband rollout. South Korea, for example, has complete broadband coverage, its installation paid for by the government, and while the French, the Australian and the Canadian governments subsidise broadband rollout, here, the attitude is different.The UK approach is to "establish a competitive marketplace" as opposed to just subsidising the incum bent providers. This is probably a good thing: the German broadband market, for example, is dominated by one provider responsible for 90% of all connections.But the question of rural broadband remains. There was a one-off fund of &#163;30m made available for regional development agencies to, in the words of a Department of Trade and Industry spokesman, "go away and look for ideas" and implement them as trials. It is from some of the remains of this funding - via the North West Development Agency - that EdenFaster hopes to get off the ground. Time is running out for similar projects, however.   The money was made available last year, and there are no plans to extend this offering.This might be a problem: the demand for rural broadband connections is growing. It is not limited to remote areas such as Cumbria and the Yorkshire Dales, either. There are grassroots campaigns being pioneered all over the country, either campaigning for BT to install ADSL, or doing as EdenFaster is, and bypassing BT altogether.One campaign, atwww.pleasebt.co.uk, is run by Chris Maerick for the Hertfordshire village of Stanstead Abbotts. Only 20 miles from London, Stanstead Abbotts needs 200 people to sign up to have ADSL installed before BT will convert the exchange. Maerick has been collecting names. "If you just sit back, nothing is going to happen," he says. So far, he has 33 local villagers on his list.Back in the dales, Lindsey Annison is hopeful that their project will be a success. "EdenFaster will create at least one job within the community on top of the benefits of having the connection itself," she says, and as long as they have one hundred subscribers they will break even. This will not be a problem - one poster in the village shop has already inspired 73 people to sign up, and that's not including the schools and local businesses. Having been hit by the foot and mouth outbreak, the rejuvenation of the area is topmost in their minds - and many see access to the internet as key to this. Last year, Annison started Digital dales.co.uk to highlight the opportunities in the local area - opportunities that can only be made greater by the introduction of broadband internet connection.All told, they need &#163;150,000 to transform the area, create some jobs, and provide a possible blueprint for other rural communities. Tomorrow, the North West Development Agency will give them the verdict. We shall be watching.Banging on the broadband doorThe government and BT defended the pace of broadband rollout this week at the Labour party conference in Blackpool.Angus Porter, managing director of the consumer division of BT Retail, admitted "trigger points" of consumer interest, at which telephone exchanges would be upgraded to offer broadband, were "higher than some people would like".But, he added, "the costs of providing the service are higher than some people would like".He said that enabling an exchange for ADSL requires a stable electricity supply,   air-conditioning and a connection to the internet backbone, the last of which can be more expensive in remote areas.The trigger points, which have so far been met at five exchanges, are at a level that would lose BT money if they were met precisely - although this loss cannot be too great, he said, or BT would be accused of uncompetitive behaviour by the regulator.He said the company has to justify its spending to its shareholders, and that on the hundreds of millions of pounds already spent on ADSL-enabled exchanges, "the return to BT so far has been pretty poor".E-commerce minister, Stephen Timms, said that there were other ways to get broadband, pointing out that 40% of the country has access through cable television networks, and anyone can use satellite.Timms said: "There's still a third of the population not in range of an affordable broadband service."I do think it would be a significant mistake to provide &#91;government&#93; funding for broadband rollout on a significant scale."He said that mobile phone services, which now cover virtually the whole population, were built with private money. "Public subsidy would not just   have been superfluous, it may even have been damaging," he said.Instead, the government is spending &#163;30m on broadband pilot projects around the country, which Timms hopes will demonstrate alternative models of provision.As to the UK's poor showing in comparison to other countries,Timms admitted "we made a late start", but added that "we're now making very rapid progress". He said the UK's millionth broadband customer is expected to buy the service by the end of next week.S A Mathieson
Online bank Intelligent Finance (IF) was today looking less than clever after frustrated customers found they were unable to log onto its website for the fifth day in a row.IF, Halifax's internet arm, offers low-cost loan and credit card rates for customers who are prepared to do all their banking via telephone or on the internet. Its site boasts of banking "24 hours a day, seven days a week", yet customers have been unable to use the site since last Friday."I've been trying to log on to the IF website and it has been "down" for five days now," said one IF customer in an email to Guardian Unlimited Money. "When telephoned they insist that it has been up previously. True or not, this is pretty pathetic for an internet bank."The system, which first went down on Friday, was back up over the weekend, inoperable again on Monday and has so far stayed that way,  said a spokesperson for the bank. Existing customers trying to log into their accounts are faced with a message giving them a phone number to call for "a full banking service"."We are experiencing some difficulties with the online service," said Heather Scott, spokesperson for IF. "However we are trying to resolve these as quickly as possible, and it is worth stressing that the full range of banking services is available over the phone. As soon as we have a clear idea of when the site will be up we will let people know."IF is not the first bank to experience problems with its internet operation. Last month Zurich Financial - one of the world's leading insurance companies  - pulled the plug on its internet bank which it had launched only a few months earlier with a huge advertising campaign and set-up costs of £90m.Security breaches have also dogged the world of internet banking, with the most infamous example being when a handful of Barclays online customers discovered strangers' account details when they logged on. At the time, the National Consumer Council declared that such breaches would prevent e-commerce taking off.
A new front in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict has been opened in the US and the UK. It has not been opened by Islamic fundamentalists, or radical Palestinians, but by American and Israeli computer hackers. Action on this new front has taken the form of identity theft, harassment, incitement to harassment, defamation of character and malicious misrepresentation through the misuse and misappropriation of computer email facilities and lists.In the process, the reliability of the web-based system of communication has been undercut, the integrity of some very prestigious universities have been called into question, and the judgment of law enforcement authorities made to look tainted with bias. Let me give a number of examples.In early July, a recent graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, Marc Dworkin, using a university email account, sent a message to recipients of his email lists directing them to harass Professor Mona Baker at University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology. His exact words, after giving Professor Baker's email address and telephone number, were "harrass (sic) the motherfucker."This was his way of expressing his disagreement with Professor Baker over her support of the boycott of Israel. Soon Professor Baker was receiving hundreds of obscene and threatening communications.When the University of Pennsylvania's vice-president for information systems and computing, Robin Beck, was informed of this incident, her reply to Professor Baker was that a "careful assessment based on what we currently know, does not reveal either a violation of university policy, nor a violation of law". When it was pointed out to the university's officials that Mr Dworkin's actions had indeed violated Penn's policies on acceptable use of electronic resources and guidelines on open expression (in fact his behaviour is also a possible violation of the Pennsylvania law on harassment and stalking by communication or address) they still refused to take any action. Why would the university refuse to move against someone using its email accounts in a fashion that undermines its educational purpose, violates its own policies, and possibly constitutes criminal behaviour?In late August, Professor Shahid Alam, at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts, wrote a piece in Al-Ahram Weekly Online in which he made a case for the boycott of Israeli academia as one example of a non-violent alternative to the increasingly desperate violent resistance of the Palestinians. In the process he explained the conditions of Israeli occupation that had resulted in the various forms of violent Palestinian struggle, including suicide bombings. The piece was reconstructed and misrepresented in the Jerusalem Post to make it appear that Professor Alam "justified terror attacks against Israelis." On September 4, the Boston Herald, apparently not checking the accuracy of the Jerusalem Post report, announced "Professor shocks Northeastern with defense of suicide bombers". Almost immediately Professor Alam began receiving a large number of harassing emails. In addition, in an act of identity theft, emails misrepresenting his position were forged and sent out under his name.Northeastern University's response to the Boston Herald report was to "distance" itself from Professor Alam. The professor's remarks were his alone and the university did not "condone or officially recognise them". The impression was left that Northeastern assumed the Herald piece accurate. Why should Northeastern University react in such a timid fashion to an incorrect report that threatened the reputation of one of its own faculty members?Throughout July and August, numerous organisations and individuals who support the Palestinian cause, oppose war in the Middle East, support human rights and are just generally critical of Israel, were harassed and interfered with. Among the victims was Monica Terazi, director of the New York office of the American Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC). She was harassed and her identity stolen by hackers, which resulted in, for a time, Yahoo groups taken her account off line. When she reported this assault to the FBI, she was told no law had been broken - no money had been stolen, no computers physically damaged, public safety had not been endangered. The entire hacker operation, according to the FBI, was simply an exercise protected by the First Amendment. Why should the FBI take such a dismissive position on activities that, in many states of the Union, are now recognised as a form of, to quote the Pennsylvania statute, "harassment and stalking by communication"?Ultimately, it was not the law enforcement agencies or university administrators who investigated the hackers, who had harassed, abused, and misrepresented so many people over the summer months. It was private individuals such as Professor Bassam Shehadeh, of Iowa State University. He managed to track down some of the sources of abuse to sites in Israel and its West Bank colonies. The Israelis had committed their acts of harassment by accessing an ISP called Palnet.com on the West Bank. When the Israeli army went about systematically destroying electronic communication facilities on the West Bank they spared Palnet.com.Harassment via electronic communications is continuing. It is being used to intimidate and emotionally punish American and British academics, as well as many others, who are critical of Israel and its policies. Yet nothing of significance is being done about it by authorities capable of curbing such behaviour. For all intents and purposes, the inaction of academic and law enforcement authorities has created legal space for what are ordinarily illegal acts - harassment, incitement to harassment, identity theft, and malicious misrepresentation. At least this seems to be so when these assaults are directed against those critical of positions favoured by influential and powerful interest groups. One can ask the question: would the FBI or the administrators at the University of Pennsylvania or Northeastern University have taken the positions they now do if such organised and extensive harassment and identity theft had been directed against American Zionists by supporters of the Palestinians?The hands-off position taken by the FBI and university authorities sets a precedent for the future. While critics of Israel are now the main targets of web-based harassment and misrepresentation, there is no reason why the circle of victims cannot become much larger. After all it is a "virtual world" now and it is impossible to keep such behaviour "local." It seems we have found a new technological way of assaulting each other on a worldwide basis. It was Ortega Y Gasset who once observed that "hatred is a feeling which leads to the extinction of values." The present campaign of intimidation is certainly hate-filled and it is likely that others who hate will learn of these techniques and use them. Those who can stop this behaviour now, but have chosen not to, ought to think again before the future of communications becomes "extinct of values."&#183;Lawrence Davidson is professor of history at West Chester University, Pennsylvania
Shareholders in cable company Telewest will be left with just 3% of the company if terms of a radical financial restructuring announced yesterday are approved.In order to secure the long-term survival of the debt-laden company bondholders have agreed to swap &#163;3.5bn of its &#163;5.3bn debt for 97% of the shares in Britain's largest cable firm.The tentative deal has the support of a committee representing around 60% of bondholders but a further 15% need to sign up to push it through.Telewest executives might also put the plan to a shareholder vote.The proposal is the latest blow for equity investors in the UK's troubled cable sector who have seen holdings in NTL, Energis and Marconi massively diluted following similar restructurings.Approval of the Telewest deal could now lie with John Malone, the US cable magnate, who owns 25% of the shares and 11% of the bonds.Mr Malone has been investing heavily in UK cable for the past 15 years and has been viewed as the individual that would drive a merger between Telewest and market leader NTL.Yet if he accepts the terms of the deal he could find himself left with just 10% of the new company and not in a position to force consolidation as he had hoped.Telewest announced broad terms of its agreement yesterday in order to defer a &#163;68m interest payment due to bondholders today.The company now has 30 days to persuade other stakeholders to accept terms of the deal or pay the interest.Analysts believe Telewest may then apply for some form of protection from creditors while final details of the deal are ironed out.The group's existing &#163;1.8bn bank debt is unaffected.Although a restructuring of Telewest had long been expected, the speed at which terms have been thrashed out will be seen as a victory for new managing director Charles Burdick.The former finance director was promoted to replace chief executive Adam Singer, ousted in July.Mr Burdick described the announcement as "an important first step towards completing a financial restructuring that carefully balances the interests of all stakeholders. "All customers and suppliers should be reassured that Telewest will continue to meet its operational commitments."Analysts say the speed at which Telewest restructures will be vital to maintaining the health of the underlying business.NTL lost thousands of customers during its restructuring because it was unable to market its services and subscribers became uneasy about its financial woes.Telewest has emerged in recent months as one of the UK's biggest sellers of broadband internet and investors will not want to see momentum reached at a time when former telecoms monopoly BT is making a big push into the market.A sustained effort to cut costs and conserve cash at Telewest has already seen 1,500 jobs cut this year. A further 1,000 staff are expected to go over the next 18 months, while capital expenditure is likely to be cut by one third.Analysts predict that NTL and Telewest will merge within the next two years to form a credible competitor to BSkyB in pay-television and BT in broadband internet.
"Music from rap to Rachmaninov will get a boost on Internet radio under a plan by European Competition Commissioner Mario Monti to break open the market for Web broadcasting rights," reportsReuters.
Although the ink has barely dried on the contracts, a multi-million dollar deal struck by McDonald's and Intel a fortnight ago is already being hailed as a landmark event in advertising.The reason for the fuss is that the two firms have paid to get their products into The Sims Online, the forthcoming sequel to the 17m-selling game The Sims. "The deal with McDonald's and Intel is a watershed event," insists Al King, European director of consumer marketing at Sims publisher Electronic Arts. "In-game advertising has gone on since the Megadrive era and we've watched it with interest since day one, but this deal paves the way for similar and even bigger advertising deals in the future."Financially the deal vastly outstrips the five-figure amounts that are the norm for videogame adverts, but just as important is how the products of McDonald's and Intel are being promoted in the game. "We think The Sims Online will prove as popular as its predecessor and we have been working with Electronic Arts to provide the best gaming experience," explains Alison Richards, Intel's marketing director. "Players will be able to choose Pentium 4 processor PCs or non-branded PCs in the game, but the Pentium 4 is better for the player's in-game character." Similarly, players will be able to buy McDonald's hamburgers in the game that are superior to unbranded burgers and even set up their own McDonald's franchise. "It's a great opportunity for us to reach our customers away from the usual restaurant setting," enthuses Peter Sterling, McDonald's USA's vice-president of marketing.Yet, while the deal is noteworthy for its scale and approach, videogame publishers are increasingly keen on attracting advertising for their products and, slowly but surely, advertisers are also starting to take notice. Diesel Jeans has been one firm at the forefront of in-game advertising for some time now and, last week, announced it had struck a deal to advertise in a third game, the popular Devil May Cry 2. "Our first videogame collaboration was in 1997 with a game called G-Police," recalls Bob Shevlin, manager of Diesel's virtual department. "We wanted to be involved creatively in the game and not just stick our logo in it. The game was set in a Blade Runner-type society where evil corporations ran the world, so we turned Diesel into one of the game's evil corporations."According to Shevlin, videogame advertising is a perfect way to reach consumers. "I'm surprised at how little it has taken off. It is odd as the numbers involved are amazing," he says. "Hit games can sell three to five million units, and each unit might be played by a total of five people. Each of these players will spend hours playing the game. It is not like TV where commercials interrupt programmes and people wander off." Anthony Price, commercial director for Warwickshire game publisher Codemasters, agrees, arguing that even on a conservative     estimate an advert in a successful game will achieve around 47m hours of viewing time: "My view is that this is the thin end of a big wedge and games have the potential to rival broadcast media advertising."However, the current gamer demographic is unlikely to fit every brand. Around half of PlayStation 2 owners are aged between 18 and 34, and the average age is 24. Yet, despite improvements in recent years, the gender profile of gamers remains overwhelmingly male. Given that Intel cite The Sims' appeal to young women as a key reason for their decision to advertise in the game, the industry could face a problem. But regardless of this, Lou Fowkett, managing director of game advertising agency Symbiosis Media, believes there is still much for advertisers in the existing demographic. "Games are an opportunity to get brands in front of a media-savvy young audience who are consuming less and less TV. However, this means you do have to be sensitive to the fact that in-your-face advertising might not go down well in a game."As if to prove the point, the recently released volleyball game Beach Spikers encountered disgruntled postings on internet gaming message boards due to its inclusion of high-profile adverts from Coca-Cola, Pringles and Swatch.Roger Walkden, European strategic marketing director for the games firm Activision, says: "It is important that advertising becomes part of the game experience and doesn't over-push. One example of how advertising could fit in is in the online vision we have for our Tony Hawk's skateboarding series, which has sold 10m units globally. The online game has various skate parks  where players can meet and the opportunities for advertising in these parks are limitless - these areas could end up like real-life shopping malls in terms of the branding."However, not all videogame ad deals will necessarily involve hard cash. In fact very few do. For a start, the advertising hoardings in big name sports games such as Fifa Football are the same as in real life and licensing rules prevent game publishers from selling any further adverts.Beyond licensed sports games, a great many game adverts are the result of cross-promotional agreements. This is the case in Beach Spikers and all the games Diesel has been involved in. In fact Diesel, which offered game promotion through its website and stores instead of money, also doubts it would ever cough up cash. "We will probably continue as before as there are an     infinite number of cross-promotional opportunities," admits Shevlin.Even the multi-million dollar value of the Intel and McDonald's deal with Electronic Arts is made up of an undisclosed combination of money and co-marketing plans. "The no-cash deals are a problem," argues Ian Baverstock, business development director for game development studio Kuju. "The games industry has to stop giving the advertising away if games are really going to take off as an advertising medium." Whether advertisers would be willing to pay in full at present remains doubtful, however, due to the largely untested nature of the format."To discount videogame advertising is foolish, especially for youth advertisers," says Ailsa Lochrie, strategic director at media agency MindShare Worldwide. "However, there is only limited research and very few case studies at present. To advertise in videogames now will take a brand with a lot of vision and a willingness to make a leap of faith. You know, no marketing manager ever lost their job for advertising on TV."
Continuing on the theme of the rise of 3G, Nicholas Negroponte has an interesting piece inWiredmagazine on the issue. His view? "Look at the numbers: 3G, in its most generous projections, will deliver data speeds of 1 megabit per second — in two years. Today, Wi-Fi commonly provides 11 megabits, offering up to 54 megabits. Which standard do you think will be adopted?"
Bob Wallace, one of the first dozen Microsoft employees, has died at the age of 53. Wallace is believed to have coined the term "shareware", and wrote the PC-Write shareware program that vast numbers of IBM-compatible PC owners used in the early 1980s. He founded Quicksoft in 1983, and sold the company in 1991. In the famous "first Microsoft"photo in the Seattle Times, he's in the centre of the back row.
The Windows Media 9 beta is availablehere, if you fancy trying it. Features include multi-channel audio, "lossless audio", and video smoothing. Lossless audio works likeShorten(shn) files. Video smoothing can produce amazing results if you have a narrowband connection and a high-powered Pentium 4: it doesn't just play what arrives, it tries to interpolate missing frames on the fly. Obviously5.1 audiorequires a PC with a compatible sound card and five home cinema-style loudspeakers. However, WMP is integrated into the operating system, and there is no way of uninstalling it. You are warned to create a system restore point before intalling it, so you can "roll back" to that point to remove it.
Here's something that should have 3G mobile investors sitting up and taking notice: several wireless network kit manufacturers are now offering 802.11 networks with ranges measured inmiles, not metres. Proxim, reportsNews.com, is the newest (and biggest) into the market with a system offering 12 miles range per base station, but Intel is not far behind.The News.com story does not say if this is a 12 mile-wide "cloud" of access, as with current 802.11 networks, or if the service is pointed at particular fixed locations in order to get the full range. But the 3G world's assumption about 802.11 has, until now, been that these are wireless LANS -localarea networks, offering seveal megabits a second of bandwidth but only over a range of a couple of hundred feet. If they cease to be too local, expect lots of 3G operators to get very upset indeed, especially as this low-cost, high power solution will strike at exactly the business user 3G wants to appeal to first.
Freeserve may be Britain's most popular internet service provider in terms of sheer numbers, but it sits at the bottom of the league with Jobs &amp; Money readers.Since the spring readers have been writing to tell us how they have been stung by huge telephone bills despite signing up for - and paying for - the company's flat fee Anytime service.They load the software on the computers and set up direct debits to pay their &#163;13.99 a month. Yet somehow hundreds of them have connected to the service using the wrong phone numbers and end up paying local phone charges. Customers who send emails and access the internet in normal working hours have seen their phone bills soar.After we highlighted the plight of customers who ran up bills running into thousands of pounds, the company said it would introduce software designed to detect when customers failed to connect to Anytime. The new system would tell customers their modem was dialling the wrong number and give a step-by-step remedy.That should have been the end of the story. But, as users such as Sheila Goodwin (see below) have discovered, the problems have failed to go away. What's more, Freeserve can't explain why, nine months after the launch of Anytime, the idiot-proof system it would like to have in place eludes them.Nearly all of the readers who wrote to complain about Freeserve are experienced in the ways of computers and have used other internet service providers.Nic Paton fell foul of the confusing Anytime connection process and ran up a BT bill of &#163;52.23. He complained and like many users who have racked up bills of less than &#163;100, he was re-imbursed in full.But heavy users who have breached that limit have found Freeserve customer service reps less forgiving.Rob Crompton unwittingly ran up call costs of &#163;230 before his BT quarterly bill revealed the full horror of his mistake. He attempted to convince Freeserve that he had followed the connection instructions to the letter, but was told he could expect a goodwill gesture of &#163;80 and no more. He pointed out that almost half the compensation was accounted for by the monthly cost of the Anytime service he never received (&#163;35.97 over three months). His logic was lost on the company and he has since switched provider, as have most complainants.Gillian Farrell suffered at the hands of Freeserve in a way that other customers would be hard pushed to contemplate.At the beginning of this year she started Mission Recruitment from a small office in London's New Bond Street.She paid for the Anytime service and began using the internet and her email almost constantly. She worked day and night safe in the knowledge, she thought, that she was getting excellent value from her &#163;13.99.She had forgotten to tell BT to bill her monthly, and so it wasn't for three months until she knew the size of her bill. The charges topped &#163;1,100 with VAT on top."BT were not sympathetic and Freeserve couldn't care less. But this is wrong, I was registering for a monthly payment, have no idea where the error occurred and have no one to turn to to help me fight this. I might have to close my business to pay the debts I have accumulated thanks to Freeserve," she says.Unfortunately she says her business partner advised her to forget about an appeal when the bill came through and to switch supplier. Only when she saw coverage of Freeserve consumer disasters in Jobs &amp; Money did she realise she wasn't the only one and it might not be her fault. But Freeserve has refused so far to reconsider her case. As a result she has abandoned her central London office and now works from home.Many readers have called for the government to set up a regulator to monitor ISPs such as Freeserve. If you want to put forward your views contact: Ms Fiona Murray, Joint Communications Bill Team, Room 3387, Department of Trade &amp; Industry, 151 Buckingham Palace Road, London SW1W 9SS.Freeserve says all members can check their dial-up settings by going towww.freeserve.com/anytime/newnumberorwww.freeserve.com/time/toptips/tips.htm. All AnyTime numbers should start with the prefix 0808 or 161642 - anything other than these numbers will be chargeable.Case study: Sheila GoodwinWhen Sheila Goodwin signed up with Freeserve she expected to pay &#163;13.99 for its Anytime dial-up service. Instead, she paid three times that amount in monthly charges to the internet service provider and call charges to BT.Sheila, 53, is a mature student at Manchester University. She suffers from osteo-arthritis and though she attends lecturers and seminars, often relies on email to communicate with lecturers and colleagues.As a heavy user on a budget, the Anytime service appealed. It is cheaper than the equivalent service from rival AOL and remains the most popular with 2.5m registered users. She signed up in June.Within three weeks she had been sent an email by Freeserve saying she was accessing her email account using a local rate phone number rather than a free-phone number.It advised her to follow a procedure, set out in the email, to log on to the freephone number."I was told I wasn't doing the right thing, even though I followed their instructions at the beginning. I didn't complain I just followed the new instructions. Everything seemed fine. Then I received my quarterly bill from BT and I had this huge amount of extra call charges on it." She says she couldn't afford to pay the &#163;98 bill and was frozen out of her system, leaving her without access to emails."I was so angry because I couldn't see what I had done wrong."Since she contacted Jobs &amp; Money, Freeserve has examined her case and concluded that it will pay her BT call charges "as a goodwill gesture". A spokeswoman says the company's technical helpdesk has failed to discover why Sheila carried on using the 0845 number after a second attempt to use the free service.
Having only just returned from Nokia's "launch" in Finland (more on this in Online next week), I haven't had a chance to congratulate the new best British blog,Scary Duck, and the othershortlisted blogs- a finer list of bookmarks for a weekend's browsing you couldn't hope to find. There's also some discussion over atMetafilter.
Sony is getting big in the notebookPC market, at least in the US, according to CNet. It certainly has the potential to become a Top 5 PC supplier, with Compaq dropping out (because of its takeover by Hewlett-Packard). IBM losing interest and Gateway having its own problems. It will then be interesting to see if there is a change of attitude towards the games division that sells PlayStation consoles. Currently, the PS guys spend a lot of time rubbishing PCs -- which wasn't a problem when Sony's PC business was a flop. But will the parent company still be happy if it sees sales of $200 games machines damaging sales of $2,000 PCs? Or will the PS2 pushers be told to can it?
This week's new KaZaA file-swapping software"taunts record labels", reports the BBC.
The New York Times [free registration required] has a story on Google's newautomated news service.
Freeserve yesterday claimed a small but significant victory in its long-running battle with AOL, the rival internet service provider it claims has been given a &#163;100m advantage by not having to pay VAT.A judge ordered a judicial review of customs and excise's decision to exempt AOL from paying value-added tax.Freeserve moved its Anytime service to Madeira, where VAT is charged at 13% rather than   the 17.5% levied in the UK, in retaliation.AOL has, Freeserve says, been given an unfair competitive advantage as the savings can fund customer offers Freeserve cannot match."We find it extraordinary that we should even need to undertake this action when this is money to which the UK government is already entitled," a spokeswoman said.A spokesman for AOL said that even if judicial review establishes that customs used   incorrect information in exempting AOL, that will not be the end of the matter.Customs would have to re-open the issue - on which it ruled in 1997 that ISPs not based in the EU should be treated as content providers and exempt from VAT, rather than as telecoms companies which are charged.The issue will be resolved next July when new rules will require AOL to register as a business in an EU state and pay the tax.
Bemused taxi drivers were tooting support and confused tourists snapping photographs of the 20 or so people clustered outside the high court in London, dressed in gaudy orange boilersuits and looking like rogue Hari Krishnas on acid.The group's charismatic leader emerged from the building to address his flock while a lawyer entering the court whispered to his client: "That's Stelios, the EasyJet man."The high court steps have seen many famous demonstrations over the years, but yesterday's protest was no call to redress some miscarriage of justice. The event was a publicity stunt by Stelios Haji-Ioannou, the head of EasyGroup, owner of the EasyInternet Cafe chain which finds itself on the defensive against legal action alleging music piracy over the internet.Sony Music and the British Phonographic Industry - representing the rival Universal, Virgin, Polydor and EMI labels - claim that the chain is liable for copyrighted music illegally downloaded from the internet by customers who could have "burned" the tracks on to compact discs, using CD burners on the cafes' personal computers.While Haji-Ioannou and EasyGroup are robustly defending themselves - yesterday saw an early snub for Sony, which unsuccessfully asked the court to stop public discussion of the case - record companies are asking that it pay &#163;100,000 compensation for estimated copyright losses. EasyGroup has broadened its defence to call on record companies to come up with an efficient and legal way for individuals to buy music over the internet."This is crazy," says Haji-Ioannou in the morning sun. "The record companies are criminalising ordinary users. What we're saying is that they have to give people a way of getting music without breaking the law. They are more interested in protecting their profit margins."His response echoes an argument going on across the world, with legal systems struggling to balance the demands of artists and record companies against the rights of individual consumers using digital technology that makes it easy to copy and distribute music.In the late 1990s the file-sharing website Napster became enormously popular, enabling users to swap music relatively quickly over the internet. The sheer volume of downloading, and the sharp fall in the cost of CD burners, sent shivers through the recording industry.Shipping productAs one senior executive put it, for 50 years record companies had been searching for cheaper formats. First came 45s in the 1950s, then popular stereo long-playing vinyl in the 1960s, audio cassettes in the 1970s and CDs in the 1980s. In the 1990s, the internet offered a way of packaging and shipping product for nothing.Having reached its nirvana, the industry lost control of distribution and ever since has been looking for ways of turning off the internet tap - until it finds a way of using the pipeline to make money.The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) targeted first Napster -   which was emasculated by sustained US legal action - and then the peer-to-peer networks that sprung up in Napster's wake - software that allows users to swap music, but without requiring a central administrator.Still the ease and simplicity of sharing music files - usually in the universal MP3 format - and copying CDs bothers the industry. EMI, for example, is expected to reassure investors at its results meeting next month that it is keeping a handle on music copying.According to analysts at Merrill Lynch, more than a third of the recorded music market is pirated sales. "Piracy has been a major issue in developing markets for many years, and continues to be a significant hindrance to the music market reaching its full potential," says the investment bank's music industry team.Music piracy is not new, and was certainly thriving well before the advent of the internet. Yet even at the height of Napster's popularity, sales of legitimate music worldwide (calculated in constant currency terms) continued to grow, reaching a peak in 1999. In 2000, when Napster was being shut down, music sales fell by 1.7%.Figures from Merrill Lynch suggest that music sales, like other retail sectors, are influenced by the rest of the economy. According to its analysis, the last similar downturn in sales came in the start of the 1980s, another period of worldwide economic downturn.An alternative argument - heard especially on techno-geek websites such as Slashdot - is that Napster and its successors allowed music fans to sample, for free, a variety of music that they would otherwise not have experienced. As a result, the availability of downloads may have encouraged music sales - users liked a band or album heard over the net, and went out and bought the CD. That would explain both the rise of Napster and the increase in conventional music sales.There is also a well-established legal concept of "fair use" that confounds many of the industry's claims about the use of CD burners to copy CDs, or conversion into MP3 files. The owner of a legitimately purchased CD is entitled to copy it for personal use into whatever format they wish.To music industry outsiders such as Haji-Ioannou, record companies are tackling the problem the wrong way. "Record companies make &#163;1.50 profit on every CD they sell," he says. "They don't understand that their model of doing business can't survive. They are going to be squeezed out unless they adapt."Caught in the middle of the argument are musicians and artists who earn copyright fees as their livelihood. "You can quote statistics all you want about the growth of the industry," wrote Fritz Benwalla on the Slashdot website, "but there's a very large contingent of musicians who are not super-famous but are known and making a living, for whom the sale of 100 CDs is meaningful in making the rent."
I was going to blog an Economist article puffingLinuxuntil I got to the end and found the phase: "even if its sales grow like topsy". From the lower case it's obvious that The Economist doesn't have a clue who Topsy (a little girl) was, or why she supposed she'd just growed. The capitalist weekly's lack of bylines hides the identity of the guilty party, but whoever it is should be locked up for a week with Uncle Tom's Cabin. Yes, I know a lot of journalists make the same mistake, but then, most of them never got past Topsy and Tim. The Economist is supposed to get these things right.
Nokia has unveiled its 3G phone in Helsinki, according to reports from theReutersandAPnews agencies. If you want one, it's 750 euros and come back next year....
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:The government has published its dossier outlining the threat posed by Saddam Hussein. Is there enough evidence to justify military action? What do you think?Pashmina:he is in mauritiusBronco:yeah but that dont prove he can swim thoHost_Chris2:I was referring to the dossier on Saddam Hussein*HugeDick69 has entered the NewsRoom*Pashmina:HE CAN SWIMBronco:hi ladeezman I mean hugedick69HugeDick69:still talking about barrymore?Pashmina:ladeezman we are not talking to u til u change yr username backHugeDick69:I cant it wont let meBronco:theres no new evidencePashmina:he went on a boat with no life jacket!HugeDick69:Chris2 I want to be LadeezMan againBronco:that dont mean nohtingHost_Chris2:username registration is not a joke. If you wish to change it, you'll have to re-registerPashmina:IT MEANS HE CAN SWIMHugeDick69:I tried! they said someone already got LadeezManHost_Chris2:if a username goes unused for 7 days, another user may claim itBronco:Mr69 how do we know u are the real LadeezManHugeDick69:ask me anythingPashmina:OK why aint u at workHugeDick69:theres a tube strike in LondonHost_Chris2:we are about to go to war, peoplePashmina:that was yesterday &amp; anyway u live in LeicesterBronco:its definitely him*jenni@boughtledger has entered the NewsRoom*jenni@boughtledger:NEWSFLASH: the spice girls are getting back together!!!Bronco:were is yr evidencePashmina:show us the dosserjenni@boughtledger:its in the paperHugeDick69:this is v bad. We must attakjenni@boughtledger:hi HugeDick69. Havnt seen you B4!Bronco:calm urself jenni@ its only LadeezManHost_Chris2:has anyone actually read the govt's dossier?jenni@boughtledger:oh. yick.HugeDick69:me indentity's gonePashmina:I wonder who the new LadeezMan isBronco:it coud be anyoneHost_Chris2:all chatters' identities are confidentialPashmina:we may never solv the mystry*LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*Host_Chris2:let's address the topicLadeezMan:i am nude nowconnection to server has been terminated...
BBC haystackRe Auntie Gets Personal (Online, 19 September). I was inspired to read about Ashley Highfield's vision of BBC New Media as a research resource for the nation. I hope the rumour that the BBC may "allow anyone who wants to use existing BBC content to do so" is true.Allowing individuals and publishers to pull selected ranges of stories from the BBC servers could lead to a flourishing of "new journalism" akin to that seen with weblogging. Even a humble site such as the British HCI Group's UsabilityNews.com,    to which I am an adviser, has a configurable and free-to-use news feed. Given that almost every story the BBC has published since 1997 is searchable, I would also like to see more emphasis on the visualisation of search results. We are still stuck in the 1994 Yahoo! model for presenting search results, and readers could really benefit from some innovation here, as they look for the information they need in this veritable haystack of stories. Any rumours here, Auntie?Nico Macdonaldnico@spy.co.uk&#183;Should the references to Bush House read Broadcasting House? The former is the headquarters of the world service in The Aldwych, the latter the (nominal) corporate headquarters (and spiritual home) of the BBC, in Portland Place.Richard Ruddrichard.rudd@aegis- systems.co.ukKeep talkingAlbert Beale writes: "I'd guess that half the people in London are so busy interacting with - and struggling to survive in - the real world that they're barely aware there are such things as video games"  "Most of the rest of us have never laid a finger on one and can't imagine this new example being likely to change that." (Feedback, September 19)  As the videogames industry made more money than the music or film industries last year, the idea that it is a minority interest is fairly unlikely. If half the people in London really aren't aware of    their existence, then I guess they don't talk to their children very much.Iain Lambertiainl@clara.co.ukSci fi fansRe Space elevate, in Web watch. Far from being "one of the most interesting ideas to emerge for years", it's actually been around quite a long time. Arthur C Clarke describes such a system in his 1979 novel, The Fountains of Paradise.  By an amazing coincidence, while Clarke was correcting the proofs for the novel, he received a copy of a Nasa document - A Space Necklace about the Earth - a translation of a publication by G Polyakov (a Russian physicist), who, in 1977, envisaged a chain of "space elevators" all linked by a continuous ring around the world. Maybe the guys at HighLift Systems are science fiction fans?Ron Gravesron.graves@btinternet.com
It's Thursday so the printed version of this week's Online is in newsagents' while the online Online ishere. Readers of theAsk Jackcolumn who want the Windows XP 1 Service Pack should note that the printed address is correct:http://www.microsoft.com/uk/windowsxp/servicepacks/sp1.asp. Unfortunately the Online version links the printed address to adifferentaddress:http://www.microsoft.com/uk/windows/default.asp.
It's the 21st century? Where are the robots? Long a staple of science fiction, robots have been working in manufacturing for decades but, save for a few luxury models, have made little impact in the home.That's all about to change, with the introduction last week of the first mass-market robot designed to help around the house - the Roomba Intelligent FloorVac, a home vacuum cleaner that doesn't cost much more than a regular vacuum cleaner. Created by iRobot, a robotics company based in Massachusetts, the Roomba is a little disk on wheels that vacuums any room and works out when it has finished. Large manufacturers such as Electrolux and Hoover are planning their own intelligent machines and, within a few years, there should be a multitude of affordable robots on the market.The Roomba marks the moment when robots finally enter our lives as useful tools. It's likely to prove as portentous as the introduction of the personal computer more than 20 years ago, and will affect our lives just as profoundly. As there has been little discussion about the impact on our emotional lives of surrounding ourselves with autonomous, intelligent robots, we are not prepared for what will happen when we open our homes to robots.The process of integrating robots into our lives will happen gradually: it will start with robots such as Roomba - simple gadgets that tackle a task. Over time, these robots will become more sophisticated and intelligent, and be able to perform far more than just chores. Before we know it, they will be omnipresent.There are two strains designed for the home: utility robots and entertainment robots. Eventually, these two will merge, as utility robots become more powerful and incorporate the qualities of entertainment robots such as Sony's SDR-4X. The SDR-4X is a humanoid-shaped machine that can walk and hold a conversation and, with its face-recognition technology, can even tell to whom it's talking. It can't do much besides entertain, but it's only a matter of time until household robots combine the sociability of the SDR-4X with the utility of the Roomba. The benefits of being able to speak and interact with your utility robots will be the initial impetus for adding artificial intelligence capabilities.Imagine being able to talk to your robot and explain which rooms need vacuuming and when. This will mark the turning point for home robotics: when the distinction between robots that work for us and robots that entertain us begins to blur. In all likelihood, we will find ourselves treating our new friends less like fancy appliances and more like companions.Dr Hiroaki Kitano, a senior researcher at Sony Computer Science Laboratories, and one of the creators of the Aibo, is well aware of the role robots will eventually play in people's emotional lives: "Some people might feel like they are very weird creatures, but we'll all get used to them gradually. Initially, humanoid robots will be very fragile, so we won't feel threatened by them. They won't be very powerful. Our goal is very safe robotics systems, such that people will feel comfortable interacting with them."Few people feel bad turning off their toaster, but many people who own an Aibo (myself included) will admit to feeling the same sorts of emotions towards this gadget as they do towards real pets. The Aibo reacts positively to being petted, and mimics basic emotions in a way that tugs at the heartstrings.Just ask any Aibo owner about the difficulty of disciplining an Aibo, or of turning it off once you're done playing with it. It's quite troubling to watch something that can walk around and interact with its environment suddenly drained of life. How about when your vacuum cleaner starts asking   you how your day has been? It may be very hard to have something in the house that seems alive, and not become attached to it.It's easy to say that a robot that cleans is just another appliance, but it's a mistake to underestimate the emotional attachment that can be made to an animate object, especially one that reacts so gleefully to our presence.The power of our deep-seated need for attachment in general is greatly underestimated. As they become more intelligent and lifelike, robots will begin to conjure up a host of emotionally ambiguous conundrums. Steven Spielberg got it wrong in A.I., his film about a robot boy programmed to love. The real question is not whether a robot can love, or even whether a human could grow to love a robot. If anything, a robot may be easier to love than a pet or a person.People will become not just accustomed to them, but attached to them in ways that are not too difficult to imagine. And just as people find it easier to form intimate relationships with strangers in internet chatrooms because the chance of rejection is low, many people may feel more comfortable surrounding themselves with robots. For, unlike a pet, they'll never die and, unlike a person, they'll never betray or abandon you.&#183;The Roomba Intelligent FloorVac is available from iRobot:www.RoombaVac.com. For use in the UK, a power converter would be needed for the charging unit, which runs on 110v&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Not all companies want to splash out on a formal customer relationship management (CRM) solution. They might feel it is too intensely technical for their taste, or they might be put off by the price tag of some of the more intensive systems. If so, they'd be doing themselves a fairly severe disservice, and ignoring a lot of cost-effective ways of taking care of their customers.The first thing to do when setting up the definitive low-budget CRM system is to look at what you already have and see whether it has the extra functions you might need built in. Microsoft Office Small Business Edition is no longer available, but if you have a copy, check its customer management functions; it will schedule meetings, log calls, prepare quotes for projects and all the other good things a solid CRM package should do. It is not the simplest of things to work with, but if you did buy that version of Office 2000 it is already paid for.Look also at your database if you have one. Inexpensive applications such as Filemaker Pro (expect change from £250) contain elements that will link into other applications and of course the database will contain as many customer records as you wish. If you are using it already, check the templates out.You might want to spend a little but not very much, in which case it is worth looking at the office suites mentioned on page 19, most of which include some sort of contact manager. Check also SmartAddress, downloadable in demo form fromwww.sa2K.com. The licence is £19.99 for a single user and it links contacts with appointments easily enough and logs calls.The issue here is what CRM actually is, beyond a three-letter abbreviation that is likely to put people off using it.For more intensive applications you can of course expect to pay more than £20. For £99 per user you can get a copy of Phonix from the William Dean Consultancy. This needs your computer to be connected to your phone; it intercepts the caller ID from your phone system and flashes up their details immediately the phone rings, drawing the information from various sources, such as Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Access and Sage.Avoiding the obvious software is often a good way to save money. Download sites on the internet almost all have inexpensive systems that will offer some form of contact or customer management or scheduling; checkwww.tucows.com/business/abooks95.htmlfor numerous organisers and address books at reasonable prices.   Look a little more closely, though, and you will find inexpensive systems such as iReferentLight, which can manage call centres, and VendAbility, which contains caller ID functions and supports remote users. Try it for free for 30 days and then spend $99 per user for the fully licensed version.Once you are at the £100 mark you start to arrive at the mainstream CRM tools. Goldmine is £127 for a single user, although the 10-user pack starts to look like serious money at £1,644. ACT! is now in its sixth version and is available from various sources for around the £100 mark in spite of its £129.99 price tag; again, multiple users will cost more.   It is easy to be put off by the CRM label. Jane Harrad-Roberts, consultant director of Marketing Projects, says: "As a marketing and PR consultancy, I strongly recommend even a simple CRM package for anyone - even private individuals. I first started working with them in 1985 and believe the label 'CRM' doesn't do it any favours. The title puts people off what is a very simple concept."We swapped from Telemagic (Sage bought the Californian company and messed it up) in spring 2001, reviewing all the couple of hundred quid tools and Goldmine, which we would have preferred but couldn't afford at the time - and it needed a new server."Marketing Projects now manages all of its contacts through ACT!, which accepts feeds from Outlook and many other sources if you have existing customer information. It ties all correspondence and files from external programs together whenever the user wants them to be linked in this way.Sage also sells Contact Manager, which is ACT! with extra links to Sage Line 50.   The programs at the cheaper end inevitably have to compromise to be affordable. People with multiple email addresses will grit their teeth at the email application within ACT!, and PocketPC support has yet to arrive for many of them without sometimes costly third party add-ons.But it is worth bearing in mind that if you just have a file full of business cards at the moment then for as little as £20 you can start organising the information, putting reminders into it and making it work a little harder for your company.
Chase: Hollywood Stunt DriverXbox	&#163;39.99  BAM! Entertainment 	***There is little doubt that the Xbox has a bright future.  Games such as Splinter Cell bode well, while Microsoft's marketing millions and a relatively easy development environment mean the machine's profile and release schedule will improve dramatically. For now, though, other than the decent, but ludicrously overhyped, Halo, there isn't much for Xbox owners to shout about.One of the latest releases, Chase: Hollywood Stunt Driver, helps a little. This is an exclusive Xbox title, although it bears similarities to Infogrames PS2 release Stuntman. So you get a similar range of film set pastiches playing the stuntman's (or woman's) role. From jumping through trains to destroying oncoming cars, there is much   to do, while the wide variety of vehicles and a well-designed and challenging career mode are also pluses.But there are too many flaws to make this a classic. Insufficient information is given for each stage, leading to frustrating trial and error, which, like Stuntman, leads to a tedious repetition of levels. There is some flexibility - not all goals are needed to succeed - but the rigid structure serves only to elongate the quantity, not the quality, of playing time.Also, the graphics are merely adequate, and do little to stretch the console. Nevertheless, Chase is fine for a quick half-hour blast and, until the big Christmas releases appear, it should help sate the gaming appetite of the hungrier Xbox owners. (GH)Stronghold: CrusaderPC	&#163;34.99 Firefly Studios/ Take 2 	****The original Stronghold game was medieval Lego at its very finest, with addictive gameplay and beautifully detailed depictions of castle life from the bakers baking bread in tiny ovens to the   fletchers whittling bows. All of that is still here in Stronghold: Crusader, which isn't strictly an expansion, or a sequel, but more like the second part of the original game.This time the action takes place in the Arabian deserts during the Crusades. This involves attempting to build your castle while establishing an economy and military force, then assaulting your neighbour's castle. Each AI has its own building and attack styles, which you'll have to learn to negotiate before you can reduce its castle to a pile of rubble.There's also a long single-player campaign, divided into four historical periods which teach you how to use the European units, the Arabian units, build and defend a   fortification and get to grips with the skirmish play aspect. This will be instantly familiar to fans of the first game, as much of the gameplay and mission structure is virtually the same.Both games are unashamedly good fun, which is often an aspect neglected in real time strategy games. The little details built into every unit and building make the game come alive. Crusader is the most fun you can have building castles that doesn't require a bucket, spade and trip to Bognor. (RP)Crazy Taxi 3Xbox	&#163;39.99 Sega/Infogrames ***On paper, the third iteration of an old, single player-only Dreamcast game does not strike one as the most essential or impressive Xbox exclusive. But Crazy Taxi 3 is one of those games that are so infectiously exhilarating and enjoyably idiotic that even the determinedly miserable would have to work hard to resist its charms. As you would expect, the Crazy Taxi blueprint remains intact: you must carry as many fares around three wackily reconstructed cities (San Francisco, Las Vegas and New York) within a time limit, executing   outrageous moves such as jumps and power-slides in your souped-up taxi.When you tire of paying customers, you can dip into a vast grid of mini-games, in which you might use your cab as a means of knocking over skittles or destroying UFOs.Apart from a host of new mini-games, the major additions to Crazy Taxi 3 are some outrageous new special car moves, new cabbies (who make little difference to the gameplay) and new types of customers, including American Football mascots and bodybuilders who preen hilariously. Crazy Taxi 3 will not destroy your social life, but it is extremely addictive, very funny and is handy to have around when you need a quick, cathartic burst of escapism. Ideal for those post-club, chill-downs, although you will want to turn off the dire nu-metal soundtrack. (SB)
Extract itOutlook Express has devoured my email Inbox and left me with only the past few days' worth of incoming mail - although from the file size of inbox.dbx, there are still more messages lingering somewhere. Is there software to repair the Inbox or can I rescue inbox.dbx another way?(Prof) Alastair G GaleJack Schofield replies:If an Outlook Express database (dbx) file is broken, there does not seem to be any way to repair it without losing its contents. The best option is therefore to save any recent mail, by dragging it from Outlook Express to a folder in Windows Explorer, and then replace the broken Inbox.dbx file with your back-up copy. (If the back-up is from CD, be sure to right-click the file and change it from Read-Only first.) You can restore the most recent email by dragging it from its folder in Windows Explorer and dropping it into Outlook Express, when it is open at Inbox.Alternatively you can close Outlook Express and rename Inbox.dbx to something else, such as Oldinbox.dbx. When you restart Outlook Express offline, it will notice Inbox.dbx is missing and automatically create a new one. You can then put your back-up inbox.dbx file in a temporary directory and import it. Do this by going to File|Import| Messages, selecting the correct program, then clicking the lower radio button to import mail from a store folder. The unofficial OE FAQ atwww.tomsterdam.com/insideOEoffers help with this and other OE problems. Also see the Microsoft Knowledge Base Article Q270670, How to Back Up and Recover Outlook Express Data.You can find this by searching Google for Q270670. However, if you do not have a recent backup, you should download Stephen Cochran's free program, DBXtract, fromhttp://chattanooga.net/~scochran/DBXtract.htm.This will extract all the mail from any dbx file and save each message as a separate plain text file. These files are named from the Subject line and have an eml extension, so, again, you can put them back in your mailbox by dragging them from Windows Explorer and dropping them in Outlook Express. An even better solution would be to import them into a proper database. I useAskSamfor this, but a $25 shareware program,Express Archiver, offers a much cheaper way of storing old mail securely.Cochran has written a new version of DBXtract, called DBXtendhttp://chattanooga.net/~scochran/DBXtend.htm. This can add a timestamp to the filename, so you can sort by time/date in Windows Explorer. It can also remove attachments, including the HTML part of multi-part messages. However, it costs $30 on CD and you cannot download a copy, so I have not tried it.More JavaI was interested to read Lynda's letter about the lack of Java on a computer running Windows XP (Septem  ber 19): I have the same problem. I have tried to download Service Pack 1 but, for my set-up, this came to 42MB, which would apparently take 146 minutes to download. As my ISP cuts me off after two hours, this is not an option.Jon MyerJS:XP's Service Pack 1, as mentioned last week, includes Microsoft's Java Virtual Machine. You can order a copy of SP1 on CD, free, fromwww.microsoft.com/uk/windowsxp/servicepacks/sp1.asp. Thanks to Laurie Robinson, IT Training and Support Officer at the University of Sheffield Union of Students, for this information.USB for NTI have a laptop running Windows NT. It has two USB sockets, which are disabled. How do I get NT to use them?Andy LedgerJS:Windows NT 4.0, launched in November 1996, does not support Universal Serial Bus (USB) sockets. The recommended solution is to upgrade to a later version of NT, either Windows 2000 or XP Professional. Search Google for the Microsoft Knowledge Base article Q196661 for more information.BSquarehas produced USB software for NT 4.0 for $39.95 but it does not support cameras or scanners.Word wiseI email many Microsoft Word documents to people, and inevitably they do not have the font I use, so the result is often messy. Is there a way of setting a "fall-back" default font within a document?Phil ClarkeJS:If Word does not have a font, it makes its "best guess" automatically, and I do not know of a way to change that. However, one solution is to send the fonts along with your documents. Go to Tools| Options and click the tab marked Save. Put ticks in the boxes next to Embed TrueType fonts and Embed characters in use only. Do not tick the latter if you want people to edit your documents.NotebookYou wrote about bargain PCs for under &#163;500. Do you have similar advice regarding laptops? I have a student daughter who wants one. Margaret HungJS:Unfortunately, notebook PCs still cost about twice as much as comparable desktop PCs, partly because of the high cost of LCD screens and lithium ion batteries. You can  get end-of-life and obsolete notebooks for around &#163;600-&#163;700 on the Tottenham Court Road in London. However, this is not a great saving on the limited special offers Dell puts on its website, or the new Toshiba Satellite 1400 "value" range. On the other hand, a second-hand buy may be more attractive. Old desktop PCs can always be taken apart for spares, but old notebooks are basically worthless.You could try to find something suitable oneBayor at least consult it as a guide to the maximum price you should pay. If buying second hand, it is probably best to stick to the major brands, such as IBM's ThinkPad range, HP's Omnibook and the various Toshibas.BackchatKD Boardman wrote from Bury St Edmunds to say that: "For the record, Tera is the ISO standard prefix for 10 to the powere of 12. &#91;Your&#93; 2 to the powere of 40 is a useful approximation when dealing with things structured and sized in a binary way." Most computing is based on binary numbers, and usually if I have 10 to the power of 12 of anything I call it a trillion.
Does it matter that Britain's highly creative computer games industry is being taken over by overseas corporations?Microsoft's confirmation that it is buying Rare - maker of Donkey Kong Country among others - doesn't matter by itself. Indeed, it may be good for Rare, which had been experiencing a deteriorating relationship with its previous  part-owner, Nintendo of Japan.Now it will make games exclusively for Microsoft's Xbox console. But Rare is only the latest computer games company to have been swallowed up by French, Japanese and American companies as the games industry inexorably follows motor manufacturing, and a long list of other industries others into foreign ownership.It is easy to say that this is just part of globalisation, from which everyone benefits - except for one thing. This is strictly one-way traffic. British video games companies haven't been buying up foreign companies on anything like the scale that foreign companies have been buying UK companies.This matters for two reasons. The first is the nurturing of the UK's domestic talent. A few weeks ago Lord Puttnam criticised the "creative deficit" in television programmes that made us so dependent on US imports rather than home-grown talent.That is not a problem in the games industry, We have an abundance of talent as kids who cut their programming teeth on the Sinclair Spectrum and BBC computers in the 1980s blossomed to become the computer games success stories of the 1990s.At one stage Eidos, publisher of the Lara Croft series, was the fastest growing company of any kind in the world with a market capitalisation of £1bn. Now it is worth only a fraction of that and is regularly tipped as the next takeover candidate.If Britain wants to protect and nourish this talent then it should make sure that it doesn't lose control of where the industry is going.The second reason it matters is that it is yet another example of the City's inability to fund creative industries, especially cyclical ones, that don't conform to its own myopic paradigms. If we are not careful, the computer games industry will go the way of the film industry.We have a rich reservoir of actors, writers, directors and technicians yet the overwhelming proportion of new films, including those with a UK content are financed from America. This matters because, worldwide, the computer games industry is worth more than the film industry and has greater growth potential.If we are not careful something similar will happen to the emerging mobile games industry, which will have a much bigger potential customer base than the video games industry since practically everyone in the industrialised world has a mobile phone.Creative initiative is already being stifled by the telephone companies' shortsighted attempts to snatch most of the revenue that mobile games will generate. This is the opposite of what should be done.They should be giving the vast majority of the premium rate income generated by games companies to the people who develop them. Otherwise they won't do it.They realised this early on in Japan, where content providers get 80% of the cost of the telephone calls made to access their products. This is as it should be. If they can't get a return on their extremely risky investment, mobile games companies won't have the resources to continue.When the telecommunications companies eventually realise that they have been killing the golden geese, they will start outbidding each other to secure the services of the best content providers. They haven't got long to change their minds.Today Nokia launched its first third generation (3G) phone. If people are going to pay the high prices demanded for these devices they will want serious new games and not just recycled ones from the video games industry.Unless the balance of power swings quickly to the content providers Britain will not even have the luxury of a mobile games industry vulnerable to foreign takeover because it won't be there in the first place.&#183;Victor Keegan is editor of Guardian Online
The computer industry would like to sell you the idea of using an amazing new input system: a "stylus" or "pen", and "ink", which taken together allow something called "handwriting". Of course, these are computerised versions. People who today use ballpoint pens to scribble in 50p notebooks will, from November 7, be able to buy radio-frequency pens that "write" on a green-ruled simulation of a 50p notebook displayed on a &#163;1,500 Tablet PC.It's an idea that is dear to the heart of Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who has hyped the Tablet PC in his last two Comdex computer   show speeches in Las Vegas in 2000 and 2001. "I'm already using a Tablet PC as my everyday computer," he said last year. "It's a PC that is virtually without limits, and within five years, I predict that it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America."This month, Microsoft finally delivered the software - Windows XP Tablet PC Edition - as part of the XP Service Pack 1. PC manufacturers are now preparing Tablets for the grand launch just six weeks away. They include Acer, Fujitsu-Siemens, Hewlett-Packard, China's Legend, Toshiba, Viewsonic, and Walkabout Computers. In the UK, both Research Machines and Time Group have signed up as hardware partners. Many more could follow. The PC industry has stopped growing and companies are looking for something, anything, that will kickstart sales.At best, the Tablet PC could be the breakthrough computer for people who don't like computers, and don't want to learn to type. They will be able to handwrite their email and send it in graphical form, just as though it had been written on paper, or post doodles on the web. It could open up a new market, though Microsoft isn't betting on it.Microsoft's more modest aim is to enable business users to get more value from their PCs by making them more versatile, according to Neil Laver, product manager for Tablet PCs at Microsoft UK. Today, people spend a lot of time in meetings while their PCs do nothing. With a Tablet PC, they will be able to pick it up from its desktop docking station ("grab and go" in Microsoft-speak), take it to their meeting and make handwritten notes. Many Tablet PCs, such as the Acer TravelMate 100 I've been using, are convertibles: they are also conventional notebook PCs. So, rather than being an expensive extra, a Tablet PC can be the user's only PC.Frank Gillett, an analyst with Forrester Research in Boston, thinks business people who are already familiar with computers will use Tablet PCs in meetings. There's "a social shift" that makes writing on a screen acceptable in situations where typing might not be, he says, and the Tablet PC's web access, via a Wi-Fi wireless network, is an added benefit.But even if the worst happens, and the whole thing flops, Tablet PCs are still going to sell in specialised niches where similar tablets are already in use. These are the situations where it is useful for people to be able to tick on-screen boxes and add handwritten annotations to "printed" forms. Potential users include policemen and firemen, surveyors and estate agents, doctors and nurses, teachers and students and market researchers and travelling salesmen. Toughened versions will find jobs on the factory floor.These sectors are where most industry analysts think the Tablet PC will succeed, and Gillett says the process will involve more than simply automating what exists today. By running powerful PC software, the Tablet PC can "transform mundane jobs like restocking store shelves," he says. "Tomorrow's Snap-on tool truck drivers will move from just selling socket wrenches to presenting custom ROI &#91;return on investment&#93; analyses of new   tools and provisioning plans for new auto-repair shops. It upskills the job."One of paper's great advantages is that it allows you to cross things out, highlight things and scribble notes in the margins of documents. Those things were sacrificed in the move to computer-based records, in exchange for the ability to search, sort and store vast numbers of digital records, and move them around the world at fantastic speeds. Adding digital pen and ink restores some of the advantages of paper while retaining most of the advantages of computerisation.Suppose you are a business executive or student. At the moment, you probably print out your work, and your boss or teacher annotates it by hand. A Tablet PC would allow you to keep to the same system, but submit your work electronically and have it marked on screen. Alternatively, in a meeting, a number of people with wirelessly networked Tablet PCs could all annotate the same documents. The Tablet PCs potential in "collaborative situations" interests Peter Kastner, chief research officer at Aberdeen Group. "I think it's more than the niche product people think," he says.What should be obvious by now is that the Tablet PC's "big idea" is that it captures handwriting as handwriting: it's not about handwriting recognition, or turning handwriting into text, which has been done before. Using the sort of technology familiar to Wacom tablet users, the Tablet PC screen captures handwriting fast enough for you to be able to write almost normally. In fact, I found I used Acer's tablet PC in two distinct modes. Most of the time I wrote in my almost illegible scrawl in Windows Journal, the notebook application, and saved the results as handwriting. If I wanted to convert my handwriting into text, I would write things much more carefully then invoke the recogniser and correct any errors.In my slow mode, the Tablet PC's handwriting recognition was just about perfect, though not always. ("The quiche from toe jumps over the lazy dog," said the Acer.) But even in high-speed scrawl mode, the machine sometimes read my handwriting better than I could, sometimes it produced gibberish, too.But the biggest problem with the pre-launch Tablet PC was, predictably, the lack of software. Handwriting has been integrated into the operating system, but apart from Windows Journal, not into applications. (Windows programs run in the normal way, but one wants fancy extras.) When I complained to Microsoft's Neil Laver that handwriting was less integrated in the Tablet PC than in Pocket PCs such as Compaq's iPaq, the gist of his reply was that PocketPC was a product, whereas the Tablet PC was a platform. "We're taking the usual Microsoft model in that most of the software will come from third parties," he said.Microsoft has provided Tablet PC APIs (applications programming interfaces) and a software development kit (SDK) so that software suppliers can "pen-enable" existing software, and write new programs. This will take time. Worse, the number of announced software partners is much smaller than the list of hardware partners, though it does include Adobe, Autodesk, Corel, Groove Networks and SAP. Not even Microsoft has done very much. Laver says Microsoft will offer a free add-on pack for Microsoft Office but "this is retrofitting an existing product. It's pretty clunky. The next version of Office will have greater integration."In other words, as with Windows, the Tablet PC's success will depend on programmers coming up with "killer applications" that people want to use. Fortunately, it is not hard to imagine programs   that will sell Tablet PCs, especially if they combine speech and handwriting. For example, Microsoft is working on a "journalist tool" that synchronises handwritten notes with digital audio recorded on the Tablet PC at the time. If it works well enough, I would probably be willing to pay a small premium for a Tablet PC over the traditional notebook PC that I would have bought instead.None of this suggests the Tablet PC is about to take over the world, but it doesn't look bad as version 1 of a new Microsoft platform. If it survives to version 3, in about 2007, it could be amazing.www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/tabletpc1972 DynabookAlan Kay joins Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center in California. He imagines a "dynamic book", or Dynabook, that users can take everywhere as their personal digital assistant. He also insists that computers should adapt to the way people work, not the other way around. Seewww.honco.net/os/kay.html1987 GoJerry Kaplan is convinced that handheld computers with handwriting recognition will dominate the 1990s the way minicomputers dominated the 70s and personal computers the 1980s. He founds Go to develop one.1989 GRiDGRiD Systems introduces the GridPad, a large tablet computer with a touch-sensitive screen, stylus and handwriting recognition software instead of a keyboard. It runs Microsoft's MS-DOS operating system.1991 Go v Pen WindowsGo releases PenPoint, its revolutionary operating system for pen-based computers, and has a face-off with Microsoft, which unveils the evolutionary Windows for Pen Computing (or Pen Extensions 1.0 for Windows 3.1), running on an NEC3125 tablet PC. Atari shows a prototype tablet ST; Momenta unveils the Pentop tablet PC. At Comdex in   November, IBM previews its first ThinkPad, a 6.3lb tablet computer running PenPoint, which goes on general sale in May 1993.1992 Palm foundedJeff Hawkins, who had worked on the GRiD GridPad, co-founds Palm to write software for pen-based electronic organisers, the first being the Tandy/Casio Zoomer. He perfects a simplified text-entry system called Graffiti.1993 PDA feverApple launches the Newton Messagepad with a fanfare of publicity. However, its handwriting recognition system works so poorly that the device is pilloried in the   Doonesbury comic strip. The Newton's failure kills the market for pen-based PDAs. Amstrad launches the PenPad PDA600 but its failure goes unnoticed.1995 Windows PenXMicrosoft ships Pen Extensions 2.0 for Windows 95, which becomes the standard for tablet computers used in vertical markets such as insurance, health care, transport and sales force automation. Manufacturers include Fujitsu and Fujitsu-ICL, MicroSlate, Panasonic, Symbol Technologies, WalkAbout and Xplore.1996 Palm v Windows CEPalm, now owned by US Robotics, launches the Palm Pilot, the first successful pen-based PDA. However, after USR is taken over by 3Com in 1997, Palm's founders and key staff leave to start Handspring. Microsoft launches Windows CE (Consumer Electronics), which runs on similar but inferior "palm-sized" pen-operated handhelds from Casio, Hewlett-Packard and Philips. CE is also used on some successful "pen tablets" such as Fujitsu's PenCentra range and the Advantech MobiPanel MP100.1996 Aha!Microsoft buys Aha Software, a small firm that has developed InkWriter software for pen computing. This   promptly disappears, but it could be assumed to live on in Microsoft's Ink and the Windows Journal in the Tablet PC.2002 Tablet PCNovember 7: Microsoft launches Windows XP Tablet PC Edition running on hardware from many different suppliers, some of whom already sell successful tablets in the industrial market. Some will see it as a re-run of the disastrous 1992 effort to sell Windows for Pen Computing. But it took Microsoft a decade to make a success of Windows, first announced in 1983. Its third major attempt at pen-based computing could also be the one that takes off.Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Why would anyone want to pay by mobile phone? One reason is to buy embarrassing items. Using the m-pay card service launched by Vodafone this week, customers can buy from the Blushing Buyer internet site without having to talk to anyone.The site offers everything from condoms to "sexy chocolate" to spray for smelly feet. You can make everyday purchases via the web or Wap (the mobile internet service) using the same Vodafone service. These include Odeon cinema tickets and will soon include tickets for Warner Brothers' venues.Vodafone subscribers can also pay for compact discs -  from CD-Wow - track down old mates on Friends Reunited, or order champagne from Just Champagne. To use the service, customers need to register their card details at the Vodafone m-pay web site. Thereafter when they connect to, say, the Odeon Wap site from their mobile, all they need do is choose the film they want to see and type in the four-digit personal identification number they have been given.Jim Wadsworth, head of m-commerce at Vodafone UK says: "Customers no longer have to type in their credit card number, expiry date, their address and name." This makes it much faster and more practical to buy goods from a mobile. You don't even need to type in a mobile number. The procedure for buying from an ordinary website is a little more complex though it still involves registering at the m-pay card site.The user chooses what to buy, puts it in his shopping cart then clicks on the m-pay logo and types in a user name and a password. But this is still faster than typing in a whole lot of card details. It should be safer, too, as  Vodafone will send the user a security number via SMS which they type into the website. This is a randomly generated number that changes every time the user makes a different purchase. Vodafone's service is the first mobile macro-payment service to be offered by a UK operator.However, customers of other networks who want to try out mobile payment can register on the internet for Paybox, a service 50% owned by Deutsche Bank. This can be used to pay for large items.  All UK operators now offer micro-payment services for buying items up to &#163;5. The items are added to users' bills or deducted from their remaining pre-paid credit. Micro-payment is encouraging mobile customers to spend more."Many operators, such as T-Mobile, are planning to increase micro-payment limits," says Pamir Gelenbe, business development director of Flytxt, a mobile marketing company. Flytxt has also developed software that can be operated independently of an operator and enables mobile subscribers to make purchases that exceed the operators' micro-payments limit for specific campaigns - such as TV charity fundraising events.&#183;A mobile phone recycling scheme run by Essex-based Shields Environmental and backed by all four UK mobile operators as well as Dixons, The Link, Currys and PC World, plans to help reduce the mountain of no-longer used mobiles ahead of European Commission legislation next year. Richard Branson'sVirgin Mobile will donate &#163;5 to the Red Cross for every one of its phones that is recycled.  Vodafone, which has had recycling boxes in stores since April, says 700 a week are being recycled and it is on course to donate &#163;100,000 to the Flora &amp; Fauna charity by the end of the year.Useful linkswww.vodafone.co.uk/mpay-cardswww.paybox.co.ukwww.flytxt.co.uk
Up to 2m blind and partially sighted people are being excluded from easy access to the internet because of poorly designed websites that may also break the law.Under the Disability Discrimination Act, service providers have to make "reasonable adjustments" to their services to make them accessible to disabled people. But according to the Royal National Institute for the Blind (RNIB), many web developers are completely unaware of their responsibilities, leading to confusion and frustration for disabled web users.Julie Howell, internet campaigns officer for the RNIB, says: "Blind and partially sighted people are being excluded from one of the most important technological breakthroughs of recent years. We feel that it may take a legal test case to make companies sit up and take notice."Blind and partially sighted people can access the internet using a number of technologies, such as Braille keyboards that plug into the back of the computer, and special web browsers (screen readers), such as Jaws and WindowsEyes, which can turn text into speech.But many companies still fail to consider the needs of disabled people when designing their sites. For example, all graphics should have alternative text (alt text) descriptions that can be interpreted by screen readers. This should also apply to links. Blind people usually navigate web pages using the keyboard tab key, rather than a mouse. If the cursor lands on a link that simply asks the user to "click here", it is not very helpful.Audio files should also have text equivalents to help people with impaired hearing. Partially sighted and colourblind users should be able to change the font size and colour scheme, making pages easier to read. And if websites use frames, a no-frames alternative should be provided. The same should apply to sites that use Flash animation.Although the latest access technologies can just about cope with Flash and other popular web design software, many disabled people using older versions of the programs are effectively excluded from sites that fail to provide text-based alternatives.Such ignorance and indifference from companies is doubly frustrating given the internet's many benefits. The web has opened up a new world of opportunity for disabled people, enabling them to access information, shop and bank far more easily than they could before.  Paul Porter, who works for the RNIB in London and has been blind from birth, explains: "The internet has revolutionised information provision and shopping for us. If I wanted to browse through a CD shop before, I had to ask for assistance. Now I can browse online without help and listen to music samples. It's so much more convenient."Porter likes shopping for music at Amazon (www.amazon.co.uk) and regularly orders food from Tesco, which has set up a separate site specifically designed for disabled people (www.tesco.co.uk/access)."The internet has also made it easier to access basic information, such as weather forecasts, train times and credit card balances," adds Porter. "It has put us on an equal footing with normally sighted people - a situation we've never had before."When studying at university, Porter would have to ask friends to read articles to him. Now he can access them online and enjoy more autonomy. And with Braille publications being so bulky, the digital format offers considerable space-saving advantages. Through sites such as Audible (www.audible.com), blind people can download books to their computers without having to clutter up their homes with Braille or audio tapes.Redesigning websites to meet the needs of disabled people is not particularly difficult. Yet Nick Lansley, IT manager at Tesco.com, says: "When we wanted to set up our dedicated site we found that design agencies didn't have a clue about how to write code for visually impaired customers. We did it ourselves in consultation with disabled users."The site took a few months to develop and cost just £30,000, and Tesco is now taking more than 1,000 orders a week through it.The World Wide Web Consortium, the organisation that promotes common internet standards, set up the web accessibility initiative (www.w3c.org/wai) to promote best practice in accessible web design. It developed clear and detailed guidelines for web developers. And the Centre for Applied Special Technology (CAST) has a program called Bobby (www.bobby.cast.org), which tests websites for accessibility and highlights problems. The internet industry has few excuses left.Howell is conciliatory: "We want to get across the message that accessibility is not about stifling innovation in design, it's about enabling people." But if companies don't get the accessibility message fast, a few companies could soon find their websites being hauled up before the beak.
Still rollingThe Rolling Stones are 40 this year and their official website has just had a facelift to commemorate. Elsewhere, fans across the world are sharing memories and personal accounts, and the BBC's new radio station, 6Music, has produced a decent audio documentary to celebrate the anniversary.www.rollingstones.comwww.meandtherollingstones.comwww.bbc.co.uk/6music/artists/rollingstonesClick on peaceAs the filmmaker Ken Loach pointed out last week, there is a thoughtful discussion going on about whether the UK should go to war with Iraq. There's a wealth of websites opposing war with Iraq (far fewer are pro-war), and an online campaign, organised by the Stop The War Coalition and the Muslim Association of Britain, is promoting the nationwide Don't Attack Iraq demonstrations taking place on Saturday.  The anti-war movement is using the web to unite disparate groups such as trade unions, students and Islamic organisations.    More than 10,000 have signed an online petition addressed to Tony Blair and there are other sites - such as SignUpFor Peace - that are collating international opposition.  In the US, folk legend Pete Seeger, Dean Ween (of rock band Ween) and hip-hop star Mary Harris have released an anti-war song called The Bell that is being distributed free over the net.www.stopwar.org.ukwww.mabonline.netwww.petitiononline.com/cndstwcwww.signupforpeace.comwww.stephansmith.comAd ValueThe AdWords Happening is the intriguing tale of how a French artist managed to get 12,000 people to read his "poems" in 24 hours before finally being censored by Google. Christophe Bruno, a Parisian, placed poems instead of adverts on Google's AdWords - a self-monitoring service that allows users to place small adverts alongside the search engines results for specific key words. The first word Bruno bought was "symptom".Each time someone searched for the word, they could see Bruno's "poem" in the top right corner of the page. With AdWords, you only pay if someone clicks on to your site, and you are given details of exactly how many times your ad has been published. Bruno was able to calculate how much certain words are worth.In April, he found that the word "sex" was worth $3,837 per month, while "art" a mere $410. "Net art" is worth five cents.Bruno claims he's stumbled on "a situation in which any word of any language has its price, fluctuating according to the laws of the market". The commodification of language might not be a bad thing, he quips: it might make you "think twice before writing your sentence".www.iterature.com/adwordsSpeed of LightIf you've always fancied making a music video but don't even have a camera, maybe you should take a cutting out of David Crawford's show-reel. Crawford has taken two of his favourite artists - Joy Division and The Ramones - and created music videos using only stock photography bought for a "nominal fee" from ArtToday. com. The videos, which work around lyrical keywords, are different each time thanks to a set of complicated algorithms.www.lightofspeed.comStreet lifeKevin Barbieux is a homeless man who has been living in a shelter in Nashville for the  past 12 years. But every day he manages to haul into town and visit the public library where he uses a computer to upload a weblog dedicated to a life on the streets. He is a good, clear writer who professes a love for Steinbeck and Hemmingway. Surprisingly, Barbieux recommends that you don't give money to beggars, though a bag filled with a razor, soap and a few sweets can help.  Like some "non-homeless" weblogs, this has a donation button on the site. Barbieux says he isn't getting rich, but a few tips allow him to eat at a burger bar instead of mission food and use a public laundry.http://thehomelessguy.blogspot.comFugue of ArtAnother example of someone visualising their favourite music can be seen in Elizabeth Harington's interpretations of The Art of Fugue, the music Johann Sebastian Bach was working on when he died in 1750. The Art of Fugue has fascinated scholars for centuries. Some believe it contains a coded last will and testament, while others argue the work is unfinished. Harington has designed 14 folded etchings interpreting Art of Fugue, and they offer a beautiful insight into the mind of a great composer.http://colophon.com/gallery/harington/fugueNew &amp; noted&#183;Computers are just furniture:http://kristaconnerly.net/sleep.html&#183;If HP Lovecraft did Google:http://cthuugle.com&#183;Money-off vouchers online:www.wishvalue.co.uk&#183;The new Four Feathers movie has a neat take on online chess:www.fourfeathersmovie.com&#183;Play the pop charts:www.fantasytop40.comSix of the bestFair tradeOverviewwww.fairtrade.org.ukFind fair shopswww.bafts.org.ukBuy onlinewww.fairtradeonline.comCauses of debtwww.jubileeplus.orgEthical linkswww.ethical-junction.orgSpecial reportwww.guardian.co.uk/fairtradeThe following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column,  Tuesday October 1 2002In the above article we said of JS Bach's the Art of Fugue, "Some believe it contains a coded last will and testament, while others argue the work is unfinished". In fact, it is generally accepted that they have won the argument.
On Monday, Richard Granger, a 37-year-old management consultant takes up his post as Britain's highest-paid civil servant. He's on &#163;250,000 a year - more than his boss, the National Health Service's chief executive Nigel Crisp (about &#163;150,000) and more than his boss Tony Blair (&#163;163,000).Don't envy Granger, yet. His post, director general of NHS IT, was created to take the rap for running the world's biggest and most complex single IT project, on a terrifyingly short timetable.Details of the national implementation programme, as the project is called, are still trickling in from the health department. But the central aim is clear: to replace the Babel of IT, on which today's NHS relies, with a handful of standard, interconnected systems.The plan faces scepticism, and not just from the usual clinical suspects. A central component - the sharing of records between the NHS and local councils' social services departments - will alarm privacy campaigners. Existing NHS suppliers are up in arms about the prospect of being driven out of business.Even when broken down into individual components, the programme's size and complexity boggle the mind. An outline specification published last month for one element, the integrated care records service, runs to 175 pages.By 2005, if all goes well, integrated records will start to replace hundreds of IT systems storing patients' details in hospitals, GP's surgeries and social services departments.When we move through our "patient's journey" - from GP appointment to surgery to home care - our information will follow us. The system will do a huge number of other things, including notifying all NHS and care organisations when a patient dies. Bereaved families will no longer receive letters addressed to dead loved ones, reminding them their appointment is due.That's if it all works, and the omens are not good. The most recent public sector IT fiasco, the Criminal Records Bureau, was swamped by the need to handle a few thousand inquiries a day. According to the specification document, an integrated care records service for the NHS would have to to handle around 30m transactions a day - around the clock.In the government's eyes, the only people capable of creating such a service are the very largest "systems integration" firms such as CSC, EDS and IBM. So another part of the programme aims to replace the current NHS IT cottage industry, in which hospitals and GP's surgeries buy their own systems, with a national deal with a few industry giants.These "prime service providers" will take on contracts worth hundreds of millions of pounds to run administrative systems, as well as new services such as electronic appointment booking and integrated records.For the big players, it's a massive opportunity. Companies such as EDS, which last month lost one third of its stock value because of the downturn in the US, see the NHS's billions as a lifeline.For smaller specialist companies, the picture is less rosy. IT companies are already warning of a planning blight because hospitals and the new primary care trusts are postponing IT developments until the new national picture emerges. Those with specialists skills, such as hooking up intensive-care monitors and X-ray machines to web servers, are hawking their wares around the potential providers.However, the uncertainty is unlikely to last long. The NHS programme is being rushed through at a pace that puts such projects as the West Coast railway line to shame. D-day is April 1 next year, when new funding promised by the chancellor becomes available and the new systems start to be installed.With the prime minister's backing, only two things could stop the programme. One is a full-scale war; the other is the Treasury's office of government commerce, which, anxious to avoid the mother of all public-sector IT fiascos, will be going through Granger's spreadsheets and project plans with a fine-toothed comb.
And the winner is... a duck. AScary Duckto be precise: Alistair Coleman's witty, irreverent blog has beaten 300 rivals to take the title of Best British Blog 2002 and claim the prize of &#163;1,000.His blog features intelligent, confessional and entertaining rambles on everything from September 11, nuclear war and football hooliganism to the latest antics of a local dolphin nicknamed Randy.It impressed the judges with its originality and personality: one described it as: "magnificent - well-written, focused and insightful". Another said: "The best writer of the bunch, the content is excellent."He was closely followed by two highly commended efforts:IMakeContent.com, andGreenFairy, both of which contained excellent writing, design and links along with strong personalities.Behind them came the very stylishBlogjamandLinkMachineGo- which is a great starting point if you want links to intelligent online content. Overall, we were delighted with the quantity and quality of the entries. The imagination, effort and energy that people are putting into blogs is deeply impressive.There were no easy decisions, and just about every entry had something going for it. In particular, the 30 blogs listed here provide an excellent sample of what is one of the most exciting media phenomena of recent years. So, how did we judge such a wide range of blogs - and decide which was best? First, we had an initial trawl of the full 300 entries, selecting a short list of 30 that we felt best matched our criteria. All of them are listed here.Then each of the judges worked alone, marking each blog out of 10 for the quality and personality of its writing, and out of five for design, originality and variety of links and for its "sense of purpose".This last criterion was important. It didn't really matter whether a blog was a deeply personal journal, or collaborative blog around a single subject. What mattered was whether you could see what the blog was setting out to do, and whether it fulfilled that ambition. All the scores were then aggregated, and the top five are the ones you see listed before you.Scary Duck, incidentally, had the highest vote for writing, Blogjam had the highest marks for design and LinkMachine Got the highest marks for its links. If we do this next year - and we hope we will - we may introduce categories, in particular, a youth category: there were some great entries from under 18s, such aswww.amateurish.org, but they weren't quite right for this award.Congratulations to the winner, the five runners-up who claim &#163;100 each, and all those shortlisted. And many thanks to all who entered. We will continue to promote the best of British blogging both on these pages, and on Guardian Unlimited atwww.guardian.co.uk/weblog.The best of the bunchWinner:Scary Duckhttp://scaryduck.blogspot.comHighly commendedI MakeContentwww.imakecontent.comGreenfairydotcomwww.greenfairy.comRunners upblogjamwww.blogjam.comLinkMachineGowww.timemachinego.com/Plenty of tastewww.plentyoftaste.comThe 24 shortlisted blogsA donkey on the edgewww.donkeyontheedge.comanglepoised.comhttp://anglepoised.combagpusscoffeeshopwww.bagpusscoffeeshop.co.ukBar Room Philosophywww.barsophy.co.ukBloggerheadswww.bloggerheads.comDayoramawww.gprem.com/dayoramaExploding Fistwww.explodingfist.comGina Snowdoll's Eeks! It's a Bloghttp://gina-snowdoll.blogspot.comI Love Everythingwww.iloveeverything.co.ukif you lived here, you would be home by nowwww.quinparker.comimperial doughnuthttp://imperialdoughnut.blogspot.comInterconnectedhttp://interconnected.org/homemalevolewww.malevole.comMassivewww.mssv.netminor 9thwww.minor9th.comNaked Blogwww.nakedblog.comNot You, The Other Onehttp://interconnected.org/homePeter D Cox Personal web loghttp://pws.prserv.net/pdcoxProbably Pleonasticwww-users.york.ac.uk/~mjb135Taglinehttp://ijusttype.com/taglineThe Breast Chronicles - Reshaping Breasts on the webwww.breastchronicles.netThe World of Badgerwww.outofthetrees.co.uk/badgerUK Environmentwww.ukenvironment.orgVoxpoliticswww.voxpolitics.comThe judges:Anita Roddick, the founder of The Body Shop; Evan Williams, chief executive of Pyra Labs, the creators ofBlogger.com; Jon Bains, chairman of Lateral, the leading creative agency; Jen Bolton, the founder ofGBlogs; Steve Bowbrick, chief executive ofAnother.com; Emily Bell, editor in chief of Guardian Unlimited; Simon Waldman, director of digital publishing at Guardian Newspapers Ltd and Alan Rusbridger, editor of the Guardian.
Even as the light has long dimmed on the dotcom boom, and the feverish partying is now just a faint hangover, the technology crowd is massing once more.But this time, instead of clamouring at the bar at a packed-out First Tuesday event, Britain's e-business people are hitting the web sites before hitting the bars.This time it's not about WANs, Wi-Fi or wireless networking, but real live networking, enhanced and aided by web sites built specially from the ground up to connect people.The vanguard of this revival is a site that emerged from Silicon Valley. In October 2000, during the dotcom meltdown, San Francisco-based entrepreneur Adrian Scott decided to create a site that could help his friends maintain their network of contacts between career changes. Members ofRyze.orgcan post information about themselves, a list of their friends, and leave private messages for each other. It turned out there were side benefits."At an average party, you spend all that time going through the first introductions, but on Ryze you've got a profile that gets you through that awkward stage," says Scott. "It's like a cocktail party where everyone is wearing a resume."Last December, Ryze's popularity escalated and it started to introduce extra subscription-based services. In February, Europeans started posting themselves on to the site. There are now around 14,000 members, and Scott says the site is breaking even. There are Ryze drinks parties in most major US cities, and a London event is on the cards.Of course, sites where people "network" are not new. Similar sites such as PlanetAll and Sixdegrees.com emerged and faded in the late 1990s. PlanetAll was bought by Amazon and Sixdegrees.com was sold in 1999 - before the crash - for $125 million.Here in the UK, the combination of a burgeoning interest in blogging and the buzz around Ryze has been joined by the re-launch of the four-and-a-half-year-old Ecademy.com, a free, monthly networking group for e-business people that features regular speakers.Inspired by his wife Penny, &#252;ber-networker Thomas Power set up Ecademy in 1998 as a vehicle to sell his e-business books and corporate training.Since then, Ecademy has gained more than 12,800 members in 104 countries - 7,000 in the UK. It now employs six staff and, says Power, brings in around &#163;500,000 a year by putting together ad hoc groups of consultants found among Ecademy members.In March, the free-to-access site re-launched, allowing people to create weblogs, and in September it created a "network" facility to let members introduce themselves to "friends of friends".   The site has "gone gangbusters since" says Power - perhaps helped by the recession's diaspora of "freelancers" - and has even seen a wedding among two members.But the ever upbeat Power - who has a weakness for such business slogans as "Your face is your brand" - is not satisfied with 12,000. He wants 2m.  The first goal is to reach 10,000 members in the UK by January.His belief is that a critical mass of 10,000 people will create a self-generating community. Power points to the success of Friends Reunited.And it's not just the be-suited business crowd that's getting together via the web. Among the UK's tech scene, hardcore geeks are emerging, blinking into the light, using Meetup.com to coordinate monthly drinks in London.Meetup.com was co-founded by Scott Heiferman in New York just after September 11. Its main revenues come from the bars and cafes it uses to bring together tens, sometimes hundreds, of people through their doors. It now boasts more than 50,000 members. They meet to discuss almost 600 topics, ranging from investing strategies to Jack Russell terriers, in 525 cities around the world.There is, however, some scepticism among those whose see online networking as a poor imitation of real life. Margie Lindsay, founder ofPureWords.co.ukand a member of Ecademy, says: "They   sent me an email talking about the new networking features, and about how they are going to get really big, but I just thought, no I don't really like big." She's concerned the quality of networking will drop as the quantity goes up, driven by the technology. "Other forums emphasise the regular offline events - I find them more useful," she says.Elizabeth Varley, the director of networking groupOnlineContentUK.org, thinks networking online has its place. "A balance of both online and offline networking is great, it's meeting face-to-face that is often the main goal. Email can also obscure personality which is one of the things that makes real-live networking so popular."Last week, Ryze.org's Adrian Scott had 259 "friends" listed. Thomas Power - who says he meets 1,000 people a year - had 474.Testament, perhaps, to the claim that technology can win you new friends and influence people. Certainly a recent Ecademy drinks party seemed not unlike going to a meeting of good-natured football fans where Power (a Chelsea supporter) is the David Beckham of e-business, his Ecademy team the celebrity players.It seems the site's "networking" hyperlink is here to stay.
An employee is looking  at obscene websites.  What can we do?Anonymous posterRB:You need to find a way to  restrict certain types of  internet access without  burdening yourself with timeconsuming  technical  problems. There are a number  of internet security products  on the market that offer an  all-in-one approach to  security and access; most of  the reputable manufacturers  offer small business products.  It is vital you opt for one that  offers auto-updates via the  web, so that you can keep on  top of your filtering needs. If  you are big enough, you might  want to consider getting a  router, or other access device,  that can address these issues  at the point of access to the  internet.PC:Make sure you have an acceptable use policy (AUP)  that clearly spells out to your  employees what is and is not  permitted. This should also cover internal and external  email, downloads and access during working hours. In  terms of technical solutions,  the passive approach entails tracking the sites your employees access and  regularly auditing this to  ensure you detect anybody breaking the rules. This will involve configuring your firewall or web proxy service to log access information. The active approach involves using a URL or content filtering package (normally in conjunction with your firewall) to actively detect and  prevent access to potentially 'bad' sites. Check outwww.wensense.comfor an example  of this type of software.DA:Draw up a policy document as part of your contract of employment that lets your staff know that the internet must be used primarily for business purposes and if they want to  use it for personal purposes they must do so outside contractual hours. Also, you should specify not just obscene sites to be excluded but other potentially illegal and offensive sites as well.  You should also install monitoring software that allows you to check on IT use by your staff, and let them know that you have done so.  Word should soon get around, and hopefully your staff will not want to run the risk of embarrassment by being caught.AR:Generally speaking, there  is no difficulty in disciplining  employees for the  inappropriate use of email and internet provided the company has a clear stated policy of which all employees have been made aware and which respects the relevant privacy regulations and  directives. The conditions for personal use of email and the internet need to be stated, and the degree of scrutiny to be used must be made clear.  Taking the view that prevention is better than cure, there are a number of  commercially available packages that can sit in the firewall and deny access to incoming email and websites that contain certain defined keywords. Sites likewww.knowledgestorm.comoffer comprehensive lists of  these. In the case of racist  or other offensive material,  it can be reported towww.internetwatch.org.uk, which also has further information on the issues.We are a small consultancy based out in the wilds and are having  the devil's own job getting  broadband. Help!Peter SmithDP CommunicationsRB:There is some good news on the horizon - BT is  releasing satellite broadband  access. It is working on bidirectional  satellite access, which will offer speeds of up to 512kbps up and down; at the moment outbound page requests run at 64kbps for  satellite access. In the  meantime, single-channel  ISDN and two-way radio access are pretty much the only options. The most economical route is probably going to be an ISDN fixedcost monthly service. This  could set you back as little as £20 and most ISPs will offer  this service.AR:Your only realistic possibility is to go for a  satellite link (unless you are  in line of sight of one of the  projects such as in Lancashire  where the schools are  connected in a wireless  network). This can be quite  expensive (up to 27 times the  cost of an ADSL connection),  will be slower and may be  affected by weather. At the  last count about 17 companies  were able to supply a satellite  connection. Further  information can be found at  broadband-help.com, which  includes a review section with  details on a wide range of  broadband suppliers,  including satellite.PC:Welcome to broadband  Britain! As you have  discovered, BT's much  heralded ADSL broadband  service only covers major  population centres (read: big cities). BT has recently  announced it will allow consumers to nominate exchanges to be upgraded to support ADSL - around 700 customers must ask for the service at a particular exchange. Many cable  companies offer broadband internet access, but again this  tends to be limited to urban areas (where the provision of  cable services is more  economically feasible). The  next option is satellite. The  demand for broadband services is fuelling the  development of a number of  service providers offering  satellite broadband services.  Check out the Google directory category  (www.directory.google.com).  This gives around half a dozen providers offering  broadband services over  satellite at reasonable cost.DA:If BT does not provide  ADSL in your area and you  urgently need broadband  access there are three  immediate alternatives.  Satellite broadband allows  you 150k uplink with 500kps  down - find out more atwww.BTopenworld. Another  option arises if there is a cable  operator active in your area,  Trywww.telewest.comorwww.NTL.comto find out if you are served.  The third option, which is not as fast but adequate for most small businesses, is dual-line  ISDN. This uses existing BT cabling to give you 128k twoway communication, and you  can have always-on service. It  is not as fast as satellite  broadband, but it is a widely  used and reliable solution.&#183;What's your  problem?  Do you have a problem  you'd like our panel to  help with? Send your  question to  Business Solutions,  Guardian Online,  119 Farringdon Road,  London, EC1R 3ER,  or email them toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
In common with motherhood and apple pie, it's hard to argue with the basic concept of customer relationship management (CRM). After all, if you accept the premise that the more you know about your customers, the better you are equipped to serve them, then it makes sense to gather as much information as possible about the individuals who buy your products or services.Once this data has been collected, stored on a database and analysed, it can be used to raise standards of service, improve the effectiveness of marketing campaigns, reduce customer churn and sell more products.It's a seductive idea - seductive enough to keep sales of eCRM solutions buoyant, even after the dotcom implosion and the decline in IT and e-business spending. However, as Ed Thomson, an analyst with business intelligence company Gartner, points out, it tends to be the world's blue chips that are doing most of the spending, with smaller companies lagging far behind."Worldwide, around 70% of software licence sales can be attributed to the big corporations, 20% to medium-sized companies and around 10% to small firms. Sales to the small business sector are tiny," he says.The landscape is changing, however. According to Thomson, there are currently around 350 software companies and solutions providers seeking to sell eCRM products and packages to medium-sized and, to a lesser extent, small businesses. As a result, prices are falling and while corporates have been known to spend tens of millions of pounds on CRM projects, vendors are putting a much greater emphasis on affordability and the potential for return on investment. So what are the options for small and medium-sized firms in search of some cost-efficient eCRM action?Self-serviceIf you're already trading on the web, moving your customers towards a greater degree of self-service is probably the most obvious first step down the eCRM road.It is a simple equation: the more time a customer spends online, the less time they will spend talking to sales or customer support staff. The customer gains in terms of convenience and the company ultimately saves on staff costs. In theory at least, it is a win-win situation.According to Peter Edgar, managing director of Dragnet, a solutions provider focusing mainly on the SME market, the simplest approach to self-service is to "write the business rules of a site to meet the requirements of the customer". In practice this is duplicating at least some of the functions of a retail outlet or call centre on the web - for instance, allowing a retail customer to check account details or making it possible for a business customer to get the discounts they would expect if talking to a member of the sales team. "It's about providing a system that reflects the offline deal with the client," says Edgar.It is an approach that can pay dividends, particularly for companies selling complex products that require after-sales support. Help desks are expensive to run and if sufficient staff aren't available, customers get frustrated with long queues. But online knowledge bases and dynamic FAQs can provide a means to both improve service and take the pressure off support staff.For example, US-based Software Company Rightnow Technologies has set up electronic customer support facilities for a wide range of UK clients, including British Airways and Easyrentacar. The idea is that these companies post a knowledge base of answers to common questions backed up with an email query facility. "If the answer isn't available online, email questions are routed to the most appropriate person in the support team," says Marcus Bragg, Rightnow's UK managing director.Over time, selected questions emailed to support staff are added to the knowledge base, improving the online resource. The idea is that as the knowledge base expands, calls to the customer support centre fall away. "We can demonstrate that the system results in a 60%-80% reduction in calls to call centres," says Bragg.Rightnow uses an outsource model. While its clients supply the data, Rightnow manages the knowledge base and email routing. Although the £7,000 set-up charge is steep, Bragg says customers then have a free 30-day trial and subsequent charges can be negotiated in line with expected return on investment. Bragg says this means the solution is viable for small firms, especially if they stand to gain from reducing call centre traffic.The bigger pictureSelf-service is a relatively small subset of eCRM, but the managed service model adopted by Rightnow can be applied to more complex business of gathering and disseminating data across multiple channels.Mainstream eCRM tends to be focused on supplying sales staff with instant access to customer information. On the face of it, that sounds simple enough, but these days the information that sales staff see on screen goes far beyond the basics of name, address, telephone number and purchase history.A mobile phone company or bank might want to know which customers are the most profitable and which are a drain on resources with a view to segmenting the audience. "That can be very important," says Ian Seedhouse, head of CRM and marketing at e-business solutions provider BT Ignite. "Once you know who is profitable and who is not, you can push the less profitable customers towards the cheaper channels." Or indeed, gently encourage them to take their business elsewhere.It may also be appropriate for sales staff to have a profile of the customer in terms of their interests and buying habits - information that opens the door to increase selling and cross-selling. The more you know about a customer, the more products you can sell. Equally important is whether the customer is happy or on the verge of taking his business elsewhere. Is it time for a visit from a sympathetic sales rep?All this requires a huge amount of data collection and analysis combined with an ability to collate from a range of channels. For example, in an ideal world, the member of staff who answers a call from a customer should know about previous email queries, web registration or visit from a field rep.It is this need to create an all-encompassing picture of the customer that has cost the corporates so much money and not a little pain. Part of the problem is the sheer size and complexity of the projects. Enterprise-level companies tend to run their operations across a bewildering array of computer systems, with customer data often spread across several databases. To make eCRM work, that has to be pulled together into a single view and analysed. The costs can be huge."It's easier for small firms," asserts Gartner's Thomson. "Small firms don't generally have the systems integration problems. A big company will spend five times as much on consultancy as software. With smaller firms the ratio is one-to-one."And increasingly, smaller firms may find it cheaper to rent CRM functionality as managed service rather than going through the painstaking business of matching hardware and software to create their own infrastructure. "We can offer CRM functions through a browser," says Merlin Stone, a research leader at IBM in the UK.It works like this. IBM takes information from your customer database and feeds it into its own CRM system. The numbers are crunched, the information analysed and the results fed back to your staff via the web. Stone says that by using an outsourced infrastructure, companies with just a few sales staff can benefit economies of scale and established expertise. "We have done a lot of learning at the top of the market. We can now offer packages that are specific to certain sectors such as engineering or financial services. Businesses can experiment with CRM without the risk."  BT Ignite has gone down a similar route, although head of marketing and CRM Ian Seedhouse says data protection concerns mean that while the company offers a full range of CRM functionality, not all of it can be outsourced.Meanwhile, Microsoft is waiting in the wings. Through its acquisition of Great Plains and Navision, the company has been quietly buying its way into the growing small and medium-sized business applications market. Later this year it plans to launch a CRM offering as a web service for US customers through its bCentral.com site. "That will change everything," says Thomson. Microsoft will become a huge CRM vendor."While outsourcing undoubtedly makes things simpler, cost remains an issue. Stone stresses that a multi-channel CRM offering still requires a huge amount of work in terms of planning and preparing the customer database. Nevertheless, he maintains that flexible financing packages make it viable for smaller firms. "We can offer a package that enables customers to pay for the service when they get the benefits, rather than making an upfront payment," he says.And Seedhouse says BT will work with customers to ensure that the financial arrangements are in line with the business case. "We will even enter into joint ventures in some cases," he says. He adds that the last thing BT wants to see is small firms spending on CRM just for the sake of it."   However, for micro-businesses, there are cheaper options, including packages such as Goldmine, Sales Logix, Super Office, ACT and Virtual Office.Stephen Orr, managing director ofWeb4marketing, uses Virtual Office to track data coming in through the various channels that feed into his business - mainly by phone and the web. Designed to work with the contact management functions of Microsoft Office, it provides a means to analyse information to create leads. "What you really need to know is who is going to be a customer and why," he says.Orr says that the basic premise of electronic customer relationship management is that data should be organised around the needs of customers. As a one-man band, Orr has constructed his own system around Virtual Office for less than £1,000 - a reminder that small companies may find it easier to adopt the concepts behind CRM than their larger counterparts.
Waterford Technology has produced a survey that suggests 35% of corporate email is unrelated to work. It has used the information to promote the launch of its new product MailMeter. It aims to overcome not only the casual, inoffensive abuse of email but the more systematic overuses as well - people who hide inappropriate content in spreadsheet attachments, for example, will be caught out by the software. It works with Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Domino, sits on the server only and starts at £899 for 50 mailboxes. Fully functioning seven-day demos are atwww.mailmeter.co.uk.&#183;Next week sees the launch of National Computing Day. Held in conjunction with ComputerActive magazine, the event aims to promote computing for all but will also focus on recycling of old computers - people will be encouraged to find second users for the things, including schools and charities. The event coincides with the news that just over half of the UK population has now had a look at the net - 53% of us can say that we are in some way "wired". For more information seewww.nationalcomputingday.co.uk.&#183;Government-backed advice scheme Technology Means Business has received a fillip as 17 new accredited centres opened last week. The new centres are backed by Hewlett-Packard, UK online for business and the Chartered Management Institute (CMI). They aim to provide accredited advisers offering advice for smaller businesses on e-commerce, online marketing, data management and web development. They can be searched for by location or by specialism on the website athttp://www.ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk.&#183;Access Accounts has become the first company to achieve full accreditation from the Inland Revenue for its payroll software. The government has set targets obliging companies with 250 or more employees to submit their payroll electronically. Access is claiming its position as the only company that could help people to do this. The forms with which the software can help include P11D (b), P14, P35, P45 (parts 1 &amp; 3) and P46. Further information on software and the Inland Revenue is athttp://www.inlandrevenue.gov.uk/efiling/paye/paye_software_forms.htm.&#183;Clearlybusiness has published a free guide to small businesses wanting to survive, following figures from Barclays Bank suggesting that 8% more companies failed in the second quarter of this year compared with the same period last year. The five-step guide covers finding the right markets, the elements that make a business unique, understanding and beating the competition, working out how many customers a company needs to stay in profit and promoting an organisation or product. This follows the suggestion based on Clearlybusiness's experience that only about one in three companies does any market research before launching into business.&#183;It's official - it pays to be on the internet. So says a new survey by IDC, commissioned by Cisco, which finds that awareness of the net is increasing among small businesses, and those taking full advantage of it are increasing their profitability by some 22%. The survey, Fastrackers 02, found that the biggest increases in profitability were among those using mobile technology such as phones and laptops to stay in touch with their company while out of the office. IDC spoke to some 1,236 companies from 20 employees up to 499, so the "small to medium" tag is somewhat liberal. However, take-up of technology was as notable at the smaller end of that selection.&#183;Software pirates will need to beware - the Federation Against Software Theft is targeting small businesses in particular as illegally copied software is believed to be rife in the market. It will look mostly at the "medium" side of small/medium and focus on organisations with between 50 and 100 employees. FAST research has suggested that one-third of companies believe there is a lot of illegally copied software in the UK, with 70% of companies suspecting that they might have some somewhere. Essentially, boxed software comes with licences to use it and only the number of people specified in that licence should have a copy of the software on their computers. Passing a useful disk to your colleagues so that they can use it as well is a breach of copyright.&#183;Useful websites Small traders who need to get at the internet while travelling internationally will welcome the launch of Net2Roam, a pay-as-you-go internet service that has agreements lined up with 150 ISPs worldwide. The idea is that you can dial up at local call rates no matter where you are. This should get around the problems faced by people previously dependent on costly calls to a home ISP or who use a webmail service. For more information go tohttp://www.net2roam.comand select the price plan, which starts at £55 for a year for light users. Meanwhile, any more locally based small traders considering spending on content management for their websites could do worse than to give the free tool at roi.tridion.com a go.
So you've found a way of riveting your audience to the spot, the phrase "death by PowerPoint" is now a complete stranger to them and you want to start your presentation. All you need now is the hardware, and unless your client is going to sit at your desk you have this unpleasant feeling your PC or Mac isn't up to it. There are many options open to you, some of which are surprisingly inexpensive.For example, if you're presenting one to one, you can use a laptop computer. The larger the display the better of course, but you should have change from £1,000. Another option giving you change from £1,000 is the hand-held computer. Top-flight iPaqs come with an application called iPresentation Player - it's not preloaded but is on the CD - that lets you transfer PowerPoint presentations to your hand-held device. Third party applications are available for the Palm platform as well.Hand-held computers can be pretty nifty for presentations to lots of people if you have the right sort of multimedia projector to go with it. InFocus has launched the LP70, which is the size of a DVD case and will take a feed from a PDA, as will the Hewlett-Packard micro-projector range. Both can be used with laptops of course, and the slightly bulkier (about as big as a notebook computer) Sony VPL-CX5 does the same and is bright enough to use in daylight. Epson is also active in the field with its ultra-portable EMP-720 and EMP-730 models, which include image correction, and Toshiba claims to have the smallest model on the market (until the next one).The trick is to aim for a high number of lumens, which is the measure of brightness. If you're not going to be able to control the light in your environment, the more lumens the better. And the lightness costs. Sole traders and home workers will be interested to hear that a DVD-playing computer with decent speakers and a reasonable projector makes a stunning home cinema system for off-duty hours; cheaper models won't handle the moving picture well enough. Expect to pay at least £2,000 plus VAT for something reasonable.Your presentation needs might be in your office rather than on the road. This being the case, you would be well advised to look at the large screens on offer and be prepared to spend a few thousand on them. NEC has just released a 30in LCD screen that can be viewed comfortably from 100m and is yours for £2,999 plus VAT.Finally, don't forget your pointer. Logitech does a device called the Presenter, which changes to a mouse at the touch of a button. Even more fun is the Ultra Professional Mouse from US company Gyration, which works as a mouse and a pointer simultaneously.
It's time for that vital meeting - you're going to see a prospective customer and it's going to be a big order. You need them to sign on that dotted line, agree to use your services or whatever your objective is. So you start talking impressively and they begin to glaze over. What's going wrong?Maybe you could try something visual. You scrawl some notes on the back of a fag packet. It doesn't work; they're not impressed. You need to work on your presentation.   Before everyone goes into "not PowerPoint again" mode, let's stress that you don't actually need to use computers and something called a presentation system every time. Flipcharts, white and blackboards, mini-presentation folders for a one-to-one briefing with someone - all are of value (although you'll want the tools to put your slides together properly) and just because your computer dealer wants to sell you more software that doesn't make it the only option.But a lot of the software is easy to use and not all that expensive. The "default" presentation system is Microsoft PowerPoint, mostly because it is compulsory every time you buy most versions of Microsoft Office, which is the most widely used office software suite, and because it's the most widely used presentation software, which means it's the one you're most likely to need to view presentations sent to you by email.The commands are simple for anyone who uses any of the other Microsoft Office components; the bad news is that to buy it by itself will cost £280 plus. You might pause for thought when you realise that you can get the full WordPerfect Office 2002 suite for the same price, including Corel Presentations, which works in much the same way and will display PowerPoint files - though with "a few issues", according to Corel CEO Derek Burney. But it works, mostly, and comes with a self-extractor so if you need to send a presentation to someone else by email it'll work even if they don't have a presentation package on their own computer.People on a lower budget, or who want to try presentations but aren't quite sure whether they'll make frequent use of them, could do worse than to invest in a copy of Lotus Smartsuite 9.5. This contains Freelance Graphics, which does much the same job, although the issues about accepting PowerPoint presentations become more serious - if this is what you want to do you are best off with PowerPoint. Otherwise the notion of a full desktop system for less than £50 (down to £19.99 on Amazon as we went to press) is not to be sniffed at. Sun's Star Office is another £50 package and has a program called Impress, which might not accept graphics from other packages but which works on a variety of systems outside the Windows world.For all that, the basic requirement in any presentation is that it is ... well, presentable. The system writers try to help; each of the packages mentioned above has pre-designed templates included if you don't want to create the thing from scratch, but people still fall foul. "Most PowerPoint presentations I've come across are dire," says Rob Wilkinson of design agency PureDesign. "I've worked with PowerPoint for three years and the potential for creating good stuff is untapped."There are clear graphic limitations compared with Flash, but if I see another PowerPoint show with 10 different fonts and sizes and bloody clip art, I'll go mad."  Flash? Sure, if you know what you're doing and can spend a little more then Macromedia Flash will get you more complex graphics and Macromedia Director will allow for animation and video as well.&#183;Guy Clapperton is the author of Free Publicity for Your Business in a Week (Hodder and   Stoughton, £6.99)
The satirical US website the Onion (www.onion.com) recently ran a spoof about awww.Travelcity.comcustomer who had "mixed feelings" about his bargain air ticket: "'What sort of corners would they have to cut to make a profit on that low a fare?' Walden wondered aloud ...  'Would $39 from every passenger even cover the fuel?' For safety's sake, Walden resolved to buy the second-cheapest ticket available from now on."Now, I'd like to make it clear that the US airline industry operates to high safety standards, which are unlikely to be compromised by the sale of the odd cheap ticket. But the spoof does point up a common suspicion among travellers in hot pursuit of a bargain: can I trust them? I recently received an email asking just this question from a reader who wanted to book a hotel room in New York. He had searched on Google and found the dates he wanted were hundreds of dollars cheaper on a US agency site than on any of its British-based rivals.The site he had in mind turned out to belong to the vast Hotel Reservations Network, which trades under a plethora of names, includingwww.Hoteldiscount.com,www.A1-discount-hotels.comandwww.180096hotel.com. While it had plenty of trustworthy features - including a UK telephone inquiry line and a secure connection for sending credit card details (indicated by a padlock in the bottom left-hand corner of the browser) - it lacked any postal address or the terms of the contract entered into with HRN.The site also promised to reimburse any "unauthorised charges that occurred as a result of booking a reservation using our secure online forms", but only up to the value of $50 (£33) - hardly worth the trouble of pursuing, even for the smallest business.Curiously, HRN's main site, which can be found at hotelreservationsnetwork.com, has a much more sophisticated customer service section. And the US equivalent of Which?, the Better Business Bureau Program, approves the company under at least some of its monikers. You can check up on any US company by typing the name intowww.bbbonline.org/consumer.But anyone booking travel should always be wary of booking on foreign-based sites. Even though the company credit card should give you a degree of protection against fraudulent transactions, the hassle involved in proving them is multiplied when the company has no UK outpost. In any case, the difficulties generally arise when you want to change, query or cancel a booking rather than because a company is trading fraudulently. Bear in mind, too, that if you book an air ticket from a company abroad and it goes bust, you will have no protection under the ATOL scheme. (Incidentally, readers who want to check whether a British company is ATOL-protected can do so atwww.atoldata.org.uk.)So how else can you identify a trustworthy site? Chris Mounce, managing editor of Which? Online, says a recommendation counts for a great deal, as do clear terms and conditions and complaints procedures. The price - including any extra taxes, or charges for delivering tickets - should be shown clearly.So far 94 British travel firms have agreed to abide by the Which WebTrader code of conduct (www.whichwebtrader.which.net/webtrader), but the fact that a site has not does not mean it is untrustworthy. "If they're adhering to these principles already, then that's fine by us," says Mounce. "The larger sites tend to think that they've established their name and they don't need to sign up to WebTrader." Which? WebTrader used to employ mystery shoppers, but Mounce admits the task has become too big for the company to undertake on a regular basis.The best advice, though, is not to waste your time agonising over a site's credentials for the sake of a few pounds' discount. There's a cheaper room out there, but why work overtime to find it?
Nothing personal or anything, but if you're self-employed or a business director what exactly are you doing reading the paper? Useful stuff though it is, it's now September 26 and the deadline for submitting your tax return - if you want the Inland Revenue to calculate the amount due for you. That's this coming Monday.But don't let it get your blood pressure up too much - as long as your records are up to date there won't be a problem. Yeah, right - nobody ever puts a few figures in the wrong box and shoots their tax bill up by hundreds, do they? Of course not.Fortunately there are a number of areas both online and offline in the form of boxed software that can help. The first thing to do is to make sure your accounts are in order. Numerous companies offer products to help you do so, but don't be persuaded to buy something too complicated. As a rule of thumb, if someone is charging more than £150 they're probably selling to organisations with more than one employee - and if that's you you should regard everything except your salary or dividends as irrelevant to the self-assessment process.Sole trader financial software does seem to be a growing market though, with Access Accounts entering the fray with its Access Foundations XP product at the more expensive end of the market at £375 plus VAT.Consider these only if you're planning to grow beyond sole trader status. Sage retains the market lead in the micro-business market with its Instant Accounting and TAS Books products, and Intuit continues to supply Quickbooks. It is useful to bear in mind Quickbooks is simple to pick up if you have no accounting experience, while Instant and Sage look more like full-blown accounting systems.Other products - including Simply Books, which looks and feels like a spreadsheet with accounting bells and whistles, and the new version of MYOB - also offer much to the extremely small company. If you're a diehard sole trader, though, you might want to look at the personal financial software that handles invoicing and VAT. Both Microsoft Money and Intuit's Quicken have professional versions offering these functions.The handy thing about the personal financial products is of course that they will have your investments and other financial details in them as well - but this isn't always the whole story. Home workers in particular will find areas on the self-assessment form asking for details of rent and mortgage, and light and heat - believe it or not, the Inland Revenue wants to help you out with the costs. This is the point at which the dedicated self-assessment form software can become invaluable.Three good contenders in the market are Taxcalc, formerly owned by Which? and now by Intuit (and widely available), Digita's Tax Saver Deluxe (available directly from Digita on 01395 270311) and taxreturns.co.uk, which offers a similar service on the web. The shrinkwrapped software costs £29.99 and the web service a little more; each turns the increasingly complex tax calculation into plain English questions and writes out the form for you in the background. If you're brave enough just to fill in the form online and hit "submit", the Inland Revenue will let you do so at inlandrevenue.gov.uk - and if you don't want to calculate your tax just don't hit the "calculate" button.There are the inevitable gotchas of course. If you haven't yet registered for internet submission, for example, then forget it unless you're going to calculate your own liability - you need to go to the government gateway site (see the Inland Revenue site for details) and register, then wait for posted details. Last year a number of people reported problems with the Inland Revenue website freezing up, which will no doubt improve this year (but do consider submitting at off-peak times when possible). And if you're using, say, Taxcalc and then printing the form out, don't forget it still needs signing. They'll send it back otherwise.   Other than that it should be straightforward, and regardless of the level at which you decide to use your technology, there should be something in there to help. Oh, and you had backed up of course...?
The government is about to launch a major e-procurement awareness campaign in an attempt to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to trade electronically with local authorities.Central government has been backing attempts by local authorities across the UK to explore ways of introducing e-trading with their suppliers. However, many SMEs have failed to respond to invitations to take part in pilot programmes.In a fresh move to win over SMEs and wake them up to the fact that eventually they will have to engage online with local authorities, the government will invest £2.5m over the next two years.The campaign kicks off in October and is being seen as a crucial stage in the government's ambitions to transform the UK into a modern digital economy.The programme will target all council suppliers, but one of the chief aims is to find effective ways to persuade more SMEs to join local authority e-procurement platforms. The campaign falls under the responsibility of John Prescott and is being spearheaded by Newham borough council in conjunction with a small steering group of partner councils nationwide, including Bristol city council, Essex county council and Leeds city council.   As part of the initiative, SMEs will be encouraged to attend e-skills training courses, moves will be made to accelerate the roll-out of broadband, and local authorities will be supplied with strategies to help them e-enable SMEs that are dragging their heels.Other proposals include an idea to create an online supplier directory that will help local authorities to identify and manage SMEs electronically.As well as targeting SMEs, the project is looking to encourage local authorities to roll out e-procurement services more swiftly as a way of saving money and processing orders more efficiently."We as local authorities have been told that we must be 100% capable of trading electronically by 2005," says Martin Scarfe, financial adviser for Newham borough council. "We can't do that without small and medium-sized local businesses. We want SMEs to trade electronically with us. It's in councillors' interests to ensure they are not disadvantaged."Scarfe believes SMEs that supply local authorities could run the risk of losing contracts to bigger players if they fail to use new e-procurement platforms."There cannot be any business that does not know that e-procurement is coming into the public sector. There are extremely logical reasons for e-procurement. We are implementing this for business efficiency and to take costs out of the supply chain. There should be benefits for all of us."The advocates of e-procurement in local authorities argue that technology can help to control and standardise ordering. And many believe the successful adoption of e-procurement systems could save councils millions by removing costly manual processes.   At the moment many councils are flexible about accommodating less technologically advanced SMEs. Staffordshire county council has been running an e-procurement platform since 1999 and has enrolled 225 suppliers; only three, though, are fully integrated with the council's systems."The supplier might only receive orders by fax if that is their capability," says Colin Whitehouse, ICT strategy manager for Staffordshire county council. Ideally he would like as many companies as possible to be entirely integrated with the council's e-procurement system so that orders can be sent directly from one system to another, but he knows that is not realistic at this stage.Over the past year, 9,000 orders worth about £6m have been handled by the council's e-procurement service. Whitehouse says the council is already seeing benefits in terms of being able to control spending, "rather than having somebody going down the road and buying what they want". He says the system is allowing the council to drive down costs by creating and processing orders more efficiently.So how should SMEs respond to this new initiative? Whitehouse says councils understand some small suppliers will not be able to engage fully with e-procurement. "If you are using a local company to clean the windows it is not going to invest in IT infrastructure to provide you with full electronic trading. It would not be appropriate or worthwhile."But it is clearly a priority for SMEs that see local authority business as central to their growth and future stability. For those in this category he recommends they contact their local authorities early and find out what online trading services are available."Investigate ways of dealing electronically with your local authority because it will pay off in the long term," says Whitehouse.While no penalties are proposed for SMEs that refuse to adopt more cost-efficient means of trading with councils, Scarfe says that charging companies that stick by the old, more expensive methods cannot be completely ruled out in the long term.In the short term, though, he believes SMEs that fail to adopt e-procurement platforms could miss out on new business opportunities. "If a council is sending out tenders electronically, they are just not going to pick them up," warns Scarfe.As you might expect, companies that are supplying e-procurement technology solutions to the public sector think it is important that SMEs are approached in the right way. Ken Kyle, managing director of Best Value Procurement, which creates online market places for councils, reckons online trading "will become a fact of life". He adds: "SMEs should be encouraged to get involved because it brings them closer to their customers."It can raise awareness of an SME's services. All of a sudden the customer is much more aware of you. E-procurement is letting these small guys get on to the desktops of their buyers."To get the best deals from e-procurement systems, some councils are clubbing together and   placing joint orders through the same online market places. Some consultants believe this development could cause difficulties for SMEs as they might not have the capacity to deal with large bulk orders."E-procurement systems give SMEs access to a much broader market and they can get information faster. There are big opportunities if they think their business can grow fast enough to meet the demands," says James Eaton, senior manager for Impower, an e-government consultancy.The fate of the government's latest e-initiative is likely to depend on whether innovative e-procurement models can be created by councils that successfully recognise and accommodate the strengths and limitations of their SME suppliers.&#183;The Online section covers public sector IT issues every week in the Public Domain column.
For the nightmare-prone, losing irreplaceable accounts, customer records, contacts and vital correspondence is the stuff of 3am, cold sweat terror. Yet it is remarkable how many of us fail to back up our vital documents, leaving open the possibility this nightmare scenario might become reality on the whim of a faulty hard disk.That is where external hard drives come into play. And, in case backing up isn't incentive enough, they need not be limited to that unglamorous task; if you keep digital photographs, video and audio, you might want to transfer them between computers. Just the job for a lightweight, small storage device that you can have up and running in minutes.Two connection technologies mean the new crop of storage devices is fast. USB (universal serial bus) 2.0 is pretty standard on PCs now, and the blisteringly fast data transfer rates are much what you find when using the FireWire interface that's standard on Apple Macs and also available on PCs.Whatever information you want to store, there is something out there to suit you. Let's start with the humble floppy. Although it is not fast or glamorous, you can't fault it for storing and transporting office documents. Because most Windows PCs still come with one as standard, it is effectively free. For floppy drive-free Mac and ultraslim notebook owners, all is not lost. USB floppy drives are available cheaply.For those who have a high-speed internet connection, using an online storage service can be as good as a floppy drive, mind you. My Docs Online offers between 50MB and 1GB of storage space, ready to access from any web terminal when you're on the road. Because it is online, colleagues can upload files to you at any time - great if you're a consultant whose presentation depends on last-minute information. However, you are at the mercy of transatlantic internet speeds. Xdrive's similar service can map the web storage space as a drive on a Windows PC.If you work with audio and image files or large presentations, you will need to spend a little more. There is still life in floppy-style disks, as Iomega's latest Zip drive demonstrates. It can hold more than a CD-R or CD-RW, and it is even faster. We put a 311MB, 50-minute episode of Six Feet Under on to one of its robust, removable discs in just 1m 28seconds. Just as Iomega claims, the drive streams near TV-quality video without jerkiness. Just one caveat: while the drive fits into a suit pocket, the power supply is a little bulky.One thing that is not bulky is Apple's iPod. It is such a rare pleasure to find a product like this, that can be justified both in terms of aesthetics (beautiful) and utility (exceptional). Primarily an MP3 player, its 5, 10 or 20GB hard drive can be used to store any kind of information. No wonder novelist Iain Banks highlighted it as his favourite gadget (Online, September 12). It is an Apple product, so uses FireWire rather than USB 2.0, but the company has just launched Windows-compatible versions.But for sheer versatility, it is hard to beat CD-recordable (CD-R), and its rewriteable cousin, CD-RW. Although unsuitable for backing up your whole computer, it is ideal for documents, or offloading MP3s or low to medium-resolution video files from a close-to bursting hard disk. LaCie's PocketDrive CD-RW has USB 2.0 and FireWire interfaces and rewrites CD-RWs at up to 10-speed. It took 9m, 46sec to burn the same episode of Six Feet Under to CD-RW at four-speed using Easy CD Creator 5 Basic software supplied with the drive, and video playback was faultless.The LaCie PocketDrive external hard drive is as bulletproof as the CD-RW and has the same protective rubber border-a boon for the butter-fingered. Twin interfaces mean you can connect easily to a PC or a Mac, and capacities from 20GB to 60GB make it the only practical device for backing up your whole PC. Real data crunchers should consider Cobra's 120GB external hard drive.External hard drives are also a real alternative for video professionals used to recording on DVD, a high-capacity relation of the CD.Toshiba's 5GB PC card hard drive is well suited to more mundane business use. It just plugs into your PC card slot and appears as a drag-and-drop hard drive. For laptop users after something really compact and convenient that doesn't need cables, go for a flash memory device. The Pen Drive holds up to 1GB - 700 times more than a floppy disk - on a 21g device with optional password protection and is the length of a business card. That something so small can hold so much information is close to unbelievable. And when you discover it can retain data for up to a year without power, its limitation to USB 1.1 only comes as a slight disappointment. If you have a collection of memory cards already, pick up a memory card reader to simplify transfers to your computer.Even a few years ago, storing a lot of data was fiddly, expensive, and best left to anyone who enjoys spending half their lives elbow-deep in arcane tapes and cartridges. But faster interfaces, a choice of inexpensive products and easy installation means you need never suffer the lost data nightmare.
Leapingsalmonemploys 15 people and delivers prepared ingredients for gourmet food, taking internet and telephone orders. The idea is that busy professionals will enjoy cooking good food without the hassle of chopping and other chores. Managing director James Marshall cofounded the company in 1999 and it started trading in early 2000. It recently opened a retail point at Victoria station in London and aims to open more.What were you doing before leapingsalmon?I marketed soft drinks at Coca-Cola.What gave you the idea for the business?I was already in food marketing and interested in getting involved in a restaurant-type business - there was definitely growth potential in the area. There was one night when my wife and I were talking about how good it would be if someone could deliver some good food we could cook, and it grew naturally.When did you first become aware of the benefits technology could offer your business?We were pretty quick to conclude that as a small company with ambitious plans in the market, wanting to sell on a nationwide basis, our chances would be enhanced if we used the internet as a point of sale. It was a natural way of selling to a large market relatively cheaply and easily. We used technology in the broader sense; the internet is a tool through which we not only take orders but we educate customers on what we're about and do some branding.How did you go about implementing it?We outsourced the production of our first website and we still outsource most of our technical needs. Obviously we didn't have the know-how ourselves and &#91;outsourcing rather than recruiting&#93; was a matter of cost.What do you use now?We use a Microsoft SQLServer database both internally and for the website.How does technology benefit your business?In a number of ways. The internet allows us to have a nationwide presence and control what is a strong branding tool. In that sense it's very valuable - any customer can go in and check what we're about and we've used it to launch our retail site as well, which we opened on the back of our success through the internet. That's in the broadest sense; technology also helps us with our supply systems. Orders go straight through the system and labels get printed for ingredients automatically, and stock control and order processing are linked up.What lessons have you learned in buying and using IT over the years?Originally we were aware we had a unique product and we wanted to look distinctive. We went for a bespoke site so that it didn't look like a standard Shopcreator or other packaged website. That meant it required a certain level of technical expertise to update it. We now have a subdivided area of the site that contains information on where people &#91;who don't want a delivery&#93; can pick their ingredients up, and it can be updated more easily by non-specialists, which is better.How do you measure the return on investment in IT?It's part of the overall plan - we're investing and we're growing.What personal gadgets do you use in business?A mobile phone and a Palm Pilot.What would you like your technology to do that it can't already?Ideally the website should be easier to manipulate by non-technical people, which is happening to an extent. It would make it easier to update and change the site at short notice. In fact that's probably true of all of the system - if it could be easier to handle that would clearly be better.&amp;#149: leapingsalmon's website is atwww.leapingsalmon.com.
Quietly and without fanfare, the public records office is letting web users access the 1901 census. Not since January have users been able to trawl through the 32m names on the register.The site received 50m inquiries and at its peak was handling 1m inquiries an hour. Only 1.2m a day were expected. It seized up under the pressure and was pulled by the public records office within 24 hours. An attempt to resurrect the site only served to highlight again how woefully the government had underestimated the public's appetite for a peek at the records of their ancestors.The new site atwww.pro.gov.ukcan only be viewed at certain times (9am to 11pm, Monday to Saturday) and has been stripped of some facilities. Almost apologetically, it asks users to be patient when faced with long waiting times and to give feedback whenever they hit a glitch. The site will, however, be a one-off.Once, it was planned to house each census on the public records office website back to 1841 when personal information was first recorded. But after the ignominy of the January crash, the information has been licensed toAncestry.co.uk, which launched last week on the back of the deal and the inclusion of the 1891 census.Ancestry.co.uk is owned by US firmMyFamily.com, which claims to be the fifth largest paid subscription site on the web. Chief executive Tom Stockham says the company has been around for 20 years as a publisher of genealogy books. In 1997, it developed a site that offered web space to families wanting to build family trees and message boards to keep up on family gossip. Since then, it has built a data bank of 1.7bn names, past and present, on the MyFamily site.One of them, George W Bush, found he shared ancestors with Winston Churchill and, through the Spencer family, could lay claim to a connection with the heir to the throne, Prince William."We have the largest digitised collection of names and it is growing all the time. People want to discover who they are and where they came from," says Stockham. Ancestry.co.uk is for users in Britain and Ireland. It costs a flat fee of &#163;29.95 a quarter or &#163;69.95 a year. Should you decide to log in, unless you are blessed with an obscure surname, it will tease you with hundreds of hits, especially if you offer your last name without filling in location and age. But beware. Your numerous possible returns will fall under different categories, including births and deaths between certain periods, some specialist parish records and the 1891 census. Few are comprehensive, least of all the census.So far, despite the hype, Ancestry only has the Oxfordshire district on the site. Stockham says he is employing armies of researchers to get other areas online. A comprehensive list is not expected until next year. Many of your returns will also include American names that can also be accessed by the Ancestry site, which are far more numerous than the few names on the UK site.Jeremy Palmer, of genealogy specialists,Achievements of Canterbury, says these omissions show the weaknesses of web searches. His not-for-profit firm, which shares offices with the Institute of Heraldic and Genealogical Studies, offers a service that can trace ancestors back to the middle ages and, using DNA, determine whether your forebears came over with the Vikings or have Saxon blood."The main flaw in online searches is that there are few resources compared to the number still in libraries and church records. There is a project to index all the births, deaths and marriages since 1837, but it isn't complete."He points to the Family Records centre in London as the main starting point for anyone wanting to trace ancestors, though county libraries should contain similar information, especially births, marriages and deaths."These records can be more accurate. When data is transcribed from a ledger to a computer, there is room for errors and that can make trawling through a website even more time consuming," says Palmer.The helpdesk at Qinitiq, which operates the 1901 census for the public records office, shows users how to get round problems, such as using an underscore in place of a letter and an asterisk when there could be several endings to the surname.  With this support I found several relatives in the census, including my great grandfather Halsey Ricardo, who gained notoriety as an architect in the arts and crafts movement. My paternal grandmother is registered as his seven-year-old daughter. For &#163;5, I captured the page where they were registered. Other relatives proved harder to trace, and even though I knew their names and where they lived, the site failed to throw up their names.
How important is the computer to your music making?I call it the "invisible spine" of my music. You listen to the record and you think "big studio _ lots of musicians", which is very deceptive as this new album is basically a home recording. I've made the transition from old school to new school and I embrace what the technology allows you to do.What set-up do you use?I useEmagic LogicwithPro-Toolsrunning on a Mac G4. I'm hoping Apple's takeover of Emagic might serve me in some way, too. Apple is like a strange drug that you just can't quite get enough of! I went to buy aCinema Display monitorfor the G4, but you have to buy so many ancillary devices that I gave up! My G4 is only 18 months old but there are already better versions. They shouldn't call it Mac - they should call it crack!Will the net become the focus for music delivery?I think something else might transpire in the next five years that will amalgamate the process. It might be that you can select what you want from a menu, order it, then it will be delivered to your door a la Amazon. Perhaps even some instantaneous plug-in will bypass the download or delivery processes. It might be an extension of current subscription models, where you pay to have access and play it when you want.Regulation?I wouldn't object to having an identification that plugged me into the mainframe of the net if it meant keeping things cleaner. It's tricky, though, as you get into personal freedom issues. I would like to see more protection and perhaps tighter controls on what children can access.What's the strangest thing you've encountered online?I remember being shocked the first time I typed my name into a search engine at just how much stuff came back! At the time, I didn't feel my profile was particularly high and it was bizarre being able to read my views on this and that. You realise how much information is going around!Favourite gadgets?MyOlympus V90 Dictaphoneis beautiful and looks like how I imagined things would in the 21st century. I use that as a portable idea book. I'd love anX10, fully automated, interactive house, with the computer telling me what's been happening that day!Favourite sites?Film Threatlets you click into independent short films that you can send off for on DVD if you like them. Sites such asAtom Filmsare good! I have One-Click set up withAmazonand I use health food shops.Visit:www.barryadamson.comorwww.mute.com/barryadamson
Peter Gabriel's album, Up, has had its world premier on the Web and you can download ithereinWindows Media Audio 9format, in either 5:1 multichannel surround sound or ordinary stereo. (The free preview stops working on October 8, unless you pay for it.) WMA9 is far superior to anything else available and could become the dominant format if its DRM (Digital Rights Management) feature stands up to attack -- it is going to be used in DVD players, portable audio players, and even to project video in local cinemas.
