The company behind the hit game Angry Birds has criticised &quot;insulting&quot; attempts by western companies to crack the Chinese market by using the cliches of &quot;kung fu and pandas&quot;.Marketing chief Peter Vesterbacka said Rovio has &quot;all eyes on Asia&quot; as its biggest download market and are prioritising growth in China by &quot;exporting Chinese culture&quot;.&quot;We want to be more Chinese than China, just as in Japan we want to be more Japanese than Japan,&quot; he said.&quot;We employ local people and need to understand local customs and culture. There is more to China than kung fu and pandas - that is an insult to thousands of years of history.&quot;Vesterbacka explained that Rovio released an international update to Angry Birds Seasons based on China&apos;s moon festival, a mid-autumn family celebration of the end of harvest.The Moon Festival episode of the game features Chinese versions of the theme tune, characters and backgrounds, as well as Angry Bird-branded traditional moon cakes.&apos;One of the biggest exporters of Chinese culture on the planet&apos;&quot;The moon festival is little heard of outside China, so the first time many people heard about it was through our game. Not only are we bringing Angry Birds to China but we&apos;re bringing China to the world. We are one of the biggest exporters and promoters of Chinese culture on the planet.&quot;Rovio&apos;s first office outside its Finnish headquarters in Helsinki was in Shanghai, and China now accounts for &quot;hundreds of millions&quot; of downloads, Vesterbacka said.Japan, Korea, Indonesia and the Philippines are all big markets for Rovio but China accounts for more downloads, he said.An estimated 288 million people play mobile games in China, according to researchers at Niko Partners, which said mobile gaming revenue for 2013 would reach $1.2bn.Rovio&apos;s revenue doubled in 2012 to $204m, with physical merchandise accounting for 45% of revenues.Vesterbacka, speaking at Helsinki&apos;s technology festival Slush, also announced that Angry Birds has reached 2bn downloads, before ushering on a Angry Birds-themed dance performance by Finland&apos;s National Ballet.•Rovio partners with Chinesegames company GungHo from 18 November to 1 December on an Angry Birds-themed dungeon in the Puzzle &amp; Dragons game• Roviosets sights on Hollywood
Taking a phone call at 30,000 feet could soon be a reality following a European Commission (EC) approval of 3G and 4G services mid-flight.The EC has approved the use of 3G and 4G services for mobile data, calls and text messages above 3,000m (9,840ft), the point at which the &quot;climb period&quot; ends after take-off above the flight ceiling of small, unpressurised aircraft. At that point it would allow mobile phones, tablets and laptops with a mobile data plan to be switched out of “airplane mode” and used.The move follows the European Aviation Safety Authority’s (Easa)approval on Thursday of the useof personal electronic devices during all phases of flight, including take-off and landing.It also comes after US airlines began allowing passengers to use electronic devices during take-off and landing after fears of interference with in-flight systems were shown to be unwarranted.“This EU decision creates the possibility for airlines – rather than a right for passengers – to allow use of smart phones and tablets during flights,” said theEC in a press release.A mobile network in the skiesNot to be confused with permission to connect to land-based mobile phone networks – which will actively be blocked by a type of mid-air mobile signal jammer, to prevent interference with ground networks – the approval of 3G and 4G data services aboard planes will allow airlines to essentially rebroadcast their own mobile network in the skies, very much like a mid-airfemtocell, linked to the ground via satellite connections.Airlines have been able to broadcast internet services using Wi-Fi inside the hull for some time, but the step up to traditional cellular network broadcast services will allow passengers to use their mobile phones to make voice calls over 3G and 4G, as well as mobile data.3G or 4G on aeroplanes? Wait at gatePassengers will be billed via their mobile phone service provider with tariff rates typically based on international roaming, although exact pricing will be set by the individual mobile networks.“This ruling gives equipment manufacturers approval to use 3G and 4G spectrum for rebroadcast of mobile networks aboard aircraft, however, equipment manufacturers will still have to obtain certification from Easa before use,” said a CAA spokesperson.“Passengers will not be able to use their 3G or 4G mobile phones on aeroplanes any time soon - we’re talking months not weeks here,” he reiterated.Some European stakeholders are working on introducing new “direct air to ground” broadband technology that bypasses satellites, and could provide an alternative link to the internet in the future.• In November, Easaapproved the use of non-bulky personal electronic devicesduring take-off and landing
Everyone is rightly excited about the wall of amazing tech-enabled startups being born in Europe and Israel, disrupting massive industries including media, marketing, fashion, retail, travel, finance and transportation. However, there&apos;s one incredibly disruptive startup based in London that is going after one of the biggest markets of all, and is so opaque it is largely unknown in the world of business – and, much to my chagrin, it&apos;s also impossible to invest in.It&apos;s not a private company, it wasn&apos;t started by &quot;conventional&quot; tech entrepreneurs and the market (though huge) is decidedly unsexy.Its name is the Government Digital Service (GDS) and it is disrupting the British public sector in an energetic, creative and effective way. In less than two years GDS has hired over 200 staff (including some of the UK&apos;s top digital talent), shipped an award-winning service, and begun the long and arduous journey of completely revolutionising the way that 62 million citizens interact with more than 700 services from 24 government departments and their 331 agencies.It&apos;s a strange world we live in when the government is pioneering the way that large complex corporations reinvent themselves to not just massively reduce cost and complexity, but to deliver better and more responsive services to their customers and suppliers.Asformer government advisor Rohan Silvahas recently written, the UK was spending on IT &quot;like a drunken sailor&quot;. If you were one of the world&apos;s largest IT suppliers, there was a £16bn annual IT budget to sink your teeth into. But the party is over (although it may take some time to end) and people like Liam Maxwell, Mike Bracken and their teams are slashing the budget and applying the principles of openness to radically reduce cost, increase transparency and improve services.Although we can&apos;t invest directly in this £16bn disruption, as citizens we are and should be grateful shareholders. While significant groundwork was laid in the last government by people like Tom Steinberg, the drive and air cover which Francis Maude and Martha Lane Fox have provided GDS should be a model for FTSE boards. These boards are floundering as they peer into the abyss of an economy where the internet now accounts for more than 10% of GDP while technology, social media and the internet are reshaping their industries.Head of GDS Mike Bracken is serious about changing the way government does business with SME tech firms. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianIt&apos;s shameful that with over £1.7tn in market cap and over 6 million employees, the FTSE 100 are still grappling at board and executive levels to understand, never mind take advantage of, savings and opportunities available in a world where 3 billion people are online.Chief technology officers are not necessarily the answer, as many have grown up in the same world as old-school government IT – outsourcing, closed systems and vendor lock-in. The internet is the answer, or at least the spirit of it, and what is so impressive about GDS and the people behind it is that they, in practice and philosophically, &quot;get&quot; the internet. Not in the way that TechCrunch or Mashable do – in sound bites – but in the way that Dropbox, Etsy, Spotify and SoundCloud get it: profoundly.So what is it that GDS knows that every chairman and chief executive of a FTSE100 should know? Open innovation.1. Open data• Leads to radical and remarkable transparency like the amazing Transactions Explorer designed by Richard Sargeant and his team. I challenge any FTSE100 to deliver the same by December 2014, or even start to show basic public performance data – if not to the internet, at least to their shareholders and analysts.• Leads to incredible and unpredictable innovation where public data is shared and brought together in new ways. In fact, theData.gov.ukproject is one of the world&apos;s largest data sources of public data with over 9,000 data sets for anyone to use.2. Open standards• Deliver interoperability across devices and suppliers• Provide freedom from lock-in to any one vendor• Enable innovation from a level playing field of many companies, including cutting-edge startups• The Standards Hub from the Cabinet Office is an example of how the government aims to achieve open standards3. Cloud and open source software and services• Use of open source, cloud and software-as-a-service solutions radically reduces cost, improves delivery and enables innovation4. Open procurement• In March 2011, the UK government set a target to award 25% of spend with third-party suppliers to SMEs by March 2015.I know Liam Maxwell, Mike Bracken, and the teams they are assembling, could walk into senior roles to provide a much needed shake-up to almost any FTSE 100 (given how few are already on this journey) and make a huge difference. For the sake of our collective national investment, I hope they stay put for some time and keep pushing the boundaries on what technology can do to reshape the costs and performance of government in our lives.•Saul Klein (@cape) is a partner at Index Ventures. Most recently he was the co-founder of Seedcamp, as well as co-founder and original chief executive of Lovefilm International. He was also part of the original executive team at Skype
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases.There&apos;s a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day. There&apos;s also a new format this week, separating out games and non-game apps.For now, read on for this week&apos;s iOS selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).APPSARTPOP (free)Lady Gaga&apos;s new album is finally out, along with its companion app for smartphones and tablets. Contrary to expectations, you don&apos;t get to monkey around with ARTPOP&apos;s songs within the app. Instead, you can listen to them (if you&apos;ve already bought them) while also creating and sharing animated GIFs from the ArtHaus section. There&apos;s the promise of streaming DJ sets and videos to come ... next year.Read a fuller hands-on here.iPhone / iPadMy Talking Tom (free)Outfit7&apos;s Talking Friends apps – including two previous Talking Tom Cat apps – have been downloaded more than 1.2bn times, and are still used by 170m monthly active users. They&apos;re huge, especially among kids. This latest app adds more features: it turns Talking Tom into a proper virtual pet who has to be fed, entertained and even taken to the loo. Whether parents will be as impressed by the in-app store selling gold coins for up to £69.99 at a time remains to be seen.iPhone / iPadKeezy (free)This music creation app styles itself as &quot;colourful and FREAKING FUN&quot; which, excitable capitals aside, is about right. It&apos;s part beatbox and part sampler, with a beautifully simple interface to record and play sounds. As with other apps of this type, where it falls between novelty toy and serious music-making tool depends entirely on your skills and persistence.iPhonePitchfork Weekly (free)It&apos;s a big week for interesting new music apps on iOS, with this the brand new app from Pitchfork, the king of the music blogs. The app isn&apos;t about your daily dose of Pitchfork&apos;s news and reviews, though: it&apos;s a weekly collection of the &quot;best and most relevant material&quot; from the site in a sleek magazine app – good for reading at leisure rather than in short bursts.iPhone / iPadStrangebeard – The Pirate Princess (£2.49)This children&apos;s app takes a cutlass to the notion that pirates and princesses should never meet. It&apos;s a pop-up storybook app about Isabel, a princess who gets mixed up with a pirate crew for an adventure on the high seas. It&apos;s a mixture of storytelling and mini-games that will make your kids smile.iPhone / iPadMetric Synthetica (free)More music, this time from Canadian band Metric, working with the design studio responsible for Bjork&apos;s Biophilia app a couple of years ago. Unlike ARTPOP, thisisvery much about interacting with the music – specifically 11 songs from Metric&apos;s latest album, which can be remixed to your heart&apos;s content using a stylishly-designed collection of sequencers.iPhone / iPadModernist Cuisine at Home (£54.99)Not a typo: that really is the price of this cookbook app from Inkling. And I was being snarky about the cost on Twitter only to find people politely pointing out that £54.99 might be good value, given that the hardback book goes for £395. So yes, a bargain (of sorts) offering 416 recipes with text, photo and video instructions including &quot;the right way to use a blowtorch on your steaks&quot;.iPhone / iPadFrozen: Storybook Deluxe (£4.99)Disney has turned a bunch of its movies into Storybook Deluxe apps, adding games and creativity sections to their familiar storylines. Frozen is the latest film to get the treatment, with children able to record their own voice narration, turn their device around to flip between the two characters&apos; perspectives, and draw snowy scenes to show to parents and friends.iPhone / iPadMApp - UK Indoor Maps (free)Google, Apple or Nokia&apos;s maps might get you to a destination, but they&apos;re not quite as good for telling you what&apos;s inside it. That&apos;s what MApp is trying to do, providing maps for a range of British airports, museums, shopping centres and other indoor locations, helping you navigate around them. It stands to reason that one day the big beasts of the mobile mapping world will do this too, but for now this is really useful.iPhone / iPadShots of Me (free)You&apos;ll want to remember where you were when you first heard that Justin Bieber had invested in an app for taking and sharing selfie shots. Possibly. Yes, this Bieber-backed application is all about taking shots of me (well, you) and sharing them, along with private messaging features. The company behind it, Rock Live, is also taking a stand against cyberbullying, aiming for a service without negativity. Good luck!iPhoneJohn Lennon: The Bermuda Tapes (£2.99)Another music app, this one focused on a famous trip that John Lennon took to Bermuda in 1980 while writing the Double Fantasy album with Yoko Ono. The app – endorsed by Ono herself – offers a mixture of demos, audio recordings and photos. One very much for the fans, it&apos;s fair to say, but an interesting slice of music history.iPhone / iPadSanta&apos;s Merry Band (£2.99)And just to finish off, another music app! This one&apos;s for children though: a Christmas collection of songs from artists including Indigo Girls, KT Tunstall and Emmy the Great &amp; Tim Wheeler, which kids can play along to with virtual instruments, while reading (well, singing ideally) the lyrics.iPadFootball Manager Handheld 2014 for iPhone and iPad.GAMESFootball Manager Handheld 2014 (£6.99)The ability to play Football Manager in idle moments on smartphones and tablets – rather than just in several-hour sessions on computers – may well have saved a few marriages in the last couple of years. The latest version adds more depth, a redesigned user interface, the ability to create your own club (yes, with you as the Pele-meets-Messi-meets-Maradona star striker), and the ability to manage in more than one country. Engrossing, as ever.iPhone / iPadOceanhorn (£5.99)It&apos;s fair to say the developers of Oceanhorn have played a lot of Nintendo&apos;s Zelda games down the years: this is heavily inspired by that series. That said, they&apos;ve done a good job recreating its charms for iOS: I&apos;m a fair way in, and already captivated by the mix of puzzles, exploration and monster battles. The music is worth a nod too: lush and atmospheric.iPhone / iPadGT Racing 2 (free)Gameloft&apos;s GT Racing returns for its second drive, with a more simulation-style take on the racing genre – a mobile equivalent to Gran Turismo. That means 67 licensed cars, 13 tracks to drive them on, and more than 1,400 events to complete, with the promise of 28 more challenges a week to keep the game fresh in the coming months. The handling and pace feel good, and online multiplayer is great fun too.iPhone / iPadEpoch.2 (£3.99)If you&apos;ve got an iPhone 5s or one of the new iPads, and are looking for a game to show off its A7 processor, this comes a close second to Infinity Blade III. It&apos;s a marvellous-looking action-shooter with robots and guns galore, with eye-popping set-piece battles. Its combination of paid download and in-app purchases for credits mirrors Infinity Blade too.iPhone / iPadMonopoly Bingo (free)&quot;The beloved world of Monopoly meets the friendly, addictive fun of bingo&quot; may be a phrase to strike fear into anyone&apos;s heart, especially when it relates to a freemium mobile game making its money from in-app purchases. Has EA ruined Monopoly? At first look, no: this is an interesting attempt to blend the two very different games, although whether it appeals to fans of either remains to be seen.iPhone / iPadHipster CEO (£1.99)Genuinely my favourite game of the week, if distinctly niche. Hipster CEO puts you in charge of a tech startup charged with taking your company from bedroom to global domination (or, more accurately, from bedroom to abject failure). And while it sounds flippant, there&apos;s a lot of depth here. Not to mention fun.iPhoneGrand Theft Auto V Official Interactive Strategy Guide (£2.99)Not a game, but the app of the official book for GTA V, with guides to the various missions, tips on how to make the most out of the console game&apos;s three characters, information on the different hobbies and pastimes you can try, and a comprehensive map with all the game&apos;s collectibles. Having spent a few weeks playing GTA V already with GameFaqs constantly to hand in my iPad browser, this is going to come in handy.iPadKing&apos;s League: Odyssey (£1.49)Finally, a mobile conversion of a popular Flash game on the web, with a fantasy setting that sees you building an army and waging war on all manner of virtual enemies. Early indications are that it&apos;s addictive, but also that there&apos;s some real depth to the gameplay. Also good: the developers have made a point of making in-app purchasesnotused for currency: so your success is based on skill, not spending.iPhone / iPadThat&apos;s this week&apos;s selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above by posting a comment.
More than 700 volunteers have collaborated to provide rescue workers with high quality maps of areas in the Philippines hit by typhoon Haiyan.Working on OpenStreetMap, a collaboratively created map of the world – like Wikipedia, but for cartographers – the volunteers have madeover 1.5m changes, providing information for humanitarian aid workers on the ground and updating maps to reflect damage from the storm.The work is co-ordinated by the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team (HOT), a volunteer group which lets disaster relief workers set tasks for mapmakers at home. Users who want to help out canlog-in to the tasking manager, where they are presented with a list of requests from the team.Most of these are as simple as tracing the road network of an affected area from pre-existing satellite imagery. One asks users to trace the backbone road network for Masbate Island, in the north of the affected area; another asks the state of buildings and roads in Roxas City, in the west.The biggest tasks call for huge areas to be covered in exacting detail using pictures of what the area looks like after the storm.&quot;Use new satellite imagery to trace buildings, infrastructure, areas, natural features and other important visible features of the city of Ormoc,&quot; lists one requests, as well as &quot;map the current state of Tacloban City area after Typhoon Haiyan inflicted heavy damage to buildings, infrastructure and areas&quot;.With post-typhoon satellite imagery, the volunteers have the task of checking their traced maps against the reality of the situation on the ground. Structures can be marked as damaged or destroyed, and so the volunteers can begin the odd work of undoing the mapping they have already done.Already, the mapping is showing results. A picture shared by the Red Cross&apos;s Robert Banick shows the massive increase in detail on a map of Tacloban City after volunteers started filling in the gaps:'After' map shows details provided after volunteers have filled in the gaps.. Photograph: https:/twitter.com/RBanick/status/400055778435809280The Red Cross has been using volunteers to improve their maps of under-charted areas since the Haitian earthquake in 2010.Then, OpenStreetMap users improved maps of Port-au-Prince fromthe barest outline of the major roads in the areato afully-detailed map of all the roads in the city and its outlying slums.Thanks to the efforts of the HOT, responders on the ground have been provided withdaily updated downloads for GPS systems, and can use theField Papers serviceto print physical atlases of the area, for places where connectivity may be low to non-existent.• Volunteers alsomapped the Haitian capitalPort-au-Prince after the devastating earthquake in 2010
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later today.This week: a new structure based on feedback from readers of previous posts. The non-game apps are listed first, followed by the games. Read on for this week&apos;s Android selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).APPSMy Talking Tom (free)Outfit7&apos;s Talking Friends apps – including two previous Talking Tom Cat apps – have been downloaded more than 1.2bn times, and are still used by 170m monthly active users. They&apos;re huge, especially among kids. This latest app adds more features: it turns Talking Tom into a proper virtual pet who has to be fed, entertained and even taken to the loo. Whether parents will be as impressed by the in-app store selling gold coins for up to £69.99 at a time remains to be seen.ARTPOP (free)Lady Gaga&apos;s new album is finally out, along with its companion app for smartphones and tablets. Contrary to expectations, you don&apos;t get to monkey around with ARTPOP&apos;s songs within the app. Instead, you can listen to them (if you&apos;ve already bought them) while also creating and sharing animated GIFs from the ArtHaus section. There&apos;s the promise of streaming DJ sets and videos to come ... next year.Read a fuller hands-on here.Camera Awesome (£1.87)More than 20 million people have downloaded the iOS version of Camera Awesome, apparently. Now it&apos;s available on Android too, with just as impressive a range of photography features focused on taking better snaps, not just on sharing them. You can dig as deep as you like into the app&apos;s shooting and editing tools to improve your mobile photography skills, and despite the complexity, it&apos;s very easy to use.CyanogenMod Installer (free)This is very definitely something for experienced Android users only: an app to use the CyanogenMod tool to &quot;root&quot; your Android device and install your own flavour of operating system, rather than the one provided by your handset maker and/or operator. You need a Windows PC to complete the installation process, mind.Toca Cars (£0.99)Children&apos;s app-maker Toca Boca has been steadily increasing the number of apps it has on Android, with Toca Cars the latest to come out. It&apos;s a very fun sandbox app that sees kids driving a cardboard car round a cardboard virtual world, knocking houses and scenery out of the way willy-nilly. Better still, children can then lay out their own town (before knocking it out of the way willy-nilly).FishHunter (free)&quot;Once upon a time, fish were in charge,&quot; claims the Google Play listing for this fishing app, which accurately reflects every single time I&apos;ve ever sat on the side of a lake with a rod. Cue developer Appetite Lab&apos;s app that reckons it&apos;s &quot;CHANGING THE GAME OF FISHING&quot; (yes, in capitals) with a digital log book, fish database and location-based features to shift power back to humans.Sportizr Football (free)There are a fair few football apps knocking about on Android, but Sportizr is the latest hoping to keep fans in touch with the Beautiful Game. It focuses on the English Premier League, offering scores, tables, stats stretching way back, and a host of features when matches are actually playing.Strangebeard – the Pirate Princess (£2.49)Another children&apos;s app – this is a very good week for kids and parents with Android devices – which takes a cutlass to the notion that pirates and princesses should never meet. It&apos;s a pop-up storybook app about Isabel, a princess who gets mixed up with a pirate crew for an adventure on the high seas. It&apos;s a mixture of storytelling and mini-games that will make your kids smile.Lambrini Bodyguard (free)I&apos;m fighting off mental images of hulking security fellas swigging fruity wine while writing this. But no, Lambrini Bodyguard is about protecting you on nights out in a different way: helping you track how many units you&apos;re drinking, while providing train and bus times plus taxi info in the UK, and a feature to let friends know by text when you arrive home safely. So while a Lambrini-branded app may raise a smirk at first sight, this could be genuinely useful.My Geometric Universe (free)Another one for the kids: this app from developer Chocolapps focuses on geometry, teaching children to draw various shapes, then use them to build objects in three settings: a playroom, ancient Egypt and the middle ages. It&apos;s simple but elegantly designed, turning what could be a dry subject into entertaining fun.SquareHub (free)SquareHub is a &quot;private family network&quot; designed to be used by parents, children and extended family members. It&apos;s a mixture of social networking, group messaging and personal organisation tools, with photo editing thrown in for good measure.A is for App (free)One more for the kids, although this app from Marmalade Play knows its real audience is geeky parents. It&apos;s an ABC app teaching kids the alphabet, except here the words are all based on IT and business: &quot;F is for FTP: Daddy can send files from anywhere to anywhere&quot; – note, a switch changes the app from Daddy to Mummy mode, so it&apos;s not sexist.Football Manager Handheld returns on Android. Photograph: /PRGAMESFootball Manager Handheld 2014 (£6.99)The ability to play Football Manager in idle moments on smartphones and tablets – rather than just in several-hour sessions on computers – may well have saved a few marriages in the last couple of years. The latest Android version adds more depth, a redesigned user interface, the ability to create your own club (yes, with you as the Pele-meets-Messi-meets-Maradona star striker), and the ability to manage in more than one country. Engrossing, as ever.Anomaly 2 (£3.49)11 Bit Studios&apos; sequel to Anomaly Warzone Earth has been causing a stir on iOS and Android alike this week, touting its game play as &quot;RTS tower offense&quot; rather than tower defence. Still, that gives you an idea of the rough genre, as you play humans trying to fight back against a wave of nefarious machines who&apos;ve taken over the world. That said, the multiplayer mode lets you play as either side. It&apos;s a great game.GT Racing 2 (free)Gameloft&apos;s GT Racing returns for its second drive on Android, with a more simulation-style take on the racing genre – a mobile equivalent to Gran Turismo. That means 67 licensed cars, 13 tracks to drive them on, and more than 1,400 events to complete, with the promise of 28 more challenges a week to keep the game fresh in the coming months. The handling and pace feel good, and online multiplayer is great fun too.Tank Battles (free)Also from Gameloft, this is a free-to-play game focusing on tanks, with an emphasis on customisation with weapons, armour and camouflage. Yes, if there was a TV show called Pimp My Tank (which there should be) this would be the game version. There is a solo mode, but the meat of the game comes from going online and playing against other people.Monopoly Bingo (free)&quot;The beloved world of Monopoly meets the friendly, addictive fun of bingo&quot; may be a phrase to strike fear into anyone&apos;s heart, especially when it relates to a freemium mobile game making its money from in-app purchases. Has EA ruined Monopoly? At first look, no: this is an interesting attempt to blend the two very different games, although whether it appeals to fans of either remains to be seen.Halos Fun (free)2013 – a time when even ranges of mandarins have their own branded mobile games. A very strange time. Yet this lives up to its name: the game is the work of developer PikPok, which has proved its chops in a series of its own mobile games over the last few years. Here, you&apos;re trying to rescue your juicy mandarins (not a euphemism) from a group of cheeky racoons.The King of Fighters &apos;97 (£2.49)About as far from branded fruit games as you can get, this is the latest mobile incarnation of hardcore beat &apos;em up The King of Fighters: a revival of its &apos;97 version, with 35 characters to play, a choice of Extra and Advanced game modes, and Bluetooth multiplayer.Battle Command! (free)Finally, Battle Comand! is one of a growing number of games hoping to match the success of Clash of Clans by ... being quite like Clash of Clans. This is a similar strategic-combat game, but with a military rather than fantasy setting. Set in the not-too-distant future, it sees you building an army and taking it to war against other players.That&apos;s this week&apos;s selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above by posting a comment.
Candy Crush Saga remains a mobile gaming phenomenon: the top grossing app worldwide on both Apple&apos;s App Store and Android&apos;s Google Play storeaccording to analytics firm Distimo.Now the game&apos;s publisher, King, has revealed its latest milestone: 500m installations of Candy Crush Saga across mobile devices and Facebook. The game launched on the social network in April 2012, and was then ported to mobile in November that year.The 500m figure was announced to celebrate the one-year anniversary of that mobile debut, although King hasn&apos;t provided any stats on how many active players Candy Crush Saga has, or how much money it&apos;s making.The most regularly-quoted figurecomes from US company Think Gaming, which claims the free-to-play game is generating more than $875,000 a day from in-app purchases on iOS in the US alone, based on 5.4 million daily active users (DAUs) there. But this is just an estimate, as was therecent claim by Michael Acton Smith, CEO of games firm Mind Candy, that Candy Crush Saga had &quot;made about $180m in the last six months&quot;.In September, King said thatCandy Crush Saga was being played 700m times a dayon mobile devices alone, with that figure accounting for 70% of the company&apos;s 1bn daily plays for all its games across Facebook and mobile.King isexpected to file for an initial public offering(IPO) on the back of the game&apos;s success, with reports in September that it was using the same US financial rules that Twitter used for its IPO to keep the filing secret until just before its &quot;roadshow&quot; for potential investors.Candy Crush Saga has some way to go to become the most popular mobile game franchise in the world. Yesterday, at the Slush conference in Finland, Rovio announced that its Angry Birds games havenow been downloaded more than 2bn times. However, Rovio&apos;s revenues of €152.2m ($204.8m) for the whole of 2012 suggests that King is likely making more money.The company&apos;s next challenge is to follow up Candy Crush Saga. The first successor on mobile, Pet Rescue Saga, is gathering a head of steam of its own, with Distimo claiming it was the fifth top grossing game globally on Apple&apos;s App Store in October.King is also preparing to release another of its Facebook games, Papa Pear Saga, for smartphones and tablets. The game was due to be released in October but the launch was put back at the last minute.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow long do disk drives last? &gt;&gt; Backblaze blogWhy does a company that keeps more than 25,000 disk drives spinning all the time not know how long they last? Backblaze has been providing reliable and unlimited online backup for over five years. For the past four years, we've had enough drives to provide good statistics, but 78% of the drives we buy are living longer than four years. So while 22% of drives fail in their first four years, and we have detailed information about the failure rates of drives in their first four years, we don't yet know what will happen beyond that. So how long do drives last? Keep reading.It's a bathtub shape, as you have heard. But how long do the drives stay in the tub?The Seattle police department disables Its mesh network (the new apparatus capable of spying on you) &gt;&gt; The StrangerThe Seattle Police Department just announced that it has begun the process of deactivating its wireless mesh network, a powerful tool for sending vast amounts of data that also has powerful surveillance potential. In theory, the network (built by a California-based company called Aruba Networks) could track and indefinitely log the movements of any wireless device with a MAC address (phones, laptops, tablets) that moves through its coverage area.The possibility of a police department creating a historical digital map of the city, or using such a system for real-time locating of individuals, without governmental or civilian oversight hassome serious implications.Sleeping uneasily in Seattle.A month in the life of a Galaxy Note 3 owner &gt;&gt; Android AuthorityJoe Hindy:For the most part, the plethora of Samsung options on my phone remain off. I've always adored Smart Stay and that's on, but the other Smart Screen features are off. Air view and Air gesture are both off. I left Air command on because that's actually useful. The only option in Motions that I have enabled is Smart alert. I have Palm motion on so I can take quick screen shots and Multi-window is on in full capacity. That's really it folks. Voice control is off, Hands-free mode is off, and One-handed operation is off.Since we are talking about my experience here, I'll go ahead and add that I rooted my device and am running a custom ROM.He really likes it. Intriguing how people turn off all those Samsung options.I think we found a app-breaking bug in Hangouts &gt;&gt; AndroidReddit user Recon0212:So this probably won't happen to everyone.We have 12 people in our hangouts group. One of my friends decided it would be funny to spam atleast 10 pages of emoticons (a monkey and a pig, to be exact.)Upon doing it, none of this could get into the app.So why does this suck? Well, we all know that the Nexus 5 relies on Hangouts for SMS (Without the use of 3rd party SMS). But if some jerk were to spam you a bunch of emoticons it means you can not use hangouts at all.The solution we found is to log into Google+ on a computer and leave the group, and you can enter hangouts after that.All 6 of our devices could not log into Hangouts on our phones ans tablets, but this did not affect iPhone users for some reason.Hangouts product manager now aware, apparently.Frequently Asked Questions &gt;&gt; CoinQ. How much does a Coin cost?A. Each Coin costs $100. For you early adopters there is a very limited quantity that can be purchased for $50.Q. How do I get my Coin?A. You can pre-order a Coin via our website.Q. Where can I use Coin?A. You can use a Coin everywhere cards are accepted including dip-style card readers and ATMs. Use a Coin just like you use your cards now at gas stations, restaurants, the mall, the gym, or other places you frequent.Q. Will my Coin work outside the US?A. Not in all cases.Forget credit cards - now you just need this, and a smartphone. As Arthur Dent might say, we'll see which one runs out of battery first.The second operating system hiding in every mobile phone &gt;&gt; OS NewsThom Holwerda:This operating system is stored in firmware, and runs on the baseband processor. As far as I know, this baseband RTOS is always entirely proprietary. For instance, the RTOS inside Qualcomm baseband processors (in this specific case, the MSM6280) is called AMSS, built upon their own proprietary REX kernel, and is made up of 69 concurrent tasks, handling everything from USB to GPS. It runs on an ARMv5 processor.The problem here is clear: these baseband processors and the proprietary, closed software they run are poorly understood, as there's no proper peer review. This is actually kind of weird, considering just how important these little bits of software are to the functioning of a modern communication device. You may think these baseband RTOS' [real time operating systems] are safe and secure, but that's not exactly the case. You may have the most secure mobile operating system in the world, but you're still running a second operating system that is poorly understood, poorly documented, proprietary, and all you have to go on are Qualcomm's Infineon's, and others' blue eyes.What's the betting that the NSA and GCHQ are very, very familiar with these RTOSs - and their bugs?Moto G is a game changer but likely to be a commercial failure in India &gt;&gt; BGRRajat Agrawal pours some cold water on fevered brows:Motorola might be a "Google-owned" company but it is not Google. Across the world, barring the US and some Latin American countries,Motorola is a brand that has wound up its business and left. It does not have any market presence in most of the world. It is no longer a tier one OEM as far as the trade is concerned. What's more, the launch of the Moto G does not mean it marks Motorola's re-entry in the countries from where it left.Apart from the US and Brazil where one will be able to buy the Moto G directly from Motorola, it will be sold through Motorola's partners – carriers, retail chains and distributors – in the rest of the world. This brings the big question of who handles the after-sales service, which is a critical aspect for most emerging countries, including India. Who will set up the service centres across the country, if Motorola is not doing it on its own?The next challenge for Motorola would be its distribution and sales strategy.Motorola lost money when it was independent; now it loses moneyandsells fewer handsets than before.Search animated GIFs on the web &gt;&gt; GiphyThere's a business model just waiting to happen here.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
The number of smartphone owners keeps increasing - and many are in China, buying low-end &quot;Android&quot; phones which don&apos;t run Google services, according to new data published by the research companies Gartner and IDC.Gartner has for the first time lifted the lid on the gigantic growth in sales of Android phones which don&apos;t run Google services in China - so-called &quot;AOSP&quot; (Android Open Source Platform) handsets, which use local app stores and do not count towards &quot;activations&quot; measured by Google, nor hook into Google services.Thefigures, released on Thursday, show a two-speed smartphone market, with AOSP sales in China nearly doubling in a year - increasing to 84.1m in the third quarter of 2013 from 42.3m a year ago - while growth outside it was only 28% year-on-year.But China, where AOSP handsets with prices ranging from $150 to $300 make about 90% of handset sales, is now such a large share of the world market that it drove overall smartphone growth to 77.3%.World smartphone shipments Q1 2007 - Q3 2013, showing AOSP figures for China. Source: Gartner/IDC. Photograph: /PRAOSP handsets made up 41% of all &quot;Android&quot; phones shipped in the third quarter, according to Gartner, up from 34% a year ago. They connect to dozens of app stores, or are sold through companies such as Xiaomi orTencent.China is the world&apos;s largest smartphone consumer, with sales there reaching roughly 85m in the third quarter, and 1.1 billion people having mobile phones. Chinese consumers are also eager purchases of phones, with a Umeng Analytics study recently finding that 90% replaced their phone at least once every 15 months.Even discounting China&apos;s giant presence, &quot;Google Android&quot; phones made up 100.9m, or 72%, of phones shipped during the third quarter, cementing Google&apos;s grip on the sector.Normalised smartphone market share (showing shipments as percentage of total), 1Q 2007 - 3Q 2013. Source: IDC/Gartner. Photograph: /PRWorldwide mobile phone shipments (featurephone v smartphone OS), 1Q 2007 - 3Q 2013. Source: Gartner/IDC. Photograph: /PRBut in the US, which is still the world&apos;s richest smartphone market,other data from industry analyst Chetan Sharmasuggested that during the quarter Android handsets only made up 54% of shipments in the US market, against 42% for Apple. Smartphones made up nearly 90% of handsets sold during the quarter, Sharma said; 64% of owners there now have smartphones, but that is concentrated among 40% of households - &quot;leaving plenty of growth in the marketplace.&quot;Sharma added: &quot;Though China has overtaken (primarily because of the sheer size of its population) US in terms of the overall smartphone penetration, US remains the market where OEMs have to be really successful in order to be consider a serious player on the larger canvas. Though the likes of Xiaomi and Micromax [which is popular in India] have had good success in their local markets (and still have a great amount of growth left), the prized market to make a sizable dent in their overall revenue and margins is the US market.&quot;Price dropSeparately,IDC&apos;s figuresshowed that the world average selling price (ASP) of a smartphone dropped by 12.5% year-on-year in the third quarter to $317 - indicative of more phones being sold at lower prices.The average is pulled down by the cheaper handsets in China. “Sales of feature phones continued to decline and the decrease was more pronounced in markets where the ASP for feature phones was much closer to the ASP of affordable smartphones,” said Anshul Gupta, principal research analyst at Gartner. “In markets such as China and Latin America, demand for feature phones fell significantly as users rushed to replace their old models with smartphones.”However larger-screened &quot;phablets&quot; measuring over 5in diagonally kept a higher price, at $443 - although they had fallen even further, by 22.8% from last year&apos;s $573.The dropping ASP for smartphones caused by low-end market expansion, particularly in China, is putting added pressure on mid-range vendors, while leaving open the question of how long Apple can maintain its premium pricing on the iPhone - which had an ASP of $577 in the third quarter, according to the company&apos;s results.Samsung accounted for just under 40% of all Android shipments, including China, according to IDC. But it is the only non-Chinese vendor in the top ten Android sellers there; Lenovo and Yulong dominate, with Xiaomi - which recentlyhired Google executive Hugo Barra- holding 4.3% of the market there.Lenovo became the seventh largest smartphone vendor - although more than 95% of its phones were sold inside China.Android vendors: pressure below the topIDC highlighted concerns about the financial pressures on Android handset makers, where Samsung is the only one known to make significant profits. &quot;The vast majority of its vendors still struggle to find meaningful market share,&quot; IDC noted, pointing out that besides Samsung, &quot;the rest of the vendors either saw single-digit market share or, in the case of the majority of vendors, market share of less than 1%.&quot; HTC, the Taiwanese company which was once the largest Android supplier in the US, recently announced its first quarterly loss, and is expected to break even during the current period by selling its shares in the Beats headphone company for $265m.In some cases Android vendors are seeking diversification.&quot;Almost all successful Android vendors have added one or more 5-7-inch phablets to their product portfolios,&quot; said Ryan Reith, IDC&apos;s program director. &quot;And Nokia’s recent announcement of the Lumia 1320 and 1520 put them in the category as well.&quot; Reith says that in the third quarter phablet shipments accounted for 21% of the smartphone market, up from just 3% a year ago - that is, 54.8m devices, compared to 5.6m a year ago.&quot;We believe the absence of a large-screen device may have contributed to Apple&apos;s inability to grow share in the third quarter,&quot; Reith added. Apple is rumoured to be working on a larger-screened phone for release in 2014, though the company has not commented on the reports.Apple squeezedWhile Apple increased the number of handsets it shipped to 30.3m, up 23.1% year-on-year, its share of worldwide sales including China fell to 12.1%, its lowest since the start of 2009. Excepting China, it was about 18%; the company does not disclose shipments of iPhones inside China.Both Gartner and IDC expressed doubts about Apple&apos;s pricing of its colourful iPhone 5C product, which was launched at the same time as the high-end fingerprint-reading iPhone 5S.With carriers complaining that there is little difference in the wholesale price of the 5S and 5C, many are preferring to focus sales on the 5S, which has a higher selling price to customers. Gartner commented that &quot;the price difference between the iPhone 5c and 5s is not enough in mature markets, where prices are skewed by operator subsidies, to drive users away from the top of the line model. In emerging markets, the iPhone 4S will continue to be the volume driver at the low end as the lack of subsidy in most markets leaves the iPhone 5c too highly priced to help drive further penetration.&quot;Nokia growsWindows Phone saw success, particularly in low-end markets, as Nokia began to win buyers. Sales of handsets running Microsoft&apos;s software more than doubled, from 4m a year ago to 8.9m in the third quarter, Gartner said. Nokia&apos;s handset business - which Microsoft is preparing to take over early in 2014 - remains the largest vendor of the software. Gartner noted that &quot;regional and Chinese Android device manufacturers continued to beat market demand, taking larger share and creating a tough competitive environment for Lumia devices.&quot; Even excluding China, the figure still leaves Windows Phone with only 5% of shipments three years after its launch.
TheMoto Gis Motorola’s first UK smartphone since becoming a Google-owned company, and it is probably the best budget phone going.Motorola set out to “disrupt” the smartphone market with the Moto G. It wanted to make a phone that was feature packed, behaved like a premium phone, but at a price point that was about one-third of most premium smartphones like theSamsung Galaxy S4andiPhone 5S.Starting at just £135 SIM-free and without a mobile phone contract, the Moto G is certainly exceptional value for money.Designed to fit the handMotorola Moto G review - a range of brightly coloured replacement backs are available to customise the Moto G.The Moto G is very solidly built, which is a refreshing change from most budget smartphones – there is absolutely no flex in the body when trying to twist it between two hands, which bodes very well for durability.That build quality does come at a bit of a cost regarding size and weight. The Moto G weighs 143g, which is 13g heavier than thelarger Google Nexus 5for instance, or 31g heavier than the smaller iPhone 5S. It is also heavier than its direct competitors, smartphones such as the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini, which weighs just 107g.At its thickest point, the curved back of the Moto G stretches to 11.6mm, which is also thicker than its competitor the Galaxy S4 Mini, which squeezes in at 8.94mm thick.The curved back of the Moto G, however, is ergonomic and fits nicely within curvature of your hand, while the smooth plastic back provides enough friction to give you a reassuring grip on the phone.The back of the phone is removable, and Motorola has produced the back shell in six bold alternative colours – white, blue, red, yellow, turquoise and purple – that can optionally be swapped for the default black.The front of the device is dominated by a 4.5in high-definition screen, which at 1280 x 720 resolution is the “sharpest screen in its class” with a 329ppi screen density. For comparison, the iPhone 5S retina display has a screen density of 326ppi. It is also significantly bigger than the majority of the Moto G’s competition, which have screens around the 4in size.The display is certainly crisp and clear, making text on websites and in emails easily legible, while photographs look detailed and sharp. The viewing angles are very good too, meaning sharing videos with others is easy.Gorilla Glass also covers the screen, making it scratch resistant, while a nano waterproof coating on the inside and out of the Moto G makes it water repellant and splash proof.SpecificationsScreen:4.5in 720p HD displayProcessor:1.2 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400RAM:1GB of RAMStorage:8/16GBOperating system:Android 4.3 “Jelly Bean”Camera:5-megapixel rear and 1.3-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:Wi-Fi (n), Bluetooth 4.0 and GPSDimensions:65.9 x 129.9 x 11.6mmWeight:143gPowerful and lasts all dayMotorola Moto G review &ndash; a curved back and ergonomic fit in the hand.The Moto G is unashamedly a budget phone, but has relatively powerful hardware compared to most other budget phones.Running at its heart is Qualcomm’s latest low-power processor, the 1.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 400, which compared to the majority of the competition, which are saddled with significantly less powerful dual-core processors, makes the Moto G a fast and responsive phone.Motorola has only given the Moto G 1GB of RAM, however, which could hamper multitasking, as the gold standard for Android phones is currently 2GB of RAM. In practice, the Moto G is fast and lag-free, handling most things without any issues whatsoever, something that can’t be said for most Android smartphones in the budget sector.Applications load almost instantly, and swapping between running applications is about as fast as any current premium smartphone currently available. In fact, Motorola reckons that the web browser and phone application load faster on the Moto G than a Samsung Galaxy S4, which is well over twice the price of the Moto G. In my experience, I’d say that was about right, completely blowing away the budget phone competition.In terms of storage, the Moto G only has 8 or 16GB, depending on the model, and lacks support for external expansion via microSD, although the Moto G does come with an extra 50GB of Google Drive cloud storage for two years. That means space is certainly at a premium on the Moto G, although 16GB is plenty of space for the majority of apps and services, without storing a large music library on the device.One of the corners cut by Motorola is the lack of 4G, as the Moto G is missing LTE support. While that means that it can’t take advantage of the new, fast 4G networks currently being rolled out across the UK, not many budget phones are likely to be sold on comparatively expensive 4G mobile phone contracts.Battery life is something Motorola has historically been known for, and the Moto G makes no exception to that rule. Motorola rates the Moto G as having around 24 hours of usable battery life, juggling web browsing, emailing and listening to music.In my testing I found the Moto G to more or less live up to Motorola’s claims, far exceeding the battery life of smartphones more than three times its price, lasting just about two days of general usage. Bearing in mind the flood of emails that pass through my devices, and the constant connection to servers across 3G, the Moto G is likely to last much longer than that in most consumers’ hands.Optimised naked Android experienceMotorola Moto G review - fast, fluid and lag-free Android.One of the reasons the Moto G is quite so fast and fluid at loading applications and swapping between programs is the fact that Motorola hasn’t added much to the standard Android experience.Most of its software development efforts have been spent on optimisation, speeding aspects of the phone up and reducing the Moto G’s overall power consumption, which has paid dividends in the responsive feel of the phone and extended battery life.The Moto G has full access to the Google Play store and its 850,000 standard Android apps, as you might expect from a Google-owned company, but only runs Android 4.3 “Jelly Bean” for now - the previous generation of Android which most phones available at the moment run, apart fromthe Google Nexus 5.Motorola has promised a software upgrade for the Moto G to bring it up to date withAndroid 4.4 “Kitkat”in January 2014.Motorola has made a few small additions to the basic, perfectly usable Android experience. One of the first software tweaks you notice is Motorola Migrate, which helps you transition to the Moto G from other Android smartphones, pulling contacts, call history and text messages, photos and videos wirelessly to your new phone.Motorola Assist is another small but handy addition made to stock Android. Assist plugs into your calendar, automatically silencing your phone when in meetings, and will even automatically respond to calls with a text message.Assist will also mute the phone at night, allowing you to set night hours, and set up favourites lists that allows a phone call through if the caller calls twice in quick succession.Finally, Motorola’s built in a smart “trusted devices” feature into its Bluetooth settings, which allows you to keep your Moto G unlocked if its in the presence of certain Bluetooth devices, for instance a pair of headphones or your car’s stereo.Minimalist cameraMotorola Moto G review - a 5MP camera on the back can capture 720p video as well.The camera application has also been tweaked, hiding the user interface and making photo capture as easy as a tap anywhere on the screen. Menus for accessing advanced features such as high dynamic range photography, the flash settings, panorama mode and slow-motion video as well as auto-focus settings are hidden under a pull-out menu on the left hand side, while previously captured images are hidden on the right.The camera is capable of capturing decent still photos at 5-megapixels. While they aren’t stellar, lacking detail when zoomed in, they do the job as quick snaps for the most part. The Moto G will also capture smooth high-definition video at 720p resolution.Priced to sellMotorola has priced the Moto G to sell. Its mantra for the new budget phone is a “premium experience, with today&apos;s technology, at less than 1/3 of the price of the premium competition”, which means the the Moto G costs just £135 for the 8GB version and £159 for the 16GB version, SIM-free without a contract.VerdictMotoroladescribed the Moto Gas disruptive and game changing, and for once, I almost agree with the hyperbole. The Moto G is a far better smartphone experience than it ought to be, and the first budget smartphone I haven’t found frustrating to use.It is fast, fluid, with a sharp 4.5in screen and a long battery life that’s more than enough to get you through even the most arduous of work days – something most premium phones costing three times as much as the Moto G struggle with.Compared to competing smartphones priced under £250 from Samsung, Nokia, HTC and a variety of Chinese phone manufacturers, the Motorola completely blows them away with the Moto G. It is a better all round phone than most smartphones costing twice as much, let alone priced at £135.That’s not to say some corners haven’t been cut to get to the sub-£200 price point, 4G being one and an average 5-megapixel camera being another, but for the money, the Moto G is the best budget smartphone available at the moment. Samsung, HTC and even the likes of ZTE and Huawei take note – this is how you do a budget smartphone right.Star rating: 4/5Pros:Big screen, long battery life, fast processor, solid build, Bluetooth 4.0Cons:Heavy, quite thick, average camera, no expandable storage, only 1GB of RAM, no NFC, no 4G
British games developer Sports Interactive claims its Football Manager 2013 game was downloaded illegally 10.1m times after being &quot;cracked&quot; in May.The game, which was released in November 2012, included a feature that saw cracked copies &quot;call home&quot; when played, providing SI with data on where and how often it was being used.In apresentation at this week&apos;s London Games Conference, studio director Miles Jacobson outlined the company&apos;s findings, noting that 18% of the 10.1m illegal downloaders went on to play the game five times or more. China was the biggest country for these downloads, accounting for just under 3.2m, followed by Turkey (1.1m) and Portugal (0.8m).Jacobson made pains to stress that SI doesn&apos;t see every illegal download as a lost sale, however: the company estimates that just 1.7% of these downloaders would have bought Football Manager 2013 if the cracked version hadn&apos;t been available.&quot;We believe that Football Manager 2013 enjoyed an uplift of 144,000 units prior to the crack and lost a potential 32,000 extra sales post-crack,&quot; explains supplementary notes sent to journalists following the presentation.&quot;Therefore, the difference between the game never being cracked and being cracked on day one can be calculated as 176,000 in unit sales or, in financial terms, a potential variance of $3,700,000 in net revenue.&quot;On the positive side, Football Manager 2013 was the biggest-selling game in the history of the franchise, which launched in 2004 following SI&apos;s decision to cut ties with Eidos, the publisher of its Championship Manager games.This week&apos;s speech is not the first time Jacobson has spoken publicly about Football Manager piracy. In April 2012, he announced that the Football Manager Handheld game for Android devices wasseeing nine illegal downloads for every legitimate purchase, and by October 2012 that ratio hadincreased to 11:1.British communications regulator Ofcom has been conducting research into levels of online piracy for different entertainment industries, including games. In its last report,covering the three months between March and May 2013, it claimed that 5m games had been downloaded illegally during that period in the UK alone.
I'm looking for a new pocket camera for holidays. Best of three? I'm considering theCanon Powershot SX240 HS, thePanasonic Lumix DMC-SZ3EB-K(£84.00), and theCanon Ixus 510 HS(£139.99). Or is it worth making the step up to a Nikon 1 J2?DhirenThese are all good cameras, so you'll need to make a final decision based on three things: the technical specifications, the price, and the handling qualities. I can deal with the tech specs, with a bit of help from DP Review'sside-by-side camera comparisons. You'll have to decide how much you want to pay. But you should also try to get some hands-on experience of these cameras in a shop. It's a good idea to get the feel of different cameras and choose one you think you'll enjoy using, as long as it isn't trashed in reviews.I'd eliminate the Canon Ixus 510 on the grounds of its relatively poor ergonomics (touch screen) and limited image quality, even though it has the same size sensor as the other two (1/2.3"). It does have an appealing style and it's very small -- the reasons my son bought a very similar model. However, the Lumix DMC-SZ3 is a couple of millimetres smaller, and on the Amazon links you provided, dramatically cheaper (£84 vs £140).Choosing between the Lumix DMC-SZ3 and the Canon Powershot SX240 HS is harder, and I think you would be happy with either. I'd lean towards the SX240 as this is something of a modern classic – along with the SX260 HS, which is the same camera with built-in GPS. There are better Lumix cameras, but compared with the DMC-SZ3, the Powershot SX240 has a better screen and a longer optical zoom (20x vs 10x), plus an HDMI port.I would expect the Powershot SX240 to produce slightly better photos, with less noise. You might think the Lumix DMC-SZ3 would be better because it's a 16 megapixel camera whereas the SX240 HS only offers 12MP, but the reverse is more likely, given that the sensor sizes are the same. (If someone out there can produce comparison shots, that would be nice.) As Apple said, with some justification, at the iPhone 5S launch: "bigger pixels = better picture".AGerman review of the Lumix DMC-SZ3suggests theSamsung WB30F"smart camera" (£94) as a better option, and I'd tend to agree. I've been using Samsung compacts for the past couple of years, though both models (aWB2000and aWB750) have had Schneider Kreuznach rather than Samsung zoom lenses. They are very solid and have worked well. The only minor foible was when the WB750 lens stopped zooming, which was cured by removing and then replacing the battery. (Also, it only cost me £95 in Jessops when the SX240 HS was around twice the price.)Stepping up to "mirrorless"Whether it's worth stepping up to a Nikon J1 or J2 is an interesting question. There's no doubt that digital compact cameras are being squeezed from below by smartphone cameras, and the Nokia Lumia 1120 probably outperforms most cheap compacts. If you are going on holiday or to a special event, a so-called "travel zoom" like the Powershot SX240 wins every time. You get more shooting range and better quality from the 20x zoom lens, better image quality from the larger sensors, better flash exposures, and better battery life. However, if you are just snapping your lunch for Facebook, none of those things matters.To get a significant step up in quality means using a bigger image sensor, which means using bigger lenses that gather more light. Both of those cost money. This is where a new type of digital camera enters the picture. They're often called mirrorless cameras, or interchangeable lens cameras (ILCs), orMicro Four Thirds(MFT), after the sensor size used by Olympus and Panasonic.Really, the naming depends whether you are looking up or down. For smartphone and compact camera owners looking for something better, the key differentiator is interchangeable lenses, so ILC makes sense. For digital SLR owners looking for something smaller and lighter, the lack of a blinking mirror is the significant difference. (SLRs already have interchangeable lenses.) Either way, ILCs are not a new kind of camera at all. They're the digital heirs of the Leica and Contax rangefinder cameras that were the staple of photojournalists from the 1930s to the 1980s, and in some cases the present day.The Nikon 1 J2 provides a significant step up in the imaging department: it has a 1" sensor generating 10 megapixels. The actual dimensions are 13.2 x 8.8mm (116 sq mm) compared with the Canon Powershot SX240's 6.17 x 4.55mm (28 sq mm). In other words, the image sensor is four times the size. It's also very good value at the current lowest price, which is £199.99 from Argos or Jessops, with the standard 10-30mm lens. It used to sell for £500.However, you could find the 3x optical zoom range a bit restrictive, so have a look for a bundle that includes a 30-110mm lens as well. According to the site I always consult,Camera Price Buster, the lowest price for a J2 two-lens outfit is £299.99, but it's pink.You could also consider the older Nikon 1 J1 model, which has the same basic specification. The main advantages of the J2 are its much better screen (twice the pixels), aluminium-finish body, Creative Mode, and slow-motion video. The J1 should therefore be cheaper, but according to Camera Price Buster, it isn't.Bigger sensorsAlthough the Nikon 1 J2 is a terrific all-round family camera with a relatively large sensor, it has been criticised for having too small a sensor. Photographers who are trading down from DSLRs rather than moving up from phones are usually looking for the extra quality delivered by Micro Four Thirds and APS-C sensors.With this in mind, the options include theCanon EOS M(£349),Sony NEX3NL(£294.99),Lumix G DMC-GF6(£359) and theSamsung NX1000(£259.99).The Canon EOS M, for example, has an APS-C sensor, which measures 22.3 x 14.9mm (332 sq mm). This is more than 10 times the size of the sensor in the Canon Powershot SX240 HS (28 sq mm). For smartphone buffs, the comparable round numbers are 58 sq mm for the Nokia Lumia 1020's 2/3" sensor and 17 sq mm for the iPhone 5S's 1/3" sensor.Of course, there's not much point in having the extra quality if you only look at pictures on screens and never have photo albums printed out. Also, there's not much point in having a camera with interchangeable lenses if you only own or use one lens. However, extra wide-angle and telephoto lenses cost money, and reduce pocketability.ILCs can certainly provide high quality results, and they do it at relatively low prices compared to DSLRs or even smartphones like the iPhone 5S (£549 to £709). But travel zoom compacts like the Canon Powershot SX240 HS do what most people need for a much lower price.
The Conservative party has removed videos from YouTube including the Webcameron series that were billed as providing &quot;behind-the-scenes access&quot; to David Cameron, it has emerged.News of the video deletions follows the disclosure on Tuesday that a decade of speeches from the party&apos;s website and from the maininternetlibrary – including one in which David Cameron claimed that being able to search the web would democratise politics by making &quot;more information available to more people&quot;.The archive removed text includes a decade of speeches between 2000 and 2010. The party claims the deletions are part of a redesign of its website. Labour also stands accused of trying to remove speeches from the internet with its own website redesign.Now it has emerged that every video onthe Conservatives&apos; YouTube pagethat dates from before 2010 has been removed or marked as private. Videos such asAsk David Cameron: Shared ownership, EU referendum, PMQsare now marked as unavailable on YouTube. Others, such asBoris Johnson at the pre-election rally in Swindon, andDavid Cameron down on the farm, are now unlisted, ensuring that only users with a direct link can see them.Additionally, a file on the party&apos;s website instructed sites such as the Internet Archive and Google, which store copies of webpages for posterity, to remove the deleted pages from their databases. (Those instructions have now been removed from the file, calledrobots.txt).Labour has also edited its news archive. The party&apos;s new website only goes back to September 2010, leavingEd Miliband&apos;s keynoteat the party conference that year the oldest speech available. But unlike the Conservatives, Labour didn&apos;t require internet archivists to remove stored versions, leaving pagesdating back to July 2002in the database.The Webcameron videos werelaunched by the Tories in 2006with great fanfare and were billed as a way for the public to see a more natural image of the then leader of the opposition.&quot;I want to tell you what the Conservative party is doing, what we&apos;re up to, give you behind-the-scenes access so you can actually see what policies we&apos;re developing, the things that we are doing, and have that direct link ... watch out BBC, ITV, Channel 4, we&apos;re the new competition. We&apos;re a bit shaky and wobbly, but this is one of the ways we want to communicate with people properly about what the Conservative party stands for,&quot; the future prime minister said.Cameron aide Sam Roake described the videos at the time as &quot;a significant change in the way politics has been done&quot;.&quot;It very much represents the values of David Cameron&apos;s Conservative party, of openness and community,&quot; he said.The message of transparency was echoed in one of the speeches now removed from the party&apos;s website. George Osborne said in 2007: &quot;We need to harness the internet to help us become more accountable, more transparent and more accessible – and so bridge the gap between government and governed.&quot;On Wednesday, Chris Graylingsaid that there is&quot;a limit to how much you can put and keep on your website year after year&quot;, and a Conservative spokesman claimed that the changes to the website were to &quot;allow people to quickly and easily access the most important information we provide – how we are clearing up Labour’s economic mess, taking the difficult decisions and standing up for hardworking people.”When asked about the YouTube deletions and why it was necessary to remove webpages from the Internet Archive, a spokesperson for the Conservatives declined to comment.&quot;I think it&apos;s a bad attempt to airbrush some of their most embarrassing online and offline moments from their past, but obviously the public won&apos;t be fooled by it,&quot; said a Labour source.Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, pointed out that the material is still available on theUK Web Archive, a project run by the British Library to archive British websites.Nonetheless, he said: &quot;The suspicion has to be that at the point they are engaged in a huge debate about mass surveillance … they are removing the videos where they criticise Labour for doing the same thing. That&apos;s why it&apos;s absolutely important that that material remains available.&quot;Despite having been variously removed and hidden from YouTube, the Webcameron episodes are still available onConservatives.com, on a page only accessible through search.
How much does Samsung Electronics owe Apple for copying key features of the iPhone and iPad - which it yesterday admitted in a San Jose court? Apple says - precisely - $379.8m. Samsung counters with a much smaller amount: $52m.But it&apos;s going to be up to a jury, which is in a San Jose courtroom hearing a new damages session from last year&apos;s patent trial between the two electronics giants, to decide.And this is only the warmup for a much bigger trial next March - when Apple will be asking that Samsung be barred from selling some of its current devices in the US, and more money will be at stake as well.The latest session follows the verdict by another jury in August 2012, whichawarded $1.05bn in damages in Apple&apos;s favour against Samsungafter deciding that 28 Samsung products had infringed six Apple patents, covering both the devices&apos; function and design. But Judge Lucy Koh later decided that that jury had miscalculated $400m of that damages assessment, covering 13 products, and ordered a new trial - which is strictly limited to determining the correct amount due.Judge Koh has made it clear that Samsung cannot argue against the original jury&apos;s determination of infringement, which still leaves it facing $639m of damages which are not disputed.And Samsung&apos;s lawyer did not deny infringement. &quot;This is a case not where we&apos;re disputing that the 13 phones contain some elements of Apple&apos;s property,&quot; Bill Price, Samsung&apos;s attorney said. &quot;That doesn&apos;t mean Apple gets to come in here and ask for a windfall ... for more than it is entitled.&quot;Copying concessionIn the first day of testimony on Wednesday, the jury heard Apple&apos;s attorney Harold McIlhenny argue that the combination of Apple&apos;s lost profits, Samsung&apos;s profits on the infringing devices, and the royalties effectively owed to Apple, amounted to just under $380m. &quot;Apple lost sales because Samsung was selling infringing products,&quot; McIlhenny argued. &quot;In a fair fight, in a fair competition, the money [Samsung] got would have and should have gone to Apple.&quot;Price countered during his own opening statements that consumers preferred Samsung&apos;s devices, which use Google&apos;s Android system, because of the many differences rather than the similarities they have with Apple&apos;s products. Price put the amount Samsung owes Apple at $52 million. &quot;Apple is simply asking for much more money than it&apos;s entitled to,&quot; he said.Price readily conceded that Samsung was guilty of copying Apple&apos;s features, but downplayed the significance of the technology in devices that are built with hundreds of patents each.Apple called three expert witnesses and a company executive to discuss Apple&apos;s patents Wednesday before court ended for the day. The trial is expected to last into the middle of next week.The new hearing on damages continues a long drawn-out series of courtroom battles between the two companies, which are the two largest smartphone and tablet makers in the world - Samsung leading handily in the smartphone market, and Apple similarly in the smaller tablet market.Apple opened hostilities in 2010, accusing Samsung of copying key elements of the appearance of its early models of iPhone and iPad and infringing patents covering functionality such as scrolling and &quot;bounce back&quot; when trying to scroll past the end of a list. Samsung hit back with a number of lawsuits in the US and other countries, accusing Apple of infringing functionality patents, and some patents essential to 3G connectivity.Few of the products now at issue in the current trial are available for sale in the US.According to Mark McKenna, professor of law at Notre Dame Law School, who has observed the case since its hearing last year, Samsung has benefited from a combination of the original jury&apos;s error, and a separate decision in December 2012 by Judge Koh not to grant Apple a sales ban on the infringing Samsung devices.Lowered risk for SamsungKoh explained her decision by saying that Apple had not proven that the infringed patents were the &quot;causal nexus&quot; for people to buy Samsung devices.“Most cases with these enormous stakes would have settled by now – particularly once the court ordered a new trial on damages, which could substantially increase or decrease the damage award,&quot; McKenna said by email. &quot;But once the court took off the table the possibility of an injunction (which would have taken Samsung products off the market), the risk to Samsung was significantly lower, reducing its incentive to settle. And Apple wants something significant to show for its efforts. So I expect this case to be litigated through, and we could well see several more appeals. Who wins, ultimately, here? Lawyers.”Last year McKenna told the Guardian that the amount of work involved in calculating the damages - which involved a 20-page document totalling hundreds of individual decisions - &quot;isn&apos;t hugely out of step with patent cases generally. There are lots of cases that involve many patent claims and many products, some more than this case - but this case is on the higher end.&quot;Samsung&apos;s lawyers argued that the original jury&apos;s calculation for $400m of damages did not make arithmetical sense, and moved for a mistrial. Koh declined that, but ordered the new session to calculate the damages.No matter the outcome, McKenna and other experts expect the loser to appeal.Samsung meanwhile is being investigated in Europe and the US for attempting to force sales bans against Apple over its use of other Samsung patents - known as &quot;standards essential patents&quot; (SEPs), which it is obliged to license to companies prepared to pay for them. Apple has said that it was willing to license the patents, but Samsung sought sales bans. In Europe it is believed that it tried to make licensing of the SEPs dependent on Apple licensing its non-essential design and function patents to it. However, companies are not obliged to license non-essential patents.If the European Commission determines that Samsung has infringed its rules on abuse of monopoly - as SEPs essentially are, because they are needed to make a device conform to a standard - then it could fine it as much as 10% of its worldwide revenue.• The Samsung devices at issue in the trial are: Captivate, Continuum, Droid Charge, Epic 4G, Exhibit 4G, Galaxy Prevail, Galaxy Tab, Gem, Indulge, Infuse 4G, Nexus S 4G, Replenish, and Transform.• The patents blogger Florian Müller has written aQ+A explaining the reasoning, importance and issues in the new trial session.
Being warned to turn off your mobile phone or tablet ahead of take-off could finally be a thing of the past by December, following a new ruling from Europe&apos;s air safety agency.The European Aviation Safety Agency (Easa) has approved the use of electronic devices during take-off and landing and will publish its guidance regarding safety testing and which devices can and can&apos;t be used during all phases of flight by the end of November.The approval followsFederal Aviation Administration’s rulingin October that personal electronic devices such as ebook readers, tablet computers and portable games consoles could be used “during all phases of flight”. Mobile phones will also be allowed, as long as their cellular radios are disabled or they are put into &quot;airplane mode&quot;.Larger electronic devices, such as laptop computers, will need to be stowed during taxiing, take-off and landing due to their bulk.“This is a major step in the process of expanding the freedom to use personal electronic devices on-board aircraft without compromise in safety,” said Patrick Ky, Easa executive directorin a press release.Airline-by-airline basisFollowing Easa’s decision and release of guidance by the end of November this year, the UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) can then implement the recommendations with individual airlines. Instead of a blanket change, the approval for use of electronic devices during all phases of flight will be made on an airline by airline basis.Any UK airline that aims to allow the use of electronic devices during take-off and landing will have to present a “safety case” to the CAA in the UK, asDelta Airlines has already donewithin the US to the FAA.Pre-Christmas plan“The airlines now have access to new methodology for the safety testing of devices, which could be a relatively quick process, especially as some airlines are likely to have already done a fair bit of testing,” said a CAA spokesperson.“We will have to wait and see what the nature of the guidance will be, so it is difficult to predict an accurate timescale, but it is possible that UK airlines could be permitted to allow the use of personal electronic devices (PEDs) during all phases of flight before Christmas this year,” the CAA spokesperson added.The next stage in the approval of use of electronic devices during take-off and landing in the UK ultimately lies with individual airlines, who may or may not have already commenced testing for their safety cases.Easa is also looking at new ways to certify the use of mobile phones on-board aircraft without needing them to be put into a flight-safe mode allowing mid-air phone calls.“Easa recognises the wide proliferation of personal electronic devices and the wish of the travelling public to use them everywhere,” Easa said in its press release.What the airlines sayIn response to the Easa&apos;s approval and impending guidance Iain Rawlinson, chief executive of Monarch Airlines welcomed the move saying: “We recognise that passengers travel with a wide range of electronic devices for both communication and entertainment purposes and, pending the outcome of industry testing and CAA approval, Monarch expects to undertake its own tests and implement changes to policies regarding in-flight usage of personal electronic devices.”British Airways, the first European airline to allow the use of electronic devices during taxi after landing, also welcomed the news.&quot;As a UK carrier we are regulated by the CAA and we will continue to liaise with them to see if there will be any changes to the current restrictions,&quot; a British Airways spokesperson said.Virgin Atlantic also &quot;welcomes this EASA guidance which we think will give our customers an even more enjoyable experience onboard&quot;.The safety of our customers and crew is our number one priority and we will be carefully assessing the guidance before adapting any safety procedures,” a Virgin Atlantic spokesperson said.• Using theinternet and mobile electronics on planes, is it dangerous?
Twitter has opened up its self-serve advertising platform to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the UK, Ireland and Canada, allowing it for the first time to sell ad space directly to small business outside America.Previously, companies not based in the US have had to develop a working relationship with Twitter in order to buy adverts on the site. That limited the site&apos;s customer base to large companies only, and correspondingly lowered on the amount of revenue it could raise.&quot;If you can Tweet, you can advertise on Twitter,&quot; says Ravi Narasimhan, a product manager at the company. &quot;All you need is a Twitter account and a credit card. You’re in control of your ads, the audience you want to reach, and of course your budget. Best of all, you will only be charged when people follow your Promoted Account or retweet, reply, favorite or click on your Promoted Tweets. You are never charged for your organic Twitter activity.&quot;In the UK, the self-service platform has been launched in partnership with O2, which is offering support and resources to SMEs, includinga tool to let SMEs monitor their social media activity. O2 is also awarding £50 Twitter ad credit for free to customers who use the tool.&quot;During conversations with our small business customers we are often told that what they really need is advice to understand how they can use platforms like Twitter,&quot; says O2&apos;s Ben Dowd. &quot;We believe that it’s our responsibility as both a large corporate and a digital services company to guide them. That’s why we are investing our time, money and expertise in this new social insights platform.&quot;Earlier this week, Matt Wheeler, the chief executive of digital marketing firm Driftrock, identified global self-service ads as one of three ways Twitter could boost its revenue immediately. After the roll-out the company &quot;should see fast growth in ad revenues as SME advertisers join the party.&quot; He predicts &quot;a huge volume&quot; of SMEs will take part in the opportunity.Since the company&apos;s IPO in early November, which saw it go public with a valuation of $24bn, Twitter has been rapidly rolling out new features. On Wednesday,it revealed custom timelines, a tool which enables users to curate and aggregate tweets into one embeddable list.Jason Sumner, a technology analyst at The Economist intelligence unit, says users should expect the company to offer more features over the coming weeks. &quot;Some ideas will work and some will not but the important thing now is to show the R and D machine is churning out new initiatives to drive up the user base, especially outside the US, and get creative with mobile ads.&quot;
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWind engineering &gt;&gt; All thisDr Drang worked in Florida assessing structural damage after Hurricane Andrew:At the time, meteorologists thought Andrew's wind speeds were about 150 mph—later analysis showed it was more like 165 mph when it made landfall in Homestead. In contrast, Haiyan's wind speeds are currently estimated to have been 195 mph.What's another 30 mph? That's only an 18% increase. Well, wind pressure, which is what pushes against buildings and damages them, doesn't increase linearly with wind speed—it increases with the square of the wind speed. So Haiyan's pressures were 40% higher than Andrew's. The buildings I saw 20 years ago that had only had their roofs taken off by Andrew would've been flattened by Haiyan.Have you donated?Why I've all but given up on Windows &gt;&gt; ZDNetAdrian Kingsley-Hughes:These are words I never thought I'd be writing.After more than two decades of being a dedicated Windows power user, someone who over that time has installed and supported countless systems running versions of Windows spanning from 3.0 to 8.1, I've now all but given up on the platform.It might sound odd, but writing these words actually makes me sad. I devoted my 10,000 hours to mastering the platform, plus thousands more, and got the point where there wasn't a file, registry entry, or command line trick that I wasn't familiar with.This presents a problem for someone whose Twitter handle is "@the_pc_doc".Live trial blog: Samsung says it only owes Apple $52 million &gt;&gt; SiliconValley.comHoward Mintz was liveblogging:Samsung's [attorney Bill] Price: "This is a case not where we're disputing that the 13 phones contain some elements of Apple's property. That doesn't mean Apple gets to come in here and ask for a windfall ...for more than it is entitled."China market: Over 4 million consumer tablets sold in 3Q13, says AnalysysThere were 4.353m consumer tablets sold in the China market during the third quarter of 2013, increasing 21.7% sequentially and 67.2% on year, according to Analysys International.These numbers seem off - Apple with 50% of the market seems too high. And the total seems too small.Apple's $10.5bn on robots to lasers shores up supply chain &gt;&gt; BloombergTo get a jump on rivals like Samsung Electronics Co. and lay the groundwork for new products, Apple is spending more on the machines that do the behind-the-scenes work of mass producing iPhones, iPads and other gadgets. That includes equipment to polish the new iPhone 5c's colorful plastic, laser and milling machines to carve the MacBook's aluminum body, and testing gear for the iPhone and iPad camera lens, said people with knowledge of the company's manufacturing methods, who asked not to be identified because the process is private.The spending, which Apple outlined in its fiscal 2014 capital-expenditure forecast, underscores how the world's most valuable company is diving deeper into designing and inventing technology for its manufacturing process.China's biggest video sites sue Baidu for $49 million &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaThis afternoon, more than a dozen of China's biggest online video providers including Youku, LeTV, Sohu, and Tencent gathered in Beijing to announce, in the most extravagant way possible, that they plan to sue Baidu for RMB 300m ($49m). International attendees included the Motion Picture Association of America, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Warner Brothers, Disney and Paramount.The China Online Video Anti-Piracy Alliance (our translation) claims Baidu is the biggest enabler of video piracy in the country via its Baidu Video (百度视频) aggregator, Baidu TV Stick, Baidu Yingyin desktop player, and the Baidu Video mobile app.Baidu is China's most-used search engine.Netflix ditches Webkit to roll out slick new UI for smart TVs, Roku boxes and game consoles &gt;&gt; GigaomWith the new UI, all of this changes. Netflix decided to ditch Webkit as a rendering engine and instead build a native platform for the most common connected device chipsets out there, circumventing the various smart TV SDKs in the process. The company even decided to develop its own voice recognition technology to make voice input consistent across platforms, and not have the Xbox implementation differ from implementations on smart TVs that come with support for voice input.Netflix started working on this new platform 18 months ago, and secretly tested it in people's living rooms for months: The company started migrating PS3 users away from Webkit and to the new architecture with an update in the spring — but it's unlikely anyone noticed, because the Netflix team rebuilt the old UI on top of the new platform. In addition, it tested the new user interface with several hundred thousand new subscribers on the PS3.Another big vote against HTML5 and in favour of native coding.HP and Google halt Chromebook 11 sales following complaints of chargers overheating &gt;&gt; The VergeOn Wednesday afternoon, HP responded to the reports, confirming to The Verge that the company and Google initiated the halt in sales for the following reason: complaints from some Chromebook 11 owners that the chargers included with the notebooks were overheating. HP also advised current Chromebook 11 owners not to continue using their chargers, instead asking them to rely on third-party chargers.That's the one with the micro-USB charger.Smartphone Preference and Spending in Emerging Asia - Jana MobileLast week, we at Jana ran our fifth in a series of weekly surveys of mobile phone users in emerging markets. The theme for last week's survey was smartphone preference and spending. We surveyed over 2,500 people in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, The Philippines, and Vietnam. We invite you to take a look at the results of the survey below.Fascinating: penetration above 50% in nearly all, Nokia and Samsung dominant brands (overall), Symbian very big, and most people don't intend to spend more than $200 on their next phone. Intriguing answers to "if you could buy any phone in the world, what would it be?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Snapchat, the fast-growing messaging system, has reportedly rejected a $3bn buyout offer from Facebook.The Wall Street Journal, citing sources close to the negotiations, said the all-cash offer came as other investors were valuing the loss making two-year-old company at over $4bn. At $3bn Snapchat would be the most expensive acquisition Facebook has ever made.The company is believed to have over 5 million active daily users and, according to Pew research, has been downloaded by 9% of US mobile users. The service allows people to send messages and photos with an expiration date so that they are deleted from the recipient’s mobile device shortly after they are received. In September Snapchat said it was handling over 350m messages a day.According to the Journal, Evan Spiegel, Snapchat’s 23-year-old co-founder and chief executive, is waiting until early next year before considering any offers in the hope that Snapchat’s numbers will grow enough to justify an even larger valuation.The company’s valuation has been growing as fast as its user base. In June Snapchat raised $60m from investors that valued the company at $800m. Facebook reportedly offered $1bn for Snapchat earlier this year. Last month top tech blog All Things D reported that the company was in negotiations with China’s Tencent over an investment that would value the firm at over $3.6bn.That newsfollowed an announcement last month from Pinterest,the social scrapbooking company, that it had raised $225m in new funds at a price that valued the firm at $3.8bn.Snapbook’s valuation, and those of its social media peers, will likely have soared after Twitter’s initial public offering this month, which has valued the loss making short message system at over $23bn.The spectacular growth in the company’s valuation echoes that of Groupon, the online discount company that rejected a $6bn offer from Google before filing for an IPO. In late 2011 when the company started trading it was valued at over $16bn but soon crashed to as low as $3.7bn. It has since recovered and is now worth $6.8bn.
Apple is under investigation by the Italian judiciary for allegedly fraudulent tax returns concerning more than €1bn (£840m) of income over a two-year period. The investigation is said to centre on Apple's Italian subsidiary and is focusing on two managers of the business, who have not yet been named, according toL'Espressonewspaper. The inquiry concerns €206m of taxable income in 2010 and €850m of taxable income in 2011.The company's Milan headquarters  are understood to have been raided and a substantial batch of computer equipment and telephone records seized under the orders of the deputy prosecutor in charge of the investigation, Adriano Scudieri.The legality of the seizure decree must now be decided in court. The profits made by Apple in Italy were recorded by Apple Sales International, which is registered in Ireland. Apple uses a similar structure to book its profits in Britain. The central argument of the case against the Californian technology group  is that its Italian subsidiary was not a satellite office run from Dublin, but the heart of the business carried out in Italy.The case against Apple is the latest in a series of Italian tax prosecutions as officials  redouble efforts to crack down on multinational corporate tax avoidance.In June, fashion designers Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana were handed a 20-month suspended prison sentence and fined for hiding hundreds of millions of euros in unpaid taxes. Both deny any wrongdoing.A spokesperson for Apple said: "Apple pays every dollar and euro it owes in taxes and we are continuously audited by governments around the world. The Italian tax authorities already audited Apple Italy in 2007, 2008 and 2009 and confirmed that we were in full compliance with the OECD documentation and transparency requirements. We are confident the current review will reach the same conclusion."
One of the people behind some of the most popular – and violent – video games has left the world of Grand Theft Auto and developed a game prototype based on the Iranian revolution.Since Navid Khonsari began work on the game, called 1979 Revolution,it has been labeled Western propaganda by an Iran government-run newspaperand some members of his team still use aliases to protect themselves from the repercussions of creating a video game based on a controversial event that has persistent reverberations today. Khonsarilaunched a Kickstarter on Wednesday, hoping to take the game from a prototype to tablet-ready, episodic series.“I wanted people to feel the passion and the elation of being in the revolution – of feeling that you could possibly make a change,” said Khonsari, who moved from Iran to Canada at age 10, just after the revolution. He remembers his grandfather walking him through the early protests in Tehran.“I didn’t have that realistic view of what was taking place. To me as a 10-year-old boy, it was all pretty exciting – seeing military vehicles roll down the street, seeing massive amount of people being able to take over an entire an area – these mass demonstrations were so impressive,” Khonsari said.Screenshot from 1979 Revolution prototype Photograph: /iNK StoriesIn the first 45 seconds of the game, players get an abbreviated history of the revolution. The main character, Reza, a young photojournalist in Tehran, then recounts the events that led him to be imprisoned in the notorious Evin prison, where political prisoners were kept before, during and after the revolution. The player watches the rendition of these events, and engages in mini-games about administering triage, shutting down the power grid and graffiti tagging.“I don’t want to preach. I’m making a game, I need to entertain,” Khonsari said. “If I try to educate, I’m dead in the water.”There is no first-person shooting in the game, a seemingly strange choice for a video game maker with his resumé, but Khonsari said the revolution was not one of gunfights and if he were to be shot at, he would flee instead of fight back – which is part of the game. “I think those elements can be just as suspenseful as what people think they can get from shooting and nailing down characters.”Players can also hear and collect tapes with Ayatollah Khomeini&apos;s words, take photos of the on-screen revolution before being presented with actual photos taken during the revolution by Michel Setboun, and listen to characters voiced by Iranian-American actors including Homeland&apos;s Navid Negahban and Argo&apos;s Farshad Farajat.Screenshot from 1979 Revolution prototype Photograph: /iNK StoriesAfter working on major Rockstar Games titles including Grand Theft Auto, Max Payne and Manhunt, Khonsari created game-production company iNKstories, with his wife, Vassiliki Khonsari, a documentary filmmaker whose professional sensibilities helped inform 1979 Revolution’s design. The team conducted interviews with people who were involved with the revolution and consulted academics and politics experts from &quot;both sides of the pond&quot; to develop the historical contents.“Particularly in new generations, in the west and places around the world, people recognize Iran as being a place where women are covered in veils and men who are mullahs,” Khonsari said. “It was so unlike the world I had experienced that I wanted to try to make what people think of as unfamiliar familiar through visuals. I wanted people to see what Iran was like in the 70s.”Khonsari has set a goal of $395,000 for the Kickstarter, meant to fund game production, with the intent of releasing the game by spring 2014. Within a few hours of its Wednesday morning launch, the project had 41 backers and nearly $3,000.1979 Revolution's Kickstarter promotion for its first episode, 'Black Friday.'
Last week, we had the stimulus package – next week it'll be sun, sea and shooting: the Beach Bum update is coming to GTA Online on 19 November. The first new content pack for Grand Theft Auto V's multiplayer mode will download automatically adding new clothes, weapons, vehicles and jobs to the already vast array. Deathmatch, Parachute, Last Team Standing, Survival and Gang Attack mission types are all represented.Today,Rockstar updated its websitewith details of some of the jobs set to be on offer:Grass Route II (Race):In this sequel to the original popular Grass Route Race, go off-road in an epic heat starting on the North bank of the Zancudo river through the treacherous wetlands with a triumphant finish on the beach in North Chumash.Survival on Del Perro Pier (Survival):Skip the ferris wheel for a deadlier kind of thrill ride as you take on waves of relentless enemies at this beachfront attraction.View of Vespucci (Parachuting):This leap sends you from 2,980 feet, down towards Vespucci Beach, weaving through palm trees to land on the basketball courts of the rec center. If you've got skills, it's possible to freefall through the first few checkpoints before even opening your chute.Paleto Beach (Team Deathmatch):The locals complain that not a lot happens in this sleepy town, so do them a favor and wake them up with a barrage of gunfire exchanged between you and a rival team. This Team Deathmatch takes place right on the romantic shoreline for 4-8 players.Sundae Driving (Bike Race):Sure to be a new fan-favorite motorbike race, menace Vespucci Beach on your two-wheel rocket, taking breakneck corners as you try and best the competition.Meanwhile, the new beach-themed vehicles will be the BF Bifta dune buggy, the Canis Kalahari off-road truck, the Bravado Paradise beach camper van and the Speeder speedboat, which has been cropping up in the games since GTA III. Meanwhile bushy blonde surfer dude hair, tribal tattoos and baggy shorts will also be available for that authentic beach bum look.The publisher is also promising more content over the next few weeks including co-op heists, Capture the Flag, and new story mode elements. And surely it's only a matter of time before we get zombies.
On this week's show presented byAleks Krotoski, we meet artistMatthew Plummer-Fernandezto discuss his work in 3D print technology and the recent release of hisfree 3D print encryption software Disarming Corrupter. Devised as part of his art practice, the encryption software immediately opens up a very interesting debate around the positives and negatives of wide distribution of files to print 3D objects, from low-cost prosthetic limbs to guns.Aleks is also joined by Guardian telecoms correspondentJuliette Garsideto discuss the share stampede as Twitter threw itself on the markets. Also Guardian tech writersAlex HernandSamuel Gibbsdiscuss the bounce back of the illicit goods trading site Silkroad as Silkroad 2.0 and the Guardian's five out of five review for Google's Nexus 5 handset.
Six years ago Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare conquered the world and turned Activision's flagship shooter into an institution. Now the CoD series is in the crosshairs of every discerning gamer and everyone knows what to expect.One expects a brief six-hour campaign filled with enough action set-pieces to send Michael Bay into orbit. One expects a deep and robust multiplayer that rewards those with lightning reflexes and the ability to take advantage of kinks within the aiming mechanics (quick-scoping, anyone?). And one expects a co-op mode of sorts and perhaps a bone thrown to those who feel the whole enterprise is getting a little stale at this point.With Call Of Duty: Ghosts, one gets what one expects.While this may sound like a damning appraisal of the game, bear this in mind; if your lip is curling into a contempt-filled sneer, this game is no longer aimed at you. It's aimed at the people who buy CoD every single year and, for all it faults, enjoy the heck out of it. It's aimed at trash-talking eSports crews, potty-mouthed online warriors and connoisseurs of Big Dumb Entertainment that blows your hair back until the roots snap.Infinity Ward's core audience is bigger than the population of the greater London metropolitan area. To that end, the developer deserves a couple of nods for creating a campaign that takes risks with a template that, while eminently recognisable, contains a new narrative and attempts to make the player's progression more varied than before.  They also deserve a bow for serving up a stonkingly great co-op mode, but we'll get to that in a minute.First, let's deal with the online multiplayer – the mode that most players are here for. For the most part, Infinity Ward has built an online fragfest that fans of Modern Warfare will sink snugly into – both in terms of load-outs and gameplay – while borrowing a bit from Treyarch's open-ended approach to the online mode of Call Of Duty: Black Ops 2.Players earn both in-game currency and XP for everything they do in any online mode – and that includes the new entry level Squads mode. The currency is a way for players to take a tad more control over their customisation options; anything that can be used on the battlefield – weapons, tech, armour, perks and so forth – can be bought. Anything that's purely cosmetic needs to be earned. This means that the less talented among the pack need not grind their way into the best weapons and equipment, but only the elite can deck themselves out in pretty, pretty skins.Maps are mostly hot-box affairs and favour the close-quarters, knee-jerk pace this series has been know for since … well, forever. The match types compliment this setup beautifully and there's a ton of variety on offer. You have age-old stalwarts like Free-For-All and Domination, matches that feel like mods such as Search &amp; Rescue (which is essentially Kill Confirmed crossed with Demolition) and brand new modes that will appeal to the core and no one else – we present Cranked, in which players have 30 seconds to string kills together or their head explodes.If you've ever found the prospect of heading into the online mode intimidating – and let's face it, who hasn't – Squads Mode is available as a primer. It's essentially an expanded version of the Combat Training mode from Call Of Duty: Black Ops, except instead of competing against bots, players get to pit themselves against bots … and other players. There's also a re-jigged version of Survival called Safeguard, in which players have to survive against waves of foes using random weapons drops.The customisation options are pretty exhaustive. Rather than limit players by class or perk-banks, players can now arm their soldiers with pretty much whatever they want and their perks are based on a points system. Kill Streak rewards are still the most un-malleable aspect of the load-out equation – and with good reason – and players now have the option of adopting female avatars.If you fancy playing with mates, then Extinction is perhaps the best idea Infinity Ward has come up with in ages. Imagine a pared-down version of Left 4 Dead played in brief 10-minute bursts, except instead of zombies, you're fighting alien dogs. It borrows Treyarch's Zombie-Mode mechanic, in which players buy weapons and equipment with cash they earn through kills, but it's a far more coordinated affair than its predecessor.Oh yes – there's a campaign. And it's sillier than anything produced in this series up until now. But, crucially, for the most part it's equally enjoyable.CoD: Ghosts tells the story of Logan and Hesh, two jarheads who find themselves part of the last stand of the USA against invaders from the South American Federation after the SAF nukes the US from orbit. After a couple of missions – that also constitute the weakest part of the single-player campaign – Logan and Hesh find themselves inducted into the Ghosts, an elite squad of soldiers who may be the USA's best weapon against the Federation.Leaving aside the jingoism that's been a staple in the CoD franchise for ages, the campaign flags for the first few missions. Once Logan and Hesh – and their dog Riley – join the Ghosts, things begin to move into high gear. The narrative also jumps back in time briefly, in order to establish the credentials of a villain who, quite frankly, would be unbelievable otherwise.I mean … he's pretty unbelievable anyway. But without those early scenes establishing his motives I suppose he'd be an anomaly within reality.But who cares about that when you're running across the top of a train while blasting enemies? When you're floating through zero-gravity outside a space station engaged in a gun battle? When you're running through a skyscraper that's splitting in half?It's those moments of pure spectacle, which Infinity Ward does so well, that pull the player right out of their seat and into a high-concept nonsense isolation ward, and that sells CoD: Ghosts's campaign. There's a certain sense of familiarity to it all, but there are enough new notes to keep the faithful glued.And that's really what it's all about at this stage. Between console generations, Infinity Ward seems to be in a holding pattern. It's not sacrificing innovation altogether, but it's not exactly pushing the boat out. And then there's the small issue of the discrepancy between the visual gap in the next-generation consoles.Ever heard the maxim "no news is good news"? In the video game industry, it's usually the other way around. If a game looks like a solid hit, publishers, developers and,k yes, interested parties like writers on this blog, will sing its praises from the rooftops. If a game is rubbish, you can rely on it being released to little or no fanfare with the review embargo date falling on the day it hits retail racks.So what were we to make of a staggered embargo for CalloD: Ghosts? If you've been tracking the reviews and news cycle about the game you'll probably have picked up the fact that reviews of the game on the Xbox One haven't been published yet, while reviews of it on any other platform went live last week. In light of the fact that publishers like to keep a lid on bad news until the last possible minute, what can we surmise about the aforementioned embargo dates?The fact is, this news was going to get out anyway. Once Infinity Ward producer Mark Rubin tweeted that CoD: Ghosts was 720p native on the Xbox One while the PS4 version ran at 1080p on a PS4, pundits and players started making up their own minds on the spot. Actually, CoD: Ghosts looks a lot better on the PS4 than it does on the Xbox One – at the time of this writing.That's not to say a patch can't fix this – hell, a download allowed the PS3 to move from a 2D to 3D display case – but early adopters need this info. Until yesterday, we couldn't tell you about it.But whatever platform you choose to buy it on, Call Of Duty: Ghosts will do exactly what you think it will – and that's as true if you're a fan or a hater. I realise there's supposed to be some sort of objective ruling on this from yours truly, but since I disagree vehemently with the reviewer of the last iteration, the score above is what you have to guide you if you need it. And you shouldn't, really. You already know where you stand, surely?
What is Snapchat? It&apos;s the social app that&apos;s currently seeing more than 350m photos shared every day. The startup with no revenues that&apos;s received nearly $94m of funding so far, and which reportedly recentlyturned down a $3bn acquisition offer from Facebook.It&apos;s the service that may be pulling millions of teenagers away from that social network, but which is also giving parents headaches over sexting and cyberbullying. It&apos;s making VC firms giddy with excitement, but is being sued by one of its own co-founders.Snapchat is one of the hottest mobile apps in the world, but also one of the most controversial. Here&apos;s a 10-point primer on its past, present and future.1. Snapchat wasn&apos;t its founders&apos; first productSnapchat&apos;s co-founders Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy started working together at Stanford University, initially on a website for students called Future Freshman, among other projects. &quot;We would experiment and fail. We must have attempted nearly 34 projects,&quot;Spiegel told the Palisadian Postin August.The one that clicked was an iPhone app called Picaboo, which launched in late summer 2011, after a friend grumbled about regretting sending a photo from his smartphone. Picaboo aimed to solve that problem with self-destructing snaps, Mission Impossible style.When sending a photo to a contact, the sender could decide how many seconds it would be viewable for before self-deleting. Even then, people were drawing conclusions about what Picaboo would be used for: &quot;Now we&apos;re not suggesting you use it for sending NSFW (not safe for work) photos,&quot;suggested tech blog Shiny Shinyin September 2011.&quot;In fact we don&apos;t want to tarnish Picaboo, it could be a completely innocent and cute way to send photos to your friends and family. BUT if you just have to get your kit off and take pictures, this is probably the safest way to do it.&quot;Picaboo, subsequently rebranded as Snapchat, expanded to Android, and added video, as well as the ability to scribble messages on photos before sending them. By 2012, it was ready to become a craze.&quot;One of the greatest benefits of the service, especially in the early days, was that it was 10 times faster than an MMS (multimedia messaging service) message. So a lot of people just liked it because the interface was so simple. It sent the photos so quickly,&quot; Spiegeltold Associated Press this month.&quot;It was a lot faster than opening up a text message, going and taking a picture or choosing it from the gallery, uploading it – which took a really, really long time – and then sending it to your friend.&quot;2. Snapchat has grown like the clappersThroughout its history, Snapchat&apos;s founders have preferred not to provide regular updates on how many people are using the app, opting instead for the metric of how many photos are being shared a day. That figure grew from 20m in October 2012 to 60m in February 2013, before rocketing to 150m in April, 200m in June, and 350m in September.Actual users? The most quoted figure has been 5m daily active users, but that&apos;s from the spring of 2013 so it&apos;s quite likely higher now. In October, the Pew research centre claimed that9% of American mobile phone owners were using Snapchat, which would suggest 26m users in the US alone. Among 18 to 29-year-olds, the percentage rose to 26%.In August, analytics firm Onavo claimed thatSnapchat was being used by 20.8% of iPhones in the US, making it the eighth most popular app on Apple&apos;s smartphone in that country, creeping up on Twitter&apos;s 27% share. But, globally, another relevant stat is the fact that since September, Snapchat has been matching Facebook for the number of photos shared a day – 350m.3. Investors love it as much as teenagers doSnapchat hasn&apos;t made any money yet: it doesn&apos;t sell ads, charge people to download and/or use its app, or sell extras as in-app purchases. But money has been flowing into the company from another source: venture capital firms.Snapchat raised $485k of seed funding from VC firm Lightspeed Venture Partners in May 2012, after one of its partners discovered that the three most popular apps among his daughter&apos;s high-school class were Angry Birds, Instagram and Snapchat. &quot;That’s interesting company. Of those, the one we’d never heard of was Snapchat,&quot; Lightspeed&apos;s Jeremy Liewtold TechCrunch in May 2013.That was followed by a $13.5m round of Series A funding in February 2013 led by another prestigious VC firm, Benchmark Capital, with its partner Mitch Lasky telling the New York Times that &quot;I started hearing Snapchat in the same context as Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. That got me curious&quot;.Just four months later, Snapchat raised an even bigger round, $80m,reportedly including $20m in a &quot;secondary offering&quot;that likelyhelped Spiegel and Murphy cash out some of their equity in the company. This round was led by another firm, Institutional Venture Partners, and by this point, Snapchat&apos;s valuation was $800m.In personal blog posts, some of these investors have rhapsodised about Snapchat. &quot;At Benchmark we search for entrepreneurs who want to change the world, and Evan and Bobby certainly have that ambition,&quot;wrote Lasky in February. &quot;We believe that Snapchat can become one of the most important mobile companies in the world.&quot;See also IVP&apos;s Dennis Phelps providingTen Reasons Why IVP Invested in Snapchat: &quot;The growth and engagement metrics are off the charts. Seldom have we seen a consumer application with this type of user momentum and excitement. Think Twitter ... think Instagram … think Pinterest … and Snapchat is just getting started,&quot; he wrote. &quot;The type of connection that a Snapchat message brings to people is unique.&quot;More giddy blog posts may lie ahead: All Things Digital claimed in October that Snapchat is in talks about yet another funding roundvaluing the company at a startling $3.6bn, with a lead investor potentially being &quot;a strategic party from Asia&quot; – later fingered as internet firm Tencent.Not everyone is so excited by the spiralling valuation of a company that has yet to prove it can make money. Witness Roy Murdock&apos;sAm I Going Insane? Snapchat is Intrinsically Worthlessblog post for an opposing point of view:&quot;$4bn for an easily replaceable service that is little more than Microsoft Paint duct taped to a disposable camera? A service that voluntarily throws away its own data in the golden age of data hoarding? A service devoid of the nature of competition that is the driving force behind every other profitable company in the world? A service that is intrinsically worthless?&quot;Snapchat's headquarters. Photograph: Bloomberg4. Snapchat is being sued by one of its co-foundersWell, Reggie Brown says he&apos;s a co-founder, although the outcome of his lawsuit against Snapchat will rest upon how important a role he&apos;s deemed to have played in the early days of the company.Brown was at Stanford with Spiegel and Murphy, and in alawsuit filed in February 2013, claimed to have come up with the idea for &quot;a mobile device application allowing users to send pictures to others that then quickly disappear from the recipient&apos;s mobile device&quot;.The lawsuit claimed that &quot;this is a case of partners betraying a fellow partner&quot;, and alleged that Spiegel and Murphy had reneged on an agreement to split the ownership of Snapchat three ways:&quot;Despite the fact that Plaintiff devised the idea for Snapchat and fully performed all his obligations in the joint venture/partnership, the individual defendants then improperly excluded Plaintiff from all participation, profit and interest in the joint venture/partnership, just one month after the Application was publicly launched in July 2011.&quot;A later filingexpanded the lawsuit to Snapchat&apos;s investors, and cited Google chats and emails in an attempt to show that Brown was a co-founder, as well as a text message from Spiegel&apos;s father to Brown&apos;s mother referring to the three students working on their startup together.We&apos;ve been here before, most infamously with the Winklevoss brothers&apos; lawsuit against Facebook claiming that CEO Mark Zuckerberg had stolen the idea from them. In 2011, they ended the lawsuit andsettled for a mixture of cash and Facebook shares.Whether Brown gets his day in court or reaches a settlement with Snapchat remains to be seen, but for now the lawsuit is a cloud hovering over the company.5. Snapchat controversies include sexting, bullying and privacySnapchat has been associated with sexting right from its earliest days, despite the company&apos;s protests. That&apos;s partly down to journalists who didn&apos;t really understand Snapchat fastening onto the sauciest angle when covering it. But only partly.There&apos;s been plenty of discussion about just how private Snapchat is, whether that&apos;sapps like Snapchat Hack, which circumvents Snapchat&apos;s protection and allows people to share images, or the discovery that on Android&quot;deleted&quot; photos are merely hidden on the device, and can be retrieved with the right forensic software.Consequences? In December 2012, aTumblr blog called Snapchat Slutspublished photos of topless women, although it claimed the images were all submitted willingly. A Facebook page called Snapchat Leaked, which claimed to be posting saved Snapchat images without permission, wasshut down in May, meanwhile.Claims thatthe FBI is warning parents about paedophiles using Snapchataren&apos;t backed up by any mention of the app on the agency&apos;s website, but separate worries about cyberbullies using the app are very real – for examplethis Mirror story about a girl bullied through the app, and her mother&apos;s concern about the way the messages often disappeared before her daugher could show them to her.Snapchat isn&apos;t the only social networking service to be facing these kinds of concerns – Ask.fm is also in the spotlight for cyberbullying, for example. On one hand, Snapchat is trying to take a responsible approach, such as publishinga Guide for Parents in PDF form.On the other hand, the company appears touchy about being pressed on such subjects. Witness the disclosure at the end of the Palisadian Post interview cited earlier: &quot;Spiegel agreed to be interviewed by the Palisadian Post under the guideline that no controversial questions would be asked. He also would not let this reporter audiotape the interview&quot;.6. Actually, sexting isn&apos;t Snapchat&apos;s appeal for teenagersThis is a key point: some people are sexting using Snapchat, and some of those people are teenagers. But the main appeal (and thus the importance) of Snapchat is about ephemeral messaging, and the desire to leave less digital tracks, with teenagers having watched the social over-sharing of the generation that came before them.&quot;When I asked teenagers about Snapchat late last summer, I heard again and again that they liked it because the ephemeral nature of the content allowed them to be themselves – to share a weird or ugly or banal picture that they would have been uncomfortable posting on other well-known social networks for fear of getting dissed,&quot; wrote Mitch Lasky in his blog post.Fellow investor Bill Gurley of Benchmark Capitalbacked him up on that pointduring an appearance at TechCrunch&apos;s Disrupt conference in Berlin in October:&quot;For kids, the internet is increasingly becoming a place that you can’t share, that you can’t have fun, that you can’t socialize in the way you want to. I think that’s really the essence of Snapchat. It’s a platform where they can communicate and have fun without any anxiety about the permanence. You hear about kids not getting jobs because of what’s on their Facebook page.&quot;Snapchat isn&apos;t the only beneficiary: messaging apps like WhatsApp are huge among teenagers for similar reasons. Facebook&apos;s stock price wobbled in October after its chief financial officer David Ebersman told analysts that&quot;we did see a decrease in daily users specifically among younger teens&quot;in its last quarter.Ephemerality is the key to that, not sexting, and Snapchat has made an effort to hammer that point home, publishingan essay by researcher Nathan Jurgensonon its blog in July 2013 that spelled its philosophy out:&quot;What if we rethought the whole idea of the assumed permanence of social media? What if social media, in all its varieties, was differently oriented to time by promoting temporariness by design? What would the various social media sites look like if ephemerality was the default and permanence, at most, an option?&quot; he wrote.&quot;It’s easy to underestimate the significance of injecting more ephemerality into social media. But to make social media more temporary fundamentally alters our relationships to online visibility, to data privacy, content ownership, the &apos;right to forget&apos;. It alters the functioning of social stigma, shame, and identity itself.&quot;Spiegel has given his own views too, in the Associated Press interview: &quot;Somewhere along the way when we were building social media products we forgot the reason we like to communicate with our friends is because it&apos;s fun,&quot; he said.&quot;People started conceiving of their friends as networking tools, like &apos;friend me so you can be friends with someone else&apos; or &apos;the more people you know, the more networked you are&apos;. But we see real value in having a fun conversation with your friends.&quot;Snapchat co-creators Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy. Photograph: J. Emilio Flores/Corbis7. Snapchat has fended off Facebook alreadyIf teens are using Snapchat more and Facebook less, you&apos;ll understand why the social network might want to buy or kill it. And it&apos;s already tried to do both. The Wall Street Journal claimed in October that Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg &quot;tried to approach the startup to discuss an acquisition above $1bn&quot;but was &quot;rebuffed by Spiegel&quot;.Then, this week, the same newspaper claimed thatZuckerberg had returned with an even higher all-cash offer of $3bn, but had again been turned down, with the WSJ&apos;s sources suggesting Spiegel expects to field higher offers early in 2014.Kill it? That would be theFacebook Poke app, which launched in December 2012 as an unashamed clone of Snapchat: a way to send messages, photos and videos and decide how long friends could see them for. Spiegel was unimpressed at the time, releasing a statement –&quot;Welcome, Facebook. Seriously.&quot;– that self-consciously mirrored Apple&apos;s famous welcome of IBM to the personal computer market in 1981.Poke hasn&apos;t been a big success: on iPhone, for example, Snapchat is still the sixth most popular free app in the US app store, but Facebook Poke isn&apos;t even in the top 200. The competition may be switching to the Facebook Messenger app though, which has improved its photo-sharing features over time.8. Snapchat is evolving ...As an app, Snapchat isn&apos;t standing still. In fact, it&apos;s getting into longer narratives through a feature called Snapchat Stories, whichlaunched in Octoberas a &quot;fun and ephemeral&quot; way to &quot;share your day with friends – or everyone&quot;.How? By linking photos and videos together into &quot;stories&quot; where each snap lasts for 24 hours. &quot;Your Story never ends and it’s always changing. The end of your Story today is the beginning of your Story tomorrow. And each Snap in your Story includes a list of everyone who views it,&quot; explained the company as it launched the feature across iOS and Android.The company has also set its sights on even younger users, launching something called SnapKidz in June 2013: a way to use the Snapchat iOS app to create photos and videos, but not to share them with others.Snapchat is also thinking about new devices, launching aSnapchat Micro app for Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Gearsmart watch in September, capable of shooting pics and videos with the device&apos;s camera, then sharing them. &quot;Our team is constantly looking at ways to reduce the time between our experience of a moment and our ability to share it,&quot; said Spiegel at the time.9. ... including figuring out how to make moneyWhatever you think of the sky-high valuations of Snapchat, its need to start proving it can make money from those 350m snaps shared every day is clear. According to Spiegel, the desire has been there from the start.&quot;We didn’t think we were ever going to raise venture capital so we were planning very early on to generate a revenue plan,&quot; hetold TechCrunch in May 2012, although a few months later he wasespousing a familiar startup line: &quot;In the grand scheme of priorities, reaching scale is more important.&quot;Two obvious ways of making money present themselves: in-app purchases and advertising. For much of 2013, Snapchat appeared to be veering towards the former.&quot;In-app transactions will come first. We think we can build really cool stuff people want to pay for. The app is now a part of everyone’s day-to-day lives. That means that they will – I at least would – pay for a more unique experience,&quot; headded in June 2013.&quot;Going forward there are lots of different revenue models. One we talk about is in-app transactions (selling extra content or features within the Snapchat app) because we don&apos;t have to build a sales team to make cool things that people want to pay for,&quot;Spiegel told Associated Press this month.So-called &quot;native&quot; advertising – ads that look like other content on the service – may play a role too, just as it&apos;s starting to do on Instagram. Brands including Taco Bell are already using Snapchat to communicate with customers, without paying to do so.Not everyone is convinced that this will work. Roy Murdock&apos;s blog post, again: &quot;You’ve developed an application that people want, and if you try to change it through any type of monetisation scheme you’ll end up with an application that people don’t want,&quot; he wrote, addressing Snapchat&apos;s CEO.&quot;Basically, Snapchat is not going to resort to native advertising (see Facebook) until it has no other choice. Everyone hates it and Snapchat knows it will drive people away from the service and build resentment towards the brand ... The moment they start to annoy their users with subscriptions or obtrusive ads, users can easily switch to another service or simply stop using Snapchat.&quot;10. The competition is gatheringUsers switching to another service is the big threat hovering over Snapchat for the year to come, and it revolves around the sense that a buzzy social app is only ever one or two missteps away from a rapid user drain to its rivals.There&apos;s WhatsApp and Kik on the messaging side, along with a(possibly) renascent BBM– not to mention Line, KakaoTalk and WeChat, which have big ambitions to expand beyond their home markets in Asia.There&apos;s Facebook Messenger, the possibility of Twitter doing more with direct messaging, and a constant flood of new social apps jostling for the attention of teenagers in particular, from Frontback and Context through to Bieber-backed selfies-sharing app Shots of Me.In 2014, Snapchat faces the challenge of keeping its cool factor with improved features, raising more money to cover its costs while it searches for stable revenue streams, and continue to deal with the inevitable controversies that come the way of any social startup with a heavily-teenage user base.
Motorola unveiled the Moto G, its first UK smartphone since becoming a Google-owned company, in London today.With a budget price tag from £135, the 4.5in high-definition screened Moto G has a 1.2GHz quad-core processor, 1GB of RAM and runs Android 4.3 “Jelly Bean”, aiming to “bring the mobile internet and Google services to millions more users around the world, without compromising quality [...] a game-changing moment” according to Motorola.Motorola promises a swift upgrade to the latest iteration ofAndroid 4.4 Kitkat,released in October, which includes greater integration of Google’s intelligent digital assistant, Google Now.‘Some disruptive thinking’The Moto G is available in various bold colours.The Moto G, which is available from today in the UK, has 5-megapixel and 1.3-megapixel cameras, 8GB or 16GB of storage, but lacks support for 4G networks. It weighs 143g and measures 11.6mm at its thickest point, with bright and bold coloured plastic backs available in black, white, blue, red, yellow, turquoise and purple.Motorola aims to target the “current, default model for smartphone design, production, procurement and delivery” through “some disruptive thinking&quot; producing a &quot;premium experience, with today&apos;s technology, with less than 1/3 of the price of the premium competition,&quot; said Charlie Tritschler, Moto G&apos;s product manager at Motorola. The Moto G follows Google’s other smartphone strategy with theNexus line of phones, but targeting an even more budget conscious segment of the market.The latest Motorola smartphone follows the American manufacturer’s first built-from-scratch smartphone since it became part of Google,the &quot;first self-driving phone&quot; the Moto X, which included an always-listening voice search, triggered by the keywords “OK Google”.The Moto X, despitegarnering praise from critics, sold just 500,000 in its first three months on sale, compared with 10m Samsung Galaxy S4 smartphones sold in its first month of release, according todata from Strategy Analytics.• In November, Google released the latest iteration of its own-brand phone, the Nexus 5, whichscored 5 stars in the Guardian’s review
Twitter is introducing a new tool, dubbed Custom Timelines, to let users curate and share collections of tweets with others.The Guardian is one of the first media organisations to make use of the tool,collecting and publishing a Q&amp;A session about the NSA files. Other early adopters includePolitico, TV presenterCarson Dalyand US sports siteBleacher Report.&quot;The Custom Timelines is an entirely new type of timeline – one that you create,&quot; explains Brian Ellin, who is in charge of making new tools for developers at Twitter.&quot;You name it and choose the tweets you want to add to it, either by hand or programmatically using the API (more on that below). This means that when the conversation around an event or topic takes off on Twitter, you have the opportunity to create a timeline that surfaces what you believe to be the most noteworthy, relevant tweets.&quot;Currently, users must have Tweetdeck, Twitter&apos;s client for power-users, in order to make custom timelines. But the company has made code available to let other developers build their own tools for making custom timelines.Jason Sumner, technology analyst at The Economist intelligence unit, argues that the launch is motivated by Twitter&apos;s recent IPO, when the company entered the stock market with a valuation of $24bn.&quot;Twitter&apos;s latest announcement on custom timelines shows the amount of behind the scenes planning that went into its IPO,&quot; he said. &quot;Investors were essentially betting on future innovation from the micro-blogger and we can expect the company to release more new initiatives over the coming weeks to build on the strong opening.&quot;The new product is a direct competitor to Storify, the social media curation tool which was highlighted in 2012by Twitter&apos;s then director of platform, Ryan Sarver,as a &quot;good example&quot; of how to use the company&apos;s data.In August of that year Twitter placedheavy restrictionson the use of its application programming interface (API), the method by which developers build access to the site into their programmes.It announced it was trying to limit applications which allowed consumers to &quot;engage with&quot; (as opposed to merely analyse their use of) Twitter. The company specifically called out Twitter clients Tweetbot and Echofon as examples of what they were targeting, while listing Storify – and Favstar, a service which lets Twitter users see their and others&apos; most popular tweets – as examples of what they want to encourage.But just a month later, Twitter indicated that it was considering usurping Storify&apos;s functionality. &quot;We have known for a long time that when events happen in the real world, the shared experience is on Twitter and we want to create an ability to curate events,&quot;said Twitter chief executive Dick Costoloin September 2012.Storify co-founder Xavier Damman was bullish in response,arguing thatTwitter moving into its business territory &quot;can only make us stronger&quot;.Other services which were originally supported by Twitter have also found themselves made obsolete by the service. In June 2011, the company launched a photosharing service, eating into the market of sites likeTwitpicandYfrog.And in June 2010, the company introduced its own link shortener, t.co, causing services like TinyURL and Bitly to scramble to redefine themselves.•And in April, Twitter blocked access to its API for Flattr.
Google has been forced to remove over 200m &quot;pirate&quot; links from its search listings by rights holders in 2013 a four-fold increase over 2012.Data released as part of Google’s transparency reports,compiled by TorrentFreak, show that at the current rate removal of alleged piracy links, Google will have been forced to delete over 250m by the end of 2013.The UK and US recording industry trade bodies BPI and RIAA lead the charge for takedown notices, with a combined 74m requests so far in 2013.Over 7.6m FilesTube links removedFilesTube, a Poland-based file hosting site, had the highest level of removals with over 7.6m links deleted from Google search results. In total, Google was asked to remove links from 295,726 domains by 29,434 copyright holders.Despite the record-breaking number of link removals, with Google removingmore than eight “pirate” links a second, Hollywood’s trade body, the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA),slammed Googlefor not doing enough to prevent people from finding pirated content.“Search engines bear responsibility for introducing people to infringing content – even people who aren’t actively looking for it,” the chairman of theMPAA, Chris Dodd, said at the time. “The television and movie community is working every day to develop new and innovative ways to watch content online, and as the internet’s gatekeepers, search engines share a responsibility to play a constructive role in not directing audiences to illegitimate content.”In the final week of September takedown notices sent to Google hit 5.3m spanning 37,413 domains from 5,407 copyright owners, which marked a 4008% increase over the first notice listings by Google in July 2011.• In October, the notorious BitTorrent index site Isohuntwas resurrectedafter it wasshutdown by legal actionfrom the MPAA
A few days ago, Amazon US posted a photo of its warehouse, stacked high with thousands of PlayStation 4 boxes, ready to ship out to American stores on Friday. At last, the arrival of the next console generation is imminent and palpable. It'll all be about the games from now on. Hopefully.So to get us started, here are the 10 key PS4 launch titles – they're the ones we think will sell, or will define the launch period. Actually, some of them are just the ones that interestus. Whatever, have a look and see if you agree...Assassin's Creed IV Black Flag, UbisoftSet amid the swashbuckling and treasure pilfering of piracy's golden age, the latest yarn in Ubisoft's historical adventure series is a distinct improvement on the last couple of instalments. Loaded with visually astonishing sea battles, it's a lavish way to start your next-gen career. Plus, the good news for PS4 owners is that this version of the game contains an hour of additional content in the form of three extra missions. There's also an Assassin's IV console bundle, replacing the Drive Club one that's now on hold due to the game's development delay. You'll find a nice walkthrough of some of the single-player gameon PlayStation Access.Battlefield 4, Electronic ArtsFantastic multiplayer maps, wonderfully apocalyptic destruction and the tight, taut action we've come to expect from the series, Battlefield 4 is in a commanding position as the top military shooters make the generational crossover. Several retailers are offering Battlefield bundles for Sony's machine, but you'll have to wait for the Second Assault DLC pack – it's a timed exclusive on Xbox One. YouTuber Ali A has somerather nice multiplayer PS4 footage.Call of Duty: Ghosts, ActivisonInfinity Ward has abandoned the Modern Warfare arc, but its futuristic America-in-peril narrative is hauntingly familiar, while the multiplayer dwells on the same old twitchcore tricks and tactics. This is, however, still a thrilling ride, and running at 1080p in 60 frames-a-second, it looks its absolute best on PS4. As with Battlefield, a timed Xbox One exclusivity deal means the first DLC drop will be delayed on Sony's machine – but you can just spend that time enjoying the superior graphical performance.Contrast, Compulsion GamesOne of the first indie titles to appear on PS4's digital platform, Contrast is a fascinating 20s-based platformer, following the imaginary friend of a young girl investigating the secrets of her troubled family. With vaudevillian settings, a cool jazz soundtrack and a stylised mix of 2D and 3D visuals, this is a stark contrast to the triple A hits. It's coming later to a bunch of other platforms, but it's worth catching on PS4 from launch.Fifa 14/Madden, EA SportsOkay, I'm cheating – this is two games – but of course, in launch terms these EA Sports blockbusters are doing the same thing. As well as appeasing sports mad gamers, they're providing the state-of-the-art football action for young male professionals who can afford to buy a new machine in order to play one or two games a year – and who invariably choose one of these two titles on an annual basis. Both games areenhanced from their current-gen offeringswith better animations, AI and stadia – although the Xbox One version adds the Ultimate Team Legends content, with around 40 classic players.Killzone: Shadow Fall, SonyGuerrilla's ice-cold sci-fi blaster has been the PlayStation technical showcase of choice since the second console – and Shadow Fall is definitely a major player this time round too. Taking place 30 years after the last title, the action now plays out on a hostile planet where the Vektans and the Helghast are divided by a huge wall – and either metaphorically or physically, it's about to come crashing down. The game is clearly a graphical marvel, but the grit is beginning to wear thin.Knack, SonyDesigned by Mark Cerny, the engineering leader on PS4 and veteran of such games as Sonic 2, Crash Bandicoot and Ratchet and Clank, this is Sony's own family pleaser. It's a colourful action adventure following the eponymous robot who can transform himself into a range of useful objects to defeat invading goblins. Early reports from the specialist press aren't exactly amazing, but the game looks to have plenty of charm and there are some arresting vistas to gaze upon.Lego Marvel Super Heroes, Warner BrosThe latest title in the long-running Lego series switches from Batman and his DC pals to Marvel heroes like Hulk, Spider-Man and Wolverine. The formula is ridiculously familiar, but with that rich comic book heritage, some great set-pieces and a few fresh features for PS4, this entertaining adventure just pips Skylanders Swap Force (which also gets a visual overhaul for PS4) as the third-party kid-friendly title to opt for.Resogun, SonyAh, another frenetic, hypnotic shooter from Super Stardust creator Housemarque, this time in a rotating 2D environment buzzing with laser blasts, eye-popping explosions and blazing score multipliers. It's got missiles, it's got nova-bombs and it'll be free for users who subscribe to the PlayStation Plus online gaming service. Until Xbox One gets a new Geometry Wars, this is the place to come for next-gen schmup action.Super Motherload, XGen StudiosAnother indie download, this time a procedurally generated digging sim with four-player co-op. Set on a colonised future Mars, the aim is to burrow deep under the planet's surface, grabbing minerals and bringing them to the surface for cash and experience points, which can be spent on customising your craft. Developed by Edmonton-based XGen Studios, it's sort of an RPG-infused version of brilliant platformer Spelunky, with some Mr Driller (the classic Namco arcade/Dreamcast puzzler) chucked in. This is a good thing.•PS4: five new things we've learned•Sony has high hopes for PlayStation 4's debut this month•PS4 or Xbox One? A parent's guide
I'm pretty sure cycling is thought of as low tech, once you have sunk all your cash into high-spec bike. This isn't true. There is a lot on the market for cyclists who enjoy a bit of technology to help make cycling easier, fun, and most of all, safer. Technology can sometimes be said to be bad for us. It keeps us indoors and inactive. Not the case if you incorporate it with a bike.Head to toe• MET designed a Crossover helmet that not only offers good protection and comfort, but also has a rear flashing LED light built in for added visibility. You can also buy attachable lights for your current helmet, or how about a helmet camera if you feel like visually logging your rides, or in case of an accident?• The Rapha rain jacket is a must have. Advances in clothing technology allow it to be pretty much weather-proof and fold away small enough to fit into your pocket.• If you are looking for a high-tech shoe, then Lake have it covered. Everything from fibreglass to high impact and air-mesh, you might think you were buying a small aeroplane if you didn't know better.Technology helps when designing shoes, as small details in the shape of a shoe can make all the difference in helping get the foot in the correct position to give the most power when peddling.Now thats the cyclist covered (almost literally), what about the bike? You can buy a top-end bike that has all the best components, but there is always room for additions. People add to their cars all the time and bikes are no different. It really is something you can personalise.Fit out your ride• The Garmin Edge 510 is a great bit of kit for any cyclist. Incorporating touchscreen technology, it is sleek and very user friendly. With social-media sharing, your friends can see your progress and routes. And using wireless data transfers to its own app (available on iOS and Android systems) directly to your smartphone, you get to see your data instantly. Features like Live Tracking are also appealing, not only as a way for friends to follow you, but this can be an additional safety feature for family to know where you are at all times.• Now we come to lights. A huge part of bike safety is visibility. The Blaze bike light projects a laser image of a bike onto the road ahead of you (think Batman image but of a bike). This enables drivers to see it before they see you, in theory. It has been met with a mixed reaction, as have other similar laser lights.• Punctures. The one thing I dread when out on my bike miles from home. All the fuss of having to get back, take the wheel off, repair the puncture and replace the wheel. Now technology has a quick fix answer in the form of Hutchinson's Fast Air. A can that inflates the tyre and seals the puncture. With liquid latex and CO2, it makes life a lot easier when out.• There are a lot of saddles on the market and they need to fit, or you will find them a pain in the backside. They range from full comfort to ones with titanium rails and gel padding. Some are even designed to assure blood flow to arteries, like the Specialised Romin Expert. This is a bit of bike kit where technology could save you a lot of pain and discomfort, so it's worth finding the right one for you.What about indoor cycling?If the winter weather isn't your thing, or its just too harsh outside, that doesn't mean you need to hang up your cleats just yet. There are ways that technology can help keep you fit in the comfort of your own home.The Tacx i-Genius Multiplayer brings cycling and technology together with impressive gameplay. Virtual reality trainers are set to make cycling inside fun and competitive. The trainer hooks up to your PC and you see a real-time VR race on the screen. On a hill, the software-simulated flywheel works to make you feel every gradient you go up or down, ensuring a realistic ride.Whether you think cycling and technology belong together or not, I think its fair to say that they could prove to have a great friendship with each other. Allowing cyclists to feel safer, track rides, improve on previous ride times and therefore get fitter. Times have thankfully moved on from the wooden bike and I look forward to seeing where technology takes cycling next.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCyanogenMod Installer Release | CyanogenModToday we are exiting the "beta" status phase and providing the CyanogenMod Installer for general release. ThePlay store applicationis now available, and the PC client component  isnow available.A special "Thank You" to all of the beta testers, which at current count, is a community with over 7000 members. The reception and demand we've received for the installer shows the value in breaking down the barrier to entry that we sought to address.Like Facebook Home, but without Facebook, for Android phones.The state of Windows 8's app ecosystem &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:The chart shows Metroscanner's 12 month app statistics for the Windows 8 store. With nearly 20,000 additions, app submissions peaked in June, but after that app additions fell off a cliff. Monthly app additions crashed to 10,000 in July and have hovered between 4000-6000 since then. Paid Microsoft promotions were the most likely cause of the spike in June, but as I expected, that did not generate sustainable developer interest. Why didn't it?While the PC market is shrinking, the overall volumes are still sizeable compared to the user base for tablets. So shouldn't sales of Windows 8/8.1-based PCs be driving volume and, therefore, developer interest? Why aren't developers taking this user base into account? The answer is simple: Most Windows 8 devices are bought as PCs, not tablets. Slapping a tablet interface (or a touchscreen) onto a PC doesn't address this problem. Most users would spend very limited time in the Metro interface and switch back to desktop for the jobs they needed the PC to accomplish. As a result, the Windows 8 store has been relegated to the background and developers are losing interest in the platform.Has implications for Surface RT: why develop for that if people want PC mode?How Facebook's own algorithms are killing Facebook &gt;&gt; MediumOk, this all sounds quite logical. Someone you do not interact with, is less important for you than someone who's post you are commenting on and like regularly. Right?Wrong. I have plenty of people on Facebook who I really like, and who I have great, if irregular, real life connections with but I don't always like their photos or posts. The problem is, that if you have no interaction with someone for a while, you will start to see less of their updates, meaning that you will have less opportunities to have an interaction, meaning that some people just degrade to never show up in your online life again.A lot of people are angry about Facebook deciding who is important for you and who isn't. Although this upsets a lot of people, this is not the reason for me to write this post.Though his reason is related.App translation service now available to all developers &gt;&gt; Android Developers BlogHere are several examples from developers who participated in the App Translation Service pilot program: the developers of Zombie Ragdoll used this tool to launch their new game simultaneously in 20 languages in August 2013. When they combined app translation with local marketing campaigns, they found that 80% of their installs came from non-English-language users. Dating app SayHi Chat expanded into 13 additional languages using the App Translation Service. They saw 120% install growth in localized markets and improved user reviews of the professionally translated UI. The developer of card game G4A Indian Rummy found that the App Translation Service was easier to use than their previous translation methods, and saw a 300% increase with user engagement in localized apps.Smart move.Motorola plans low-cost phone; sales of Moto X disappoint &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogMotorola on Monday cut the U.S. price of the high-end Moto X with a two-year carrier contract to $100 from $200, as sales of that device have proven disappointing.According to research firm Strategy Analytics, roughly 500,000 Moto X phones were sold in the third quarter, after the phone was released in August. By comparison, Samsung said it sold more than 10 million Galaxy S4 phones within a month of its April release...The Moto G appears to be part of a Google strategy to shake up the smartphone market and sap some of the profits of rivals Apple and Samsung. Dennis Woodside, chief executive of the Motorola unit, said at a May conference that Motorola can "attack" the market in ways that Apple and Samsung can't."One of the areas that we think is really open for Motorola is building high-quality, low-cost devices," Woodside said at the time. "The price of a smartphone is $650? That's not gonna persist."...Google's move also risks straining its relationships with other handset makers that use its Android operating system, most notably market-share leader Samsung.The low price for the Moto G points to a "persistent and increasing tension" between Google and Samsung, says Rajeev Chand, head of research at Rutberg &amp; Co., an investment bank focused on the mobile industry. The Moto G reminds Samsung that "Motorola with Google's support is a potential market disruptor," Chand says.For Samsung, this is like being disrupted by a dead sheep.Sony backs estimates of 3 million PS4 units sold by year-end &gt;&gt; BloombergSony Corp, poised to release the PlayStation 4 game console this week, is confident it can meet analysts' sales estimates of 3m units by year-end, exploiting an early advantage over Microsoft's Xbox One.Sony will have adequate supplies of the $399 PS4 through Christmas and stands by earlier projections for sales of 5 million units by March, Jack Tretton, president and chief executive officer of the company's US computer entertainment division, said yesterday in an interview.&lt;p."This is a marathon, not a sprint, but getting out to a nice start is a good thing," Tretton said. "That hurdle has been cleared. We're very, very confident we're in great shape."There are about 70-80m each of the PS3 and Xbox 360 in use worldwide, so 5m would not be a bad start.Sub-Saharan Africa tops cellphone growth &gt;&gt; Fin24According to operators body the GSM Association, the region's number of unique subscribers stood at 253m in June this year and will hit 346m by 2017."Despite the astonishing progress of the mobile industry in sub-Saharan Africa in recent years, the biggest impact of mobile in Africa is yet to come," the report said."Roughly two-thirds of the population are still without a mobile subscription, leaving much room for growth."The region's number of mobile users have grown by 18% annually over the past five years but penetration is the lowest in the world at close to 31%.Samsung and Intel find 36 more companies to back Tizen, their Android competitor &gt;&gt; The VergeThe full list of new partners was announced at the Tizen Developer Summit, and includes game publishers, mobile carriers, and electronics giants, apparently enticed by Tizen's open source nature and flexibility. Trevor Cornwell — whose Appbackr company was another of the 36 to partner with the Tizen Association — cited the appeal of Tizen's commitment to more efficient coding: the Linux-based system breaks from iOS and Android in allowing developers to program in HTML5, CSS, and Javascript.Tizen might be a clever way for Samsung to break into the low end of the Chinese market. Or the Indian market. Or the Latin American market. Or the African market. Or all of them. Given how good it is at manufacturing, it could be colossal - while leaving Android at the higher end in the developed world.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Janet Brindley'sletter on the unprotected title of "engineer"(6 November) was astute and I have personal experience of consequences. As an engineering student I am often asked by people why I want to become a mechanic. Although a brief explanation usually sets the record straight, it's still perplexing to consider that even at 17 or 18 these people have not been made aware of the role an engineer in today's increasinglySTEM-centred world. There are limited options for those who strive to increase the intake of women into engineering while the people they are trying to inspire are subject to blatant misuse of the title by the likes of BT, which still insists on calling its technicians engineers. A thriving economy is a technological one. But before the British economy can thrive, we must follow the majority of Europe and pass legislation to protect engineers' titles and allow the public to have a true appreciation and understanding of what it means to be an engineer.George AndersonHolt, Norfolk• Janet Brindley gets right to the heart of the issue. Even the men who read the meters in England often claim to be engineers. I once addressed an Italian engineer asdottore, the title given to a university graduate. He bristled and glared at me. "Ingegnere," he said. In Italy engineers are top of the tree, way above medical doctors, architects and lawyers, and certainly far superior to simple university graduates.David LaneRome• The same frustrated letter appears every few months or so in the papers from the engineer seeking to make a distinction between the design and management functions of the engineering profession, and the implementation effected by the constructors, plumbers and electricians, whom she would possibly prefer to have called "technicians".Of far more importance than making semantic distinctions between activity types is for young people entering at various levels to realise that they are part of the broader inclusive engineering profession. Progression from apprentice to incorporated or graduate engineer roles should be encouraged from the beginning of an individual's career as an "engineer".Mark SpryLuton, Bedfordshire• Janet Brindley's observation on the public perception of engineering is well illustrated by the fact that the Guardian has yet to mention the recent death of chemical process safety expertTrevor Kletz. Renowned around the world as a pioneer in his field, there is no doubt that many people working in the global chemical industry, producing the products that we take for granted in our daily life, have been kept safe in their workplace by the application of the principles that he established and tirelessly promoted.John AttridgeLondon• Perhaps Janet Brindley's mechanic, electrician and jobbing builder might care to adopt the useful all-purpose designation of "schemer", much like her illustrious 18th-century namesake,James Brindley, the Duke of Bridgewater's engineer.Victoria OwensBristol
I was sitting in the reception area of the Guardian&apos;s old building in Farringdon. It was 2005. I&apos;d been called there by the newspaper&apos;s technology editors Bobbie Johnson and Neil McIntosh; they had this idea of running a games blog, something to tie in with the new generation of consoles, the arrival of mobile games, a new interest in interactive entertainment. Here too was Aleks Krotoski, who I&apos;d be working with, who I&apos;d watched on TV shows like Bits and Thumb Bandits. We all went out for lunch. We talked about the future. I thought &quot;I&apos;m a Guardian writer now&quot;.At home I had a baby son, and I was finally coming to terms with my dad&apos;s death, at the age of 62, from cancer. Suddenly the world seemed all about possibilities again. And I really, really loved games. This is how the current generation began for me.When I look back over the past eight years, what immediately floods in is the sense of scale and opportunity that the new era promised. The era of open-world adventures. Skyrim, Red Dead Redemption, GTA IV and V, Far Cry 2 and 3, these games matched vast sandbox systems with beautiful, rich environments that swallowed you up and allowed you to truly play a role in a functioning universe. Away from the shoot-outs and car chases, they also brought us moments of calm and reflection – the gentle trot of John Marston&apos;s horse along the shriveled desert tracks; the view from Tamriel&apos;s Throat of the World mountain range; the birdsong and gusts of wind that rattle through the radio towers on Far Cry 3&apos;s isle of horror. While these experiences had their foundations in the PS2 and Xbox era, they flourished on the more powerful hardware.And the designers themselves matured – in some ways. It has become something of a joke, the way games were once about rescuing princesses and beautiful girlfriends, and then became about saving daughters. The current generation didn&apos;t solve the central maddening problem about gender representation, but it brought us Joel and Ellie, and Lee and Clem; it said that human relationships are possible in games. The love affair between Ethan and Madison in Heavy Rain was weird and unsettling, but it suited the darkness of the world – a world steeped in parental anxiety and psychological breakdown. I played Heavy Rain as a parent and found myself shockingly immersed in its horrifying parable of loss and insanity. The pain was palpable, even if the interface was shoddy as hell.Heavy Rain also hinted more subtly at another important development: the idea of gamer as performer. Rhythm action titles had been around for a while, but Rock Band, Just Dance, Sing Star and Guitar Hero perfected the recipe on current machines, bringing self-expression and rich analogue intricacies into the central model of repetition and simulation. The YouTube generation awoke to the potential and videos of expert Guitar Hero performances proliferated. And on the Wii, a machine critically castigated before its launch, performance was the wonderful raison d&apos;être, the unifying princple. The Wii remote freed non-gamers from the shackles on the multi-button controller and allowed them to express themselves. Family gatherings drew in around the machine, like the piano in the Victorian parlour. Wii Sport is the ultimate utilitarian game – designed for all, maximising happiness, utterly non-elitist.But yet, the rise of digital distribution brought in a new era of experimentation and esoteric creativity. Jonathan Blow explored the notions of time, memory and love through Braid; we had the mournful monochrome platformer Limbo, we had the ridiculous but brilliant post-apocalyptic pet sim, Tokyo Jungle. The idiosyncracies of the 8-bit age could emerge again after the mainstream rush of the PlayStation 2 era. Games could be weird and awkward and openly aggressive. Super Meat Boy! How that challenged me as I sat awake at night with a crying baby, tiredness fogging my brain, reflexes shot. And later, I sat with my two sons and showed them Fez and, oh man, Minecraft. Minecraft. Yes, a PC game first of course, but on Xbox 360 it was discoverable to a new audience, and it has changed gaming forever. Minecraft says, the world is about you and it does so without ego and without much in the way of borders. The greatest battle of this generation has been the one in which designers cede control to players. They won&apos;t let go. They will have to let go.And all the while, all through this generation, we were told that Japan was over. Japan was through. This struck me hard as a veteran games journalist, as a veteran gamer – as a kid who pumped pocket money into Space Harrier and Outrun cabinets... When I interviewed to be a writer on Edge magazine, much of my discussion with editor Jason Brookes was about Pal conversions of Daytona and Ridge Racer. Oh, our collective disappointment! That these magnificent fluid games were to be corralled into a mere 25-frames-a-second! But it was Japanese games like these that just totally dominated the games industry in the 32bit era.And then decline, and the arrival of open-world western games, and suddenly, Japan was over.But it wasn&apos;t. Beneath the diminishing returns of the great JRPGs and racing games, there was a punk ethic there too, just like the Western inde scene. Sleeping. And then – boom! – Vanquish, Bayonetta, Yakuza, No More Heroes, Deadly Premonition, Catherine. Games of madness and vibrancy, with systems torn from the country&apos;s development past and shot into space. Games where stories merged with mechanics in strange, unfathomable ways, where concepts of sex and heroism twisted and writhed. Japanese developers were still working within familiar genres, as they always had done, but they were exploding them from within. And the ultimate example? Dark Souls of course, a game that turns every player into a scholar of arcane rules and mythologies, a game of clockwork death machines, where every step is a fumbled key in a deadly lock. A game that doesn&apos;t just tell us about the current generation, but with its implementation of multiplayer elements into the campaign, hints at the next generation, too.This was the era of grand art design, of conceptual bravado. From the vaults of Rapture to the hyper-masculinised armour of Gears, designers explored the parameters of visual representation in kinectic worlds. A perfectionism and confidence came in, so that we could have Ken Levine discussing Ayn Rand; we could have Cliff Bleszinski obsessing over the exact amount of dust scuffing up when Marcus Fenix skidded into cover. Confidence. The confidence to kill a playable character in Modern Warfare, having him crawl out of a downed helicopter and die in the heat of a nuclear blast. The confidence to end the Last of Us with a massive question mark hanging over everything.This generation of consoles brought in true multiplayer online gaming, after the haphazard experiments of PlayStation 2&apos;s netlink and Dreamcast&apos;s 56k modem. I remember early bouts of Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter with friends, hours and hours of them – the joy of co-operation. And the rise of the deathmatch and the horde mode, and the absolute genius of Left4Dead, with its understanding of the theatrics of game design, its AI director – its jumps, its desperate moments of doomed camaraderie.Valve. Portal 2. For me, the finest game of the generation, better even than the majestic Super Mario Galaxy with its typically near-faultless combination of imagination, accessibility and challenge. Portal 2 inhabits a world so perfectly realised, so artistically complete, Stanley Kubrick himself would have nodded in quiet deference. Valve, through this generation, became the expert in exploring the idea of playable space. There is always the legitimate world of the lab, and the illegitimate world explorable beyond it; the ducts and dark service corridors behind the pristine white panels. In Valve games, the architecture tears open to reveal the machinery we shouldn&apos;t see and welcomes us in. And Glados is the greatest mad scientist character since Dr Strangelove.I sometimes ask myself, what modern games do I wish my dad – a keen gamer – had seen? He&apos;d have loved Fifa and its irresistible trajectory into photorealism. He would have enjoyed many of the indie platformers, Fez, Spelunky … maybe not Super Meat Boy. Portal 2 though, definitely. Portal 2, I think.The Guardian Gamesblog has changed a lot in this generation. My original colleagues Aleks and Greg Howson have moved on and the newspaper is taking much more interest in this curious and feared arm of the screened arts. I am still here, reporting on my fourth generational shift. My children have grown up with the Lego games, and Minecraft, of course, and they have grown up glimpsing through a crack in the door as I&apos;ve blasted my way through countless military shooters and third-person hack-&apos;em-ups and survival horror romps. Genres have risen and fallen into dust, game journalism itself has evolved, from little magazines to gigantic global websites; soon perhaps it will all be about YouTube superstars. The rise of the community manager to a role of real prominence hints at how power-relations are shifting in the industry. I feel the dark shadow of obsolescence at my shoulder.But the games, oh the games. It&apos;s always been about them. Every generation I&apos;ve seen has begun as a fan fight over technical specifications that dissolves into the thrill of playing. And here we are again, on the verge of something new, and we have no idea really, where it&apos;s all going. My children will remember this coming generation better than the last. This will be the defining one for them. What baseline will it provide? What expectations will they take into their future? What games will they chose to play, away from the ones I&apos;ve shared with them on PS3 and Wii and Xbox 360, away from me?
In 2013, if you&apos;re involved in children&apos;s entertainment, you&apos;re increasingly unlikely to be focusing on one medium or product. TV channel CBeebies makes mobile games, virtual world Moshi Monsters makes magazines, and apps company Outfit7 is working on a TV show from its Talking Friends apps.It&apos;s also why a book publisher like Egmont&apos;s new thing is a &quot;multi-platform humour brand&quot; calledJelly Pie, which launched earlier this year as an HTML5 website, a YouTube channel and a mobile game. Jelly Pie is also acting as an umbrella brand for Egmont&apos;s humour books, including its popular Mr Gum and Agatha Parrot series.The project is headed up by digital publisher Stephanie Gauld, who joined Egmont in September 2012 having previously launched virtual world Club Penguin for Disney in Europe, and before that having worked at the BBC handling CBeebies&apos; interactive strategy.&quot;Egmont has been in the business of making children laugh for a long time with some really successful humour books, but could we take inspiration from that and create a multi-platform humour brand for five to nine year-olds?&quot; says Gauld.&quot;Jelly Pie is a bit of an experiment: let&apos;s build our community first around this digital content, build up a fanbase, and then explore other revenue streams later, which could be live events, merchandise or apps.&quot;Jelly Pie is based around two animated characters – yes, a jelly and a pie – with the emphasis on humour, clips and on children themselves, as they tell jokes and interview authors for the Jelly Pie YouTube channel.TheJelly Pie mobile gamehas been downloaded by more than 100,000 people, with a recent spike of 65,000 downloads in a week thanks to Apple promoting it in the US App Store, as well as an enthusiastic video review by YouTuber Lonnie Dos.The YouTube channelis taking longer to build up a head of steam, with 43 subscribers and 2,745 views at the time of writing. Gauld says that Egmont is keen to use digital platforms and mobile devices to find an audience for its new brand.&quot;The whole industry is adapting to this, and becoming aware of the importance of intellectual property. Part of Jelly Pie for us is exploring and creating our own IP and characters as part of that,&quot; says Gauld.Egmont worked with digital production companyComplete Controlon Jelly Pie, with the HTML5 website aiming to ensure children can use it on tablets as well as computers.The humour aspect is important, as is the element of live performance on Jelly Pie, with the videos of children telling jokes, rather than simply publishing them in text form.&quot;We did some user testing in a school and were telling jokes from a joke book to some younger children, and they just didn&apos;t get them. The language was too sophisticated,&quot; says Gauld.&quot;Then we let them listen to jokes performed by actors, and they were suddenly all hilarious. We realised that a lot of the humour was in the performance, and that influenced how we present jokes on the website.&quot;Gauld adds that when questioned about what made them laugh, it was also surprising how many children cited specific people in their class – &quot;when Harry goofs around, or when Ned is really silly&quot; – which was another reason for making children the stars of the show, alongside the animated characters.It must have been tempting to shoehorn in more explicitly educational content, but Egmont is choosing to focus on entertainment for now, although the inclusion of book recommendations provides a literacy aspect.&quot;Laughter is so important. I think children are under pressure at the moment, and humour is something that defuses the situation and relaxes them. And it&apos;s a bit of social currency, it helps with those social interactions,&quot; says Gauld.&quot;Having children myself, I do see the pressures they&apos;re under, and the importance of relaxing, humour and being able to be creative. So it&apos;s very consciously not educational: it&apos;s pure entertainment value, with really good humour that isn&apos;t patronising children.&quot;Its very early days for Jelly Pie, which is trying to find an audience on two of the most crowded digital platforms around: YouTube and the App Store.But it&apos;s an example of the kind of experimentation we&apos;re going to see more of from book publishers, who have ambitions to bring their enthusiasm for stories and characters beyond the printed page.
Malware made its way aboard the International Space Station (ISS) causing “virus epidemics” in space, according to security expert Eugene Kaspersky.Kaspersky, head of security firm Kaspersky labs,revealed at the Canberra Press Club 2013 in Australiathat before the ISS switched from Windows XP to Linux computers, Russian cosmonauts managed to carry infected USB storage devices aboard the station spreading computer viruses to the connected computers.The damage done by the malware to the computer systems of the ISS is unknown. However, Kaspersky said virus epidemics took hold of the space-based computers, including dozens of laptops.The Windows XP-based laptops on the ISS were infected with a virus called W32.Gammima.AGin 2008, after a cosmonaut brought a compromised laptop aboard which spread the malware to the networked computers.&quot;It&apos;s not a frequent occurrence, but this isn&apos;t the first time,&quot; a Nasa spokespersonsaid at the time.In May, the United Space Alliance, which oversees the running of if the ISS in orbit, migrated all the computer systems related to theISS over to Linuxfor security, stability and reliability reasons.• In October, a popular Google-backed BitTorrent client wasfound to be spreading malware
Apple has begun selling the iPad mini with Retina display in the UK, sticking to its promise to make the device available &quot;later in November&quot;.The tablet,announced at the company&apos;s event on 22 October, can be bought from the Apple online store.“The response to iPad Air has been incredible, and we’re excited for customers to experience the new iPad mini with Retina display,” said Apple’s senior vice-president of worldwide marketing Philip Schiller.“We think customers will love both of these thin, light, powerful new iPads, and we’re working hard to get as many as we can” in their hands.Currently, all but the two cheapest models of the tablet are dispatching in five to 10 business days; those two models take &quot;one to three business days&quot;.That is indicative of a slight constraint within the supply chain andmatches reportsthat the screen is extremely difficult to produce in a large quantity.The iPad Air, announced alongside the mini and made available for purchase on 1 November, now takes five to seven business days to ship.The mini starts at £319 for a 16GB version without mobile data, rising to £659 for the 128GB version with 4G.•&quot;This is a war of attrition.&quot; How Apple lost the battle, but won the war, over Maps on iOS.
Even if you have broken up face-to-face, you might have a dilemma: who ends the relationship on Facebook – is it the dumper or the person who is dumped? I asked this in class one day. "Oh, I know the answer to this one," said a tall beauty at Indiana University. "Everyone in my sorority knows the answer to this one. It is the person who is dumped who gets to change the status on Facebook." But then she paused. "But not everyone on campus knows this."In that pause, I realised that in the digital age people get their hearts broken twice. First, they are being dumped. Then they lose control over how their friends and family find out, a control they believed they should have.I am fascinated by what happens when people use technology designed to connect people and use it instead to disconnect. To get at this, I interviewed 72 Americans, mainly college students, about how they used new media to disentangle a relationship. In each interview, someone would tell me about a practice I had never heard of.One woman told me she knew she was going to break up at some point. Why? They had such awful text message fights. But she didn't know when the breakup would happen. So she started saving the worst of his texts from each fight. Her mobile phone would tell her "You have seven saved messages". This meant that he had said something horrible perhaps seven times in the last five fights. When the phone told her there were 10, that was when she would know she had to talk about the breakup. No one else I interviewed thought of using their phone's storage notifications to signal it was time to break up.Why did people insist there was a standard etiquette for using Facebook, voicemail and texting, despite the fact that they constantly interacted with people who didn't adopt their rules? After all, if the sorority women understood that all bets were off about how their breakup would become Facebook official, they might not be as upset.We are surrounded by media with different histories of standardisation attached. The telephone has a different history from email. For example, when the telephone was introduced, Edison's company wanted everyone to answer by saying "hello". But Graham Bell's company wanted people to use "ahoy". "Hello" won the day,although "ahoy" still lingers.In the early 20th century, as new media were introduced, companies, schools and government offices worked hard to standardise how consumers use them. Telephone companies sent out warning letters to customers they thought were too talkative. Television advertisements modelled how their idea of a typical American family should watch TV.Today, companies don't put the same emphasis on everyone using the technologies in the same ways; in fact, it's the opposite. Companies often encourage users to adopt technologies in their own distinctive ways so that each one feels deeply invested in that website or communicative technology. Manuals are slimmer and slimmer. The design of the object is supposed to guide the user without any extra intervention.Companies still police activity, but it happens mainly after the fact. When a company such as Facebook decides a user has posted something inappropriate, they often remove first and explain later only when that user protests.Yet even the most thoughtful design cannot predict the social dilemmas people will encounter. That helps to explain why people don't quite know how to use communicative technologies for all the messy tasks that being a social person involves.There is no manual for how to disconnect from other people on Facebook. People work out what to do by guessing or by talking to their friends and family. But not everyone's friends and families come up with the same solutions for these commonplace dilemmas. And people often date someone outside their existing circle of friends, which only makes things harder.The result? Often break-ups involve two people who think they are acting in the ways you are supposed to when using these technologies. But they follow etiquettes that are different enough to mean they end up offending each other.All of us are surrounded by technologies where what is proper can be up for grabs. We know it is possible to have agreed etiquette around technologies; it works for some of the media we use regularly – phones and letters. But it doesn't work for all technologies – largely because companies these days focus so much on what design can accomplish.Companies have made it incredibly easy to connect all over the world, but breaking up is still hard to do.Ilana Gershon is an associate professor at Indiana University, 2013-2014 fellow at Stanford's Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences and author of The Breakup 2.0.
The Nike+ FuelBand SE is the second iteration of Nike’s attempt to get us all moving, healthier and data obsessed.The FuelBand SE uses Nike’s “Fuel” metric for tracking activity, which converts motion tracked by an accelerometer into an activity rating called Fuel. In doing so, Nike has made is possible to directly compare the performance of various sports and activities, allowing people who play different sports to compete against each other on an equal footing with Fuel scores.Sports bangleNike+ FuelBand SE review - positive encouragement is the FuelBand's secret.The basic design of the FuelBand SE remains unchanged from the previous generation Nike FuelBand, just with some optional brightly coloured inlays to complement the matt black band.The FuelBand SE is a thick, semi-rigid rubberised plastic band with a locking buckle in the middle that integrates a full-size USB connector for charging and syncing. The band, while narrow and only about the width of an index finger on your wrist, is quite thick. Unlike most watches that may be chunky on top of your wrist, the FuelBand’s all-round thickness is not something that can be ignored.The rigid oval nature of the band means it can’t flex when resting on something hard, making it uncomfortable to wear at times. If you happen to be a computer user, for instance, the band’s metal buckle rests on the desk as you type forming a hard lump under your wrist. It&apos;s something you can probably get used to eventually, and wouldn&apos;t be an issue if you weren&apos;t a desk dweller.To adjust for different sizes of wrist, the FuelBand SE is available in three sizes – small, medium/large and extra large. Each band comes with two different link spacers too, providing a better fit by enlarging the band.The top of the device hides a dot-matrix LED display next to a solid rubber button. The display cycles through the time, your activity and notifies you of any goals you may have hit.Hidden displayNike+ FuelBand SE review &ndash; a bright and colourful LED display hides under the matt black rubber.Using the Nike+ FuelBand SE is pretty straightforward after the initial setup. You simply wear it on your designated wrist all the time and let it do its thing.Initial setup needs to be done via computer using the integrated USB connector, which charges the band in the process. It is worth noting that the setup procedure is browser-based, and that I had issues on one computer getting the Nike site to respond properly. That could be to do with the locked-down nature of the machine, as it worked fine on another computer, but it would be nice to have the option of setting up the FuelBand via the smartphone app rather than having to rely on a computer.Once up and running, you can press the button to cycle through your readout, including calories burnt, steps taken and your Fuel activity rating. A quick double-press of the button instantly shows the time, which makes it relatively easy to use instead of a watch.The display also lights up when you hit one of your activity targets, as well as hourly activity reminders if you’ve been a bit lax – apparently you should move for at least five minutes every hour for which the FuelBand declares you have &quot;won the hour&quot; and giving you a virtual pat on the back.Nike has improved the accuracy of the accelerometer within the SE and introduced the ability to “tag” certain activities. When you are about to play sport, do the washing up, or anything that involves variously vigorous motions you can hold down the band&apos;s button for three seconds to bring up “Start”. Press the button once more and you initiate a countdown to set you going. Once you are done with that particular activity repeating the button presses will tell the FuelBand SE it is over and mark the session ready for identification within the FuelBand app or on the Nike+ website.The same activity tagging system can be used to track your sleep too, although the sleep tracking features of the FuelBand SE are very limited compared to most competing activity trackers like theMisfit Shineor Fitbit One.Charging the FuelBand takes just over an hour via the USB connector, while Nike has improved the water resistance of the SE enough so that you can wear it without fear of breaking it with sweat or in the shower. You can’t quite go swimming with it, but it should cope with almost anything else.Nike has also reinforced the circuitry within the band so that it can take more abuse from your vigorous workouts or sporting activities without breaking compared to the original FuelBand.Web or iPhone app, but no AndroidNike+ FuelBand SE review - the Nike+ FuelBand app is only available for the iPhone, but will sync in the background.The desktop Nike+ experience is wholly through the NikePlus.com website, with data collected via a small connector app for Windows or OS X. Via the site you can tag your activities, see your progress and chart your Fuel usage over the day, week or month.You can also share your activity with friends, compare your stats and set up competitions between fellow FuelBand owners.A more convenient syncing and charting experience, however, can be had through the Nike+ FuelBand app, which is only available for the iPhone. Nike states that the poor state of Bluetooth 4.0 support in Android, which the FuelBand uses to sync to your devices, is the reason there is no Android FuelBand app. Google recently rectified that state of affairs withAndroid 4.4 Kitkat, but it will take a while for widespread Android support of Bluetooth 4.0 low-energy communication protocols to develop, and therefore a FuelBand app for Android is unlikely to arrive anytime soon. You can forget about a Windows phone or BlackBerry app too, unfortunately.The iPhone FuelBand app is fairly intuitive and will periodically sync in the background with your FuelBand SE as long as you have Bluetooth switched on. You can also force a sync for instant updates, and then view your activity on small interactive graphs to see how you&apos;re doing.The FuelBand app goes beyond just the FuelBand SE too, really pushing some integrated social elements. For instance, you can snap photos of activities and post them to your Nike+ social network, and out to Facebook and Twitter too.Within Nike+, groups of up to 150 people can be created, allowing activity competitions and group tracking, adding to the competitive nature of your fitness tracking as well as fostering an encouraging environment to help you hit your goals. Once one person hits their goal, whatever that might be, the rest of the group can be notified to pile on the praise.PriceyThe Nike+ FuelBand SE comes in four colours, plain black or black with red, pink or yellow inserts, as well as three sizes – small, medium/large and extra large – all priced at £129.Nike+ FuelBand SE review - the metal buckle on the back hides the USB connector.Verdict: Good for sport, but missing a few thingsThe FuelBand SE ticks a lot of boxes for an activity tracker. With the Fuel metric Nike allows players of different sports or activities to directly compare their performance offering competition and challenge between friends.The social elements of the Nike+ service are its biggest advantage, but that does mean you need to persuade your friends to spend £129 on an activity tracker, which could be a tough sell.The band itself is a solid fitness tracker, and is certainly well geared up for monitoring more energetic activities. However, it is uncomfortable to wear while typing at a desk – something that you might spend most of your day doing – only just fits under a shirt cuff, can’t identify stair climbs, and its sleep tracking is poor.The Nike FuelBand SE is an incremental improvement over the first generation FuelBand, fixing various bugs and small issues, as well as increasing tracking accuracy and durability. It is certainly a great gadget for tracking your overall sports performance, but for those looking for something that’s more geared up for tracking walking or more sedentary activity during a working day, there are better alternatives out there for less money.Star rating: 3/5Pros:Water resistant, easy to use, robust, good for sports, great social elementsCons:Poor sleep tracking, uncomfortable while working at a desk, expensive
WhenYouTube revamped its comments sectionearlier this month, the emphasis was on squeezing out trolls in favour of &quot;conversations that matter to you&quot;. Given the often-toxic nature of YouTube comments, it sounded like a smart move.In the days since, there&apos;s been a considerable backlash against the changes, which appears to be gathering pace, and it&apos;s all about the way YouTube&apos;s comments section is now tied to the Google+ social network.More than 95,000 people have so farsigned a Change.org petitioncalling for YouTube to change the comments section back to its original form:&quot;Google is forcing us to make google+ accounts and invading our social life to comment on a youtube video and trying to take away our anonymous profile. They are also trying to censor us unless we share the same worldview as they do,&quot; claims the petition, which is aiming to get 150,000 signatures.YouTube&apos;s official videointroducing the comments changes has also been catching flak, and not just in its comments. At the time of writing, 2,127 people have given the video a thumbs-up, while 40,450 have given it a thumbs-down.The site&apos;s own co-founderJawed Karim hit out at the changes late last week, posting a message on his channel asking: &quot;Why the fuck do i need a google+ account to comment on a video?&quot;Meanwhile,YouTube&apos;s biggest star PewDiePie– more than 15.6 million subscribers and 2.8bn total views – hasdisabled comments on his channel, albeit for different reasons: he claimed that his top comments were overrun with &quot;Links to virus sites, advertisers, self-advertisers, spam, copy and paste pics of dogs (I&apos;m OK with those though).&quot;Changes to any big social media service (see also: Facebook) often attract a lot of criticism when they happen, before it settles down. This feels more serious, but what do you think? Are you angry or happy with YouTube&apos;s changes? What have your experiences been linking Google+ to YouTube so far, if you&apos;ve done it, and what do you think the company should do next?The comments section is open for your views, if not for your dog pics...
A major cyber-attack is being simulated on the financial sector on Tuesday in an exercise called Waking Shark II.Workers in financial firms are being subjected to a series of announcements designed to imitate a major attack on computer systems.The simulations are being co-ordinated by the Bank of England, Treasury and Financial Conduct Authority, who are keenly watching every large bank to see if they can withstand a sustained cyber-attack.The exercise comes two years afterthe original Waking Shark simulation, a much smaller operation held in the auditorium of Credit Suisse at Canary Wharf on 11 March 2011.That revealed that financial firms had a number of channels to discuss the business impacts of a disruption, but far fewer comparable ways to share information in between IT departments. Additionally, the companies knew about the existence of relevant bodies, but had little understanding of how they could actually help.&quot;It’s reached a point where experiencing a cyber-attack must be thought of as a ‘when, not if’ for most businesses,&quot; said Ross Brewer, a vice-president at cyber-security firm LogRhythm. &quot;If they aren’t ready and waiting, many will find themselves like proverbial rabbits in headlights before too long.&quot;There are a number of industries that play a critical role in keeping the country operational and it’s essential that these sectors are fully prepared for disaster.&quot;The exercise comes a few months before the Treasury and financial regulators are required to submit action plans for cyber-attacks to the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank of England.In the FPC&apos;s September meeting(pdf), it required that, by the first quarter of 2014, the relevant bodies must &quot;ensure that there [is] a concrete plan in place to deliver a high level of protection against cyber-attacks for each institution at the core of the financial system, including banks and infrastructure providers, recognising the need to adapt to evolving threats.&quot;&quot;The world’s largest companies have been targeted over recent months by increasingly sophisticated hackers,&quot; said Stephen Bonner, a partner in KPMG’s Information Protection &amp; Business Resilience team. &quot;It is now not just a lone hacker sitting in their bedroom but, in many cases, serious organisations backed by the resources of nation states who are leading the charge.“Incidents which involve the loss or theft of commercial rather than personal data often go largely unreported. Hacking is now widespread and the attackers range from the intellectually curious through to sophisticated nation states, the targets range from safety-critical processing systems through to price-sensitive deal data.&quot;In September,eight men were arrestedin connection with a £1.3m theft from Barclays using a compromised computer. A bogus IT engineer fitted a wireless device to a system in a branch of the bank, and used it to transfer money to a bank account under their control.•&quot;We have a level of trust in certain organisations and criminals exploit that trust.&quot;
Details including price and release date for Motorola’s new Moto G Android smartphone were released by Amazon UK ahead of its official unveiling on 13 November.The listing detailing the Motorola DVX/XT1032 also known as the Moto G, the anticipated second built-from-scratch Motorola smartphone since thecompany&apos;s acquisition by Google and the European follow up to thewell received US-only Moto X, was quickly removed once the mistake was noticed.Screenshots captured bygadget site Pocket-Lintof the listing before its removal detailed specifications for the phone including a 4.5in high-definition screen, quad-core processor, “advanced Android with guaranteed update” and a £159.99 pre-order price.The listing almost made reference to “different backs you can switch out to reflect your unique style”, similar to the customisation options Motorola pushed heavily during its marketing campaign for the AmericanMoto X.Motorola is expected to unveil the Moto G smartphone on 13 November at a press event in London.Amazon UK listing detailing the Moto G smartphone release date, price and specifications, which was quickly pulled. Photograph: Screenshot by Pocket-lint• In November, Google released its latest flagship Android phone,the Nexus 5, providing a premium smartphone experience at a lower starting price of £300 without contract
With the US launch of the PlayStation 4 on Friday and the arrival of the Xbox One in major markets the following week, interesting new details about the next-gen era are emerging. It started last week with US retailer Target accidentally sending out a batch of Xbox Ones to pre-order customers. One recipient, Twitter user@Moonlightswamiwas straight on social networks, claiming that boot up time for the console was 17 seconds and that a day one 500MB patch was required to get the system started.From Joystiq:The Xbox One Marketplace seems to be partially stocked, as well – Moonlight Swami tweetedsupposed screenshotsof the marketplace detailing the download size for various games. The photos suggest the largest game available isNBA2K14at 43 GB, withAssassin&apos;s Creed 4: Black Flagtrailing at 20 GB,Dead Rising 3at 19 GB andLocoCycleat 13 GB. Moonlight Swamialso installedCall of Duty: Ghostsfrom a retail disc, which he claims requires 39 GB of hard drive space.Moonlightswami also noted that, although these are large downloads (even for a 500GB hard drive), he was able to start playing each game once they were 50% installed. How does all this compare to PS4? Well, we know thatPs4 will require it&apos;s on day-one updateof around 300MB to get many of the key features working. As for boot-up,GameInformer claimsto have timed a PS4 cold-booting in relatively tardy 30 seconds. On the plus side, while PS4 titles are likely to require similarly hefty installs to work (Knack is a 37GB mandatory install, for example), according to several reportscollated by VG247, owners will be able to start playing within a couple of minutes of the process beginning. This has always been a key Sony goal with the machine – the banishment of download times – and it seems this is actually playing out.But limitations are also emerging. In October, wediscoveredthat PlayStation 4 will not recognise audio CDs and (currently) cannot play MP3s or stream content from a PC via DLNA wireless networking – the latter two may be handled in a later firmware update, but there&apos;s no guarantee.Some sourceshave uncharitably suggested a link between these audio deficiencies and the availability of Sony&apos;s own subscription-based music service, Music Unlimited, but we couldn&apos;t possibly comment. In comparison, on Mondaywe were informedthat Xbox One would not be able to play 3D Blu-rays at launch. This will perhaps be less important to a majority of consumers – until they see Gravity of course, after which 3D suddenly becomes kind of a big deal again.Moving on to Monday, and PS4 found itself in a (so far) rather unfamiliar position: at the centre of a potential PR failure. Changes in thePlayStation software usage termssuggested that Sony was doing a bit of a U-turn on its declaration that used-game sales would be supported on the machine. You know, thedeclaration that effectively &quot;won&quot; E3? From the document:&quot;You must not resell either disc-based software or software downloads, unless expressly authorised by us and, if the publisher is another company, additionally by the publisher.&quot;What the?! But Sony, that sort of seems like the actual opposite of what we were told. Since news stories have appearedquestioning the new clause, head of Sony Worldwide Studios, Shuhei Yoshida, has been on Twitter assuring games they will be able to buy and sell second-hand PS4 games. I also asked Sony for a comment and they told me, &quot;Our official response to the story is: &apos;As SCE announced at E3, consumers will be able to sell or share their PS4 disc products.&apos;&quot; So that&apos;s okay. But what of this mysteriously draconian software usage warning? I have contacted an entertainment lawyer and will update ASAP.But that&apos;s not all that came out of that online document. Among many other sites,Polygon picked up onthis section, which states:&quot;Your use of PSN and our community features may be recorded and collected by us or sent to us by other users as described in 13.1. Any information collected in this way, for example, your UGM, the content of your voice and text communications, video of your gameplay, the time and location of your activities, and your name, your PSN Online ID and IP address, may be used by us or our affiliated companies to enforce these terms and the SEN terms of service, to comply with the law, to protect our rights and those of our licensors and users, and to protect the personal safety of our employees and users.&quot;Of course, this is the sort of sinister Orwellian legalese that gets added to most digital product user agreements these days, it&apos;s just that we don&apos;t usually bother to scroll through and check everything before we click &quot;I accept&quot;. However, Microsoft has been hit pretty hard with Big Brother accusations, with lots of users concerned about the monitoring power of Kinect. Now it&apos;s Sony&apos;s turn to feel the heat of contemporary (and often not misplaced) paranoia.Finally, with the PS4 now in the hands of many lucky US journalists, and after a New York demo event showing the finalised user-interface, some positives and negatives are becoming clear. First, it seems PS4 is not as advanced as Xbox One when it comes to voice commands –Engadet has reportedthat you can&apos;t power up the machine for its sleep mode by shouting at it like you can with Micrsoft&apos;s machine. Also none of the launch third-party apps seem to make any significant use of voice or gesture commands delivered via the PlayStation Eye peripheral, which is sold separately (although audio-only commands can be given via the mono headset that comes with the console). Those hoping to converse with their console on a regular and despotic basis, this might be a disappointment.However, lots of good stuff was revealed at the New York demo do.IGN has an enormous featuredetailing the PS4 user interface, with cool stuff like cross-platform chat with Vita and smartphone owners, and a revised Trophy system with rarer more desirable trinkets hidden away for even more obsessive hunters.This is an interesting time in any console war – the calm dripfeed of system information before the storm of launch. Both machines are having their little controversies, but they&apos;re also yielding some fascinating nuggets about how we&apos;ll live with and control these powerful beasts. I&apos;m hoping the time for furious factionalism based purely on hype, specifications and prejudices is over. This is where the excitement really begins, right? A new console generation. I started in games journalism early in the war between PlayStation and Saturn, when it still looked like it could go either way. Every day bought some new Japanese import, some fresh Famitsu magazine feature that swayed our imaginations and allegiances. Times have changed but that metronome of platform loyalty still ticks.This is it. Hold on. Here we go.•PS4 or Xbox One? A parent&apos;s guide•Fifa 14 on PS4 and Xbox One: human drama and better headersTNRPhoto Photograph: Matt Crossick/PA
In the long-running Professor Layton Nintendo DS series, the intellectual pursuit of solving logic puzzles, rescuing the distressed, and in general being jolly nice to everyone, what ho old chap, is the order of the day. Throughout the series, Professor Layton and his trusty sidekicks have journeyed through beautifully animated narrative and finely crafted puzzles, and both have been floated on the genteel, low voice of Layton himself. This, the sixth and touted to be the last Professor Layton title, is no different, and gives a grand and affectionate send-off to a series dedicated to a fictional Britishness that even Downton Abbey would be jealous of.It's so refreshing to experience the gentle nudges towards progress these titles give. To a lifelong player of games, the world of Layton's puzzles feels like such a safe environment. I'm used to games providing an overtly hostile arena for my chosen avatar to exist in: most games are predicated on getting a task right the first time or severe, unpleasant consequences ensue. The last thing I played was Typing of the Dead: Overkill, and even though it's ostensibly a typing tutor, your character dies of snarling zombies if you're too slow typing words. In Professor Layton you are presented with a series of logic puzzles, mental arithmetic conundrums, and riddles, and all of them come with plenty of safety nets if you get answers wrong, and usually nothing so uncouth as the threat of death is dangled above you. Throughout Azran Legacy in particular, you can spend time investigating the pretty 3D-rendered landscapes to collect "hint coins" to spend when you are stuck. Or, as usual, should you submit the wrong answer, you decrease the amount of Picarat points you win by completing the puzzle, but this is like losing Nectar points in that you hardly care.The Azran Legacy is a game that is broader-sweeping and more grand than the previous ones, and is imbued with the feeling that this is indeed a farewell – that Level-5 is aware that they might have a last shot at Layton's legacy. The places the characters can visit include, in a very Phileas Fogg way, picturesque fishing villages, a mysterious temple, a desert, a jungle, a tropical island, a walled city. Aboard the skyship Bostonius, Layton, his cheeky schoolboy assistant Luke, and his curiously restrained assistant Emmy all set off to protect the world from a mysterious and ancient Azran power that threatens to destroy world peace. The story is half told through wonderful Studio Ghibli-esque animations, the other through pleasingly detailed 3D backgrounds you can investigate with your 3DS stylus.As if to remind you of his weird animal-chat ability, Luke at one point has a conversation with a squirrel. This enables the player to obtain a really great minigame called the Nut Roller, where you control an exceedingly cute squirrel who has to roll a nut out over a grid to get it into the desired square. There are two other minigames that are unlockable, Blooms and Shrooms and Dress Up, but neither of them are unlocked via squirrel chat. Blooms and Shrooms is also excellent, but Dress Up seems more of a way to use existing animations for characters than really providing any puzzle solving satisfaction. In any case, more sidekicks should have the ability to talk to squirrels.I really appreciated the game's efforts to embed many of the 500 puzzles into the story, though at times it did feel forced. There was a concerted effort to give them at least a thematic link to the narrative – for example, one puzzle had Layton jumping from boat to boat on a moving grid in order to escape being seen by the bad guys. The action is often pleasingly represented in stereoscopic 3D, as in a grid puzzle about shelving books in a library, where the character on the 3DS's top screen would place the books, or remove them, as I figured out which tomes went where. This was also one of the puzzles most thinly connected to narrative, however. Luke walks into a library, looks at some books on the floor, and suddenly decides that he wants to tidy them in the middle of an urgent investigation at Scotland Yard.I've given a lot of thought to what we might lose if Professor Layton games do stop being made (though he is doing a crossover with sexy 2D lawyer Phoenix Wright soon). What is remarkable to me about this series is the lens through which a lost or never-fulfilled Britishness is perceived. Just like the west orientalises Japan as a technology pop culture mecca of neon lights, robots and manga – and as a one-time resident of Japan, I learned this is mostly a perception the west has cultivated – occidentalism pops up in Layton as invented coat-and-tails Oxbridge English refinement.To me, Layton's Britain is a place that sits in the imagination of most of the Japanese friends I made whilst living in Japan. Being Scottish, it was hard to explain that though I came fromIgirisu(Britain) "English culture" was not something I'd ever taken part in. Generous Japanese friends, thinking it would make me feel at home, took me out to English-style cream teas with scones in dainty Japanese cafes, which were on reflection far better than the expensive cream teas I have paid for in London since. And although it pleased me to try to live up to their starry-eyed vision of the English rose they assumed I was (they were shocked at how I knocked back whiskey, for example), occasionally it worried me that one day they would visit London, be rained on getting the open-top to Madame Tussauds, or be served soggy fish and chips by a rude waiter.I have since learned that this is exactly what happened. I have sent Earl Grey tea as an apology.In comparison, the idealised Kensington High Street of Professor Layton is exactly the English rose, cream tea Britain I'd rather my Japanese friends could visit. In the genteel professor's London it hardly ever rains, people still wear top hats, and no one is ever rude to each other, all of which are things that are alien to the modern day Londoner.I will miss Professor Layton's surreal British adventures. In Professor Layton and the Azran Legacy, the puzzles are solid, enjoyable and very varied with only a few repeat patterns, even if some are a little more mathsy than my brain would like. The narrative has mystery and whimsy aplenty, there's lots of small twists, cute animations behind which collectibles hide, and there are cameos to please the long-running fans. The world comes off more sprawling, with more choice and more ability to explore environments with your trusty stylus. There's also perhaps a little hidden lament in there, as the game comes to a satisfying and yet melancholy conclusion, a lingering feeling that perhaps the puzzlemaker himself, Akira Tago, might be sad to leave the imagined Britishness of the unique series.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAn iPhone tester caught in Apple's supply chain &gt;&gt; BusinessweekApple, of course, is a designer, not a builder—it says so right on the back of every iPhone box. The builders, such as Foxconn, get the parts for Apple's products from suppliers that are gigantic companies in their own right. One of Apple's largest suppliers is Flextronics International, a contract manufacturer based in Singapore with about 28m square feet of factory space spread across four continents, including a plant in an industrial area south of Kuala Lumpur. That's where the cameras Schiller raved about would be made.Stunning investigation into the reality of life behind the gadgets.Typhoon Haiyan OSM Response Map &gt;&gt; Neis One!Patrick Neis:As you may know by now, the Philippines have been struck by one of the largest Super Typhoons ever recorded. Many casualties are expected (especially in Tacloban) and even more people are in need of help. While some of us have been busy working with the "Stand By Task Force" to analyze and geolocate tweets with useful information, the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team (HOT) has been making progress as well.I have spent some time to develop a website that visualizes the latest changes to the OSM map (utilizing changesets) in the Philippines and hope that it helps to determine areas that might be already worked on, while other areas are lacking any new information. You can find the map here:http://resultmaps.neis-one.org/osm-typhoon-haiyan-2013About 750,000 changes already made. Essential in locations hit by such weather for emergency services.Orange says Tizen strategy not ready yet - Rethink WirelessThe main operator supporters of Tizen are Orange and NTT Docomo, but while they were initially expected to launch Samsung-made devices this fall, they are now reluctant to offer any timescales, and launches certainly won't be this year. Yves Maitre, head of devices at Orange, told PC Advisor that a 2013 launch no longer made sense as the underlying strategy needed to be clearly worked out."We are reassessing our strategy together with the Tizen community on how to go to market and what that means in terms of features, price points and market positioning," he said, citing some lessons learned from the first wave of launches of handsets running Mozilla's Firefox OS, a competing platform to Tizen whose main carrier supporters are Telefonica and Deutsche Telekom.This makes it sound as though Tizen is aimed at the carrier-supported end of the market - rather like Firefox OS. Those tend not to be the pricier phones. It is where the numbers are, though.Samsung's NX300M smart camera is its first to run Tizen OS &gt;&gt; EngadgetIntriguing:the company confirmed that the 20.3-megapixel shooter is actually running a camera-focused build of its open-source Tizen software. Samsung has relied on Android for some of its cameras so far, but has also quietly released Tizen-powered developer tablets and ported the OS to the Galaxy S4, showing off what it can do without Google's help. To that same end, Nokia announced today it will power "maps-related functionalities" in future Tizen devices, giving Samsung (and its partners) a chance to further reduce its dependency on Google services.Nokia Here and Samsung. Fascinating pairings the technology business creates.Wireless device converts "lost" energy into electric power &gt;&gt; Duke Pratt School of EngineeringThe device wirelessly converts the microwave signal to direct current voltage capable of recharging a cell phone battery or other small electronic device, according to areport appearing in the journal Applied Physics Lettersin December 2013. (It is now available online.)It operates on a similar principle to solar panels, which convert light energy into electrical current. But this versatile energy harvester could be tuned to harvest the signal from other energy sources, including satellite signals, sound signals or Wi-Fi signals, the researchers say.Somehow, Pebble is making a better smartwatch than gadget giants like Samsung and Sony &gt;&gt; VentureBeatSamsung is a multibillion company with 425,000 employees and a massive supply chain. Pebble is 40-strong and fuelled by $10m in Kickstarter money.&lt;So you might be surprised at which one is making the better smartwatch.On Wednesday, Pebbleunveiled the latest stepsin its effort to take over your wrist. It has a new, more powerful developer kit, and it finally supports all of the notifications coming out of iOS. Oh, and it also has companies like Foursquare, Yelp, and GoPro making native apps for the device.Pebble is now quoting 250,000 watches sold: it may be the most successful smartwatch.China's 'Cyber Monday' ends with $5.7bn spent in 24 hours on Alibaba's Tmall &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaChina's 11/11 online shopfest – the country's equivalent of America's Cyber Monday – has just finished. It's been a record-smashing mega-sale on hundreds of e-stores. Here at Alibaba HQ, the makers of China's top online marketplace are celebrating the biggest-ever shopping day: a grand total of $5.7bn (RMB 35.02 billion) spent in the course of just 24 hours.That's only online, of course. The most popular store was Xiaomi.Samsung places fewer notebook component orders than expected &gt;&gt; DigitimesSamsung Electronics' component orders from June to October 2013 were reportedly only 40% of the Korea-based vendor's original forecast, while Apple's iMac shipments during the same period were also estimated to be 50% less than those in 2012, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.Some suppliers believe Samsung's notebook shipments in 2013 are unlikely to hit its goal and may only reach about 13m units, flat from 13.8m in 2012. However, some suppliers expect Samsung to see shipments decline in 2013.Only those making tablet components are looking happy - a sign of the stresses going through the PC business.Theodolite goes to the Great Wall of China &gt;&gt; HRT AppsCraig Hunter's Theodolite app was featured in Apple's iPad launch, shown being used on the Great Wall of China - in a location about 32 miles north-north-west of Beijing:What I find interesting is that version 4.0 of Theodolite HD was used in Apple's video clip, and that version was just released on October 2 as an iOS 7 update. That means Apple shot this video, did editing, production, etc., within the last 20 days in order to show it during the Special Event. It really demontrates how much effort they put into their videos. Just think of the resources required to do this, for one short clip in one video highlight of a keynote. Sometimes it takes me 14-21 days just to finalize copy and artwork for a print ad, and here Apple is shooting video up on a mountain halfway around the world and getting it in front of a VIP audience in 20 days.The app looks interesting: Hunter says it has uses "in avalanche research, tactical observation on the battlefield, search and rescue, and aircraft accident investigations. The app is an on-the-job tool for surveyors, architects, engineers, and scientists around the world. And regular people are using the app for sports, outdoor activities, exploration, and education."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Netflix and YouTube now account for more than half of downstream internet traffic in North America, according to a report released on Monday.This online dominance marks the first time the two video streaming sites surpassed the 50% mark and shows a significant decline in the use of peer-to-peer services.Meanwhile, BitTorrent, the protocol used for peer-to-peer file sharing, is now responsible for 7.4% of daily internet traffic in North America – a 31% drop from five years ago – according to the traffic report by broadband service company Sandvine.Netflix accounted for 31.6% of downstream traffic on fixed networks in September during &quot;primetime&quot; internet hours – 9pm to 12am. This is a slight drop from May 2013, when Netflix posted a 32.25% share in downstream traffic.Sandvine said the decline &quot;should not be interpreted as a decline in the dominance of the service at the expense of their competitors&quot;. The company said it expects Netflix to surpass its best numbers in the near future.YouTube posted a slight increase from 17.11% to 18.69% in the six month period. With Netflix, the sites&apos; held 49.4% of North America downstream traffic in March.Top 10 peak period applications, North America, fixed access. Courtesy SandvineAmazon video and Hulu barely made it into the top ten, with each holding 1.6% and 1.3% of downstream traffic, respectively.BitTorrent still dominates upstream traffic with 36.35%, but downstream traffic represents a greater percentage of internet traffic because it is sent to the average home or office user, while upstream traffic is sent from a computer or network away from the user.The information was presented in Sandvine&apos;s biannual Global Internet Phenomena Report which is based on data it collects from its 250 network customers across the globe.It also showed that YouTube is dominant in South America, accounting for 36.82% of traffic. Netflix failed to achieve comparable success in the region, accounting for only 2.17% of downstream traffic.Netflix is growing in popularity in Europe, where it is responsible for more than 20% of traffic, less than two years after launching in the continent. Netflix launched in the UK and Ireland in January of 2012 and most recently in the Netherlands in September.
The Labour party says a new tool for online campaigning called Thunderclap has been a &quot;phenomenal success&quot; after using it for a Twitter onslaught.The Thunderclap website lets supporters of a cause pledge to all tweet a message at the same time, boosting the audience of the slogan by orders of magnitude.In Labour&apos;s case, at 10am on Sunday, 848 people, including party leader Ed Miliband, comedian Eddie Izzard and the actor David Morrissey automatically tweeted:It’s time to deal with David Cameron’s cost of living crisis. Let’s freeze gas and electricity bills. #freezethatbillhttp://thndr.it/1ixNa2yThunderclap&apos;s statistics show that the tweet made it on to the feed of 4.5 million people, almost exactly as many aswatched the BBC News at Tenon Sunday 3 November.A Labour spokesperson described the campaign as a &quot;phenomenal success&quot; and said that the party would use the tool again, although when and how often remains undecided until it has had a chance to look at the feedback in more detailed terms.The Liberal Democrats were the first party to use Thunderclap in the UK, with 127 people signing up in February to tweet a link toa page celebrating the party&apos;s achievementswith the click-bait question &quot;What the hell have the Lib Dems done now?&quot; But without Labour&apos;s celebrity support, that message was only shared with 127,000 people.The idea behind Thunderclap is to use supporters who have friends outside the political bubble to spread the message beyond the sort of people who normally hear Labour&apos;s slogans. But that means there is collateral damage, in the form of people whodofollow a number of politicians and activists.&quot;That has led to some predictable snarking from those in the Westminster village bubble who suddenly saw dozens of identical messages in their timeline,&quot;writes Mark Ferguson, the editor of LabourList, &quot;[but] most people don’t follow every Labour MP/activist/supporter on Twitter, so will only have seen it once or twice. A message to those complaining about seeing it too much – you’re not the target audience.&quot;&quot;There’s going to be a lot more of this&quot;Twitter users who don&apos;t want to see the posts can hide them, with a bit of effort. To do so requires a Twitter client which can mute keywords. Examples include Tweetdeck, Tweetbot or Janetter on the desktop, Twitterrific or Tweetbot on iOS, or Falcon Pro on Android.Once installed, muting the domain &quot;thndr.it&quot; will ensure that no tweets show up on the main feed. That might not seem important now, but as Buzzfeed&apos;s Jim Waterson writes, &quot;there’s going to be a lot more of this in the runup to the next election.&quot;The Thunderclap was just a small part of a wider campaign. In the 24 hours after it began, Labour reported 5285 tweets with the hashtag in it, causing it to trend in London and Liverpool. Additionally, the online team reached 61,000 people on Facebook, and more still on email.
A software engineer formally involved in the development of the Siri voice assistant at Apple has joined Samsung’s new talking internet of things initiative.Luc Julia, vice president of Samsung’s innovation lab and a former Siri engineer, presented the company’s multi-device data collation initiative, Samsung Architecture for Multimodal Interactions (SAMI), which aims to collect data from devices like fitness trackers and wearable computers and make that data available to other devices and services, including via voice in a very similar manner to Apple’s Siri.Julia left Apple to join Samsung in 2012, after being part of the developer team responsible for Apple’s voice assistant Siri.&apos;SAMI, how am I doing?&apos;During a presentation in Menlo Park, California last week,Julia demonstratedhow SAMI could collect data from a Fitbit fitness tracker, as well as an internet-connected weigh scale and provide a report on your overall activity – something that wasn’t previously possible with the information isolated within each device’s application.In Siri-like fashion, Julia asked &quot;SAMI, how am I doing?&quot;, with the app responding that he had reached his exercise goal for the day.Forming part of the company’spush for enhanced software development, Samsung hopes that SAMI will be able to unite disparate connected devices, especially with the explosion of wearable devices. It is currently working with around 50 partners to develop and test SAMI, including Fitbit and the Pebble smartwatch, and has a $100m fund for the next three years to support companies developing relevant technology.• In November, Samsung admittedthat its software needs work, and has dedicated half of its research and development workforce to the effort
