What's your favourite piece of technology, and why?I have to say myHumax PVR[personal video recorder]. I don't tend to watch much television, so I record everything I want to watch and sit and watch it in a block over the weekend. It saves me so much time.How has it improved your life?I don't have to bother worrying about missing any TV shows, and can watch them when I feel I want to.When was the last time you used it, and what for?It would have to be this week, for Mad Men.What additional features would you add if you could?I wish it would actually drop the adverts, because I get bored fast forwarding through them. It would be great if it took those out, but the advertisers wouldn't like it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I'm almost convinced it will be, the way technology moves so fast. There'll be something else, won't there.What one tip would you give to non-PVR users?Always make sure that the automatic software updates – do it every two weeks to make sure you keep it up to speed.Do you consider yourself a luddite or a nerd?When it comes to the horror side of movies, I'm definitely a nerd. With technology, a bit of a luddite I suppose. I don't care about it that much, I only have stuff that improves my life, or helps me with my work.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?If we go back a few years, I literally had one of the firstSony Stowaways, which was the first Walkman. I had it shipped from Japan – I was desperate for one. In 1979, it cost me £150 – that was really a lot of money. I was terrified it would be stolen, but luckily nobody knew what it was.Mac or PC?Mac. I used to be a PC person but got sick to death of being virused up to the eyeballs so I switched to Mac and have never had any more problems. And to be honest, I find the Genius Bar at Apple stores brilliant.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most-played list?I'm going crazy for that Scandinavian group,BWO [Bodies Without Organs]. Barcelona is my favorite song at the moment. Nobody knows them here, but they're the new Abba. They've got four albums out, they're fantastic.Will robots rule the world?They do already, as far as I'm concerned, with those idiots in most governments – especially our own. How much worse could it be?What piece of technology would you most like to own?I want a Kindle just so I can see how many books I can cram on it, and how it works – is it really as interesting as people make it sound? Is it user friendly?• Alan Jones is a co-director ofFilm4 FrightFest, which is having a special "Spring Awakening" mini-festival on Saturday 7 March
I once read a science fiction story whose author had clearly been inspired by watching the weather forecast one day, and on seeing the presenter talk of "highs" and "lows", had thought: what if that was not a forecast of weather, but of moods? Thus people walking along roads would be gripped by sudden happiness, or thrown into despair, as the highs and lows passed over them.Well, now it's time for the next great idea that is being very quietly suggested: the financial forecast.Yes, I know that we already get some of that sort of thing. The IMF, the Bank of England, the G7, and Uncle Tom Cobbley and all put out predictions about how various economies will fare in the months and years ahead. (Rather as with analysts' predictions, hardly anyone ever seems to go back and ask how well they did.) But if we're honest, if you compare that to the quality of weather forecasting today - which uses some of the most powerful supercomputers in the world, constantly refining their systems and using feedback loops to evaluate what they're getting wrong and right - forecasting of the financial weather is still on a par with examining seaweed to figure out if it's going to rain.Now, some people are suggesting that supercomputers can get us out of the situation that we're in: one where the banks are, what's the technical term, "in a bit of a pickle". For example,this FT article(subscription may be required), co-written by its science writer Clive Cookson and Richard Olsen of Ounda:We need to dig deeper and track the complexity of interactions in financial markets and the economy.We can do this by collecting and analysing the tick-by-tick data that markets spew out. More than 1m financial ins­truments are traded; for the most liquid, 100,000 price quotes are generated each day. They can offer an early warning of dangerous misalignments between prices and risk premiums. Price changes are not just noise; their seq­uence is driven by the flow of buy and sell orders, second by second. The bigger the order the larger the price change.By tracking tick-by-tick prices we can infer how market participants build and close positions. The next step is to map the size of positions and infer what positions have been established at the various price levels – and what profits and losses different groups of traders and investors are incurring.It sounds reasonable. Then Olsen heads off into a place where one starts to feel either scared or exhilarated, or perhaps both: he suggests applying supercomputers to all these ticks so that you can see where the market is heading. He suggests that about $2 billion over five years should cover it, to cover the costs of "launching a research initiative and developing a comprehensive predictive service for the global economy."I'm intrigued as to what that would look like on the news bulletins."And now we go over to Robert Peston for the financial weather forecast. Robert?""Thanks, Sophie. Well, it looks as though it's going to be a cold month for banks - over here there's some pressure building in 30-year bonds, and we can see on the simulation how these swirl up and feed into these euro-yen 10-year bonds, and then the credit default swap isoclines, centred here over New York and London - look how they push the warm pound down and cause a sort of freezing over in the credit markets here, and here. So it really is a time to lag your debtors with perhaps a little bit of bond insurance. Sprightly for anyone who's long on gold, though - it's unseasonally high just now. Back to you, Sophie.""Thanks, Robert." (Raised eyebrow, faint 'what wasthatabout' look for the benefit of the viewer.) "Now, the government today announced..."I don't know. Perhaps some people will feel that makes Robert Peston sound just as (in)comprehensible as he is now when he's talking about bailouts. What I find more worrying, though, is the idea behind this plan: that we can forecast the financial weather. Truth is, we can't, and we won't.As Wired magazinepointed out recently, part of the way that we got into this mess is because some people got smart with algorithms - specifically theGaussian copula function, where a new tweak wasa piece of financial technology that allowed hugely complex risks to be modeled with more ease and accuracy than ever before.Great! Until it all started unravelling because,whaddyaknow, it turns out that financial markets sometimes stop behaving as independent actors, and turn tail and run in the same direction all at once. Like in August 2007 when the credit crunch began, because banks suddenly realised - together - that they didn't really trust each other anymore.You didn't then see other banks leaping into the breach to lend to each others. Finance isn't like nature: it doesn't abhor a vacuum if it thinks that vacuum is going to suck its money into it. Instead, financial organisations stand like penguins on an ice shelf, waiting to see who's going to be brave enough to jump in and discover whether there's a killer whale lurking down there. Because it's certainly not going to bethem.That's very different from the real weather. Patterns of high and low pressure don't care whether there are more or fewer of them than before, or what patterns they follow. They're driven entirely by the laws of physics, which aren't amenable to being broken. You can thus predict, given enough computing power and a good enough understanding of physics, what tomorrow's weather will be like, given enough readings about today's. (Never perfectly, of course: chaos still reigns.)But finance? That would be a fool's game. Financial markets obey no laws, not even those of common sense. They don't move in predictable patterns; and they do take notice of what happens in other places. If Japan's markets fall off a cliff overnight, it's unusual for the London markets to leap upwards. But it's not unknown. The underlying "laws" are those of investor confidence and financial transparency - which, as we've seen over Bernie Madoff and Allen Stanford, isn't always as good as you'd like.So I'm afraid that dreams of forecasting the financial weather must remain just that - dreams. Though I'd be all in favour of more transparency over financial doings. But don't imagine that's going to make the economy pick up any sooner. It'll just give us a clearer idea of where the hell all our money went, is all.
Late in December, when gamesblog reader Barry and I presented the gamesblog's user-generated game,Spaceship!, at a regular Brighton event,£5 App. Among the other incredibly talented people and amusing things on display that evening was Phone Fight, a swordfighting game for Nokia N95 mobile phones. It was, frankly, awesome. So we tracked down Russ from Lastminute.com Labs to give us the hack and slash on their free-to-download, newly released game.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.My mum is a both an accomplished swordswoman and a Sith Lord, so it would be quite easy to explain to her, but if I wanted to explain it to your mum, I'd say that it was a game that you play with two mobile phones, which you can pretend are either swords or lightsabres. The phones detect slashing and blocking moves, and make the appropriate noises. They also keep a tally of who has been 'hit' the most, and the first player to 10 successful attacks wins.  If your mum is interested in electromechanics and personal area networks, I might decide to mention that the game involves the use of accelerometers to detect motion and a Bluetooth link between the two phones to communicate the moves.  But only if she asked.How do players control the game?Swinging the phone towards your enemy starts an attack, and holding the phone horizontally or vertically will defend against one.  The idea is to parry more blows and make more successful attacks than your opponent. Think of it as using Wii controllers without the Wii.What is your background?lastminute.com labs is a small team, about half a dozen developers working within lastminute.com, looking at new ideas and emerging technologies, with the intention of being ahead of the game when any of our markets change.  Last year we focused on mobile phone development, and due to our open-ended and extensively wide remit, we latched onto the idea of accelerometer-based applications, so wrote the first draft of this at theOver The Airconference last year.Name your competitors.The likes of Expedia, booking.com or Ticketmaster, according to our management.  The originalN95 Lighsaber app, if you're thinking about what's most similar.  But I'd like to think that we're competing against snowball fights, marbles or conkers as a way of duelling with your mates.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?Not nearly enough yet, but I have a dream that people will be playing games like this in the same way that you might turn up to the park and whip out a frisbee and have a chuckabout with complete strangers - "I see you have an N95; got Phone Fight?", "Certainly have", "If you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine"...What's your biggest challenge?Persuading the company that it's a worthwhile use of our time to concentrate on fun projects like this.  Fortunately we've shown that by letting us go slightly crazy and develop things that aren't even remotely related to selling flights, holidays and theatre tickets, when we finally do get round to developing such things we have a solid understanding and can develop fast - seelabs.lastminute.com/nru/to see what our accelerometer experiments turned into. Also playing Phone Fight against my dad can be quite challenging; he almost had my hand off once.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?I think we've probably written the only mobile phone game that has caused public acts of destruction during testing.  Wii remote damage to televisions is well known, but you are safe and unembarrassed in the comfort of your own home.  Whist testing Phone Fight one lunchtime, we shattered a phone into lots of little pieces through overzealous thrusting in a cafe in central Westminster.What's your distribution/publishing plan?The project is free software (licensed under the GPL version 2), so if we were to have one it would be to try to develop a community of python developers and skin-builders to improve the polish of the game. The downloadable package is availablehereand the source code to our game is availablehere.Are indie games the latest killer app?Much though I dearly love the likes of Fallout 3 and GTA, there will always be a time and a place for the games that don't need a console and a HD telly.  Given how powerful the little devices we all carry around with us nowadays are becoming, I think there's enormous scope for little games like Phone Fight that are quick to play and cheap to make.Are you the next big thing?Not right now, but if we start getting people interested in Phone Fight, we've got plenty of grand plans just waiting for an excuse to happen.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Tough… particularly if you're Dell.The Texan computer manufacturer has been taking a battering recently - and things aren't getting better, according to financial results released yesterday.In the three months ending in January, the company's income was down to $351m from $679m for the same period last year – a 48% drop over just 12 months. Sales, it said, were down 16% in what turned out to be the worst Christmas for the computer industry since 2002.That might seem like dire news for the world's second largest PC maker (and it is) but yesterday's results were actually better than many people expected. That was thanks to a severe round of cost-cutting at the company's operations around the world, which Dell executives say will eventually save it around $3bn a year.Investors were also expecting ominous news thanks to last week's news that Hewlett Packard's computer sales had dropped by 19%, leading to a 15% fall in profits.One option open to Dell is to try and save money by cutting jobs. The company currently employs 76,000 people worldwide, although it has already sacked thousands of workers in recent years in an attempt to streamline operations and improve profits."We will be the first to admit that this is a work in progress," the company's chief financial officer, Brian Gladden, said. "We can't predict how long this slowdown will last… we expect it to be protracted."Gladden's gloomy predictions were echoed by his counterpart at Microsoft, the immensely powerful software corporation that has been slammed by the knock-on effect of fewer people buying PCs. Speaking at a conference yesterday, Microsoft CFO Christopher Liddell characterised the downturn as a "contraction of substance"."How long the contraction's going to be and how deep, none of us know," he said. "Despite what politicians and others are saying, it's probably for the next year or two that we're going to see a difficult trading environment."
Bobbie Johnson (Go figure ..., 23 February) highlights the ever-increasing role the mathematics of algorithms plays in our daily lives, including Google's page ranking. "Mathematicians rule!" concludes Johnson. So a reader inspired by your article may seek to contact an expert in algorithms in the mathematics department of their local university. In this, the article will have misled them, as expertise in this area is to be found predominantly in departments of computer science and informatics. Mathematics is important in every area of science. Just as physicists invented new mathematics to solve their problems, it is computer scientists who have invented much of the new mathematics of algorithms. The impact of this branch of computer science on our lives is indeed profound.Prof Malcolm Atkinson, Prof Alan Bundy, Prof Dave Robertson, Dr Kousha Etessami, Dr Perdita Stevens and 14 othersUniversity of EdinburghBobbie Johnson describes algorithms as "jealously guarded mathematical recipes that increasingly dictate how we lead our lives". What he's actually describing is operational research - the discipline of applying appropriate, often advanced, analytical methods to help make better decisions. Executives in every kind of organisation - from two-person start-ups to FTSE 100 leaders - are using OR to structure their problems, unlock the value of their data, model complex problems and make better decisions with less risk and better outcomes. Some real-world examples of how OR techniques can help managers take better, bolder decisions can be found atscienceofbetter.co.ukGraham SharpOperational Research Society
Carol Bartz, Yahoo's turnaround chief executive, has made her first blog post, aboutGetting our house in order. She says she has "been on a whirlwind tour for the last six weeks" and now she's "rolling out a new management structure that I believe will make Yahoo! a lot faster on its feet". She mentions one major change:I've noticed that a lot of us on the inside don't spend enough time looking to the outside. That's why I'm creating a new Customer Advocacy group. After getting a lot of angry calls at my office from frustrated customers, I realized we could do a better job of listening to and supporting you. Our Customer Care team does an incredible job with the amazing number of people who come to them, but they need better resources. So we're investing in that. After all, you deserve the very best.Bartz has also made a number of staff changes. Chief financial officerBlake Jorgensen has resignedand Yahoo is looking for a new one. Marco Boerries, boss of Yahoo Connected Life, has resigned "to spend more time with his family": the guts of the division will become Yahoo Mobile, run by David Ko. Elisa Steele, from NetApp Inc, will join Yahoo as chief marketing officer. There have been other changes, not officially announced, but detailed in Bartz's memo to staff, which has been published by Reuters inYahoo unveils re-org, sort of.This is something Bartz apparently wants to stop. AsThe Industry Standardhas noted:Many Yahoo-related rumors and memos are released by BoomTown's Kara Swisher, whose reliable Yahoo insider -- or insiders -- have steadily forwarded emails, tips, and company gossip since April 2007. Bartz is clearly irked by the situation, judging by her offer of cash rewards to employees who turn in other Yahoo employees who leak to the press. The news, of course, was leaked to BoomTown. Oops.It's too early to know how all this is going to turn out. However, one good thing you can say about Bartz is that at least she knows how to use capital letters. It's a start.
So does filesharing lead to fewer sales, or not? One thing it does lead to: more flower sales. In a roundabout way.Afteryesterday, when John Kennedy of the IFPI, representing the international music industry, provoked laughter yesterday by suggesting that everyone who had downloaded an illicit music file via the Pirate Bay would, without it, have bought a legitimate copy, it was the defence's turn to put forward its witnesses.First wasKristoffer Schollin, of Gothenburg University, and an expert on copyright and lecturer on IT law. He argued (giving his evidence via telephone) that the Bittorrent protocol is not in itself illegal, and nor is The Pirate Bay: he contended that it is an "open database" of torrent files.And those files, he argued, are just a "more sophisticated" form of weblink. He noted that Blizzard is using the bittorrent protocol to distribute World of Warcraft. The Pirate Bay itself, he suggested, is a bulletin board for .torrent files, with a "forum for debate" attached.The prosecutor representing the film companies suggested - but Schollin denied - that 40% of internet traffic is due to files from the Pirate Bay, or that 50% of the world's torrent files are on the site. (But it would be "significant", he said.)Is it the world's biggest torrent site? It's certainly the most famous, he averred. But there are about a dozen other "large" ones and perhaps a thousand more.However the day of the really big torrent site might be over - to be replaced by smaller, private ones, he suggested.TheKing Kong defencecame up again: can you tell if some random user who uploads a torrent file to the Pirate Bay is publishing it for the first time anywhere? You can't, Schollin said. And do torrents on Pirate Bay automatically mean it uses its tracker? Nope, said Schollin.Kennedy's evidence about lost sales was contradicted by that ofProfessor Roger Wallis, media professor and chairman of the Swedish Composers of Popular Music (we'renot sure if that includes Abba) argued for the defence that people who download music tend to buy more, not fewer, songs.And filesharing might not be the - or the only culprit, he noted. The past decade had seen a rise in the time and money people spent on computer games.Some aggressive questioning from the prosecutors - one of whom called into question Wallis's qualifications - didn't take things too far. ("Can you use Google? Then you'll easily find my CV," Wallis said.) The prosecutor provided some graphs from a study suggesting that 18% of those who download files illicitly buy less, and just 8% buy more. "No relevance," Wallis replied, and declined to go into the details.And did he want any compensation for appearing? "You're welcome to send flowers to my wife," he replied.Well, it seems file-sharers will spend money on something, then. By the end of the day Wallis's home - and wife - were inundated with flowers sent by people sympathetic to the Pirate Bay's cause. Aww.See the picture.The case continues.
Faced with a user revolt over changes to its terms of service, social networking site Facebook has decided to take the nuclear option: open itself up to public scrutiny.In future,the site has announced, proposals to change its terms of service will be circulated to users in order to get feedback. Some may go to a public vote, while it also said that its legal contract with Facebook addicts will be simplified into a "bill of rights and responsibilities".The document, said founder Mark Zuckerberg, is "not just what people must do when they're on the site… it's also what Facebook must do.""We're going to notify everyone who wants to be notified and give them time to comment," he said in a call with journalists earlier.In the case that a proposed change draws a high volume of response, "we'll even put it up for a vote".The move comes just a few days after an embarrassing climbdown, after changes to the site's terms of use led to outrage among many of the site's 175m users. The concerns, over a shift in wording that appeared to give Facebook perpetual ownership to every piece of data on the site, eventually led to Zuckerberg making adrastic U-turn.Although executives at the site said they did not intend to offend or annoy users with the earlier changes, they recognised that data ownership was a sensitive issue for many people.Facebook's vice president of communications and public policy, Eliot Schrage, said: "Because of the nature of the information our users share, we have to hold ourselves to a higher standard."Facebook has suffered from backlashes before – when implementing its news feed or its controversial Beacon advertising system, for example. But this latest change effectively hopes to stem future controversies in the bud by putting part of the company's up for public approval (although Facebook will, of course, still control which issues are up for public discussion and vote)Zuckerberg, who seemed stuck for words on a few occasions, said that although the announcement was precipitated by last week's farce, the changes had been discussed for a "long time".
Social networking is taking a bit of a beating at the moment (Facebook and Bebo risk 'infantilising' the human mind, ormake you ill), so it's nice to see some actual research that points in a different direction.Social networking benefits validated, in The Washington Times, reports that:the Digital Youth Project and conducted primarily at the University of Southern California and the University of California at Berkeley, found that in our increasingly technological world, the constant communication that social networking provides is encouraging useful skills.The studylooked at more than 5,000 hours of online observation and found that the digital world is creating new opportunities for young people to grapple with social norms, explore interests, develop technical skills and work on new forms of self-expression.Mizuko Ito, lead author of the study, says: "we found that spending time online is essential for young people to pick up the social and technical skills they need to be competent citizens in the digital age."Yes, there are issues for children, but Monica Vila, founder oftheonlinemom.com, is quoted as saying that parents need to set parameters just as they would at any other playground.In my view, parents have more chance of finding out what their kids are up to online than they have when they are out, hanging around with their friends.And I'm not really worried about social networks "infantilising the human mind," as Lady Greenfield warns. Since you have to be able to read, write and, to some extent, think in order to use a social network, I suspect they're more likely to be helping undo the infantilism produced by the original "boob tube": television.
Microsoft has announced a content deal with NBC Universal, making a modest chunk of the studio's portfolio available for rent via the Xbox 360 console.Thirty movie titles have been confirmed, mostly back catalogue favourites such as Scarface, The Mummy Returns and Shaun of the Dead. The selection will be regularly updated and Neil Thompson, Senior Regional Director of Microsoft's Entertainment &amp; Devices Division in Europe, wouldn't rule out the possibility of featuring NBC Universal's TV content in the future.The deal, which is specific to UK and Ireland, adds considerable value to the Xbox 360's burgeoning video-on-demand service. Currently around 300 movies are available to UK users, with Paramount, Warner Bros and MGM already supplying content.Customers pay around £2.50 to download a movie, which remains on their console's hard drive for 14 days – but once you start playback, you have 24 hours to watch the film before it expires. Many of the titles are available to rent in either standard or high definition formats.Microsoft sees the provision of a movie service as a key element in expanding its market beyond the traditional gamer demographic."We're looking at how we can grow Xbox as a core entertainment hub," said Thompson "There's a phenomenon at the minute where more and more people are staying at home to consume their entertainment – we're really offering a convenient one-stop shop for them."At its press event in London on Thursday (26 feb), Microsoft also sought to portray the Xbox 360 as a platform for family games – not just shooters such as Halo and Gears of War, for which it is renowned. The company official revealed a new Wallace and Gromit game as well as extra downloadable content for its karaoke sim, Lips, including tracks from Coldplay.There was also a demo of the console's forthcoming Primetime service, an online multiplayer quiz channel, which will allow users from all over the world to compete for real-life prizes. Thompson describes it as a "Saturday night family experience, more involving than just watching the TV." Primetime is set to launch with a version of TV show 1 vs 100 in the spring.While Nintendo's Wii is currently winning the "next-generation" console war with global hardware sales of around 45m, Xbox 360 is performing well and growing in popularity.On Wednesday, Microsoft revealed that over Christmas, European sales were up 120% compared to the same period in 2007. Worldwide sales figures stand at around 28m.
Microsoft held a big press briefing in London today. Entitled 'Play, Watch, Connect' the event saw a grab-bag of announcements including a content deal with NBC Universal to supply movies for the Xbox Live video-on-demand service. UK and Ireland customers will have access to 30 of the studio's films from today with more following on a regular basis.As for games, the emphasis fell very much on family stuff. There was more on theWallace and Gromit XBLA game, plus new content for Lips, including Coldplay tracks – including The Scientist, Speed of Sound and In My Place – and a 'broader range of content' coming early March, including an online leaderboard. There were details of the Prince of Persia DLC, which includes new levels and maps. We'll let you know more later.Attendees also got a glimpse at the Xbox Live Primetime channel – an online multiplayer quiz system, originally conceived as part of the whole New Xbox Experience makeover, which aims to become the de facto Saturday night entertainment choice for families everywhere. TV tie-in 1 vs 100, revealed at CES earlier this year, will be the first game to support the concept.The key thing, though, was the movie deal, adding another major studio to the roster, which already includes Paramount, MGM and Warner. Clearly, Microsoft is viewing its content-on-demand service as a key way to compete with Wii for the family market. I spoke to Microsoft's regional director of entertainment Neil Thompson who told me, "Every console manufacturer is going to need to be providing this sort of entertainment hub, if they're going to be successful with consumers in the long term. This has always been our strategy – we've always said that it's the software and services element of what we can deliver to consumers that's really going to differentiate us."I'm not sure how much of an impact a library of just 30 films will have against the might of WiiFit, but as Xbox 360 is the only console offering a service like this in Europe you can see what they're getting at. Anyway, here's that line-up of Universal flicks in full...Baby MamaThe FrightenersThe Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon EmperorWantedThe GameForgetting Sarah MarshallHow HighThe Incredible Hulk ('08)The JerkWelcome Home Roscoe JenkinsLiar, LiarYou, Me and DupreeThe Mummy ReturnsThe Scorpion King: Rise of a WarriorNational Lampoon's Animal HouseBilly MadisonOut of Sight ('98)Blues BrothersReservation RoadBourne SupremacyScarface ('83)Carlito's WayScorpion KingCheech and Chong's Next MovieShaun of the DeadChild's Play 3Village of the DamnedFast and the FuriousWaterworldFear and Loathing in Las Vegas
A bucket of games links that have caught our eyes this week:• Conference proceedings of the philosophy of videogames 2008: DIGAREC Series 01 &gt;&gt;opus.kobv.de• Michael Jackson Auction Catalog 4: Amusements, Arcade Games &amp; Entertainment &gt;&gt;juliensauctions.com• Amanita Design's Machinarium &gt;&gt;indiegames.com• Alice to make console comeback &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Labels retreat from new IP &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• The Brave New World of Open-source Game Design &gt;&gt;nytimes.comFor up-to-the-minute updates, follow us ondelicious.
Here's the world's shortest, fairest, and simplest licence agreement: "Don't violate copyright law." If I had my way, every digital download from the music in the iTunes and Amazon MP3 store, to the ebooks for the Kindle and Sony Reader, to the games for your Xbox, would bear this – and only this – as its licence agreement."Don't violate copyright law" has a lot going for it, but the best thing about it is what it signals to the purchaser, namely: "You arenotabout to get screwed."The copyright wars have produced some odd and funny outcomes, but I think the oddest was when the record industry began to campaign for more copyright education on the grounds that young people were growing up without the moral sensibility that they need to become functional members of society.The same companies that spent decades telling lawmakers that they were explicitlynotthe guardians of the morality of the young – that they couldn't be held accountable for sex, drugs and rock'n'roll, for gangsta rap, for drug-fuelled dance-parties – did a complete reversal and began to beat their chests about the corrupting influence of downloading on the poor kiddies.Well, they got it half-right: the fact that kids – and lots of adults – don't see anything wrong with destroying the record labels is certainly bad news for the record companies. Back when Napster started, the general feeling was that the record companies deserved to die for all the packaged boy bands, for discontinuing the single, for killing the backlist, for price-fixing CDs, and for notoriously miserable contracts for artists.Then came the digital rights management, the lawsuits (first against toolmakers like Napster, then against tens of thousands of  music fans), then the use of malicious software to fight copying, the procurement of one-sided laws, the destruction of internet radio. Brick by brick, the record companies built the moral case for ripping them off (and the movie companies, broadcasters, ebook publishers, and game companies weren't far behind). As the copyfight wore on, wrecking the entertainment industry became an ever-more attractive proposition.A decade later and the record industry has finally brought back the single, and there seems to be some semblance of price-competition (contracts for artists and the existence of boy bands still go in the minus column of course). They've even got rid of digital rights management for the majority of music sales, and the backlist is much bigger than it was in the record-store days.So now the pitch goes: "We gave you what you asked for, you've brought us to our knees. Now, please stop ripping us off and start buying music again – we're offering a fair deal." But anyone who examines the pitch closely can see it for what it really is: just more bait for yet another trap.It's that pesky user-agreement. When you go into one of the few remaining record stores, there's no clerk beside the till chanting, "By buying this music, you agree to the following terms and conditions," rattling off an inexhaustible set of rights that you're surrendering for having the temerity to buy your music instead of ripping it off.If the sales-pitch for a download is, "a fair deal", then it has tobea fair deal. The activities that these licence agreements restrict range from the ridiculous to the dubious, though I suppose reasonable people might disagree about the fairness of selling or loaning out your digital music collection.But it's not the entertainment industry's job to tell me what are and are not fair terms of sale for my downloads. If loaning an MP3 should be illegal, let them get a law passed (they're apparently good at that – the fact that they haven't managed it to date should tell you something about the reasonableness of the proposition). The one-sided, un-negotiated licence agreement lurking behind the "Check here to affirm that you have read and agreed to our terms of service" represents a wishful (even delusional) version of how a purchase works.If the pitch is, "this is a fair deal", then the EULA should be: "You cando anything with this, so long as you don't break the law."Not"Abandon hope, all ye who purchase here."
Ah, science. No real answers, only questions.  Take this superb juxtaposition:The Telegraphreport on 17 February that computer games reduce the risk of dementia (along with quilting and pottery) based on a 1300-person sample of 70-89 year olds (N=197 with cognitive impairment). This comes from a study that will be presented at the American Academy of Neurology in April. The findings suggest that being "mentally active" reduced participants' potential memory loss by between 30-50 percent. The findings were based on surveys, asking participants to, ahem, recollect how active they had been between the ages of 50-65. +1 for computer games (and -1 for television).On the other hand,ScienceBlogreports on a study published in peer reviewed journal Alzheimer's and Dementia based on a "review of all relevant randomized, controlled trials" from 1992 to the present. The meta-analysis concluded "that there was no evidence indicating that structured cognitive intervention programs had an impact on the progression of dementia in the healthy elderly population." This one was published on 9 February.So what are we to believe? Well, that more research needs to be done, obviously, and that we can't make conclusions about the effect of games (or anything else) based on individual research headlines. Like the analysis conducted by the team behind the Byron Review, there is a dearth of conclusive evidence in either direction, and we should take a leaf out ofBen Goldacre's book and be careful not to replicate bad science when arguing our cases.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
I can see my carbon footprint!A demonstration of a remarkable layer that has been added to Google Earth, which offers a visualisation of US carbon dioxide emissions state by state. Has anyone seen aversion for the UK?Do re me so fa la ti na-no...Responding to an American Chemical Society challenge to explain "nano", the University of California at Berkeley's team came up with this. It's a university challenge we can all enjoy.Is your phone call in 3D too?Using eye-tracking, this gives your phone's screen a pseudo-3D interface. Brilliant! And also - totally pointless!Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments...
For most bosses influencing your company is hard at the best of times, let alone when you're not even in the room. Trifling things like physical presence are not a problem if you're Steve Jobs, however: his fingerprints were all over Apple'sannual meeting of investors, despite the fact that he wasn't even there.Apple's other senior staff took control of affairs at the AGM today in Cupertino since Jobs couldn't be there (he is, you might have heard, taking a leave of absence tofight ill health).Investors were once again reassured that Jobs is still in the loop, and that he will be back in June as previously announced. But they were also told that the companydoeshave a succession plan in case the worst comes to the worst – except that it's a secret."He is deeply involved in all strategic matters… nothing has changed,"said director Arthur Levinson- before adding that the board has been discussing succession strategies regularly, but that "if there's new information that we deem is important to disclose, then that will happen."Despite all this interest, though, Apple appeared to take the line that his absence might be seen, but it would rarely be heard.Questions about Jobs were limited, and the company also refused to comment on reports that US financial regulators were investigating how the disclosures over his health were handled.Instead, Apple's stand-in boss Tim Cook talked through the company'srecent financial results- which were pretty strong, though reports that the recession isbiting into computer salesseem to have fallen away.The intended impression, it appears, was to promote the idea that all is stable, safe and samey in Apple's world - that it's business as usual.Still, one little aside meant that the assembled gang couldn't entirely ignore the fact that their great leader wasn't around: to mark the fact that Jobs turned 54 on Tuesday,one investor by leading in an impromptu rendition of Happy Birthday.
I cannot use my ISP, AOL 9.0VR, for internet banking or YouTube or anything that requires any activity. I have spent hours on the phone with various useless AOL technicians and done all the uninstalling and reinstalling they suggested. I would change my ISP but the thought of having to change my email address is daunting, especially as I run my business from home.Alison LowtonYou will probably need to change your email address sooner or later, so do it now. Register your own domain name so you can have a personal email address, and use "mail forwarding" to a different email service such as Gmail orFastmail.fm. You will then be able to switch between different ISPs and mail services without changing your email address. ­Nominet, which looks after the UK domain, has a helpful guide atwww.nominet.org.uk/registrants(but don't buy from ­Nominet).AOL's UK service has been transferred to Carphone Warehouse. Start by telling them you want to cancel your service without penalty because it is not fit for purpose. Ask for a MAC (Migration Authorisation Code), which will be mailed to your account. You need this to get your broadband service switched to a different ISP. If AOL does not agree, you will have to go through the step-by-step escalation process, which is explained onAOL's Help site. You will have to tell a member services agent and then a supervisor that the service is unacceptable, then make a formal complaint in writing. If you don't get a satisfactory answer within five working days, you can then take your complaint to the independent Communications &amp; Internet Services Adjudication Scheme (CISAS).AOL Talk and AOL Broadband joined a month agobut have yet to post a copy of their Code of Practice. It's a tedious process, but it will be far more costly for AOL than for you, so they should send you a MAC.A BT check on your line says you can get 7Mbps or more with ADSL2+ broadband, and if you have a BT phone, you're probably safer switching to BT Business Broadband or a third-party service that uses a BT line. When you switch, make sure you use a four-port router, and not a "USB modem". Keep records of any problems and phone calls in case you need to change ISPs again.Backchat: Tim Gorman and others said AOL offers a free email address so she can keep it even if she does not use AOL as her ISP. This is true, but I still recommend changing because Alison needs abusinessservice.Steve Gorwits pointed to ablog postwith comments about connecting directly to what is now Talk Talk, in the UK, without using the AOL software: "The crucial details are from CaptainD 23/02/08"
What's the easiest way of transferring my iTunes library on to a new laptop without burning them to CD? All the music I have is from CDs, not the Apple store.Jeremy ThomasCD-R discs are cheap so it's best to burn your tracks to CD, so that you'll have back-ups. You can do the transfer using the backup feature in iTunes 8. If you have an iPod, you can use that by switching it to manual update and enabling disk use, though this can be a bit complicated: seehttp://support.apple.com/kb/HT1329. Either way, I'd suggest reading the iLounge guideTransferring your iTunes Libraryfirst. Of course, you can always copy your unprotected music files to a new PC via a USB thumbdrive and start again. However, you will lose any iTunes metadata, such as ­playlists
My son was sold a Huawei E160G mobile broadband ­dongle by 3. He cannot get it to work with his Eee PC 900 running Linux. Nobody seems willing or able to assist.P HillThis has been discussed on the Asus support forum, where several people have the same problem. However,Asus technical supportis quoted as saying: "I'm afraid aforementioned modem is incompatible with your system." You can try readingDale Lane's blog postand 138 comments, but frankly it would be easier to change the modem or install Windows XP, which works fine.Backchat: Colville Wemyss says his Huawei E160G broadband dongle worked with his Eee PC 701 after he installed Eeebuntu 2.0.
Is Mozilla Firefox any better than Internet Explorer? Less than a week after downloading it, I have reverted to IE, partly because Firefox seems unable to display numerous websites properly.Louis MalinowskiFirefox was a lot better than IE6 but the gap has narrowed with IE7 (especially if you addIE7Pro) andIE8, which will be out soon. Part of Firefox's appeal is the very wide range of third-party extensions, including Adblock Plus, Flashblock, NoScriptandIE Tab, which lets you see sites the IE way in a Firefox tab. Also, most scripted malware exploits are designed to attack IE, so Firefox is still the safer option, particularly in the less salubrious parts of the web. (If using IE, something like theAvira AntiVirGuard is a good idea.) I think it's worth giving Firefox a go, but use whichever you prefer.Note: the phrase in italics was cut from the printed version. Go figure.
China's horrific air pollution is hardly a state secret, causing about 656,000 deaths annually, according to the World Health Organisation. But what is more of a surprise is the arrival of a new, local car manufacturer with breathtaking ambitions, supported by a government seeking to become a world leader when it comes to green technology.BYD Auto– short for Build Your Dreams – was only founded in 2003, yet it has pulled off a global coup by mass-­producing the world's first plug-in, petrol-­electric hybrid, the nifty-looking BYD F3DM (byd.com). Under the bonnet, the car is more of a purely electric car than any similar hybrids on the road today, and has made its debut at least a year ahead of similar models from the US and Japan.This year's modelThe car, which does not need a specialised electric charging station and can be charged using a normal household supply, is now on sale in China, where it costs just under 150,000 yuan (£15,000), a similar price to a mid-range petrol-powered sedan and a bit more than half the 250,000 yuan it costs to buy a Toyota Prius. BYD has come from nowhere to sell 24,107 vehicles in January alone, an increase of nearly 80% from the previous year, and aims to sell 400,000 models in China this year.BYD aims to tap into the world's fastest-growing auto market as China's emerging middle class – now estimated to number between 100 million and 150 million people – swap their bicycles for four wheels. While the economic crisis has sent vehicle sales tumbling around the world, Beijing alone is still adding more than 1,500 new cars to its gridlock every day. "The use of alternative types of cars could really make a contribution to the reduction of pollution in large Chinese cities," says Karl-Thomas Neumann, chairman of the carparts manufacturer Continental.A survey by Continental shows that Chinese consumers are much more interested in hybrids than their European counterparts, with 53.7% of those surveyed happy to buy a hybrid and 73.4% who would consider an electric car – decidedly more green than the UK's respective 30.2% and 37.1%. Chinese drivers are more open to hybrids as "more than 90% drive in urban centres and travel less than 60 miles a day", says Paul Lin, BYD Auto's marketing manager. Hybrids come into their own in cities because of their limited range and top speeds. In queues, the car's electric engine shuts down before restarting when the car moves again.While the auto company is a newcomer, its parent company, BYD – which itself has only been around since 1995 – is the world's biggest supplier of rechargeable batteries, giving them a huge jumpstart when it comes to the production of hybrid and electric cars. And the company has audacious ambitions – it aims to be China's No 1 car firm by 2015, and world No 1 in 2025. BYD vehicles will be launched in Europe – provisionally Denmark, because of its friendly tax policies towards green technology – in 2011."We respect our competitors abroad," says Lin, "but we are aiming to show that we can not only compete on the world stage, but dominate."Environmentalists and Chinese commuters frustrated at the rising price of fuel aren't the only ones with their fingers crossed that the car takes off. The US investment guru Warren Buffet has bought a 10% stake in the firm for $232m.In China, electricity is cheap, though this is produced by burning coal. The company decided to avoid building expensive charging stations. "Most Chinese live in apartments and don't have their own garages, so instead, drivers unplug the battery and charge it in their homes overnight," says Lin. The car has a range of 62 miles on a fully charged battery, and once the battery runs out, the car switches into hybrid mode. Lin claims the batteries will not degrade until they have been fully charged 2,000 times, which should take seven years, and even then, the battery's capacity only drops to 80%.Communist revolutionOf course, one company alone won't change China's dirty habits, let alone those of the world, says Bradley Berman, editor of Hybridcars.com. "BYD deserves credit for producing plug-in hybrids. But to make a real dent in auto pollution, these plug-in cars will need to scale up to hundreds of thousands per year. So, it's not who's first with the first models. Environmental and economic success will come with high-volume production sustained over many years," he says.An analyst with IHS Global Insight Auto, Duan Chengwu, says China's advances in green technology have come about because of backing from its most dominant power source – its Communist government. "The government firmly supports these companies producing hybrids and electric cars," says Duan. Measures to stimulate the ailing car industry include the halving of sales tax on certain cars, subsidies for owners of high-emission vehicles who exchange them for more fuel-efficient vehicles and a 10bn yuan fund to promote new technology. Thirteen cities, including Beijing and Shanghai, offer subsidies to hybrid buyers.While combating pollution problems is one incentive, the Chinese government has another reason to push green technology: pride. "The government wants to leapfrog western countries and become a global leader in the field," Duan says. "The country is years behind its competitors in the auto industry as a whole, but when it comes to green technology, everyone is starting from scratch. In this scenario, China has a great opportunity."Four wheels goodThe most famous hybrid car of choice is still theToyota Prius, the first mass-produced model. The car is essentially petrol-fuelled but has an electric engine that propels the car at low speeds and assists the main engine when accelerating. First launched in Japan in 1997 before going worldwide in 2001, more than 1m Prius hybrids have been sold. There will be a plug-in version of the Prius for fleet customers by the end of the year, and the company also recently announced they will produce a commuter battery-electric vehicle by 2012.General Motors won't be joining the electric car fray until 2011, when it says it will launch theChevy Voltin the US. The car will have a lithium-ion battery with a petrol-powered engine that drives a generator to provide electricity when you drive beyond its 40-mile battery range. The Volt is expected to cost around $40,000 (£27,500).Here in the UK, the independent car companyLightningwins the award for the most stylish option – their swish-looking fully electric Lightning model looks like something an eco-friendly James Bond would drive, and should be available from late 2010. The catch? An estimated asking price of £120,000.
Running a team of poker bot slaves, grinding away hour after hour and making you a nice income as you sleep and play, is no walk in the park. As we reported on12 February, you need to be a very smart AI programmer trapped in a very boring job. But does doing so imply that you're breaking the law?The short answer is no. Running a team of poker bots is certainly not encouraged by poker sites, because human players don't like the idea of it. And it's often in a site's terms and conditions (T&amp;Cs) that you can't use software, bots, or AI, but some sites don't even mention it.Some do. One of the big online poker names, Full Tilt Poker, says in its terms: "The use of artificial intelligence including, without limitation, 'robots' is strictly forbidden in connection with Full Tilt Poker. All actions taken in relation to Full Tilt Poker's games and tournaments must be executed personally by players through the user interface accessible by use of the game software."It takes this seriously. It employsDr Darse Billings, a consultant with the University of Alberta's poker research group, as a technical games analyst. He's one of the few people in the world who's worked on developing champion-beating poker bots.But Full Tilt also objects to the use of external poker analysis software, a standard approach by online players. If breaching T&amp;Cs is a crime, almost everyone's doing it. A bot master may have broken a contract with the site, but not any law.Dai Davis, an IT specialist partner with solicitors Brooke North, says, "It's by no means certain any crime is committed. And they'd have the greatest difficulty in trying to obtain a criminal conviction.The proof is in the pudding, according to Davis. These sites would be straight off to the Crown Prosecution Service if they could. Instead they kick people off their sites."It would be a crime if [the bot master] was, and I use the word reluctantly, hacking – trying to delve into the site to obtain data he hasn't got rights to use. If all he's doing is statistical analysis, he's entitled to do it." The bots our bot master deployed operated using a combination of probabilistic calculations with some stochastic search. It's not the same as in the notoriousUltimate Bet scandal, where former employees managed to get information about opponents' cards during live play.And, of course, if you're using cloned or stolen credit cards it's a different matter.So can a site kick you off and keep your winnings? All poker sites reserve the right to do this if you contravene their terms and conditions. They can give you the boot, but only if their terms are properly applied, the player is bound by them ("and that's not necessarily a non-trivial question", says Davis) and they are enforceable. Assuming these hurdles are satisfactorily completed, they can be enforced against him. He's in breach of the contract so can terminate his access to the site.And can winnings be forfeited? Sites are bound to say you can't do lots of things, says Davis. "Ultimately, it's up to the courts. There is both European and English legislation, and you can't have unfair terms and conditions. Penalties aren't necessarily enforceable."So if you're smart enough and can stand the tedium, go ahead and fill your poker bots' pockets.
People who don't speak Swedish are missing almost all the interest of the Pirate Bay trial, which is supplied by the frankly unsavoury nature of the defendants. The money man, Carl Lundström, on whose servers The Pirate Bay was housed, is straight out of the crime novels of Stieg Larsson. He inherited a fortune built on crispbread, and has a long history of involvement with extreme rightwing politics. In the 1980s, he was a member of "Keep Sweden Swedish", an anti-immigrant fringe group; he has financially backed the Sweden Democrats, a would-be populist and anti-immigrant party; and only this month the managing director of one of his companies was charged with a robbery in a small west-coast town, part of a feud within a neo-Nazi group. Lundström told the Metro news­paper (http://bit.ly/metro) after he sacked the man that he had known he was a party member, but not that he had gone to collect another member's computer with a submachine gun.Gottfrid Svartholm Varg and Frederik Neij, the nerds who run The Pirate Bay itself, have also been accused by the prosecutor of tax evasion, but deny that they were making any money from their business. Their attitude of sneering entitlement towards the government is all of a piece with their attitude towards the big content companies. But I can't see The Pirate Bay as morally superior to the Disney corporation. Both are out to grab everything they can get away with, and so, of course, are the majority of their users. Yes, there are legitimate uses for the Bit­Torrent protocol, but the demand for free as in beer far outstrips that for free as in speech. What's odd in a historical perspective is that all this should be going on in Sweden, which was within living memory a social democratic country with a genuinely leftwing orthodoxy. I know that a little bit of the rhetoric around The Pirate Bay sounds leftwing – the idea that it is wrong for "international capital" to push Sweden around – but that's just populist, and could be found in the rhetoric of the kind of parties that Carl Lundström has supported too.The overwhelming impression is of a clash between two rightwing views, one that says it is all right to steal from the state, and one which says it is sinful to steal from corporations. You don't find people arguing that there might be such a thing as soc­iety that is larger than both the owners and the consumers of copyrighted material. On the contrary, it is a more or less explicit assumption that in a borderless digital world there isn't any legitimate global authority. Yet the overwhelming fact about Swedish society, when I lived there, was exactly this belief that authority was, and had to be, legitimate. Perhaps this goes back to the country's Lutheran past as a militaristic superpower: "Fear God and honour the King" says the inscription on one of the churches in Stockholm Old Town. But wherever it came from, the conformism, and the stifling respect for authority that it produced, were the characteristics that most distinguished Sweden from most of the rest of Europe. That may have been a bad thing – I certainly thought so when I lived there – but looking at the modern country you realise that it's possible to have too little of a bad thing.The Pirate Bay trial is part of a global problem in which we all are implicated. One of the reasons we got into this mess was the absence of any kind of government that could stand above the immediate economic interests of the players involved. In the US the copyright laws were repeatedly extended not because any benevolent ruler sat down and asked what arrangement was best for society, but because it is easy to rent politicians in the US. Hardly anyone who pirates material asks themselves whether they are plundering the system that ensures that some people at least are paid for their creative labours. The pressing question, when you sit at a keyboard, is hardly ever "should I?", but "can I?" But you can't build a society – you can't even build a market – unless almost everyone in it asks themselves "should I?" In its clumsy way, that's what the Pirate Bay trial is trying to remind us.• Fishing in Utopia, Andrew Brown's memoir of Sweden, is available fromguardian.co.uk/bookshop
Professor Thomas Little of Boston University would like your house lighting to communicate with your computer, TV, and even the heating thermostat. By piggybacking data communications on to LED lightbulbs, he hopes "smart lighting" will become the next generation of wireless communications technology. But has it got a hope against existing technologies?The idea of modulating light for signalling isn't new. Think of signallers using Aldis lamps; or even your TV remote's invisible infrared LED. The replacement of existing bulbs with low-energy LEDs reduces carbon emissions while offering an opportunity for smart lighting.Flicker of interestIf you rapidly switch an LED lightbulb on and off, you can use the switching to transmit information to a receiver. The trick is to do it very quickly. "I don't know the exact rate at which the human eye can see flicker here, but we expect to operate at a speed well above the perception threshold," says Little. "For example, one of our lab prototypes can operate at speeds as low as 2,400 bits per second (bps). No flicker is visible."Little anticipates smart-lighting data rates of "1Mbps to 10Mbps with visible light this year and a 100Mbps to 500Mbps range with future prototypes". Such speeds are impressive except for one thing: exactly how will smart lighting challenge two-way wireless home networking?"We expect it to be two-way with the use of LEDs at the receiver. In practice, the channel will be asymmetric – just like cable modems or DSL [broadband] systems – due to the overhead lighting being intended to distribute light and the receiver intended to be passive," he says. "At the receiving end we will use a smaller LED and will investigate other wavelengths if visible light proves annoying in the back channel."Mark Leeson, an associate professor at the University of Warwick's school of engineering, has a research interest in optical communications systems. "Lighting is there anyway so using it seems a good idea for communications," says Leeson. "The disadvantage of optical wireless can be that it works best with a line of sight, otherwise speeds are low using diffuse systems."There are some comparisons to be made with short-range wireless Bluetooth or IrDA (infrared light communications) as well as the more powerful Wi-Fi that's in many homes. Leeson points out that for small amounts of data – such as exchanging photographs between mobile phones – 3 Mbps Bluetooth is sufficient, while IrDA offers up to 16 Mbps (faster is promised). "Transferring large quantities of data is much quicker using an optical link."Professor David Payne is a fibre-optic pioneer and photonics researcher at the University of Southampton. He is also the director of its optoelectronics research centre. While optical technologies such as IrDA or smart-lighting need line of sight, clearly Wi-Fi or Bluetooth do not. There is an obvious problem, Payne suggests, with using visible light for data communications rather than infrared. "One should never underestimate people. People have habits – such as switching the light off."Leaving that drawback aside, you also have to modulate the visible LED lighting to carry your data. "It's not easy to do and it takes quite a lot of electrical power," adds Payne. As light happily bounces around the room, it will create indirect paths between transmitter and receiver. These "multipaths" cause interference issues leading Payne to say that infrared – such as the battery-powered TV remote control – can be more effectively filtered. "My conclusion is I'd be better off with an infrared beam."Red, green and blueBut has infrared really got what it takes? Payne recalls an old TV advertisement for Palm of a man and woman on adjacent trains exchanging phone numbers with their handheld computers over an infrared optical link. It's something you're unlikely to see today. "What has changed is an awful lot of completion from Bluetooth," he adds. Optical, on the other hand, has found a good niche in "free space optics" for high bandwidth line-of-sight communications at sporting events.A five-year $18.5m (£13m) research programme between Boston University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in New York, and the University of New Mexico is now under way. It will endeavour to show that smart lighting is faster and more secure than current Wi-Fi for some uses. An LED lightbulb also uses less energy than radio frequency technology and its light won't go through walls – helping to eliminate eavesdropping. Existing wiring could carry data to smart lightbulbs, providing easy network access points throughout home or office.The concept of smart lighting may not stop indoors. Little is considering outdoor applications such as smart LED brake lights or even data-transmitting road signs. "LED lighting is a green technology. If we enable all future lighting to provide network connectivity we will have a far deeper penetration than current wireless tech. We will do this without the additional energy cost of these other technologies," he says.
Playing Jordan Mechner's original Prince of Persia is a humbling experience. With a strict time limit, restrictive 2D plane of movement, perilous jumping puzzles, and the constant threat of death-dealing palace guards, it's apparent now that the once-revolutionary 1989 game falls foul of the same punitive, arcade-derived design paradigms that have dominated video­games since Pong – namely, advancement through trial and error; death being used as an obstacle; and a general focus on challenge over reward.This is understandable. When games first appeared in arcades – even before the video kind – the goal was to drain players of funds by tempting them with the possibility of completion, or a high score. Ideally, when players reached the "Game Over" screen (or equivalent), they would insert more money and continue on. The game designer's challenge was thus to delay the player's progress in an efficient and consistent way – make it too easy and the arcades lose money; make it too hard and all but the most dedicated contenders will lose interest.Die another dayUbisoft's recent re-entry into the Persia franchise, released at the end of 2008, eschews these arguably outdated principles. In the new Prince of Persia, the player cannot lose. Whether he falls from a ledge, is crushed by a falling platform, or finds himself outnumbered in combat, he'll be instantly, magically rescued from the brink by his AI-controlled companion, Elika.This doesn't stop the game from being fundamentally based on trial and error – you need to learn your way around each of Persia's beautiful obstacle courses lest you see Elika's revival animation more frequently than is humanly tolerable – but it does mean that players are no longer penalised for not being up to the game's standard. For longtime Persia fans, this is understandably a controversial development: when so much of videogaming is based on competition and achievement, what use is there in something that lets even the most ham-fisted newcomers see the end credits with nary a "Game Over" to mire their progress?Lionhead's Fable II, also released at 2008's close, endured similar criticism despite widespread critical acclaim. When players "die" in that game, they're instantly revived with only a slight penalty to their experience score (the points used to improve certain abilities, such as spells or swordsmanship). The challenge, therefore, is placed on the player's combat finesse – the more efficiently and elegantly he dispatches his enemies, the greater the rewards. Less experienced (or interested) players, meanwhile, can advance through the game fairly quickly, but without the extra benefits that skill brings.While some decried this concession to the so-called "casual" market – which originated with downloadable and mobile games such as Bejeweled, and is the main consumer base for Nintendo's Wii – Fable II's director, Peter Molyneux, has been unapologetic in his aims. In his view, it was inconceivable that someone should pay for a game but be unable to complete it, as not only are they denied their money's worth, but they can "feel stupid and unskilled".Both Fable II and Prince of Persia signify a change in videogames – titles such as the above pivot on exploration and reward, rather than competition and challenge. It's an emphasis that can be largely attributed to the rise in commercial viability of the "open-world" genre. Pioneered in 1984's Elite and refined in the mega-hit Grand Theft Auto III (2002), the open-world genre strictly relates to videogames that don't sequence content into individual "levels" or "stages", but rather provide an undivided virtual world in which players can roam. Players are often invited to complete the game at their own pace, and play content that's ancillary to the main storyline or goal.More than any other genre, the modern open world exists largely because of recent technological advancements. With the massive increase in storage capabilities and processing speed of modern consoles, large, streaming virtual worlds have become increasingly feasible. (Previously, the "large world" effect was achieved through means such as randomly generated terrain, as in the first two The Elder Scrolls games.)Chris Ansell, marketing manager for Radical Entertainment – one of the world's leading open-world developers – sees this movement as the real power of contemporary videogames. With Radical's upcoming Prototype, Ansell hopes to deliver one of the most sophisticated open-world simulations yet. "Oftentimes you hear the word 'new' associated with games," he notes, "and when you get to experience that game, it tends to be new in terms of graphical fidelity, but the fundamentals are the same as any previous title in the series.Feeling philosophical"With Prototype, what we're hoping to do is try to add a lot more systems, so you feel as if you're something of a stick poking a living microcosm of a city. We want to use open world as a tool rather than just a means to create a specific type of game – like an urban crime game, for example."Indeed, the features common to the most popular open-world games – the Grand Theft Auto series, Spider-Man 2, Just Cause, Far Cry 2 – are now often being used to complement other genres, to such an extent that open-world itself could be considered more of a philosophical shift in game design than a distinct genre. Consider The Sims 3, due later this year from EA/Maxis. Where the first two Sims instalments restricted player movement to a single house, the 2009 edition will allow sims to travel freely around their neighbourhood, and even make their way downtown. There's also id Software's Rage, rumoured for a release this year. Rather than iterate on the corridor shooter genre they arguably invented, – and which has brought them untold millions – the Texas-based company is taking a risk with a new, open-world project.Rage is the most telling example – after all, if the vanguard of the arcade-esque first-person shooter is adopting open-world mechanics, what hope is there for the linear, focused games of days previous? But while many of the characteristics of these games – levels, boss fights, a 2D plane of view, even player death – were born of arcade sensibilities and technological limitations, they still have their fans. And in a few cases, fans have demonstrated how a return to the traditional model would actually save – rather than damn – certain game franchises. The Sonic games of this decade, for instance, have been largely met with scorn and poor sales, and many attribute this to Sega's failed attempts to "modernise" Sonic by bringing him into an open, 3D environment.There are certainly cases where moving to an open-world framework has hindered or undermined well-established franchises, but these examples have had very little effect on the rapid rise of open world in game development. And it shouldn't be surprising; open world, if properly implemented, brings developers closer to creating the "holodeck" experience to which videogames are often compared but have never really achieved. If you're looking for a real challenge, though, you might want to turn the clock back to 1989.
It was a thrilling time for tech-heads. In 1999, the first dotcom boom was at its height, Keanu Reeves was strutting through the first Matrix movie – and two-digit Cobol clocks were ticking towards the great millennium rollover. And, of course, Tony Blair's still-new Labour administration published its plan for a joined-up, all-seeing, ­government computer. If you missed the last one, don't feel bad: nearly everyone else did, too. The plan appeared in a little-noticed document called Modernising Government, published 10 years ago next month. Outside the small circle of e-government enthusiasts, the paper attracted interest mainly for its proposals to retrain ministers and senior civil servants in spinning New Labour's policies.But Modernising Government also launched a lasting revolution. A section headed "Information age government" announced: "We must modernise the business of government itself, achieving joined-up working between different parts of government and providing new, efficient and convenient ways for citizens and businesses to communicate with government and to receive services." It was the beginning of citizen-centred, joined-up e-government – also known as the database state.Modernising Government launched e-government's go-go years by proposing that every public service be made available electronically by 2008 (a target later brought forward to 2005, to upstage the rest of the EU). It also set the framework for a series of massive IT investments in public services, from the NHS, to the police, to computers on dustcarts. Although in those innocent pre-9/11 days it could sidestep the ID card question, Modernising Government proposed creating "a common approach to how people identify themselves when dealing with government call centres". Commercial smartcards would have a role to play, it suggested. "We are working with banks and other partners to make them available for dealings with government. We will publish a framework for their use in support of service delivery across government."Whether that "framework" ever appeared slips my mind, but the central philosophy – that citizens should transact electronically with an entity called "government" rather than individual agencies and local authorities – resurfaced in the "Transformational Government" strategy of 2005 and the Treasury's "Service Transformation" plan in 2006. And, for all the excitement about borrowing web 2.0 techniques and tricks, it remains policy today. It was a curiously orphan policy, however. For all its fundamental constitutional importance, the rights and wrong of joining up government have rarely entered the mainstream of political debate: ministers assume that it's an unalloyed good, and leave the details to the techies. Part of the trouble, of course, was that the paper was written by the techies in the first place.To their credit, Modernising Government's authors saw that difficult questions lay ahead. A brief section on privacy recognised "concern" about "inadvertent disclosure and inappropriate transfer of data". It promised "The government will address these concerns and will demonstrate our belief that data protection is an objective of information age government, not an obstacle to it." Of all the ambitions set out for e-government 10 years ago, demonstrating that belief now remains the furthest from reality. A decade ago, some of us predicted this would be a difficult road. I was (and remain) an e-government enthusiast, but in a Guardian feature on 25 March 1999 I noted that Modernising Government "is coming out at a spectacularly bad time for government IT projects", and wondered if Whitehall could recover its reputation for competence. Little did we know how spectacularly bad it would get.
When the news broke last week that researchers had gained access to a phenomenal – I mean phenomenal – amount of data about player behaviours scraped from the EverQuest II servers, the web went wild. Gamers around the world panicked, and virtual sabres rattled.Whenwe reported this story on the Gamesblog, the bulk of comments reflected this. There were cries of "surveillance society" and "nanny state creep", plus genuine anger directed at the developers and research team. The commenter DarkMoonRising suggested this was "a breach of the Data Protection Act and possibly the right to privacy enshrined in the Human Rights Acts, which include who you socialise with".This is a timely debate, given the outcry sparked by news that Facebook intended to sell personal data to marketers. Of course, thanks to the angry mob, the developers of that social networking site backed down.Over on the other team, academics such as myself who are interested in human behaviour are salivating over the possibilities. Yes, there are issues associated with ecological validity – ie, can behaviours that happen when one is an orc be associated with those of the bank employee behind it – but if you consider the potential meta-learning outcomes, such as understanding how groups form and dissolve, how norms are created and broken, how societies develop and break down, this resource becomes much more relevant.As the Gamesblog reader TimmoJH says, there are many ethical issues. Is the data anonymous? Yes. Can players opt out? Well, no. In many cases, the terms and conditions are so incomprehensible that most gamers click through before reading. Buried in the legalese is often a clause that allows the content providers the right to provide their – yes, their – game data to third parties. You may spend 40+ hours a week hacking rats with swords of überness, but when it comes to the 1s and 0s that propelled you forward, the people behind the scenes are the keymasters.Data scraping is an increasingly salient issue as game populations grow larger and more mainstream, and technologies for extracting data become more available. There aresome guidelines for researchers, but the challenge will be educating the consumer. At the moment, researchers are working within their rights and the confines of the vague understandings of university ethics committees. But as gamers become aware of the issues, I expect the contest to move from the digital space to the real one.
Mr Site – the build-your-own website software – is where low cost meet hi-tech. For the price of an hour's work by a web designer, you can download the software, register your website name and publish your own site.Once you have decided on a name, you click though to a design page and choose from 100 or so templates, from the corporate to the cuddly. This gives you the site's "look", placing a banner above each page and the positioning the navigation bar. The kind of details Shoreditch webmasters debate for hours are dealt with here in the click of a mouse.Switching to the contents section, you create titles for your different pages, type in your text and upload photos. The horrors of computer coding are hidden (fear not, HTML junkies – one click and the code is revealed) and instead you are offered menus and icons familiar from everyday word processing and design software.Inevitably, in laying out your pages, the cruel complexity of computing confronts your skills as a wannabe web designer. After the excitement of creating a simple site in half a day for my history lectures and journalism (guidedtouruk.com), I spent many more hours trying to stop it looking like a primary school project. Mr Site allows you to develop your design ambitions in steps by offering up "simple", "creative" and "advanced modes". Each time you make a change, you can check the results on the program's viewer. But the only way to see what it will really look like is to click the icon marked "publish", which uploads it to the internet where you can view it live on your web browser. ­Triumphs and mistakes are on view for the world to see.Most website functions are available. You can create links to other pages, embed that video of your skateboarding hamster, add an MP3 of your home recording of I Will Always Love You – and when it becomes an internet hit, start selling it with the site's ­e-commerce facilities via PayPal and shopping carts.The beginner's version at £19.99 includes five web pages and email addresses. For £99 the professional software gives you 99 pages and email addresses, search engine optimisation to help you up the internet rankings, statistics on who has visited your site and credit card payments.Don't expect design awards, but web pages created by the growing Mr Site community often look as good as those costing many thousands of pounds. The best ones, it should be said, benefit from some knowledge of web design and graphics. Mr Site could do for websites what the Model T did for the car.Pros:Cheap and simple way to build a website; easy to updateCons:Browser differences mean site doesn't always look the samemrsite.com
I've done some daft things in my time, but inter­viewing someone who wasn't there for the best part of an hour must be in a class of its own. The person in question, Ian O'Connell, director of London-based Musion, wasn't ­invisible. I could follow his every movement, gesture and eye motions: it was just that he himself was somewhere else. I was chatting to one of his company's products, or maybe I should say non-products: a hologram.Up until that moment, I had seen holograms as a bit of technology freakshow used by the likes of Madonna, David Beckham and the Gorillaz band as one-off stunts, but not something that could go mainstream and become part of our daily lives. Now I am not so sure. I was sitting a few yards from a stage on which were O'Connell and Lenny McKinlay, global account director of ­Masergy UK, which provides the ultra-fast fibre-optic infrastructure that enables holograms to come from far away without getting the lag you see on television when someone is being interviewed abroad by satellite.After a short while I simply forgot that one of them wasn't there but in another part of the building (he could have been in Tokyo), just being beamed in for the occasion. And looking back on it, I am not completely sure which was the hologram and which wasn't – so it passesa Turing testof sorts for authenticity. It was an even more immersive experience than Telepresence, the high-definition video conferencingthat impressed me last year.You don't appear to be talking through a screen, though there is a thin, almost invisible foil that enables the reproduction of high-definition video that audiences imagine to be real. Shortly before the interview, I was shown a demo of a "pre-loaded" hologram of a dancer that was in even better definition. It was simply a knockout. O'Connell says that pretty soon "live" holograms will be as good as that.At the moment, cost is a big barrier because a projector, the main item, costs an arm and a leg, but within five years, he claims, it could come down to a more affordable £2,000 to £3,000 – hopefully propelling the product from a business conferencing market to a front room near you. If you have a space that is 10 feet high and 10 feet across – possibly a conservatory that could be converted for evening use – then the mind boggles at the possibilities. Friends and relatives abroad, or your Twitter friends, could be as if in your front room. The Royal Shakespeare Company could perform near-live for you – and, of course, the one certainty is the sex industry, always a pioneer of new technology, will go ballistic about it. Institutions such as the BBC are already exploring the prospects for distance learning, which could also involve universities beaming their lecturers into your home.Prison visits could be done remotely and eventually it may provide a sort of virtual afterlife if anyone decided to leave behind a pre-loaded hologram, possibly linked to a computer program using artificial intelligence to "converse" with relatives. Students at Central St Martins art college in London are being given an opportunity to experiment with art in a hologrammic space and have already turned out some impressive works.To the mobile phone companies' definition of 3G – games, girls and gambling – could be added a fourth "g", God, as the new technology would enable America's stable of evangelists, and any other public speakers, to address meetings around the world without leaving their well-clad homes. What price confessions at home? Before leaving Musion's offices in London, a listed building near the BBC's headquarters, I asked if I could do a hologrammic handshake.The result can be seen hereand it is not immediately obvious which is the hologram. I know, but only because I wrote it down at the time. All of which is beginning to make virtual worlds such as Second Life seem a bit like the Lego of old.victorkeegan.com
Escaping AOLI cannot use my ISP, AOL 9.0VR,for internet banking orYouTube or anything that requires any activity. I have spent hours on the phone with varioususeless AOL technicians and done all the uninstalling and reinstalling they suggested. I would change my ISP but the thought of having to change my email address is daunting, especially as I run my business from home.Alison LowtonJS:Change your email address now. Register your own domain name so you can have a personal email address, and use "mail forwarding" to a different email service such as Gmail or Fastmail.fm. You will then be able to switch between different ISPs and mail services without changing your email address. ­Nominet, which looks after the UK domain, has a helpful guide at www.nominet.org.uk/registrants (but don't buy from ­Nominet).AOL's UK service has been transferred to Carphone Warehouse. Start by telling them you want to cancel your service without penalty because it is not fit for purpose. Ask for a MAC (migration authorisation code), which will be mailed to your account. You need this to get your broadband service switched to a different ISP. If AOL does not agree, you will have to go through the step-by-step escalation process, which is explained on AOL's Help site (http://bit.ly/aj0125). You will have to tell a member services agent and then a supervisor that the service is unacceptable, then make a formal complaint in writing. If you don't get a satisfactory answer within five working days, you can then take your complaint to the independent Communications &amp; Internet Services Adjudication Scheme (http://bit.ly/aj0126). It's a tedious process, but it will be far more costly for AOL than for you, so they should send you a MAC.A BT check on your line says you can get 7Mbps or more with ADSL2+ broadband, and if you have a BT phone, you're probably safer switching to BT Business Broadband or a third-party service that uses a BT line. When you switch, make sure you use a four-port router, and not a "USB modem". Keep records of any problems and phone calls in case you need to change ISPs again.Moving tunesWhat's the easiest way of transferring my iTunes library on to a new laptop without burning them to CD? All the music I had is from CDs.Jeremy ThomasJS:CD-R discs are cheap so it's best to burn your tracks to CD for backup. You can do the transfer using the backup feature in iTunes 8. If you have an iPod, you can use that by enabling disk use: see http://bit.ly/aj0127. Either way, I'd suggest reading the iLounge guide Transferring your iTunes Library at http://bit.ly/aj0128 first. Of course, you can always copy your unprotected music files to a new PC via a USB thumbdrive and start again. However, you will lose any iTunes metadata, such as ­playlists.Huawei dongle hoohaMy son was sold a Huawei E160G mobile broadband ­dongle by 3. He cannot get it to work with his Eee PC 900 running Linux. Nobody seems willing or able to assist.P HillJS:This has been discussed on the Asus support forum, where several people have the same problem (http://bit.ly/aj0129). However, Asus technical support is quoted as saying: "I'm afraid aforementioned modem is incompatible with your system." You can try reading Dale Lane's blog post and 138 comments at http://bit.ly/aj0132, but frankly it would be easier to change the modem or install Windows XP, which works fine.Not a Firefox fanIs Mozilla Firefox any better than Internet Explorer? Less than a week after downloading it, I have reverted to IE, partly because Firefox seems unable to display numerous websites properly.Louis MalinowskiJS:Firefox was a lot better than IE6 but the gap has narrowed with IE7 (especially if you add IE7Pro) and IE8, which will be out soon. Part of Firefox's appeal is the very wide range of third-party extensions, including Adblock Plus, Flashblock and NoScript. Also, most scripted malware exploits are designed to attack IE, so Firefox is still the safer option (if using IE, something like the Avira AntiVir guard is a good idea). I think it's worth giving Firefox a go, but use whichever you prefer.Backchat• Last week's link tosix free alternatives to Dreamweavershould have gone to http://bit.ly/aj0124.• Phil Goodland was trying to decode some music downloads. On the Ask Jack blog, iainl suggested that these might not have been broken RAR files but "either a record company trying to waste your time so you'll get annoyed and buy the real thing, or a full-on piece of malware".
Can Google save the world?Google has appointed Dr Larry Brilliant, its chief philanthropy evangelist, to advocate for "the changes that we must make as a global society".Young Euro entrepreneursThe EU is financing a scheme to enable young entrepreneurs to spend up to six months working in a different country.Green classifiedsThe people behind Natural ­Collection have set up a community site named after the HTML code for green (00FF00).Microsoft elevates AmericaMicrosoft has launched a scheme that will provide up to 2 million Americans with free technology training.Slide rules ruleThe National Museum of Computing at Bletchley Park is showing a collection of slide rules curated by the UK Slide Rule&nbsp;Circle.Convenient insecurityTwo-thirds of US consumers use the same one or two passwords for all the websites they use, according to a Gartner survey of 4,000 adults.DSi due in AprilNintendo says it will launch the enhanced DSi handheld console in Europe on 3 April.US government 2.0The Feds have upgraded their Government Made Easy site with web 2.0 features, including widgets and web feeds.
Game 'Oscars' ignoredIt was great to celebrate the success of Slumdog Millionaire's eight Oscars with the media coverage that it deserved. What a pity that the eight computer game "Oscars" won by MediaMolecule's LittleBigPlanet at the 12th Annual Interactive Achievement awards held in Las Vegas this week were almost completely ignored by the UK press. Produced by an independent British developer, this groundbreaking interactive game for the PlayStation3 has already sold more than 2m copies worldwide. Computer games? A bigger global industry than movies.Nick Evans,LondonOnline securityBruce Schneier correctly identifies the irritation of legitimate users denied access as the major problem with online security protocols (The secret question is: why do IT systems use insecure passwords?, 19 February).One service currently requires me to provide in full or part an account number, a customer number, a pin and a password … and then to use a token, a second pin and a one-time number generated by that token. All of this needs inputting into a user-unfriendly (by their own admission) webpage.Security is one thing, but the chances of making an error somewhere in that lot are considerable and am I really any safer as a result?Chris Rogers,EdgwareWatching a password cracker running through its paces, it's a lot easier to understand why eight alpha-numeric passwords in uppercase-lowercase with special characters and digits is the only way to stay alive. In reality though, working on multiple systems with multiple password combinations is a pain in the brain.systemheroes.co.ukThe CCTV nationDoes anyone else find it ironic that someone called Orwell is quoted in an article about CCTV (Surveillance: the next generation, 19 February)?ajshepherd.livejournal.comI dunno about anyone else, but I can think of perfectly innocent times when I've done all of those [actions marked as suspicious]. So, what do they do, build a file on you and if you are seen to be acting too suspiciously, too often, they start to investigate in depth? Can anyone else see the presumption of guilt there? How hard do you think they'll have to dig before they find something on any of us?siliconshaman.livejournal.comI've always taken a strange pleasure in a private fantasy that CCTV cameras might reach a finite numerical saturation point because the state would simply be unable to employ enough people to watch the footage. And a private fantasy this must stay because "hundreds of PhD students around the world" are trying to make CCTV smarter. The aim is to fully automate the tracking process by developing sophisticated computer software that can model human behaviour patterns. Smart dumbness for any fellow fantasists who still crave freedom, I reckon.eclectictrains.blogspot.comShedworking (Vic Keegan)If you've recently become a shedworker or are thinking of setting up a garden office-based business, please do get in touch so that we can help you spread the word.shedworking.co.ukPresumably this optimism doesn't apply if your small start-up is a multinational banking conglomerate.tawnygrammar.org/notesPirate Bay on trialIn Charles Arthur's "Will sinking The Pirate Bay really help films and music?", he ponders whether wad is the collective noun for bankers.The correct term is wunch.John McNeive,London (and, separately,Peter Smee, Norwich)Please understand: eSport New Zealand is in no way affiliated with either side represented in this trial. I think it should be noted that the huge amount of pro-TPB material compared with negative content has to do with how tech-savvy the people who support torrent technology are when compared with the 'main stream'. Having said that, I personally believe personal freedom is something of the utmost importance across all mediums, the internet included.esport.co.nzI still think the music industry is trying to stifle free expression on the internet (Will sinking The Pirate Bay really help films and music, 19 February). The Pirate Bay is nothing more than a search engine. If the music industry is going to take on them, they should also consider taking on Big G, Yahoo! Search, Live and the rest.my56chevy.liquinoxhosting.comPhones fail to touch usersBut there's a wider lesson too: it re-inforces my long-standing view that handset makers have been guilty of apeing Apple's eye candy while completely missing the bigger point about how the touchscreen should be forcing a rethink of the phone's interface.Why do companies keep getting it so wrong (Touchscreen phones fail to push buttons, 19 February)? Cautiousness aside, I think it's because Apple have a view of how software and hardware can fit together in an integrated manner, allied to a strong philosophy of product design and a rare nose for the consumer, that others simply don't have. It's why Microsoft, which does understand software, produces pigs like the Zune. It's why the big phone manufacturers can make decent hardware but, as this report reinforces, continually trip up on the software and UI side.intersaber.comI have previously commented on the (possible) connection between the look and feel of touchscreen phones and their ability to provide a substitute for – or alternative to – the look and feel of paper, especially where magazines are concerned. Now a survey by reevoo.com has confirmed that not just any old touchscreen will do. The iPhone and LG's KC910 are the only two models that achieve high ratings. Charles Arthur summarises the findings well in today's Guardian Technology section.timholmes.blogspot.com/2009/02/phones-have-way-to-go-before-matching.htmlOFFICE POLITICSThanks for the critical article on OpenOffice 3.1.0. It's early days yet, but I think there will be others filing reports on the havoc caused by this update to OpenOffice 3.0. After doing a complete uninstall of that programme, I had to get my back-up disk out to to a system restoration. People much younger than I might find this a minor annoyance, but I am well into my 60's working with 64-bit Vista, and I only find myself learning more than really want to know about all this.Jan Horn,Victoria, CanadaMAC MINI MAXII would like to clarify that I have never said that the Mac mini is  "pointless", rather, I said that no one had quite worked out what to  do with it. No one is more glad than I that David Miles (and  hopefully many users like him) found such a fantastic use for it as outlined in his letter last week.Alan Gent,CheadleAlan Gent was right, I thought, in scenting possible frustration with all these "Mac letters", as he is no doubt right about many things. I was, however, disagreeing with him about the Mac Mini. My whole, unexpurgated, letter said both those things.Roger Larkinson,BedfordIT'S A BLACKOUTThe Guardian may wish to show its support for a law that has no place in a democracy by blacking out its website for a day. See http://creativefreedom.org.nz/blackout.htmlThe general view here is that if the old media companies get away with it here, it will spread.Guilt by accusation is simply an outrageous piece of legislation. The code of practice that ISPs are likely to adopt assumes guilt -- they will issue "infringement notices" (you have broken the law) rather than "infringement allegations" (somebody alleges you have broken the law). This reflects the legislation ("Section 92a").As a 30+ year subscriber to the Guardian Weekly, I look forward to your support.John Rankin,Wellington, New ZealandHOUSEKEEPINGOn a recent search on Google for information on how to set up a wireless network at home I found an article from the Guardian, fourth in the search list, I believe, telling me all about the subject. "Great", I thought..... until I noticed the year of the article: 2005.Would it not be a good idea to start cleaning some of your old stuff away ? .. a bit of housework or a spring clean.?. perhaps you could write an article about it entitled 'mousework' or some such.Neil Booker,TewkesburyEmail us at tech@guardian.co.uk
Not yet – but with a bit of inspired app design, it could help.We all know how annoying it is to lose your mobile phone, especially if you never did get round to backing up those valuable contacts. But with location-based services becoming ubiquitous, isn't there a way to track down your lost or stolen handset?That was exactly what San Francisco-based Nick Strada thought when he realised he left his Nokia E71 in the back of a cab: he'd activated Google's Latitude location service a few days earlier, so surely he could track down the culprit?When he logged into Latitude online, he was surprised to see his phone floating around a good 3,000 miles away – in central Boston. When phoning and texting his own number failed, Strada realised the phone's keypad had probably locked, and eventually the phone's battery died, taking its location with it. Surely there's some interesting potential here to help retrieve, or at least protect, a stolen handset?Thousands of application developers have begun to flex their creative muscles, and some have already started to address the problem.Apple's App Store offers Password Trap, which tries to identify a thief's location while luring them with false personal data; the optimistic Owner Information, which is supposed to makes it easy for whoever finds you phone to return it to you; and GPS Thief Tracker, which, if the thief happens to open it, will send a discreet email with the phone's location.On Google's Android platform, meanwhile, there's plenty of inspiration for a stolen phone tracker that could be "plugged in" to Latitude.Textecution is designed to stop drivers texting, and so disables the phone if it moves faster than 10mph. Could a new app disable the whole phone if it is taken more than five miles from your home location? Or maybe Latitude's regular security alert messages could be reconfigured remotely so that your thief is bombarded by infuriating alerts every 15 seconds? Or how about a ­simple remote lock, that makes the phone unusable?The more severe the repercussion, the more you'd have to trust the application. Strada's fantasy about a remote mobile detonator may be taking things a bit far, but this is a fascinating creative challenge and, for the developer that cracks it, could be a lucrative business.And however you find out where your phone is, you will still end up with a more practical problem: how do you confront the thief? We don't know how seriously the police would take GPS "evidence", so you may just have to ­borrow some muscle.
David Scammel couldn't have received a less festive Christmas present. On 20 December 2007, the news finally arrived from the Valuation Office Agency (VOA). It told him that he had to pay £120,000 in taxes – 25% more than he had expected – for a bunch of glass.The president of Sohonet, which runs a high-speed fibre-optic network for the film industry in Soho, London, was "gutted" at the tax imposed on his fibre lines. He says he is now paying more annual taxes on his fibre cable than he makes in profits each year.The copper cable that probably feeds your DSL line at home can carry lots of data, but fibre-optic cables, which use light instead of electricity to carry signals, can beam data at far higher speeds. The runners who used to scurry around Soho with canisters of film are gradually being replaced with Sohonet's fibre network, which transfers the huge video files for films around London's creative square mile. Scammel also runs fibre out to studios such as Pinewood, and to Telehouse, the jumping-off point for international fibre links that he rents to reach clients in Australia and the US.Cable guy"This came at a time when we were quite pleased with ourselves, running huge film projects between Sydney and LA, based out of London. And then as far as I'm concerned the government said, 'We don't understand your business, therefore we're going to tax you,'" said Scammel.He feels as though the government is choking off competition by taxing fibre cable in a way that places an unfair burden on smaller firms with specialist business models – at precisely the time when it has talked about the importance of the digital economy to Britain's future. He is so annoyed that he's intending to mount a legal appeal to tackle the issue. And he's not alone.The UK government currently views fibre-optic cable as a "rateable asset", lumping it in with other commercial property as something with value that businesses should pay tax on. The VOA sets the rates for different types of property, and local authorities collect them as their primary source of revenue.The VOA revises the rates every five years. The current rates, due for revision next year, charge for fibre-optic cable using two parameters: the length of the cable and the number of fibres (up to 48) running in it. The more strands of fibre that you put into a cable, the more data you can push through it.The current numbers (which the VOA says are subject to change) rate fibre networks in three categories: those running outside London that are more than 3,000 fibre km in length; those under that length; and then a separate one for networks inside London, reflecting the city's higher property value. Tax on a fibre network outside London but under 3,000km, such as Sohonet's link to Pinewood Studios, starts at £333 per km per year for a single fibre. Two fibres would cost £250 each. By the time Scammel got to 10 fibres, he'd be paying £97 per fibre, per kilometre.But Scammel doesn't want lots of fibres in his cables, and that's part of the problem. He complains that the VOA doesn't differentiate between large players and small ones, like himself. "There's no differentiation in how the fibre is used. If you're a telco that wants to get your investment back by running 100,000 different circuits across it, you could put together a business model," he says.But Sohonet is a niche player serving a relatively small number of firms. His fibres are often "dark" – unused – because they're not required all the time, but once they have been lit for the first time he has to pay tax regardless forever after."We've got a number of prospects out in Bristol. We'd like to run a fibre out there, but it would only be a single pair," says Scammel, adding that Sohonet was originally set up because the telcos couldn't offer the kind of niche service he does. "The economics of the fibre rates make that impossible. The rate would cost us more than we pay for our circuits to LA."Not many people like paying their taxes, but Scammel has a point, according to Tim Johnson, managing director of Point Topic, a specialist broadband analyst. "It is a problem. What seems to make it worse is that, as far as one can see, it isn't very consistent," he says. "It's yet another impediment to anyone investing in infrastructure."The biggest inconsistency is the way that BT is assessed on its own fibre, alleges Aidan Paul, chief executive of Vtesse Networks, which has been locked in a legal battle with the government over how fibre is taxed. "They couldn't agree on a satisfactory formula to assess BT on, and ended up deciding on a number," says Paul, pointing out that BT has made massive fibre deployments in the last few years.Advantage BT?Vtesse originally won a 2004 case against the VOA to change its fibre rating, but theVOA appealed to the Lands Tribunal, which ruled in its favour(http://bit.ly/fibre2). Paul cites witness testimony from a property consulting firm in the Lands Tribunal hearing suggesting that BT is charged £15 per fibre km – far below the amount Scammel is charged. BT declined an interview for this article.Paul got the European commission to open an investigation in 2005, on the allegation that BT was receiving state aid. The commission ruled that it could find "no advantage" in the ratings. Paul responded, in a briefing document published in Computer Weekly last year: "On 19 February 2007, Vtesse Networks lodged an application with the European court of first instance to have the commission decision set aside, on the principal point that the commission didn't find an advantage because it didn't look."But the VOA disagreed in a statement to this paper, after declining a phone interview: "The Lands Tribunal has approved the VOA's approach and valuation scale as applied to fibre networks in respect of the 2000 rating lists. Our approach has also been approved by the European commission as fair and correct."Round the housesYet its own documents seem to suggest that the system favours larger networks in certain cases. "A 20-route km extension to a small network has a significant effect on the valuation, but the same 20-route km extension to a large network can be considered to bede minimis," it says. That's governmentese for "negligible", and it's because of rules that allow the operator to "round down" a £9,000 fee increase to the nearest £10,000 – that is, zero.The whole thing makes it harder for people such as Sohonet to do business – yet it's just the kind of infrastructure provider the government should be supporting, warns Jeff McKeown, sales director at Fibre Technologies, which sells equipment to boost the performance of fibre networks. "Carter's [Digital Britain] report recently was about how we stay competitive and bring up the national capability from a domestic perspective," McKeown says. He argues that we must mirror that activity on the business side."You have a government on the one hand saying that broadband is important to the economy. Gordon Brown has said it, Obama has said it," complains Paul at Vtesse, citing the potential economic and environmental benefits of fibre (think videoconferencing and remote collaboration). "Why put up an obstacle at the beginning to stop people deploying these things, or create sufficient uncertainty where people can't justify the investment case?"He can mull that question while he readies his appeal to the Lands Tribunal, which he hopes will be heard this year. He is also hoping for a decision from the European court of first instance in 2010. Perhaps for the smaller, specialist fibre players, there might yet be light at the end of this very long, thin tunnel.
It may be horribly early but the Big Mac breakfasts are flying out at McDonald's - and along with them, a surprising number of coffee-only orders from suits with laptops and a guilty look. There is gossip aplenty from families going shopping; but also a murmured counterpoint of "What's the password?" and "Where do I log on?"Actually, there isn't a password, and all you do is click on a red-and-yellow McDonald's tab on screen, which is why the social composition of the chain is changing, startlingly. The newcomers are faltering types who peer around for waitress service or the dish of the day. What they're really after is free Wi-Fi."Plenty go for a latte or tea only," says a four-star server in Leeds, where three executives, two men and a woman, are tapping away at separate tables. "But some spend a bit extra on what you might call 'embarrassment food'." One such is the woman, with a portion of chips between her coffee and a pile of minutes. "I'm not going to eat them," she confides. "Maybe you'd like one?" An unwanted supplement from her newspaper will hide them when she logs off and leaves, but no one else in the diner seems bothered. The beef patty in a mini-ciabbata called a Little Italian is another conscience- salving favourite, and costs &pound;1.30.The small-scale social engineering follows grapevine talk in laptop-land and on the net about the free Wi-Fi, which is not exclusive to McDonald's, but the chain's outlets are so common and recognisable that it's the one getting the punters. The scheme saves a lot of money for people who would otherwise have to hand pay for their internet access at service stations or cheap overnight lodges.There are hazards, though - tomato ketchup, in particular. In a swift surf through chatrooms this emerges as the main deterrent, to be found on the fingers of small traditional customers of Ronald McDonald, who find IT at the next table a novelty, and irresistible.
I can see my carbon footprint!A demonstration of a remarkable layer that has been added to Google Earth, which offers a visualisation of US carbon dioxide emissions state by state. Has anyone seen a version for the UK?Do re me so fa la ti na-no…Responding to an American Chemical Society challenge to explain "nano", the University of California at Berkeley's team came up with this. It's a university challenge we can all enjoy.Is your phone call in 3D too?Using eye-tracking, this gives your phone's screen a pseudo-3D interface. Brilliant! And also – totally pointless!• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
The government's plans to sell off up to 30% of the Royal Mail to the private sector have attracted the opprobrium of scores of backbench MPs - but nobody seems to have asked what might happen in such a sell-off to the Postcode Address File (PAF), the list of all the postcodes for 27m addresses in the UK, used by a huge number of organisations for mailshots, geographic targeting, and even by satnav companies for navigation.Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, will today present a bill in the House of Lords proposing the sale of a minority stake in the Royal Mail, which is seeing a dramatic fall in the volume of letters it handles due to the "technology wedge" of emails and the internet.PAF and intellectual property are not mentioned in the Hooper report, published in December (http://bit.ly/hooper01), which identified structural weaknesses in the Royal Mail's business model, including its lack of automation.But PAF is key to the organisation's functions for addressing and routing letters, even though its revenues are small; in August 2007 the postal regulator Postcomm revealed that PAF operations made a profit of &pound;1.58m on revenues of &pound;18.36m, all but &pound;4m from resellers.One possibility is that a part-private Royal Mail may try to "sweat the assets" - including PAF, which is viewed as essential by many direct marketing organisations - by raising prices."The reason for getting the private sector involved [in the Royal Mail] is to improve efficiency," said Robert Keitch, director of media channel development at the Direct Marketing Association. Raising PAF prices would make it harder to check addresses and increase the need for manual checks by postal staff, he suggested.The Free Our Data campaign has consistently suggested that the PAF - linked to map data - should be made available for free, without copyright restrictions, due to its growing importance for location-based services. The comparatively small cost of running it, especially without the costs of administering its sales and checking for violations of licences, could perhaps be borne through a levy on address or name changes, or simply through the tax revenues that could be gained from new companies set up to take advantage of the datasets. However, it is unknown whether Mandelson will recommend that.The Royal Mail said: "It's too early to speculate about details relating to the sale of a minority share of Royal Mail."
Afterdropping half of the charges on the second day of the trial, prosecutors have once again changed the charges in what was largely seen as an attempt to create aneasier path to a legal victory.According to Wired.com, the original charge read:The Pirate Bay consists of three sub-components: an index portal in the form of a website with search functionality, a database with related directory containing the torrent files, and a tracker feature. The tracker feature creates a 'peer-to-peer' network of users who want to share the same file. All components are necessary for the users of the service to share files between them.The last sentence has been dropped, indicating the prosecution was unsure that it could prove all of the points in the original charges, according to Swedish legal experts.Prosecutors also changed the phrase "provide the ability to others to upload torrent files to the service" to "provide the ability to others to upload and store torrent files to the service", accordingto TheLocal.se.The star witness today was John Kennedy, chairman of theInternational Federation of the Phonographic Industry.At the start of the day, Tobias Andersson from Piratbyrån, a file-sharing advocacy group, took the stand briefly toanswer questions about whether he wrote a 2006 speechby defendant Fredrik Neji. He admitted to writing the speech Neji gave at a protest against apolice raid in which authorities confiscated several servers, including one belonging to The Pirate Bay. His testimony only lasted a few minutes.Next up was John Kennedy of the IFPI who testified that the Pirate Bay had become the "number one source of illegal music after two previously unauthorised digital services, Grokster and Kazaa, had been successfully challenged in court.When asked about the compensation claims of €2.1m (£1.9m) from the recording companies, he said the damages were "justified and maybe even conservative because the damage is immense".He said The Pirate Bay service boasted 22 million users, one million visits a day, distribution  of 1.6m bittorrent files and over half of all bittorrent traffic around the world. The Pirate Bayclaimed the 22 million user figure last Novemberwhen itasked the Guinness Book of World Recordsto recognise it as aworld's largest BitTorrent tracker.He highlighted five studies that he said proved that illegal file sharing had hurt music sales.Kennedy dismissed comparisons between The Pirate Bay and search giant Google, saying that Google actively worked with the entertainment industry to combat file sharing and linked to a range of material not just links to copyrighted files.Defence attorney Per Samuelson objected to Kennedy's testimony saying, "This is a political speech." The judge reminded Kennedy that the trial was about compensation The Pirate Bay.The head of the Swedish chapter of the IFPI, Ludvig Werner, took the stand and said small independent labels were especially hard hit by file sharing, with their sales dropping by 50%.He also speculated that The Pirate Bay was bribing Swedish hip-hop artist Timbuktu to publicly support file sharing.Defence attorney Jonas Nilsson pressed Ludvig on whether he was aware that it was users not The Pirate Bay had copies of the music files, to which Ludvig answered yes, and asked whether the music industry had tried to contact those users. Ludvig said no.Per Sundin, CEO of Universal Music in Sweden, said his companies global sales have dropped from 2 billion Swedish kronor (£157m) to 800m kronor&nbsp; (£63m) in recent years. He pointed to the illegal upload of U2's new album and its potential impact on sales.When asked why the recording industry hadn't pursued the person who uploaded the album, Sundin said:If we had more resources we would have. But we're going after the biggest and baddest villain of the piece and that is The Pirate Bay.In what is shaping up to be an increasing effort by the Swedish government to crack down on illegal file-sharing, the country's parliament passeda law on Wednesday to allow rights holders to force ISPs to hand over dataabout their users to assist in suits for copyright infringement. The new law comes into force on 1 April.
Telegent Systems, housed in a bland building packed with cubicles, looks like any other Silicon Valley start-up.But its marketing pitch is made in many languages, none of which are in English. Telegent, which produces a mobile-phone chip that enables devices to pick up analogue TV broadcasts, is one of a growing number of valley companies innovating for the rest of the world. It sells products in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, though not in the United States. It's a kind of technological jujitsu."We leverage the brainpower in the valley," said Weijie Yun, co-founder and chief executive of four-year-old Telegent, which has 80 engineers in Sunnyvale, California."This has allowed us to do something unique."Most valley companies still view the United States, the world's largest tech market, as the centre of their business plans.Nonetheless, start-ups creating technology primarily marketed in other countries are "increasing pretty rapidly," said William Miller, a professor at Stanford University's graduate school of business.No official numbers are available on how many of these under-the-radar companies have sprung up in Silicon Valley, but industry insiders such as Jin Yi, former marketing director of networking group Hua Yuan Science and Technology Association, or HYSTA, estimate there are two dozen or so.It's a different twist to globalisation. Rather than merely seeking out low-cost talent abroad, these companies hire brilliant minds in the valley to create products that, at least initially, are designed for other cultures."At one time, they were just producer markets," Stanford's Miller said. "Now they have become consumer markets. That's a dramatic change."UTStarcom, an Alameda, California, company that specialises in internet protocol and communications technology, is so enamoured of overseas markets that last year it ditched its division that made handsets for the US market, selling it for about $240m to an entity controlled by AIG Vantage Capital. But UTStarcom continues to make and sell cell phones in China. Now, at least 75% of its $1bn in annual revenue comes from outside the United States."These markets have typically been ignored," said Craig Samuel, UTStarcom's chief technology officer. "Silicon Valley has a unique ability and innovations that appeal to the rest of the world. The big brands are addressing these markets. But are they taking full advantage of them? Probably not."In some cases, companies that innovate for Asian markets have founders from that part of the world, which enables them to see opportunities that others don't. Co-founders of Fremont, California's Legend Silicon, for example, are from China and created their company to develop high-definition TV chips for their homeland."The talent and experience is here," said co-founder Lin Yang, who is Legend Silicon's chief technology officer. But the company's market is thousands of miles across the Pacific. Legend Silicon makes HDTV chips based on China's technical standards for home and car TVs, as well as for Hewlett-Packard laptops made for Chinese consumers. The company plans to roll out HDTV semiconductors for mobile phones in a year or two.Nonetheless, innovating strictly for foreign markets is risky, something many venture capitalists are leery of, said Vish Mishra, president of The Indus Entrepreneurs and venture director at Clearstone Venture Partners."For many entrepreneurs sitting here in the valley, trying to know about an overseas market and customers without deep knowledge is going to be fatal. They have to know how to navigate through the land mines there," he said. "In many Asian countries, the way the business is done is based upon relationships and who you know, and less on what you have and what you know."Telegent Systems, which began shipping its power-sipping chips in April 2007, has so far supplied more than 20m mobile phones worldwide - including 5m in China - with its technology. CEO Yun claimed that while other companies battle over digital standards, his company is the first to provide the technological backbone for mobile analogue TV, which snatches free programming off the airwaves. He first looked to Asia because that region is the world's trendsetter when it comes to cell phones."We have a wealth of experience in the valley," Yun said. "Obviously, the costs are much higher here. So we had to do something that was different, something that no one else has done. The product has been on the market for two years now, and we still don't have a competitor."
Editor's note: we last heard from Paul Carr more than 24-hours ago when he emailed to say that he was heading to investigate theapparent discovery of Atlantis by Google Maps. Since then, the silence has been deafening. With his column deadline looming, we took the difficult decision to hack into Carr's email account to see if we could find any clues to his whereabouts.Sadly, aside from a surprising amount of goat porn, all we could find were were two draft emails which, due toTuesday's Gmail outage, he hadn't got round to sending. We realise that open letters are the last resort of  the lazy columnist, but we hope you understand that with Carr missing, presumed drowned, we have no other choice but to cut and paste the emails here to fill the space. In fact, given Carr's usual standards of journalism, we're confident that even the most careful reader won't notice the difference.---Dear Techcrunch,Let me start off by saying that I'm a fan, genuinely. And that's why I'm not angry, just disappointed. Almost a week ago, I wrotea columnbitching about how a journalist at The Register had let his fear of web 2.0 colour his reporting of a charity event. By way of contrast, I came close to adding a line comparing his attitude with that of Techcrunch's writers – how you manage to embrace new trends while still producing critical, but largely accurate journalism.And then you go and spoil it all by saying something stupid like...Did Last.fm Just Hand Over User Listening Data To the RIAA?"I mean, holy hell guys – you didn't so much drop the ball on this one as dig a huge hole for the ball, bury it under half a ton of earth and then piss on the resulting mound.Sometime last Friday evening, your own Erick Schonfeld emailed me asking whether I could put him in touch with anyone at Last.fm to comment on "some internal grumblings". I forwarded on the request but we both knew it was unlikely that anyone would reply on a Friday night in London – and why should they? I mean, internal grumblings, hardly Watergate is it?So you can perhaps imagine my surprise when, a couple of hours later Erick's story appeared online. Based apparently on an anonymous tip, from a "friend" of someone who works at Last.fm's parent company, CBS, the story allegded that Last had been passing on user data to the copyright police to help them catch people who were listening to illegal music downloads. A CBS spokesperson, when asked for comment, issued the most half-assed of denials so it's not surprising then that, within minutes, Last.fm users were commenting on the story, threatening to delete the company's software from their hard drives. Countless other angry users re-blogged and Twittered the rumour as fact.And who can blame them? On the face of it, the story was dynamite. The only slight problem is, that like most rhetorical questions asked by journalists, the answer to your headline is an absolute and definite "no". I know this because, before writing otherwise, I actually spoke to some of the people who work at their office in London. This contrasts somewhat with your approach, which was to call up a meaningless CBS PR drone in New York. Perhaps their inability to give a complete answer had less to do with having something to hide, and more to do with the fact that Last.fm isn't based in New York, it's based in London. If I was trying to verify a story about Google, I'd call Mountain View, not their office in Belgium. And if it was outside business hours in California, I'd wait a few hours for a quote before posting a story that could potentially destroy their business.But it gets worse. Shortly after the story was published, one of Last's founders posted a comment categorically denying it; a denial which was echoed on the Last.fm forums and on personal Twitters from employees. And yet it took you almost 24 hours to acknowledge the denial, with an update right at the bottom of the story, not visible on Techcrunch's front page, bleating that it was only ever a rumour in the first place. A second update was posted the following day, expanding on the denial but still tucked away at the bottom, and still refusing to accept that the story was total, unsupported bullshit. Your stubbornness in not admitting that you got a bad tip overrode any sense of duty to accurate reporting.If the story had appeared in the Guardian, and the facts shown to be less-that-certain, there would have been a clarification inserted right at the top of the piece. I know this, because it'shappened to mein the past. It's really embarrassing, but that's the way professional media outlets work. The Guardian has editors and lawyers whose job it is to make sure crap like this doesn't happen, and if it does, to clear up the mess afterwards. Techcrunch authors, on the other hand – despite the fact that you have multimillion-dollar revenues and a professional management structure – enjoy total autonomy, even uploading their own stories and adding their own photos.It's possible for someone to write something on Techcrunch without anyone seeing it and without anyone dealing with the backlash when the facts are shown to be wrong. After all, most smaller startups couldn't afford to sue you, and most large ones can't afford the negative PR that suing a blog would bring. That might be win-win for you, but it just gives more ammunition to those – likeChris Whealthis week – who claim that journalists who blog are inherently cavalier when it comes to facts.Times are tough in the internet industry, and there are going to be no shortage of disgruntled tipsters coming forward to bitch to Techcrunch about their former employers. If you want to retain any semblance of credibility in reporting these tips, then I'm afraid it's time for you to learn the lessons of old media. Employ a readers' editor – preferably with a legal background – and make it their job to deal with inaccurate stories, the moment someone complains. That way, your writers can focus on reporting the news without ever having to publicly admit when they get it wrong, while your loyal readers – myself included – can feel confident that what we're reading is based, if not on truth, then at least on a genuine attempt to discover it.The last thing any of us want to see is Techcrunch turning into another Valleywag – not least because as Valleywag's recent fortunes have taught us, making shit up doesn't pay the bills. Sorry to appear preachy but this whole episode makes you look like a bunch of clowns.Now, if you'll excuse me, I have a plane to catch. Long story.Lots of love,Paul---Dear Last.fm,Let me start off by saying that I'm a fan, genuinely. And that's why I'm not angry, just disappointed. Yours is one of the few sites I visit every day and I rely on my personalised Last.fm radio station to entertain me as I bumble around the world. I've visited your office and larked around in your ball pond and whenever I've dropped by, I've always been impressed by how keen you are to hear feedback on things that might be wrong with the service, so you can fix them. You can imagine, then, my disappointment at your response to Erick Schonfeld's Last.fm story on Friday. Ordinarily a lie can get halfway around the world before the truth has put its pants on, but in this case you gave Erick's story enough time to take in some sights on the way, and upload the photos to Flickr.I fully appreciate that the Techcrunch story appeared on Friday night, long after you'd left the office for the weekend and were headed to the pub. And yet, even though at least one of your founders and various members of senior management were able to add comments to Techcrunch, and to bitch about the story on Twitter, it took you until Monday evening to post an official denial on your company blog. Monday! It's no wonder people – including me – were starting to think that there might be more to the story than met the eye. Could CBS have shared the data without telling you?But no, I spoke to a few Last.fmers and it was clear they shared my frustration. The story was totally false and when the denial eventually came – headed "Techcrunch is full of shit" – that frustration was displayed for all to see. But before you were able to post it, you needed approval from CBS in New York – not least because, as of last week, Last.fm doesn't have a single in-house PR person.I appreciate all of the benefits of corporate ownership, especially in these tough times. But it's precisely because times are so tough, that stories like this are able to destroy a business. Your denial, when it appeared, was brilliant – and the fact that it was so very British in its vulgarity made me feel a surge of national pride. But it came far too late to undo a whole weekend of damage to the trust your users have in you. If this had happened to any small, independent web startup, they'd have issued an official statement within hours – if not minutes – of the Techcrunch story appearing. A blog post, signed by the founders, categorically denying the whole thing would have nipped the story in the bud.If you're going to survive another assault like this, then I'm afraid it's time to claw back some of the nimbleness you enjoyed as a start-up and to get rid of the layers of approval required to post official statements on your blog. You need – right now – to hire a new in-house PR person and you need to demand that CBS give you back total autonomy to deal with your own PR crises. Blogs like Techcrunch shouldn't have the power to cause this amount of damage, this quickly without any accountability – but the fact is, they do. You – and every web company, no matter how giant and corporate its owners – need to be able to respond in the same medium, and just as quickly. Otherwise, it's no exaggeration to say that the next false story could be the death of you.Sorry to appear preachy but this whole episode makes you look like a bunch of clowns.Now if you'll excuse me, I have a plane to catch. Long story.Lots of love,Paul---• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Now that we've realised that social networks "rewire your mind" (actually, everything does - the brain's plasticity means that it's constantly refining synaptic reactivity in line with the outcomes of experiences), courtesy Professor Susan Greenfield, and a "debate" has begun about whether they're good or bad, we have some new heavyweights on the block.Last night's Newsnight saw Ben Goldacre, he ofBad Science, trying to make some impression on Aric "loneliness weakens your immune system, social networking is done on your own, therefore social networking makes you ill, bet you can't spot the syllogism" Sigman, moderated (a little) by a weary-looking Jeremy Paxman. University Challenge it wasn't. (Wepreviously examined Sigman's article. Short version: provocative, but hazy.)Goldacre has nowput up his own post on his Bad Science, with counter-evidence to Sigman's, including a link to the BBC interview (which will persist for a week or so).I sense a certain impatience in Goldacre on this topic that he hasn't shown with, say, MMR:Professor Greenfield's stated aim, however, is to improve the public's understanding of science: and yet repeatedly she appears in the media making wild headline-grabbing claims, without evidence, all the while telling us repeatedly that she is a scientist.He then points to 12 citations fromPubMedfrom a search on "loneliness and internet" which, he says, don't back up Sigman.He adds:Dr Sigman claimed, on and off camera, that his was an opinion piece and so it is acceptable to quote only half the evidence. This is ricockulous, this is not how the paper was presented in the media, it is not what people were expecting, and it's not what I'd expect from any opinion piece in anything approaching a scientific journal. In fact, this way madness lies: comment is free, but facts are sacred. If you cherry pick your evidence, you can make a very good case that all swans are black. This would not represent a useful argument.And into this whirlwind comes a group that can certainly offer pretty good "before", "after" and "not tried it at all" control groups on the vexed topic of online social networking: Age Concern. It thinks social networking is - well, we'll let them describe it.Recent claims about the potential risks of social networking have ignored evidence that getting online has positive benefits for older people, says Age Concern."Our research shows that over two thirds of 'silver surfers' say using the internet has improved their lives. Whether it's using Facebook to stay in contact with friends, Skype for international calls to family abroad or using blogs to just have their say, social networking empowers previously isolated older people to stay connected and engaged," says Leonie Vlachos, Manager of Digital Inclusion.Age Concern regularly runs IT events throughout the UK to encourage older people to get online and learn basic computer skills. Two thirds of new IT users aged 55 plus agree the internet had a positive impact on their lives.After her husband passed, Doreen, 70, of Leeds, began to experience loneliness and feelings of social isolation. Doreen credits an IT course with Age Concern Leeds with helping her overcome this loneliness and opening up a new world of opportunity."Social Networking lets me stay in contact with my family abroad and also my friends locally. I've even made some new friends online! I encourage any older people who are feeling isolated or lonely to try social networking," says Doreen.I think that after that useful contribution, they've earnt a quick plug for their next effort, don't you?To encourage older people to find about the social and health benefits of becoming socially connected online, Age Concern is running myfriends online week beginning 16 March 2009.If you know anyone who could benefit from it - Aric Sigman's parents? - then be sure to take them along.
No word yet on precisely howhackers broke into Jack Straw's constituency Hotmail account. But it's a safe guess that it was either (a) malware on the machine that passed all sorts of other details via keylogging or (b) a good guessing attack against the username and password. (How about "jackstraw" and "iraqdoeshaveWMDsIamsure"?)Don't forget, after all, that Sarah Palin's Yahoo account washacked by simple guessing. And of course, we are prepared to let Jack Strawask our very own Jack S (that's Schofield)how he should protect himself in future. (Use a harder password, and non-public details - though of course, Jack Straw, you'renot so persuaded about us having non-public details, are you?)Equally interesting is the 419 scam that was being attempted here - though I was disappointed by the professor who spoke on the Today programme this morning, because he didn't get to the core of why 419 scams work, and why they are so often written in the clumsy language that they are. It's because for the scams to work, you have to believe that you're going to outwit the scammers - so they have to make you think that you are smarter than they are, and that you're going to take them for a ride. If you thought they were obviously much smarter than you, you would get wary - and not enter into the transaction. (Which is exactly howhow a Massachusetts psychotherapist got taken for thousands.)This is the "help I'm stuck, send money" version, which is a mutation of the original "we've got some money stuck, help get it out" form - although arguably it's the previous one that is the first form in which the "forward fee" scam appeared, as (from memory) the "Spanish prince in the tower" scam, where people were encouraged to pony up some cash to help release someone with a claim to the throne of whatever country they lived in. Here's alist from the US Overseas Security Advisory Councilof how it tends to work.At any time though there are more scams going round, in more varieties, than we can possibly document. Every day brings not one, but about 20 new "social engineering" scams: last night there was one which involved Google Chat and an invitation to click on a video link. (The video is malware.) As ever, your watchword has to comestraight from Hill Street Blues: let's be careful out there. Even you, Jack Straw.Thinking of which, how muchwouldyou be prepared to pay to get Jack Straw out of Nigeria, if he were stuck there?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
I have been remiss in posting up the many events readers have sent in to the gamesblog (gamesblog +at+ gmail +dot+ com). To wit, some of these events are already gone! Still, there are plenty that are forthcoming. Here's a haul for you, all available onour gcal feed.New York Comic Con(New York, 6-8 Feb 2008)NYCC has more gaming companies, titles and special events than any other con outside the gaming industry. See and play titles that have yet to be released, participate in gaming tournaments and attend panels dedicated to the exploding gaming industry. If you are a hard core or cross over gamer here is what you will find this year at NYCC.Lift(Geneva, 25-27 Feb)Lift is a series of events built around a community of doers and thinkers who get together in Europe and Asia to explore the social consequences of new technologies. Each conference is a chance to turn changes into opportunities by anticipating the major shifts ahead, and meeting the people who drive them.Digital Overload(Providence, RI, USA, 5-8 March 2009)The largest LAN Party ever hosted by a webcomic! That's right, a 2 day LAN Party dedicated to the fans of Ctrl+Alt+Del!Social Networking World Forum(London, 9-10 March)We have been promised a games-related track.ETech(San Jose, CA, 9-12 March)ETech is a technologist's R&amp;D lab, workbench, and playground. We specifically design the conference to expose new ideas and learn from the people behind them.Game-based Learning(London, 19-20 March)The Game Based Learning Conference is the only event of its kind currently in existence that deals with all aspects of games in learning.*  Tom Watson, MP, UK Cabinet Minister for Transformational Government* Nolan Bushnell, Founder of Atari, father of the video game industry* Ian Livingstone, Co-founder, Eidos, Chair, Computer Games Skills Council, Skillset* Alice Taylor, Commissioning Editor, Education, Channel 4* Dr Richard Graham, Clinical Director of Adolescent Directorate, Tavistock Centre* Marco Minoli, Director, Slitherine* Sean Dromgoole, CEO, Some Research &amp; GameVision* Derek Robertson, Learning &amp; Teaching Scotland* Terry Deary, Author, Horrible HistoriesPixel Hall #1/2009(Brighton, 22-24 March)For three days, the annex of Brighton's Fishing Museum willbe taken over by a multimedia exhibition of art from, and inspired by,videogames. Award-winning videogames artists will exhibit alongsideartists who's creations are inspired in someway by the world's largestentertainment industry: videogames.IEEE vs Games '09: International Conference in Serious Games and Virtual Worlds(23-24 March, Coventry &amp;Second Life)The international event marks the first IEEE academic conference in serious games and virtual worlds and will be hosted in the UK. The event will bring together international researchers from a range of disciplines to formulate a new cross-disciplinary community in the emerging field of serious games and virtual worlds.Keynote speakers will be: Professors Steve Benford (UK), Alan Chalmers (UK) and Adrian Cheok (Japan). The conference is chaired by Professor Sara de Freitas (UK), Professor Edward Castronova (US) and Dr Kurt Squire (US). Sponsored by IEEE, Becta and ALT, the event will be streamed onto the web and into Second Life for those unable to attend in person. The proceedings will be published by IEEE. The best papers will be selected for publication in one of two international Journals: Visual Computer and the British Journal of Educational Technology.Barcamp 6(28-29 March, The Guardian)The hugely popular "un-conference" is back once more for 2009!BarCamp is an ad-hoc unconference born from the desire for people to share and learn in an open environment. It is an intense event with discussions, demos and interaction from attendees.Videogame Nation(Manchester, 14 May-20 Sept)Videogame Nation brings together games spanning the last 40 years, from 'Manic Miner' (1983) to 'Grand Theft Auto IV' (2008), taking players on a thrilling ride through the UK's gaming generations and tracing the journey of computer programming from the hidden realm of the bedroom to what has become a multi-billion pound industry.E3(Los Angeles, 2-4 June 2009)E3 Expo is the world's premiere trade show for computer and video games and related products. The show is owned by the Entertainment Software Association (ESA), the U.S. association dedicated to serving the business and public affairs needs of the companies, publishing interactive games for video game consoles, handheld devices, personal computers and the Internet.FutureFest (Cambridge, 23-25 June)FutureFest is a global conference celebrating the future, bringing in several of the world's preeminent thinkers, innovators, business leaders and artists to answer to one simple question - What is coming next?The conference is wrapped in a festival and will showcase, discuss and debate the future of our planet.Devised around the four key themes of Earth, Life, Communication and Machines, FutureFest will also hold an innovative business ideas competition for each of these themes, which comprises of cash awards of £20,000 for a total of £80,000.Develop(Brighton, 14-16 July)The Develop Conference is where the European developer community comes together to learn from each other and share experiences, be inspired by world renowned experts and gurus, get up-to-date with the latest development tools and techniques, make new contacts and catch up with old ones.TED(Oxford, 21-24 July)When we look around us, there are things we can observe: Buildings. People. Nature. And then there are things that run unseen through our lives. These hidden forces -- social conventions, biological links, cultural frameworks, coded meanings, complex processes, creative impulses, scientific speculations, software, networks -- are the connective tissue that binds societies together and the engines that propel organizations forward. When illuminated, they offer vital insights into our relationships with one another and our world.London Games Conference(27 October, BAFTA)LGC will start late afternoon and run into the evening. There will be several keynotes, but no filler. Delegates will be able to meet the speakers via speed networking mechanic and there will also be a dinner," commented MCV managing editor Lisa Foster."We have developed this event to tap into the need for a central B2B event during London Games Festival.
Despite evidence to the contrary, perhaps there is – or at least Apple seems to think so.The idea of subscribing to music download services has been failing to gather many supporters in recent years, with rental systems belonging to Napster and Yahoo among those struggling for success. Many blamed the success of iTunes, while others suggested that the restrictive copy protection on tracks imposed by the music labels meant that subscription potential was always hamstrung.But the news that Apple haslaunched a new product called iTunes Passcould change the picture.According to the announcement, fans of Basildon electro-goths Depeche Mode will be able to receive a constant stream of new music, remixes, videos and special content by paying $19 to iTunes for the next few months. It's like an online fanclub offering special downloads for its members: pay one price and receive everything they produce in that time.This new approach is a tweak on the traditional way of offering music subscriptions that could give record labels a way to recoup who are turning away from albums – and gives Steve Jobs enough room to successfully wriggle away from previousdisparaging comments about subscription services.Mark Mulligan, vice president of research at Forrester and an expert on digital music, thinks it bodes well for the future."The most significant part of all this is not what it means to Apple, but what it means to the music industry,"he wrote.Although Depeche Mode are the first artists to take on the new approach, they might not be the last. Their label, EMI, boasts cult artists including The Beastie Boys and Blur – as well as current big hitters such as Coldplay and Kylie Minogue.It's been a good month for music subscription all round, with Spotify -the cunning Swedish startupthat lets users stream music for free (with adverts) or by paying a monthly subscription – getting an advanced release ofU2's new album.It's all part of the new way that artists and labels must relate to their fans in an online world, according to Mulligan."Record labels should start delivering a constant stream of content to fans, not just waiting for landmark release dates," he says. "In short, build an engaged, ongoing relationship with fans based on content – not just artist pages on MySpace."
Puzzle Questtook theBejeweled"match 3" gameplay, bolted on role playing elements and ended up getting thousands of hardcore gamers hooked on a puzzle game. I loved it too. In fact the Xbox Live version is probably one of my most played games – it's the perfect 20 min snack between larger gaming meals.Today sees the launch of the sequel –Puzzle Quest: Galactrix. The setting has moved from fantasy to sci-fi - hardcore gamers are clearly the target audience - but the addictive and surprisingly deep gameplay appears to be intact. The toughest decision seems to be whether to go DS for portability or Xbox Live for achievement points and HD graphical splendour. Yup, sold – Xbox it is. Anyone else getting Puzzle Quest: Galaxctix today?
