It is likely to be one of the biggest entertainment releases of the year, if not the decade, and may well become a major obsession for the gamer or sci-fi fan in your life – but what exactly is Destiny?The epic space action game is a hugely ambitious online shooter, which mixes several popular video game genres into one vast adventure. But even experienced video game players do not know exactly what to expect.Although there have been planet-loads of multiplayer online games in the past, few have sought to make it so easy and intuitive for people to enter, explore the story and meet up with others to take part in missions. Destiny wants to change the way we think about online gaming – whether it succeeds or not will be down to the capability of its server network and whether there is really enough in there to keep gamers coming back. Early indications have been positive – a limited beta test of the game which released for two weeks in August was played by 4.6m people.If you know someone who’s excitedly waiting for a copy to turn up on Tuesday morning, here’s what they’ll be doing – and why they may be doing it for a quite a while...The official Destiny launch trailerWhat exactly is Destiny?Destiny is “shared world shooter” designed by Bungie, the development studio behind the classic Halo series of first-person shooters on the Xbox. The game combines elements of the first-person shooter (FPS) and role-playing game (RPG) genres into one gargantuan experience. Players explore the galaxy, battling aliens and unlocking new weapons and abilities; all the action takes place in a single online universe so participants are able to meet each other and team up to defeat enemies. It is going to be a major commitment, so don’t make any plans.What is the story behind the game?Destiny is an epic science fiction story inspired by those chunky “space opera” novels by authors like Peter Hamilton and Alastair Reynolds. The action takes place 700 years in the future. A vast alien being known as “The Traveler”, which looks like a small moon, has arrived at Earth and aided humanity into an accelerated period of technological advance. Using interstellar colonisation ships, human settlements have spread out across the galaxy, leading to a golden era of discover, expansion and reasonable property prices.However, an evil force that has been tracking The Traveler across the cosmos has finally tracked it down, all but destroying mankind’s protector. Now, various alien armies are raiding the solar system and only one Earth city is still protected by our moon-like extraterrestrial saviour. This is The Tower, a vast skyscraper, which acts as the central social hub of Destiny.So what do you actually do in Destiny?Players take on the role of guardians, who are effectively heraldic knights of the future. They must work together to defeat the raiding alien races and save humanity. When the game starts, each participant gets to choose from three different character classes: hunters, warlocks and titans. Each has its own special skills and abilities. Through the game, as players kill enemies and complete missions, they can discover new weapons, items and abilities, further personalising the skills of their onscreen avatar.How long does the game take to finish?Honestly, no one knows. There is a central story to experience and complete, but whether this finishes at the end of this first title, or whether it continues into subsequent titles is unclear. However, like other role-playing games, Destiny does not have a traditional end point. Even if the story is finished, there will still be missions to take on and complete with friends.Also, throughout the game, each victory helps to “level up” your character and open new abilities. Leveling up in this way may be more important to some players than simply rushing through the narrative as quickly as possible. The larger “raid” missions are also likely to expand the gameplay time – they are more complex and challenging and may take up to two hours to complete.Furthermore, as with other online games like World of Warcraft, it will be possible for Bungie to keep adding new content. See “how much will it cost” below.Certainly, it took around 4-6 hours to see all the key content in the beta test that Bungie released to players in August, allowing them to try out the game – but this was, apparently, a tiny fraction of the missions and story content available.How is the game structured?Every player starts the game with a basic spaceship and a mission map; the map shows the various missions available to them throughout the solar system. There are several different types of activity. Story missions guide the player through the game’s narrative, in the epic quest to save the Earth; strike missions are quick 20-minute fights in interesting locations; patrol missions are open-world exploration areas which let you whiz about on speeder bikes; and raids are more in-depth quests that require you to team up with five other players.How each player takes on the game is up to them. It’s possible just to do the story missions and treat the game as a single-player role-playing adventure. However, most of the rest of the missions require players to team up with two others to create “fire teams”, who take on missions together. You can make “fire teams” with your friends or you can meet people within the game and team up. There is no player-on-player shooting in these missions, it is entirely co-operative.However, players who DO want to shoot each other can also use their map to find “crucibe areas”. These are multiplayer shoot-outs that work like the online modes of games like Call of Duty – ie you are shooting other players online, either in teams or every guardian for themselves.Where do the missions take place?Bungie has not revealed all the areas that will be in the game but we know that players will be able to visit Earth, the Moon, Venus and Mars. The moons of Jupiter and Saturn have also been mentioned. On Earth, we have already seen one of the main locations, a wrecked Soviet cosmodrome, which has become an alien stronghold. Some of the players who took part in the game’s beta test this August also got to visit the Moon.What makes Destiny different?Although the game contains lots of familiar elements, it is the way it combines them that marks it out. You get to shoot lots of aliens, just like in Halo, but you also develop and customise your character, carefully personalising its appearance and special abilities – just like in an RPG. And as in a massively multiplayer online game like World of Warcraft, you get to meet other players.For example, you may be taking on a strike mission with two friends, when you suddenly, bump into another group of players on their own quest. You can either ignore them, or help them out and share the spoils. Often there are special “public encounters”, where a larger enemy suddenly turns up, requiring several groups of Fire Teams to dispatch it. You do nt have to accept these missions but they often provide rare and advanced weapons and equipment as rewards.Bungie’s big idea with Destiny is to subtly encourage players who do not usually go online to work together to defeat the game.How much will it cost?The game retails at between £45-£55 depending on where you buy it – check out specialist and online retailers for special deals; supermarkets are also likely to provide heavy discounts.If you are playing on Xbox One, Xbox 360 or PlayStation 4 you’ll also need to subscribe to the comparative online gaming services to play (PlayStation Plus on PS4, Xbox Live Gold on Xbox). This is around £35 a year. PlayStation 3 allows free online gaming.If you start the game on the Xbox 360 or PS3 but then later upgrade to the Xbox One or PS4, Bungie will allow you todownload a new version of the game for free– as long as you stay with the same brand (ie as long as you upgrade from Xbox 360 to Xbox One or PS3 to PS4). All your progress will be transferred to the new machine. This offer expires on 15 January 2015.Bungie will also provide a series of download packs for Destiny – it already has one planned for December. These will add new missions and planets. The series has been designed to run for ten years, so it’s likely we’ll also see at least two sequels.I have an Xbox One, can I play with my friends on the PlayStation 4 or Xbox 360?No. Although Destiny effectively lives on one computer network, you can only meet and play with people who own the same console as you.Is Destiny suitable for my child?Destiny has been given an age rating of 16+ byPegi, the certification board that serves Europe. The game contains violent encounters, mostly with alien monsters. It is unlikely to be as gory as some other first-person shooters but you should treat the age rating as you would a film rating from the BBFC.The game will also require significant time investment from players, so if you buy it for a teenager, it may be a good idea to negotiate with them in advance about the times when they will be playing.The game also allows communication between players via console gaming headsets. However, your children will only be able to chat with people they actively invite into their fire teams, or who invite them into a fire team of their own. Communication between complete strangers in the game is only available through a series of pre-programmed animations, such as waves and dance moves.It is worth watching or playing the opening sequences of the game, even if you are not interested in taking part yourself – this will give you an idea of the content and what it is all about.Is Destiny actually any good?The beta test went down well, although some fans are still wondering if there will be enough content. The environments shown so far have not been massive when compared with, say, the area available to explore in Grand Theft Auto V – but then we have only seen a few missions. “One thing we’ve struggled to communicate is the sheer scale of the game,” said Jonty Barnes, head of production, when the Guardian spoke to him at Gamescom.The studio is, however, confident there will be plenty to do – the questions are whether there will be enough variety, will it be easy to find people to play with and will the servers hold up? The launches of other major online games, including Battlefield 4, GTA Online and SimCity, were plagued with technical difficulties, often for several weeks. Bungie says it has a vast and stable infrastructure, which it has intricately tested. We will soon see.Destiny: behind the scenes of the world’s most expensive video gameDestiny: how a universe was assembled by craftspeople and their communityDestiny: new game expected to draw 10 million players on its first day
It is not a start-up, and won’t mint any billionaires, but Silicon Valley may eventually claim a sport hitherto spurned in the the United States as another badge of innovation.Recently arrived tech workers from southern Asia, especially India, are helping to galvanise a cricket boom, as new teams in the San Francisco bay area are reinvigorating a sub-culture that began with the 1990s dotcom bubble.“Technology and cricket are intertwined. People come seeking jobs and bring their culture and sport,” said Abrar Ahmad, a founder of theBay Area Cricket Alliance, a non-profit that has seen its number of teams more than double from eight to 17. “Almost every city here has its own grounds. We’ve come a long way.”In addition to the men’s teams there is now also a youth league, a women’s team, an academy, tournaments, equipment stores and practice facilities. Two of the four indoor nets beside the ProCricShop in San Jose, said owner Suraj Viswanathan, stretch to 136 feet, “the longest in the world”. A serial entrepreneur, he is also a vice-president of the cricket alliance.The sport remains a nano-attraction compared to the crowds that watch the Oakland Raiders or San Francisco 49ers. Passersby tend to gaze in blank incomprehension at a distant ancestor to baseball that dates from Tudor England and includes arcana such as overs, creases, byes and sixes.Bay area evangelists claim, with fervour akin to a startup, that the game is scaling up and gaining market share thanks to the latest tech boom drawing more south Asian migrants to the likes of Google, Facebook, Cisco and Apple.Santa Clara players warm up before playing Ever Young at the Joseph George middle school, San Jose.Photograph: Robert Gumpert for the Guardian“It goes up and down depending on the industry,” said Arun Subbu, 40, an IT architect with IBM, helmet in one hand, bat in the other, as he prepared to enter one of ProCricShop’s batting cages. “After the dotcom bust, the talent left. Now it’s back.”Ahmad, 50, was a teenager when he moved from Pakistan to work in a valley humming with the start of the personal computer revolution.The only way to play cricket in those days was to heave a jute mat onto a Toyota Corolla and seek an unoccupied park corner, he recalled. “We’d bring lawnmowers too. It wasn’t easy but it was our passion.” The sport inflated and deflated along with the dotcom bubble, then recovered. “In the past three or four years it’s climbing again,” said Ahmad, a talented batsman and wicketkeeper in his day.About three quarters of the Bay Area Cricket Alliance’s 525 registered players are tech workers, according to Ahmad. The rest include taxi drivers, college students, liquor store owners, Subway managers.The students tended to play aggressively while the the techies are said to take a cooler, more analytical approach.Abrar Ahmad, a founder of the Bay Area Cricket Alliance: ‘Technology and cricket are intertwined.’Photograph: Rory Carroll for the GuardianVibhav Altekar, 18, who plans to study chemical engineering at UC Davis, seemed to combine both: sweating hard during batting practice, but focused on the mental side. “Once you get to a certain level you realise it’s only partly about the physical. It’s in your mind. You have to out-think the opposition.”Last year Altekar, the son of a hardware engineer, captained a California Cricket Academy youth team in goodwill games in England. The academy is based in Cupertino, home to Apple.Cricketers have given presentations and demonstrations in local schools and hope it will be included in the physical education curriculum of at least one school in the Alum Rock union elementary district.TheStanford “A”cricket club, which hosts games at the Kirigin Cellars Winery Cricket Grounds, evokes a certain English amateur ethos by calling its members “a motley and lately portly collection of aspiring intellectuals” who enjoy a hard game of cricket followed by “relaxing moments at the beer pub”.Arun Subbu, who works for IBM: ‘It goes up and down depending on the industry … now the talent’s back.’Photograph: Rory Carroll for the GuardianNotwithstanding geek power, the west coast tends to be weaker than east coast teams bolstered with Caribbean expatriates, said Ahmad. Visa expirations sent a lot of talent back to India, he lamented. (Mark Zuckerberg’s immigration reform advocacy group, Fwd.US, is more concerned about the loss of engineering talent).Cricket also loses youngsters to American football, baseball and soccer, which offer more tournaments and chances to advance.The biggest challenge is persuading non-Asian Americans to embrace the game, and a good place to start is tech companies, said Ahmad. “These giants want to keep their employees physically and mentally fit. Ebay has soccer. Google has tennis. Why not cricket?”In Silicon Valley fashion, the Bay Area Cricket Alliance wishes to pivot and style the game a tool for corporate productivity. “It’s great for networking and team-building,” said Ahmad, the organisations’ treasurer. “It loosens people up. They talk, share ideas. They can come up with new products.”
Will it havea reversible USB cable? Are rumours of“unscratchable”sapphire screens true? And an NFC payment system? And just how big will the iPhone 6 be, exactly?How about the rumoured wearable device? Is this the must-have exercise accessory you’ve been waiting for? Is your doctor pacing the floor impatiently, demanding your digitised biometric data? Or is this a long shot for Apple, and one you don’t care about?Whatever Apple has planned will be revealed byCEO Tim Cookon Tuesday at Apple’s biggest launch event yet, with 2,500 people invited to the Flint Centre in Cupertino, California. The company is also expected to introduce its new iPhone and iPad software, iOS 8, which includes many new features focused around flexibility and interaction with Apple’s desktop and laptop computers.You’ve heard the rumours – but what features would you like to see from the new iPhone? Are you happy with what you’ve heard about it so far? Or are there more design features Apple could add before you decide to buy? Let us know in the comments below and we may feature some suggestions above the line.Here’s what you have said so far:david10008 September 2014 8:29amI've been an iPhone user for nearly five years. My current one being the 5s, which I got last November. I've been watching with envy as Android phones have overtaken in certain key areas (in my opinion) which have made the iPhone a frustrating device to use and so have decided that unless Apple addresses these issues with the 6, I'm defecting:1) Bigger screen (almost certain to happen);2) VASTLY improved battery life - the 5s is rubbish in this respect, and if the 6 has a bigger screen it'll need even more juice. When other manufacturers are putting in batteries that last more than a day with heavy usage (or are removable), it's inexcusable for iPhones to die by lunchtime every day on fairly moderate useIf these two things happen and the cost isn't (relatively) ridiculous I'll most likely get a 6, as my set up is geared towards iPhone, but to clinch it, expandable storage would be perfect, and water/dust-proofing would be the icing on the cake. Other manufacturers have at least 3 of these things, and in some cases for a lot less than the iPhone - my 32gb 5s cost £600, but I could now get an LG G3 with a 5.5&quot; screen, much better (and removable) battery, and expandable storage up to 128gb for £450.Come on Apple, let's see what you've got.Abdullahi Nuh08 September 2014 12:07pmbattery battery battery ( thin and dead = useless) no matter how good it is, simple as that.Andrew Dettmer08 September 2014 8:24amThe Apple IPhone 6 uses components supplied by NXP, a Netherlands -based company which has operations in the Philippines. The response of NXP management to negotiations for a new wage agreement was to sack the entire rank and file union leadership. They were sacked for taking the day off - on a recognised public holiday.What I want from Apple? Decent labour relations and respect for unions among their upstream suppliers. And for NXP to #reinstateNXP24!PastieFace08 September 2014 12:16pmFor me it's the one they've already announced - the bigger screen. Recently my work Blackberry was upgraded to a Galaxy S4, and it took mere moments to understand that the bigger size is better than my iPhone 5 - it just IS. Never mind all the bollocks about &quot;you can get everywhere on the screen with one thumb&quot;, bigger is better, end of. Why be shackled with a less useful screen all of the time, for those infrequent (and quite possibly fictitious) moments when you have to drive with one thumb?An iPhone with the Galaxy size screen - that'll see me right, thanks very much.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHTC abandons smartwatch plans – has it been scared off by competition? &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintStuart Miles:HTC has abandoned plans to make a smartwatch Pocket-lint has learnt.Sources familiar with the matter have told us that although the company was planning to launch a smartwatch for customers, it has now abandoned the idea for the time being.Our source has no official confirmation as to why the project has been ditched, but believes rising costs and a lack of wow factor have played a huge part in the decision.The watch, which was rumoured to be a reworking of the Qualcomm Toq, clearly hasn't met that expectation.If this is correct - and Miles has a good track record on HTC stories - then it seems like a wise move. HTC's revenues are still not recovering, so sinking money into a new area that already has a lot of competition (LG, Motorola, Samsung) wouldn't look smart.Facebook app user? Beware big bills as videos autoplay - Money Saving ExpertWe've seen many complaints from people who have been stung with data bills after exceeding their monthly allowance and who believe it to be because of Facebook autoplaying videos (see our Cheap Mobile Broadband and wifi guide for cheap 3G and 4G access).So we're urging those who use Facebook on their mobiles or tablets to change their settings now to either turn off the auto-play feature, or to set it so videos only auto-play on wifi, to avoid being hit with unexpected data charges. We explain how to do this below.Warned you of this in December.Moto 360 review &gt;&gt; The VergeDavid Pierce:But that's exactly the point: the Moto 360 isn't meant to be used all the time. It's meant to be a delightful and occasional source of useful information, reminding you at the perfect moment of the thing you forgot. You're not supposed to ask Android Wear what's next on your calendar; you're supposed to trust that it'll tell you when you need to know. And that it'll direct you there when it's time to go. All you have to do is say "Okay Google, call a car."That's why smartwatch hardware is so important. Most of the time you won't be using the Moto 360, yet it's always visible. When it's just hanging on your wrist, it better look and feel good. That's what Motorola is getting at: the Moto 360 isn't something completely new, something you'll use for hours at a time like a phone or tablet. It's a watch. You flick your wrist, check it, and go back to your life. This watch just happens to do more than tell time.Until, that is, it doesn't do anything at all. That happens about 12 hours after I take the watch off its charger, a cool black wireless dock that the 360 slots into sideways. Motorola says the 360's battery lasts a day, but I haven't seen it last that long yet. I don't expect a smartwatch to last weeks or years, but it ought to be able to last a day and a night no matter how much I use it. My watch now dies before my phone does, and that's unacceptable.Moto 360 smartwatch review: one size doesn't fit all &gt;&gt; WSJJoanna Stern:As I wrote earlier this summer, the best thing about Android Wear is Google GOOGL Now — Google's timely and relevant alerts, which are pieced together based on information from my Gmail, calendar, Web searches and other Google interactions. Over the past week, my watch told me to leave for my dinner reservation early because of traffic, informed me my important package had shipped and reminded me about the Yankees-Red Sox game.As crazy as it seems, I've also gotten quite used to speaking to my watch. It's now second nature for me to say into my wrist "Is it going to rain today?" or "Remind me to move the car in the morning."But while those short spurts of information are useful, the constant vibrating notifications about new emails, tweets or Facebook friend requests aren't. If I wanted to see every notification on my phone, I'd just hold my phone in my hand all day. Google's director of Android engineering, David Singleton, says his team is working on improvements that will allow for more control over notifications. Bonus: fewer notifications would mean better battery life.Current battery life: 12 hours. So with doubled battery life, you'd only be charging it once a day.April 2014: iPhone 6 - payment predictions &gt;&gt; Starpoint BlogTom Noyes is a venture capitalist with a lot of contacts in payment networks and a lot of experience at Citigroup, Wachovia, Nasa, and others:My predictions• Apple will have a certified EMV contactless capability from V, MA and Amex in the iPhone 6.• Apple's contactless is a proprietary architecture, based upon both tokens, and 3 card emulation applications (4 perhaps with Paypal)• Each Network will act as a Token Service Provider (TSP), with one token in each card emulation application. The TSP specs give this away, per the Spec, the TSP must be approved by issuer and have ability to translate token to Card. Apple may want to be the TSP… but Banks will say no. This solves a BIG problem with card provisioning, with V/MA/Amex already having the "proxy" card/token provisioned in the iPhone, and each bank working with respective network to turn on their card.  This is the Google model, with the networks running the TSP as opposed to Google/TXVIA.• Apple will not work in iBeacon model at launch, but rather EMV Contactless. You notice I'm not saying NFC.. from a merchants perspective this will look like NFC, and use the NFC protocol, but certainly not from a GSMA NFC perspective. There are no other vendors in this solution beyond Apple and their hardware suppliers (?Broadcom?)For predictions made in April, these increasingly look amazingly accurate.Why Amazon has no profits (and why it works) &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansAmazon has perhaps 1% of the US retail market by value. Should it stop entering new categories and markets and instead take profit, and by extension leave those segments and markets for other companies? Or should it keep investing to sweep them into the platform? Jeff Bezos's view is pretty clear: keep investing, because to take profit out of the business would be to waste the opportunity. He seems very happy to keep seizing new opportunities, creating new businesses, and using every last penny to do it.Still, investors put their money into companies, Amazon and any other, with the expectation that at some point they will get cash out.  With Amazon, Bezos is deferring that profit-producing, investor-rewarding day almost indefinitely into the future. This prompts the suggestion that Amazon is the world's biggest 'lifestyle business' - Bezos is running it for fun, not to deliver economic returns to shareholders, at least not any time soon.Is it too late for Windows Phone? &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:Microsoft's hoping its focus on photography will divert attention from the dreaded app gap. There are some genuinely innovative features in the Lumia Denim firmware update available today in the new phones and coming later this year for its current flagship devices. But will selfie-obsessed consumers be drawn to Microsoft's new Lumias?I asked [Microsft VP sales of mobile Chris] Weber if there's a market-share target that Windows Phone needs to hit before it can be considered a success. "Generally speaking," he replied, "getting to double-digit share in key markets is something we look at." Weber pointed to the fact that Windows Phone has already hit that target in 14 countries, including the UK, but other key markets, notably the US, still lag far behind.24-Bit vs. 16-Bit Audio Test - Part II: RESULTS &amp; CONCLUSIONS &gt;&gt; Archimago's MusingsVia @hedgecreep, a blind test conducted over the internet of 24-bit and 16-bit audio on audiophiles. Result: detection not statistically distinguishable from chance.A great blog to add to your reading if you're interested in in-depth examination of audio.Shenzhen trip report - visiting the world's manufacturing ecosystem &gt;&gt; Joi Ito's WebWhat was more impressive to me even than the technology were the people that bunnie introduced us to, such as the factory boss, John, and the project managers and engineers. They were clearly hard-working, very experienced, trustworthy and excited about working with bunnie and our friends. They were willing and able to design and try all kinds of new processes to produce things that have never been manufactured before. Their work ethic and their energy reminded me very much of what I imagined many of the founding entrepreneurs and engineers in Japan must have been like who built the Japanese manufacturing industry after the war.In all of the small factories that we visited, including AQS, the factory workers lived in dorms surrounding the factory and ate together and lived together. All of their living expenses were supported by the factory and their salaries went entirely to savings or disposable income. Also, all of the managers and even the boss lived together with the workers. I'm sure we were picking good factories to visit, but everyone seemed happy, open and very close.From small factories to big, it's all there.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday! What does Twitter have in store for us all this week?
The social news platform Reddit has banned pages which allowed users to view, post and share stolen images of celebrities.The noticeboard late Saturday took down the r/TheFappening page, and related groups, which had become major outlets for last week’s hack of hundreds of private images, many of them explicit.The banning followed six days of huge traffic – reportedly more than 250m views – and mounting criticism that Reddit was facilitating the humiliation of Jennifer Lawrence, Kate Upton and Kirsten Dunst, among other celebrities.The leak began on 4chan but online traffic swiftly funnelled to r/TheFappening page, which a user named Johnsmcjohn set up in response to the leak.Reddit said it shut down the pages, sub-forums known as subreddits, to comply with requests made under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA).Initially moderators removed individual photos, based on each request, but users swiftly reposted images in an impossible “game of whack-a-mole”, obliging Reddit to ban the pages,it said in a statement.“We’d execute a takedown, someone would adjust, reupload, and then repeat. This same practice was occurring with the underage photos, requiring our constant intervention … it became obvious that we were either going to have to watch these subreddits constantly, or shut them down. We chose the latter.”Some of the leaked images, obtained when hackers broke into the cloud-based storage systems of more than 100 celebrities, include the Olympic gymnast McKayla Maroney, which would be classified as child pornography.“Many nefarious parties recognized the popularity of these images, and started spamming them in various ways and attempting to infect or scam users viewing them,” the statement said.It said a ban would not not solve the problem entirely but mitigate the crisis. “This was an extreme circumstance, and we used the best judgement we could in response.”Johnsmcjohn, the user who claims to have created r/TheFappening – fap is a slang term for masturbation – lamented the halting of what he called the fastest growing subreddit in history, saying it had recorded more than 250m page views.His team of moderators “worked their asses off” to remove images which broke Reddit’s rules,he said. “I know we aren’t going to be considered the good guys, but we worked hard to ensure reddit’s rules were followed.”He said he believed lawyers representing Reddit’s owner, Advance Publications, which also owns Vogue publisher Condé Nast, pushed the decision.The ban drew mixed responses. Some users questioned why the platform left other pages with offensive content, such as sex with dogs, or racist rants against African Americans in Ferguson, or calls for the massacre of Palestinians. Others accused the noticeboard of waiting until itreaped huge trafficbefore taking action.Around the time the celebrity-leak pages were taken down Reddit’s CEO, Yishan Wong, fuelled confusion byposting a blogexplaining why the platform would not, in fact, ban questionable subreddits.Wong said he sympathised with the victims of the stolen images but that Reddit would not change existing site content policies.“The reason is because we consider ourselves not just a company running a website where one can post links and discuss them, but the government of a new type of community. The role and responsibility of a government differs from that of a private corporation, in that it exercises restraint in the usage of its powers.”Individuals, he added, were responsible for their own moral actions. “You choose what to post. You choose what to read. You choose what kind of subreddit to create and what kind of rules you will enforce. We will try not to interfere - not because we don’t care, but because we care that you make your choices between right and wrong.”Because of the timing and vagueness Wong’s statement, many initially considered it to be a defence of the ban.In a subsequent clarification, Reddit said circumstances changed around the time it posted the blog. “At approximately the same time, activity in that subreddit starting violating other rules we have which do trigger a ban, so we banned it.”It apologised for the disarray. “The confusion which was generated in the community was obvious, immediate, and massive, and we even had internal team members surprised by the combination.”
Price £17,995MPG 37.7Top speed 107mphTheRoyal Bath &amp; Westhas its fair share of polka-dot wellies, pearl necklaces and exuberant quiffs on chubby young men wearing shirts with Liberty-print collars, but it’s also a showcase for the real countryside, a place of mud and blood. In the livestock pens, owners roll out bags and sleep next to their prize animals. The pigs are brushed lovingly like huge children, the cows are washed, the chickens stroked. Ernest, a glossy, 1.5 tonne, two-year-old Aberdeen Angus, is taken for an evening walk like a family pet. And the sheep, dozens of them, are speed-shorn. We watch, dumbstruck, as six sweating finalists compete for the Golden Shears – their target is 20 sheep in 20 minutes. “These guys are the sex gods of farming,” grins a bloke in a dirty boiler suit next to me.The Bath &amp; West was the perfect destination for me as I was driving a pick-up truck. If you were wondering who buys pick-ups, you haven’t been to an agricultural show in a while. They were thick on the ground. MySsangYong Korando Sports, with its gleaming metallic paint, leather seats, reversing camera, touch-screen satnav and great sound system, did stand out like a Chelsea tractor on working farm, but beneath its fashionable fripperies it’s as down and dirty as the best of them.You might think there wasn’t much demand for a pick-up, but it’s a sector that is growing fast and with the likes of the Toyota HiLux, Nissan Navara, Mitsubishi L200 and Isuzu D-Max slugging it out at the pricier end, there’s room for a cheaper model at the bottom of the ladder. At least, that’s what this Korean maker hopes.The Korando – a contraction of “Korea Can Do” – is a bizarre but strangely appealing amalgam of everything you might need in a car. It has a double cab which means it seats five with plenty of room, it has an enormous rear tray and folding tailgate, it has a go-anywhere low-range four-wheel drive and can handle motorway cruising without hesitation.Inside story: the basic interior of the Korando pick-up.Photograph: PRIt will happily slot into your life whether you are a farmer, handyman, weekend camper, sports enthusiast or, in my case, parent retrieving two students and all their junk from university. It’ll tow a trailer/caravan/sailboat/horsebox as long as it weighs less than 2.7 tonnes. The only issue is parking. Not easy. Just ask the Audi driver in Bristol who took offence at me burying my tow-hook in the front of his car. Don’t mess with pick-up drivers, I snarled… Actually, I said sorry and gave him my number.One quirk of the Korando is that it has more sophisticated rear suspension than most of its pick-up buddies – this means it drives more comfortably on the road, but its dead-lift loads are limited to 643kg. Compromise, compromise… It comes with just one engine choice – a robust and throaty 149bhp 2-litre turbodiesel, but you can have a manual or an automatic.I tested the latter, which was smooth and responsive – a little too responsive in reverse, hence the Audi incident. The steering is astonishingly light, too. People moan about this: no road feel, they say. But who wants to feel the road? Sitting up high, controlling an adult-sized Tonka toy with nothing more than a finger on the steering wheel, is my idea of luxury.As with all SsangYongs (which means double dragon – everything seems to mean something in Korea), it comes with a confidence-inspiring five-year/unlimited mileage warranty. The car is unashamedly cheap, and some of the switchgear does feel basic, but dwelling on that misses the point. This pick-up is terrific value for money. And you don’t have to get it muddy.Voyage of DiscoveryStar performer: Land Rover’s new Discovery Sport - ready for blast off.Photograph: PRThis week sees the launch of the all-new Land Rover Discovery Sport. Bold, progressive and set to be one of the world’s most versatile and capable premium compact SUV. It will also feature 5+2 seating in a footprint no larger than existing 5-seat premium SUVs. UK pricing to start from under £30,000 for eD4 variant later in 2015 and £32,395 (SD4) from January 2015. To help launch this new “out of this world” vehicle, Land Rover is also running a competition to send four winners into space with Virgin Galactic. Have a look at this site to win a truly once-in-a-lifetime experiencelandrover.com/gotospace.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Steve Jobs always had his "one last thing" – the hotly anticipated moment at the end of presentations when he would reveal the latest innovation to Apple's adoring fans. Tim Cook, his lower-wattage successor, has "only Apple" – a refrain he has used so many times it has beenturned into a songby YouTube artist iTunedSteveJobs. "Only Apple could make such amazing products," sings Cook. "Only Apple could make such amazing hardware."There'll be more of the same on Tuesday at the Flint Centre for Performing Arts in Cupertino, California. The expected unveiling of at least one new iPhone with a much-trailed larger screen is likely to be the largest launch in the company's history and the most important speech of Cook's career so far.Leaks from suppliers suggest the company wants to have 70m-80m of the new devices in circulation by the end of the year. The company may also unveil the smartwatch it has been working on – the first truly new product of the Cook era – and make an announcement about its new health-based tracking system, HealthKit, and payments via its devices.Just over three years in as chief executive, Cook has Apple financially firing on all guns. But critics, as ever, worry that the company is running out of ideas in a post-Jobs world, and headlines in the runup to the event have not been exactly&nbsp;helpful.Last week Apple's systems were widely blamed for theleak of intimate private picturesof celebrities including Jennifer Lawrence and Kirsten Dunst. "Thank you iCloud," tweeted Dunst. Apple has moved quickly to tighten up security for the cloud, but with major announcements expected about plans in health and money, where privacy is vital, the scandal was highly embarrassing.If anyone can understand how the stars felt, it's Cook. The early life of a man often described as deeply private will no doubt one day make a fascinating read, although to date he has been reluctant to give much detail. Born in Mobile, Alabama in 1960 to a shipyard worker and a pharmacist mother, he grew up in the battleground of the civil rights movement.He has spoken about the impact it had on him. "Growing up in Alabama in the 1960s I saw the devastating impact of discrimination. Remarkable people were denied opportunity and were treated without basic human dignity solely because of the colour of their skin," he said in probably hismost intimate public speech so far: last year at the United Nations, organised by Alabama's Auburn University, his alma mater.Not far from where he lived, he recalled, he once saw a cross burning outside the home of one such "remarkable family". "Since these early days, I have seen and have experienced many types of discrimination and all of them were rooted in the fear of people that were different than the majority," he added, without giving any further detail.  It was hard not to see an allusion to his own sexuality: Cook is the most powerful and prominent gay man in business.Cook regularly tops polls of the most powerful LGBT figures in the world and, as you'd expect, never really talks about it. He has championed diversity at Apple – a move that comes as its tech peers are all at pains to stress they want to diversify away from their mainly white, male and straight roots to better reflect the world around them.Apple's diversity report suggests it is slightly less dominated by white straight men than Google, Facebook et al – but only ever so slightly. Its definition of diversity is also broader and includes  sexual orientation, veteran status and disabilities.The truth about Cook's reticence may be partly that he has little time for a private life – the 53-year-old is work-obsessed almost to the point of being clinically workaholic.Haunted Empire, Yukari Iwatani Kane's book on post-Jobs Apple, paints a portrait of a man who rises at 4.30am, gets an hour in at the gym and is at his desk by six. He lives on energy bars and Gatorade when not dining simply on chicken and rice. He will "fly to Asia, spend three days there, fly back, land at 7am at the airport and be in the office by 8.30am, interrogating someone about some numbers," she writes.If Jobs put the fear of God into people by shouting, Cook prefers awkward silence. "Sometimes he would take an energy bar from his pocket while he waited for an answer, and the hush would be broken only by the crackling of the wrapper," she writes.Hard work and a focus on diversity are both nice, but they are not how Cook will ultimately be judged. Those calculations will be about units sold and money made. So far he seems to be doing a pretty good job.Cook was appointed by Jobs in 1998 when he was a 37-year-old supply chain manager at PC maker Compaq. "I knew what I wanted, and I met Tim, and he wanted the same thing. So we started to work together, and before long I trusted him to know exactly what to do. He had the same vision I did, and we could interact at a high strategic level, and I could just forget about a lot of things unless he came and pinged me," Jobs told Walter Isaacson for his definitive biography of the tech pioneer.Apple had a reputation for design flair coupled with back-office mayhem before Cook. A truly world-class operations manager, he helped make it the behemoth it is today. He has called himself the "Attila the Hun of inventory". With him alongside his hero and mentor, Apple has been transformed from a struggling company not far from bankruptcy to the most valuable one on the US stock market, valued at $596bn (£365bn). Last year it generated $171bn in revenue and $37bn in profit.But is the Attila of the back office enough to keep Apple out front? Michael Cusumano, a Sloan School of Management professor at MIT, has his doubts. Cusumano and David Yoffie of Harvard Business School have been studying Apple, past and present, as they put the finishing touches to their book,Strategy Rules, to be published next spring. The book examines what happens to companies after they lose talismanic leaders, focusing on Microsoft's Bill Gates, Intel's Andy Grove and of course Jobs.In all three cases, they argue, the companies lost their way after leaders left. In Microsoft and Intel's case they have never fully recovered, says Cusumano. He is critical of Apple under Cook but adds it is too early to say whether the company will follow the same path."It's fair to say that Apple is going through a transition period. They have to organise product development in a different way, the way they think about strategic positions. Things are becoming much more systematic under Tim Cook and in many ways that's a good thing. There was certainly a lot of chaos under Jobs. But it was a creative chaos. It was the type of atmosphere where Steve pushed people to outperform even their highest expectations," he says.Jobs wasn't the company's only talent, or the only one to spot future trends, but he was the one with the ability to "curate, to select and synthesize and push in a way that I think is impossible to replicate," says Cusumano.Cook has never suggested he has a similar talent. Instead he is relying on the proven ability of people like Apple's design guru, Sir Jonathan Ive. He has also brought in new talent, including music-industry shakers and dealmakers Dr Dre and Jimmy Iovine, who came with his $3bn purchase of music company Beats, and the appointment of Angela Ahrendts, former boss of Burberry, to head Apple's retail empire.Cusumano doubts the team strategy will lead to an Apple that is as innovative as it was under Jobs – and for a company that has, until now, based itself on creating breakthrough, category-defining products, that's a problem."There's no reason Apple can't be an extraordinarily successful company but it will be a different one," he says. The danger for Apple is that without those innovations it will become the next Sony, he believes. The Japanese giant was once synonymous with innovation but  "they kept missing major technological changes". Sony remains a mighty entity but it no longer defines the landscape.One of the risks he identifies is Apple's closed system. Tight control of its operating system and who can use it gives greater control over the look and experience of its products and allows it to charge premium prices. As Google's competing Android mobile system reaches ever better, and cheaper, iPhone rivals, he argues that "commoditisation" will present Apple with a major threat unless it can once again carve out a new market with a new product.Cook has said he wants to make Apple more open. "I think you will see us open up more in the future," he told a tech conference last year. "But not to the degree that we put the customer at risk of having a bad experience."For Apple, and its fans, that degree of control is one of the things that makes Apple special. Apple's software, devices and services like iTunes and iCloud are their own universe, creating a virtuous circle out of a closed(ish) system.It is a feature that drew one of Cook's "only Apple" lines. "We do this so that we can create a seamless experience for our users that is unparalleled in the industry. This is something only Apple can do. You've seen a few people on stage this morning, but there are thousands of people that made today possible," he told Apple's World Wide Developers Conference (WWDC) in June.John Gruber, author of the Daring Fireball blog and one of Apple's most astute analysts, agrees – to a degree. "Is this true, though? Is Apple the only company that can do this? I think it's inarguable that they're the only company thatisdoing it, but Cook is saying they're the only company thatcan,"he wrote not long after the WWDC speech.Rivals Microsoft and Google might be close to doing what Apple does; Amazon and Samsung less so. But Apple is already there – and, Gruber argues, its enormous scale has created an opportunity for the company to escape the commoditisation that would destroy today's premium iPhone with tomorrow's cut-price copy."Apple's commitment to making its own hardware provided necessary distinction while the company was relatively small. Now that the company is huge, it still provides them with distinction, but now also an enormous competitive edge that cannot be copied. You can copy Apple's strategy, but you can't copy their scale," writes Gruber.When it comes to running scale, who better than Cook? Now all he needs is "one last thing".
Direct sequels are rare in the Tales series, which typically sees new worlds and characters in each instalment. Not so withXillia 2, which continues last year's story of fractured worlds in&nbsp;conflict.Set a year on fromTales ofXillia, it&nbsp;sees new character Ludger Kresnik&nbsp;battle incursions from pocket universes, while debating the virtue of wiping out parallel realities. Ludger&nbsp;feels bland, though – a near-silent protagonist; unusual for the series. However, in combat he is a real beast, whose ability to switch&nbsp;weapons and fighting styles instantly keeps enemy encounters snappy and&nbsp;engaging. He's so good, in fact, that&nbsp;you&nbsp;will rarely use other characters.Returning players will probably appreciateXillia 2more than newcomers,&nbsp;but they might also be disappointed by the abundance of reused materials seen on the journey through a world with which they are already familiar.
At first glance,Velocity 2Xappears to offer a blend of typical 2D shooter and platformer, but something quite different lurks below its familiar – and well-presented – exterior. A sci-fi action title, it was clearly inspired by the arcade stalwarts but, mechanically, is a distinct beast. This sequel to the original platforming-free shooterVelocityallows you to accelerate through an energetic, teleportation-based puzzler. There is plenty of shooting, leaping and scoring, but it's the movement throughVelocity 2X's stages – whether on foot or in the cockpit of a spacecraft – that sets it apart. The ability to teleport through walls and enemies, often several times a second, has inspired level design that constantly asks the player to think and interact in new ways. The result is a thunderously fast, terrifically rewarding thrill ride that also rather cleverly evokes a sense of gaming's past.
Time to cast aside assumptions that gaming's genres are a limited, somewhat homogeneous whole and embrace the new breed. Brace yourself forHatoful Boyfriend, then, a title offering interspecies flirting at a school for gifted pigeons that has welcomed a sole human student. Yours is the role of that mysterious woman, in a world where birds reign supreme. And work in cafes. And have their own&nbsp;gangs.It's all absurd of course, but the game positively revels in absurdity. This English translation of a cult Japanese release takes the form of the visual novel, a genre built entirely from text and near-static images. To interact involves much reading, a little decision-making and ample opportunities to romance all manner of winged creatures. As such,Hatoful Boyfriendmight, justifiably, be said to occupy an extreme niche, but it is so eccentric, self-aware and hilarious that it's utterly delightful to play.
If, as expected, the launch of the new iPhone and Apple's iWatch health monitor leads to record sales, more money than ever will pour in to Apple's enormous pile of cash.At the last count, at the end of June, Apple had $164.5bn of "cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities" on its balance sheet – up a heady $18bn on just nine months earlier. The vast majority of that money – $137.7bn – is held by Apple's foreign subsidiaries. From September 2013, its overseas cash mountain increased by $26bn.In April, US Trust, a private bank, calculated that Apple's hoard, then $159bn (£97bn), was more than twice the UK's cash reserves, which stand at $70bn, or roughly equivalent to Britain's annual spending on education and housing combined.Only $8.3bn of Apple's stash is actually in hard cash. The rest is invested in government and corporate securities and other investments. Its biggest holdings are $35.5bn in US treasury bonds and $73bn in corporate securities. Apple also holds sizable investments in foreign countries' debt, commercial paper-based and mortgage-backed securities, all controlled by its own fund management group, Braeburn.This giant portfolio is bigger than the world's largest hedge fund, Bridgewater, which manages about $150bn. But Braeburn Capital – named after the apple – is not run from Wall Street. It is based in Reno, the capital of Nevada, a state where there is no corporation tax or capital gains tax.What Apple should do with its giant cash pile has become a great talking point of corporate America.Carl Icahn, the activist investor, bought shares in Apple last yearand demanded that the company spend $50bn buying back its shares by the end of this month. Icahn, who accused Apple of being "the most overcapitalised company in corporate history", backed down in February but claimed a partial victory because Apple started buying back its own shares.Another option is for Apple, which usually shuns big deals, to use the money for acquisitions. Apple surprised analysts this year bypaying $3bn for Beats Electronics, the headphone maker and streaming service co-founded by rapper Dr Dre. Apple paid for the deal with just a single month of free cash flow.Apple's big problem is that so much of its liquid assets are held overseas, with profits booked in low-tax countries such as Ireland. If it moved the money to the US, the Internal Revenue Service would demand about a third of it. Back in April 2013Apple got around this inconvenience by borrowing $17bn in the biggest corporate bond offering on recordas part of its promised $55bn payout to shareholders by the end of next year. The pledge helped to win over Icahn.With all that cash in reserve, Apple was able to raise the money at super-low interest rates – it paid far less than it would have had to pay in tax if it had chosen to repatriate cash to fund the buyback. Professor Edward Kleinbard of the University of Southern California argues that Apple's net cost was next to nothing, because it also earns interest on its overseas holdings.But paying out cash to shareholders does nothing about almost $140bn sitting untouched overseas. Amit Daryanani of RBC Capital Markets in San Francisco says: "One of the things they can do is acquisitions outside the US. The Beats deal was the most expensive deal they have done in a while, so they may have a bit more appetite to do larger acquisitions."But doing something dramatic to make a dent in their cash pile would be [a break] with their history. The most likely thing is they keep chugging along, returning the cash they generate in the US to shareholders and doing small acquisitions as they go along."Apple is one of a number of US companies that hold record amounts of cash on balance sheets, with increasing quantities held overseas. The biggest US companies hold $1.95tn outside the US, an increase of $206bn on a year ago, according to Bloomberg.Companies have lobbied the US for a tax holiday to let them bring the cash back, and even their critics concede that the US tax system does not work. The debate has been heightened by therecent string of tax "inversion" deals by US companiesbuying overseas to get access to a lower tax rate.Apple's boss Tim Cook told Congress last year that the company did not use "tax gimmicks" and would support reforms that increased the company's tax liabilities.Kleinbard says the US tax code needs overhauling, but argues that Apple's untappable overseas cash is not a problem but a direct result of its own planning. "Apple and firms like it are hoist by their own petard. They have gigantic pools of cash that are the fruit of their tax-avoidance labour but they can't enjoy it in the way they want because that is the deal. The way to look at the cash is not that it's a problem but that it's the result of the success US firms have had in generating stateless income."
Exactly a month ago today, an unarmed black teenager namedMichael Brownwas fatally shot by a white police officer in the town of Ferguson, Missouri. There were a number of eyewitnesses, but the circumstances of the killing are disputed and are currently the subject of FBI and grand jury investigations. What is not in dispute is that the killing sparked waves of protest, rioting, heavy-handed policing, the imposition of curfews, the calling out of the National Guard, and, at times, images that made Ferguson look more like a suburb of Baghdad.To many of us, this brought back memories of thesavage beating administered to Rodney Kingby officers of the Los Angeles police department in 1991. This incident, which in normal circumstances would probably have been just a routine event for the LAPD, sparked the most serious urban rioting seen in the US since the Watts riots of 1965. What triggered it was the fact that the assault on King had been video-recorded by a witness from the balcony of his apartment. Theresulting videois of poor quality but nevertheless makes sickening viewing; when broadcast on US network TV, it led to an explosion of rage by black citizens.So an early example of "citizen media" played an important role in the King story. Now spool forward 23 years to 9 August this year. Ferguson is a predominantly black town, but its police force is predominantly white. Shortly after the killing, bystanders were recording eyewitness interviews and protests on smartphones and linking to the resulting footage from their Twitter accounts. News of the killing spread like wildfire across the US, leading to days of street confrontations between protesters and police and the imposition of something very like martial law. The US attorney general eventually turned up and the FBI opened a civil rights investigation. For days, if you were a Twitter user, Ferguson dominated your tweetstream, to the point where one of my acquaintances, returning from a holiday off the grid, initially inferred from the trending hashtag "#ferguson" that Sir Alex had died.There's no doubt that Twitter played a key role in elevating a local killing into national and international news. (Even Putin's staff had some fun with it, offering to send human rights observers.) More than 3.6m Ferguson-related tweets were sent between 9 August, the day Brown was killed, and 17 August.Three cheers for social media, then?Not quite. Listen to what John McDermott, a thoughtful observer of new media, has to say. "If you have checked your Facebook feed over the past week and a half,"he writes, "you have almost undoubtedly seen a friend participating in the ice bucket challenge, the feelgood viral sensation aimed at raising awareness of and dollars forALSresearch. If, however, you spent more of your time on Twitter, you were more likely to have received harrowing updates from Ferguson, Missouri, where police officers (and now the National Guard) are trying to enforce order on a town demanding justice for Michael Brown, the 18-year-old man gunned down by a police officer on Aug 9."One of the most important functions of social media such as Facebook and Twitter is the way it "refers" (ie point) friends or followers to articles published elsewhere. McDermott cites figures from SimpleReach, a social media analytics company that works with hundreds of publishers, including Forbes, Gawker, theNew York Timesand Vice, which show that "stories about Ferguson and/or Michael Brown published since Aug 7 have generated fewer Facebook referrals on average (256) than stories about the ice bucket challenge (2,106)".This is interesting in a number of ways. First, it undermines the general assumption of commentators, especially since the dawning of the Arab spring, that all "social media" can be lumped into one category. The reality is that Twitter and Facebook are radically different networks.More importantly, the discrepancies between the way the two services handled the Brown killing illustrate the ways in which social networks can highlight or downplay news stories or events. The idea that these technologies provide tabulae rasae on which events inscribe themselves is bunkum.And there's no smoking gun here, just a smoking algorithm. What you see on Twitter is determined by who you follow. In contrast, what you see in your Facebook newsfeed is "curated" by the company's algorithms, which try to guess what will interest you (and induce you to buy something, perhaps). Having a frank discussion about the racism that disfigures America might not fit that bill. Which is why Facebook is for ice-bucket memes and Twitter is for what's actually going on.
InPT(PS4), you wake up on the concrete floor of a room. The only door leads to an L-shaped corridor where the sound of a newsreader on a crackly radio describes the gruesome murder of a family. You walk to the end, push through a door and find yourself at the start of the same corridor, this time in silence apart from an urgent knocking on one of the locked doors. The sense of mystery and trepidation as your predicament unfolds, along with the genuinely horrifying shocks it has in store, are chilling in a way that games seldom manage. Solving its oblique puzzles reveals that it’s actually a trailer (playable teaser, PT, geddit?) for the newSilent Hillgame, a collaboration between Pan’s Labyrinth director Guillermo Del Toro and video game auteur and Metal Gear creator Hideo Kojima. Based on the evidence of PT, it’ll be absolutely terrifying.
inFamous: First LightThis piece of downloadable content is so compact and contained that you can play it without owning inFamous: Second Son, the full-length game. It tells the backstory of Fetch, a neon “conduit” who recharges her powers by draining energy from fluorescent lights and can run very fast, as well as unleashing the usual catalogue of electric death on anyone silly enough to get in her way. Fetch’s brother, despite being a lowlife petty criminal, is also her only friend, helping his sister give up heroin before becoming the emotional lever for the rest of the game. Fetch’s abilities multiply quickly and are way more devastating than those of the original hero, Delsin, whose appearance in this game’s battle arenas feels underpowered. With a relatively small chunk of Seattle to explore, the faster pace and shorter story suit the game’s superficial mechanics far better than the protracted and eventually shallow Second Son. It’s a pyrotechnic-fuelled romp.PS4, Sony, £15.99Metro ReduxSet in post-nuclear war Moscow, where humanity’s last vestiges shelter in the decimated remains of the city’s mutant-infested tube network, Metro 2033 and its sequel, Last Light, aren’t exactly lighthearted frolics. Unique in their pervasive sense of Slavic-grade melancholy, both games forced you to cling to every last round of ammunition, as it might prove to be the difference between life and death in the spittle-flecked maws of a passing band of genetically deviant monstrosities. These Redux versions both look beautiful, the gloom of the tunnels and choking surface world look more atmospheric than ever, helping the games’ scenery tell its part of the story. Both titles also now have more adaptable difficulty levels, making them accessible to those who don’t like games to be a dispiriting ordeal. They may lack a touch of polish, but there’s no first-person shooter quite like them.Xbox One, PS4, PC, Deep Silver, £27.99 - £29.99
Oh dear. The timing of&nbsp;this one could not have been much worse. For three reasons, really. First off, we're going to a&nbsp;festival.Last week's big Volvowould have been ideal. How the hell are we, and all our stuff, going to get into this?We do, somehow. That's not to say there is loads of space in a Toyota Aygo; there isn't – it's tiny. Mind you, you tend more to fill up the space you have, especially if you're going away, so if you don't have it, you can't fill it. And it means that our offspring are now buried under sleeping bags, etc, which could make the journey more peaceful. A&nbsp;lot of people could get away with smaller cars, that's what I'm saying.Second, I've had an operation on my hand, meaning I can't actually drive. Again, not an insurmountable problem. My girlfriend can drive, tell me what the car is like, and I can pass it on, OK?So, with a three-cylinder one-litre engine, it's not the most powerful car and you need to change down going up a slope, especially loaded up the way we are. Otherwise it copes perfectly well with a long motorway journey for which it's not really designed. Not the quietest of rides, but comfortable enough, and it doesn't feel too tiny and bully-able from the inside. As a passenger, I'm fine in the front, though I'd be in trouble if I had to go in the back.The figures – fuel consumption and CO2– are good. Whether or not you'd get this car really comes down to how much you like it. And I'm not smitten. It is a striking design, yes, especially from the front with its face like an X, but thePeugeot 108we had the other day, which is built on the same platform, is a friendlier car, I think. A Fiat Panda, too, is jollier, and aVW up!and its relatives neater. I'm saying no thanks to an Aygo. Oh, and the sound&nbsp;system is a bit tinny, and there is nothing like a sad violin to show up tinniness.Why the sad violin? Because of the third reason this is the wrong time for this bloody Aygo. My career as a motoring journalist is at the end of the road. This is not how I wanted to bow out; I was thinking more of a&nbsp;glamorous Italian supercar ending&nbsp;in an i, with hundreds of horsepower, burning rubber and a glorious scream as I accelerate into the sunset… There is a scream, but it's the muffled one of a child who is buried and fed up that we're not there yet; a scream the tinny stereo can't drown out.I am a passenger in an overloaded little Toyota that's struggling with the hills, and that I'm finding impossible to love. Oh well, in my heart of hearts, I never really liked cars all that much anyway. Maybe you guessed. Toot-toot.Toyota Aygo X-Clusive 1.0 litre 5-door manualPrice£11,695Top speed99mphAcceleration0-60mph in 14.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption68.9mpgCO2emissions95g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating6/10
It all began more than 20 years ago, in a cramped student flat in Chicago, where two friends, Jason Jones and Alex  Seropian, programmed computer games from their living room and hand-assembled the boxes. But next week, Bungie, a company that has grown from a team of two to more than 500 employees, will release the world's most expensive and eagerly awaited video game – to an expected 10 million players.Many claim that Destiny will revolutionise the face of gaming when it hits shelves globally on 9 September, in the same way that Halo, the influential franchise that put Bungie on the map, did when it was released in 1999. To date, Halo has sold 50m copies.Destiny will be Bungie's first new project since Halo and its sequels, and the anticipation and secrecy surrounding it has already ensured it is the most pre-ordered piece of entertainment software in history. When a beta demo version was released in July, a record-breaking 4.6 million people played it.In a sign of the increasingly mainstream nature of video games, Paul McCartney has co-composed the soundtrack – a 50-minute orchestral suite – as well as writing a theme song for the game."The hype levels that have surrounded the game have been stratospheric, it's ridiculous," said Alan Ismail, who has racked up more than 15m views on his YouTubegaming video blogs under the name Moreconsoleand has worked with Bungie to test out Destiny. "This is definitely a game that is going to change the industry. It's a decade-long project as well, and you see Bungie comparing their game to Star Wars and Lord of the Rings, that kind of epic sci-fi trilogy, and they want to build this universe that will last a decade. It's a pretty insane project if you think about it."A sci-fi fantasy set in a post-apocalyptic world 700 years in the future, it enables players to become "guardians", travelling through space, either alone or with friends, with the task of investigating and destroying aliens before the human race is wiped out. The project has cost $500m – more than twice the budget of the new Star Wars films.Derek Carroll, a designer for Bungie who has worked on Destiny for almost five years, said the investment had been strongly focused on the social aspect of the game and of the Destiny universe, which is what has set it apart from other games. It can only be played online, ensuring everyone entering the Destiny universe is connected and can appear and interact in each other's games."Destiny is a tremendous undertaking and it is certainly the biggest game I've ever worked on or that possibly anyone's ever worked on," Carroll said. "Destiny is, in our minds, the next big step of pervasive social connections and really subtle social connections that you don't have to opt into, they are just always there. The world of Destiny is filled with other players."He added: "I would say Bungie aspires for Destiny to be a hobby, for you to spend your time playing it. There is a story that we are developing and everyone will experience the bones of it, but they will experience it in their own way, depending on if they are with friends or of they run into strangers. The people and the social interactions are what take it to the next level. My personal story going through the game will always be different from the next player, and we want people to want to be in the world, and really immerse themselves in it."The Bungie team, he added, had spent years "throwing away bad ideas and even good ideas that weren't ambitious enough or exciting enough" to get to this point. This week, the Bungie studio unveiled a Destiny Planet View website, which, using Google Street View technology, lets players peruse the spectacular game environments on Mars, Venus and the Moon as they would any real-world landscape.Carroll said: "The art team spent years nailing the tone and figuring out what Destiny would look like and how to create this beautiful world that is worthy of heroes and that you want to inhabit, want to be there. We're very proud that anywhere you walk in Destiny you can find a beautiful sunset or an interesting piece of humanity's past that captures your eye and invites you to learn."Ismail, who has played the game, also praised the social element of Destiny, which he said was unlike any other game on the market and had been generating buzz for over a year, as the notoriously secretive Bungie drip-fed tantalising titbits to the gaming community.He said: "It is interesting, because when playing Destiny you bump into random players and that has never really happened in a first-person shooter before. So you could be blasting aliens in the face, and you see another guardian on the horizon walking towards you and you can interact with them using the game's gestures, so that's pretty exciting."He added: "I think that's the reason it's going to be marked apart from other first-person shooters, the fact that there are going to be these social, public spaces where you can collide with other real-time players in this vast open world. Also the depth to which you can customise your character and make something that is unique to you is something you don't usually get in a first-person shooter game. So, as a long-term video game fan in general it's an amazing experience."Bungie has estimated that 10 million people will hit the game's servers when it launches on 9 September for Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3 and PS4, with Carroll jokingly adding that the company's goal with Destiny was to "break the internet".Matthew Pellett, editor of the Official PlayStation magazine, said he had already spent almost 50 hours playing the beta version of the game and expected that the hype around it would only increase on its release."If you look at Destiny's features in isolation, actually it isn't really doing anything that hasn't been done in other games before," said Pellett. "The online features, the social features, the shooting mechanics, the loot – they appear scattered across other games. But Destiny is the first title to bring them together into one cohesive package, and that is what people are excited about."He added: "When the final game comes out, I'm predicting it is going to be massive and I am sure it is going to introduce a new way of looking at these mechanics. In a couple of years, I think a lot more people will be doing what Bungie is doing with Destiny."
The iWatch, Apple's wearable computer, with a flexible screen and one-piece strap that snaps around the wrist and connects to an iPhone, is expected to be unveiled on Tuesday – but may not go on sale until 2015.Though the company's chief executive, Tim Cook, is expected to show off the iPhone 6, which will go on sale by the end of this month, the iWatch, which has been rumoured for more than a year but never officially confirmed, is not believed to be in mass&nbsp;production.A patentfiled by Apple in 2011and published in February 2013 suggests the wristband would have wireless links, storage and flexible display, be able to link to an iPhone, and display maps and other information.Wearable computers that mimic the function of a watch, but also connect to smartphones to offer extra functionality, are a growing category, though still of niche interest. The research firm Kantar says only eight in every 1,000 consumers across the largest western economies, including the US and UK, own a smartwatch.But that proportion could soar, says Ben Wood, chief analyst at the research firm CCS Insight. "This year there will be 1.3bn smartphones sold – if you can persuade even a tiny percentage to get a wearable too, the numbers get big pretty quickly."He thinks any launch of a wearable device from Apple will overshadow existing models from companies such as Samsung, LG and Motorola. "Those have all been ugly black plastic, designed by engineers," he said. "I think Apple will look to blend technology and fashion to make it more attractive."While photographs of the expected new iPhones have been leaked to websites in China and Australia, because their production lines have been making them by the million since mid-summer in China, nothing has appeared of the iWatch.According to the electronics industry newsletter Digitimes, which taps multiple manufacturing sources in China and Taiwan, the device remains in engineering verification testing, a preliminary stage before it goes into full manufacturing.Apple has shown off devices before selling them before: the iPhone was unveiled in January 2007 but went on sale in June that year; the iPad was first shown off in January 2010 but went on sale in the April.Wood says Apple's decision to unveil the device before it goes on sale would have triple benefits for the company – maximising the surprise of its unveiling, building demand before the launch, and torpedoing sales of rival devices from companies such as Samsung, LG and Motorola, all of which announced new smartwatches this week at the IFA trade fair in Berlin."It's about controlling the message," Wood said of the expected gap between announcement and release. "Apple has planned hard on this, and rather than going to mass manufacturing, where there seem always to be people who will leak components for their 15 minutes of fame, they are looking for a 'wow' factor."Multiple details have been leaked about the new iPhones – including that they will have larger, sapphire-treated screens and more rounded edges than current models.Apple is also expected to introduce a mobile payment function into the new phones and the wearable device. The company has reportedly signed deals with Visa, Mastercard and American Express based on the fingerprint authentication system found on its current 5S iPhone. None of the companies would comment.An Apple spokesperson said the company did not comment on rumours and speculation.
The ring of hackers who gathered naked pictures of more than 100 celebrities also planned to use a malware-ridden “clone” of Flappy Bird to steal photos from Android phones.They aimed to exploit users’ carelessness about the permissions that Android apps demand on installation to gain access to photos stored on the phone and siphon them to a remote location before Google spotted and blocked the malicious app.The ring, which experts believemay have been stealing and trading photos for at least two and a half years, congregated on the /stol/ – short for “stolen” – forum on image board AnonIB, a spinoff of the notorious 4chan community. That brought together hackers – who would break into celebrities’ phones, computers and cloud backup services to gain access to private photos – and “hoarders” who would pay substantial sums to receive copies of pictures that had not been made public.Writing in late July, one poster,discovered by security researcher Nik Cubrilovic, detailed how he had developed a copy of the Flappy Bird app for Android devices that would exploit app permissions granted during installation to steal the photos.An app developer describes how his Flappy Bird clone would grab photos from Android users’ phones.Photograph: Guardian“I am a fucking genious [sic]… Hear me out. I.. modded… the app,” the developer explained. “It now secretly downloads all of the phones pictures to my server when the game is running.”But, he added: “The problem is this – it’s a violation of google play developers license to do publish sneaky apps like that, and I REFUSE to risk my license over it.” He then asked for financial support to make a second Google Play developer account and promises to “post any wins [stolen photos] obtained in this thread”.“Note: this app will only work for android,” he added.Rik Ferguson, the vice president of security research at Trend Micro, said that the AnonIB plan was entirely plausible. “We frequently see manifestations of malware on Google Play Store and it’s certainly not malware-free,” he said.“Google do actively police Google Play but it tends to be post-release. So he’s saying that if he puts it on his account, it’s going to be found out and he’s going to be suspended. There’s a thriving underground market in verified Google developer accounts for exactly that purpose.”The Android app would have requested access to the user’s photos – among other functions such as internet access – on installation. Unlike Apple’s iOS, where users can block individual apps’ access to photos and location data, Android requires the user to accept every permission request for the app to install and offers no way to revoke them later.Ferguson adds that the ability to selectively approve permissions, as in iOS, is one of the improvements he would like to see made to Android. “At the moment, you can do that but only if you download certain third-party apps,” he says.The existence of the hole the rogue developer was trying to exploit is widely known and has been a source of criticism of Google. In August 2013 a senior manager at Googlereversedan alteration to Android that would have given users the ability to revoke permissions – a move that wascriticised by the online pressure group Electronic Frontier Foundation.Though AnonIB is currently unavailable for “scheduled maintenance” the Guardian has found archived copies of the posts.Ferguson added that although he had not seen examples of malware that specifically targeted photos on a user’s phone “the media attention around this [theft], because it was bigger than all the other ones in terms of number of people affected, is going to go someway towards accelerating interest in this sort of thing, because there will be more people aware of the technical possibility, and of the potential financial rewards”.Clones of Dong Nguyen’s games, which include Flappy Bird and August’s Swing Copter, have proliferated on app stores. On the day of Swing Copter’s launch, there werealready 62 separate clonesavailable on the Google Play store – many of which would have had a few downloads from interested users.Google’s Play Store, the biggest though not the only Android app store, has a pre-approval process designed to weed out openly malicious apps but it is widely perceived as less aggressive than the equivalent process on the iOS App Store.That has led to apps that have exploited some users. In December, the US FTCcharged the developer of an Android torch app which had had more than 50m downloads with “deception”because it silently shared user location and device IDs with advertisers. In Aprilan Android antivirus appthat did nothing but change its icon when pressed received more than 30,000 downloads at $3.99 before being taken down over a week later.Google declined to comment for this story.Apple tightens iCloud security after naked celebrity hack
Two of the world’s biggest porn sites have promised “in-your-face” support for next week’s “battle for the net” protest against proposals by US regulators to create online fast lanes for some companies.Pornhub and Redtube, two of the world’s largest pornography sites, on Friday announced they would join the “go-slow” day of action planned for 10 September.The porn giants join others includingReddit, Mozilla and Etsy in protestagainst plans by the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) to allow cable and telecoms firms to create fast lanes for some customers.Critics charge such a move would end “net neutrality” — the principle that all traffic is equal on the internet — and lead to the stifling of competition and innovation online.“We’ll be displaying an official widget frombattleforthenet.com. We won’t be shutting down or streaming your porn slower. There will be a big in your face message that users will need to close. We hope to reach around 50 million people on Sept 10th,” a Pornhub spokeswoman wrote on Reddit.Both Pornhub and Redtube are owned by Mindgeek, a Luxembourg-based conglomerate that claims to be one of the top five bandwidth consumers in the world, generating 1.7bn visits per month.Most of the world’s largest tech companies, including Amazon, Facebook, Google and Netflix, have come out against proposals being discussed by the FCC to create fast lanes for higher-paying companies. But the top tier firms have yet to sign on for next week’s protest.Sites participating in the slowdown will display prominent messages including an infinitely spinning “site loading” icon – the so-called “spinning wheel of death” – to symbolise what surfing the web could be like without net neutrality.The alerts will direct the sites’ users to a site with contacts for policymakers in Washington so they can register their support for net neutrality.A similar email and telephone campaign at the end of the FCC’s public consultation period on the proposed changes led to the regulator’s systems crashing. The crash followedan attack on its net neutrality proposals by comedian John Oliver.The FCC is also considering reclassifying internet service as a telecommunications service under Title II of the Telecommunications Act. That move would hand the FCC far more power over the industry and is being vigorously contested by the cable and telecoms companies.The FCC is expected to issue a final ruling as soon as the end of the year.
A “smart ring” manufactured by a US-Chinese company, Mota, will flash notifications and scroll text across an attractive metal ring, in the latest incarnation of wearable technology.“The secret to good wearable technology is to make it super, super simple,” Mota’s co-founder Kevin Faro explained to the Guardian on the show floor of the bustling IFA in Berlin.“The idea of the smart ring is to deliver important notifications discreetly to the finger – if you’re in an important meeting but your wife is about to give birth, you want to know immediately but you also don’t want to annoy the boss,” explained Faro.The ring, a work in progress, will vibrate before displaying icons and small snippets of text on a display on one side of the ring. It connects to Android and iPhones via Bluetooth, with a function that only allows text, call and email notifications from those most important to you.“We’re starting with basic notifications but the software is adaptable and we can easily add notifications for other apps like Uber or Twitter,” said Faro.A prototype of the Smart Ring with external battery and flat screen, which will both be integrated into the body of the ring using a small curved display.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMota is drawing on its experience of building three generations of smartwatches to create something small and waterproof with decent battery life. The ring is wirelessly charged and will come with inserts to fit the ring to the wearer’s finger.A prototype ring isfor sale on Indiegogofor $60 (£37) with an “alpha” version of the ring available by a projected date of March 2016, for $150. The alpha version will ship to testers in six months, with first production models shipping to buyers in nine months.“We often come up with ideas that we’re super psyched about internally, but we’re a business and we need to know consumers want to buy it, explained Faro. “We’re using crowd funding to test user reaction and see if there’s demand before putting it into mass production.”Inserts will fit inside the ring to size it to the wearer’s finger.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThis year has seen manufacturers flood the wearable technology market with hundreds of fitness trackers, smartwatches and other devices, despite consumer adoption being slow with smartwatches in particularfailing to appeal to the mass market.The Mota smart ring is an alternative to the smartwatch but may suffer a similar fate with consumers,bought as a noveltybutabandoned after six months.•Motorola’s Moto 360 is a smartwatch masquerading as a classic time piece•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear•Two months with Android Wear: the best smartwatches yet
When winter draws in, forget headphones: music-enabled smart beanies are the latest answer to cold heads and boring commutes.French electronics manufacturer Archos’s new wireless Music Beanie is a hat and headphones in one that connects to a smartphone, tablet or other music player via Bluetooth to stream tracks to two built-in speakers each side of the head. It can also be used as a Bluetooth headset for making and taking calls, via a built-in microphone.Pause, play and skip tracks from the controls on the side.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOne side has some music controls built in for pausing, playing and skipping tracks, while both small speakers are water-resistant, and so should handle British drizzle without issue.The speakers can be removed through small slits in the beanie’s headband when the hat needs a proper wash. They offer eight hours of music playback on a 90-minute charge via the built-in micro-USB port.Eight hours of music playback from a 90 minute charge.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Music Beanie is being shown off at the IFA electronics trade show in Berlin this week, and will cost €29 from October. It sounds as good as some £20 headphones and comes in three colours: white, black and blue knit.•Smart clothing on show at the London Wearable Tech Show
I need a good quality video capture lead or card to make copies of old VHS video tapes. Can you recommend a good device? I have two video tape players and a cheap video capture lead that only produces AVI files. I bought it a few years ago, and I am wondering if there are other leads / devices available that can produce other formats.PeterThe simplest way to convert VHS video into a digital format is to use a VHS/DVD player/recorder, which will probably have the word “combo” somewhere in the title. Personally, I’d go for one made by Panasonic, but there are alternatives from Toshiba, Philips, Sony and other companies. The best of these will transfer your VHS tape to a DVD, and some may even improve the mediocre mage quality that is inherent with VHS.There were lots of combo players around a decade or so ago, and you can pick up a second-hand models on Amazon or eBay for anything from about £45 to £200. It could be a bit harder to pick a new one, butAmazon.co.ukhas a newToshiba DVR20 Digital DVD Recorder and VCR with Freeviewfor £287.48 or aToshiba RDXV603-in-1 for £550. These models were discontinued in 2010 and 2011 respectively. The drawback is that most of these machines record using DivX or MPEG-2 rather than MP4, but if you really needed to transcode them, you could do that on a PC.I assume a lot of people bought these machines to copy their VHS tapes and then sold them when they’d done the job. If you want to follow their example, sooner is better. The stock is aging and getting more unreliable every year.The alternative, which is almost as simple, is to plug your best VHS player into a DVD Recorder or PVR (Personal Video Recorder). However, following the arrival of Freeview, modern recorders are going all-digital, and you will need one that accepts an analogue video input. I’d guess that your VCR has a SCART socket, in which case, a 21-pin SCART cable would do the job. SCART supports several different types of video (composite, component and S-Video) so you might manage with a SCART conversion cable. Check the back of your VHS player for output sockets.Capture leadsYou want to do the conversion with a PC, so you are looking for another device like your “cheap video capture lead,” which includes an analogue-to-digital video converter of the sort built in to combo player-recorders. There seem to be dozens of these, at prices from about£6toalmost £150, andprofessional productscan cost even more. Unfortunately, most of them have not been reviewed, and I have no idea which is best.SortingAmazon.co.ukresults by the Average Customer Review score suggests theVideo-2-PC DIY Video Capture Kitis worth a go at £33.95 because 93 of its 107 reviews give it 4 or 5 stars. This is on a par with the well-establishedElgato Video Capture lead(£72.71), which is regarded as one of the best of its type. If you want to spend less, then I’d try a ClimaxDigital VCAP lead such as theVCAP800(£19.99). Unlike many cheap video capture leads, this is sold and supported by ClimaxDigital UK, based in Durham. The cheapest lead I’d risk is theAugust VGB100 External Video Editing Card(£12.25), but that only seems to convert videos to MPEG format.Before buying a converter, check to see if you need aSCART-to-RCA phono plug adapter.EditingThe simplest way to copy VHS tapes is just to dump them to DVD. It’s time-consuming because the tapes have to be played in real time, but it does the job. The alternative is to save them to your hard drive and then either trim or edit them before burning them to DVD or, possibly, not. This is even more time-consuming and means you will also need video editing software and, ideally, the most powerful PC you can afford.Standard DVDs store videos as video object (.vob) files, which are in MPEG format. You can copy them, rename them with an .mpg or .mpeg extension, and then import them into your video program for editing. You can then save them in whatever format you like, though bear in mind that MPEG is “lossy” (like MP3) and transcoding may not improve the result. You can even try to “upconvert” videos to a higher resolution, though again, it may not be worth the effort. Modern DVD players with built-in upscaling usually make a better job of it. Either way, editing MPEG and MP4 files seems to me to be more difficult and much more unpredictable than editing .avi files.There’s a plethora of free programs to try and the VideoHelp website is agood source of softwareand advice.Doom9.netis another good resource, especially for DVDs.When it comes to video editing, it’s mainly a matter of finding whatever works for you, whether it’s something as simple as Windows Live Movie Maker or as complicated as the free version of the professional Lightworks software. But this is an area where, if you do a lot of editing, it’s probably worth splashing out on a cheap commercial program such as Sony Vegas Movie Studio or Adobe Premiere Elements, to name but two.
Watching a game come together is like watching a cathedral self-assemble during a hurricaneMaking a modern video game, like filming a blockbuster movie, is a profoundly complicated endeavour. Hundreds of staff, working in different departments, in different disciplines, all contributing content to a mass of code, spread across hundreds of computers and a vast server network. Behind it all, there has to be one creative vision – a consistent fictional universe. The challenge is to ensure that, at the end of the three-year, multimillion dollar development cycle, something of that vision remains.Releasing on Tuesday, Destiny looks like one of the most ambitious video games ever made. It is a multiplayer online shooter, a narrative adventure and a co-operative role-playing game rolled into one. In a distant future, the solar system has been invaded by aggressive aliens and the Earth is all but defenseless. 500 years of peaceful technological process, watched over by an alien presence known as “the traveller”, have come to a violent end. As guardians of the planet, players must fight back. The battle will take them off-planet, to the Moon, Mars, Venus and beyond. There are worlds to explore, battles to get into, new players with whom to make friends. The beta was played by 4.6m people. The launch of the game could triple that.So how does a company like Bungie, which spent a decade making the hugely successful Halo series of sci-fi shooters, start on a new concept? Where did Destiny come from?Although production officially began in 2009, the story goes back much further. “I can point you not just to early ideas, but to actual code implementation in 2002,” says the company’s chief operating officer, Pete Parsons. “We had to turn that into a pitch and draw concept art in 2008. But Jason Jones [Bungie’s co-founder] was thinking about this back in the 90s. It’s like, James Cameron wanted to do Avatar in 1995 but hit a wall: he knew there was no way he could pull it off. Destiny is an experience we’ve wanted to explore for many years, but maybe didn’t have the bandwidth, the technology, the expertise, the critical mass to get it done.”Art and inspirationWhile engineers were working on the logistics of constructing one seamless online galaxy for players to explore and meet in, the 14-person concept art team was beginning to sketch out the look of the world. “Creating a universe requires a whole host of disciplines,” says lead concept artist Jesse van Dijk. “The first thing you do is try to define the atmosphere of the game, from there you progress through looking for images that express that feel. It is a somewhat fragmented process – there won’t be a single image that defines everything about what you want your world to feel like.”The team studied science fiction art from the 70s – they wanted a vintage flavour to the look of the game, something that would hint at its origins as a fantasy title. “We admitted to ourselves that we love sci-fi, so why should we veer away from that simply because we’ve done it before?” says van Dijk. “But we’ve retained a strong fantasy element, we dubbed it mythic science fiction.”The artists looked at the work of surrealists including Zdzisław Beksiński and Peter Gric, as well as seventies and eighties manga. The team then started creating its own concept sketches, paintings and computer generated art. One of the earliest environments they drew was the wrecked Russian cosmodrome, where vast starships were built to take colonists across space. There are elements of Andrei Tarkovsky movies – a forlorn wasteland littered with high-tech wreckage.But the idea at this stage wan’t to design anything playable. “We’re very detached from the actual concerns that come with the rest of the design pipeline,” said Van Dijk. “It allows us to make observations that deal exclusively with the aesthetics – we don’t have to worry about things like texture memory.”Building a worldWhen the project shifted from pre-production into development, the team started to grow and preliminary design work started – even before the game engine was built. “We started by building core encounter spaces in our existing engines,” says director of production, Jonty Barnes. “We got teams of players colliding with each other in the world and we looked at what it would be like if they were in on different agendas. We’d build levels quickly and learn from them, we had lots of ideas, some of which may still come, some ended up on the cutting room floor. We also thought, what would it be like to plan for ten years? If we’re making a story or new characters, are they strong enough to stand up for a decade? That was a heavy filter on the things we developed.”All the while the team was growing. “We got to the point of committing to the architecture and starting production, and it actually timed very nicely with us shipping Halo: Reach,” says Barnes. “Over one weekend – and, my goodness, I remember it so well – we moved over 160 people who had just finished Reach and had some vacation time. We had to do a series of seminars showing them what we wanted to achieve with the game, the direction we were taking and getting them on board. Also getting hold of the new consoles was highly informative – we were able to work with Sony to plan ahead.”At its biggest the team was 500 people, made up of 200 artists, over 100 engineers, and other coders and support staff. The groups were continually shifting, thanks to a vast open office space that allowed all the desks to be moved around.“Early in development, art will stay with art, the concept artists will be by themselves, engineering will be doing a lot of pure research,” says Parsons. “But by the time you get into full production, those teams merge. The concept artists are working inside the world destination teams, and each destination – Mars, Venus, the Moon – has its own full team - it’s own engineers, artists, designers, testers, producers, you name it. We have some destination teams that, in themselves, have the same staff compliment as the entire original Halo.”“Every sub-group had its own producer, who costed everything out in terms of development time. We went from one producer on Halo: Combat Evolved to 30 in Destiny, not just because of the size of the team, but the complexity of the project. It’s like what Jason Jones once said, ‘watching a game come together is like watching a cathedral self-assemble during a hurricane’.”Seamless universeFactored into this is the way that the single Destiny build (there is one “universe” that runs across all the different console versions of the game) needs to cope with an array of different gameplay systems and demands.“The scale of the world, the amount of content we build is a major challenge,” says a workflow engineer, Brandi House. “There’s also the fact that so many teams cross over now. With Halo, we were used to one designer working on one mission and that was his thing. Now you have one mission that may intersect with a public space, and the character that plays through has their own set of gear so we have to work out how the level progresses and what sorts of loot and rewards you get. Then you mix that with how we tune difficulty. All these interacting pieces just require a tighter set of communication than we’ve ever had to do before.”With content coming in and a full roster of staff, the engineering focus shifted to testing the online infrastructure . “We created client bots, essentially fake players and we bombarded our systems with million of them,” says Barnes. “We have some of the original architects of Xbox Live on our team, we partner with Activision who have done Call of Duty and large scale games with Blizzard. There are live analytics running on every part of the game. We have servers distributed globally so we have to make sure that whatever territory you’re in you’ll have a good experience.”Community careAnd then the players come in. Like most online games these days, Destiny has been released in a limited demo form to gamers – once in June as an “alpha build” to a small closed group, and again in August as a “beta” to a much larger audience. But the studio says it also listens to – and takes on board – feedback through its website and social media.“I think Bungie has led the charge in improving the lines of communications between developers and gamers,” says community manager, David “DeeJ” Dague. “Through our user research programme we’re making this game in conjunction with our community. We have a database of willing test subjects – sometimes they’re answering questions about games from the other side of the world, sometimes we’re luring them into the lab to get their hands on it and give us a fresh perspective. That’s not something we shy away from.”Indeed, deep within Bungie’s huge office, a converted multiplex cinema, there is a UI room, where gamers can come in, play and talk about the game. The key though, is in interpreting the feedback without simply handing over the creative process to the players. “The community informs development, but the act of creation begins with us and our ideas,” says Dague. “Over time we iterate on that by studying the behaviour of people who infiltrate this living social world, sort of observe the way they behave with each other and pick out the forms of behaviour that we think will be most interesting. This is important. Take Halo – we could never have anticipated that something like Rooster Teeth’s like Red vs Blue would come along. We need to learn from that.”Barnes, agrees. He says the recent beta test provided a wealth of data, that is going to inform way beyond server loads. “We need to understand player behaviours. Are we seeing a convergence all going to one thing at once? What trends are we seeing? How do we broaden access? It’s not just about ensuring that the game runs well, it’s informing plans for the game. It’s about what players like to do at what times of day.“We’ve always planned this universe to build upon it, and part of that will be informed by players - what activities do people like, what are the most successful public encounters? We always wanted to change the way people play cooperatively. It seems to have resonated well with players.”Preparing to launchThe test, of course, comes on Tuesday. When the servers are live and the game kicks off for real. All the bot tests and beta sessions in the world can’t prepare a developer for that – as we dramatically saw with the chaotic launches of Grand Theft Auto Online and Battlefield 4. How many players can they cope with? “We have scaleable plans – there is no upper limit,” says Barnes. “We have a forecast of what we think is going to happen, and we have large steps that we’re ready to pull the trigger on. We’re in a really strong position.”Pete Parsons is confident in the 24 system engineers he has running shifts, monitoring the server loads all day every day, both the company’s own, and the server partners it is working with across the world. “We have an incredibly complex infrastructure. When the red lights go off it could be anything from ‘hey, we need to replace a drive’, to ‘hey, we need to call in some exploits because something bad is happening’. It’s about constantly managing load so we know that we can scale up and down. If players report an anomaly we can run test cases to find the same problem.“We have a motto in our Destiny operations centre: in Bungie we trust, all others we monitor.”Destiny: behind the scenes of the world’s most expensive video game
Instagram’s new Hyperlapse app has made it possible for users to create high quality timelapse videos using their iPhones.In the past, timelapse videos have required specific expensive equipment and therefore they have been difficult to make but the Hyperlappse app has made timelapse photography more easily accessible for all.With the app launching last week, this is the perfect chance for you to share your Hyperlapse efforts with us. We will include the most impressive of them on our site.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
When New York-based start-upDatacoupset up shop in June 2012, it had a question it wanted answered: if companies can make tonnes of money from gathering and trading people’s information, why can’t those individuals gain from it too?After receiving $565,000 in seed funding and spending two years of development, the company believes it has found a solution, and officially opening its personal data marketplace to the general public on Thursday. It gives people the chance to make small sums of money from their information, whilst knowing exactly how all those details of their existences are being used.Datacoup is taking on the big data brokers and aggregators of the world, such as Acxiom, Datalogix and Epsilon, who mass harvest personal information, analyse it all and sell their findings on, all without affected parties knowing a thing.Their often-secretive activities have caught the attention of global regulators: in May theUS Federal Trade Commission said Congress should force brokers to be more transparentand give consumers greater control over their data.Co-founder of Datacoup, Matt Hogan, believes the market is worth as much as $15 billion, but says his young firm is going disrupt the industry, make it more honest and bring that figure down to below $10 billion.Datacoup is actually going to acquire revenue by doing something similar to those aggregators, but in a wholly transparent way, only collecting and analysing the information users agree to give away through its website. The average user can expect to make around £5 a month ($10 is the most anyone can earn for now), though they don’t have to do very much to get the dosh.Unsurprisingly, privacy advocates loathe those surreptitious brokers and approve of what Hogan is trying to accomplish. “Companies have been profiting from selling our data for decades, yet other than the use of free services we have seen no benefit of that,” says Emma Carr, director of the Big Brother Watch.“This service [Datacoup] will give the public a much clearer idea about just how valuable their information is, which will inevitably lead to people being much more discerning about what information they give up about themselves and to who. From a data protection standpoint that can only be a good thing.”How to sell your dataHaving been part of the beta programme (and made a whopping $8 in the process), your reporter was delighted to see the same simple, intuitive interface in play. As soon as a user is logged in, they are given a guided tour, which will introduce them to the three pages related to their account.First, there’s the main account page, where the user selects which online accounts they’re happy for Datacoup to extract data from. These include Facebook, Google, Twitter, LinkedIn, Foursquare, Instagram, Tumblr, Last.fm and Meetup, which lets people easily organise meetings around special interests.It’s also possible to share transaction data from credit and debit cards. Datacoup promises to do so securely and sharing this information will be rewarded with higher earnings.The Account page lets Datacoup members get a better understanding of what specific information is being taken from each account and why it is of value. Finally, the Market page shows who is buying the data and when.None of the information users submit can be directly linked back to a specific person, though giving away gender, hometown and date of birth might give some indication of who an individual is. Indeed, anyone who got hold of such data could, if they so desired, find the related person.Once the user has selected the data they are happy to relinquish control of, they can logout, sit back and wait for the money to come in via PayPal. It’s that simple and there’s no need to go back unless users want to turn the info taps on or off.Datacoup’s data profile page.Can it work?Matt Hogan, co-founder of Datacoup and a former bonds salesman who was at Lehman Brothers when it went bankrupt at the start of the crash, believes many want to regain control of their information and how it’s used. He says as many as 15,000 are set to use the service from launch.“We’re going towards a world where users have control over their data… this is the first step,” he says. “We think it’s the consumers right to utilise their data as they see fit.”He thinks those data aggregators making billions from the details of other people’s lives will soon see a decline in their revenue, once users are more aware of what’s happening and demand more transparent services. Hogan also thinks Datacoup will have more reliable datasets as they’re coming straight from consumers, rather than the disparate sources that aggregators rely on. That means purchasers will also ditch the old guard, he claims.“Their data is really dogshit data [compared to our] data… It’s not looking good for data harvesters who are giving nothing back.”Yet he admitted Datacoup itself is having to pay users right now, as no data purchasers were ready to roll at launch. “We knew we’d have to get to certain thresholds before purchasers would commit,” he told the Guardian. “The beta did not really provide a large enough data set.”Hogan claims as many as 20 data purchasers have shown a strong interest and he expects a handful to join in the coming months. As soon as they’re signed up, users will see their names appear on the Market page and whether they’ve bought data or not.More than money may be on the table too. Data purchasers will be able to exchange offers, such as vouchers or free goods, in return for people’s information.A sad fact of internet life...Though Datacoup does have ostensibly altruistic aims, it isn’t likely to eradicate secretive data brokering practices on its own. By extension, it won’t give the masses much more privacy.“In some ways I think sites like this are inevitable – it’s a sad fact of life that despite the various regional regulations governing data protection, the global nature of the internet means that once your personal data is in the wild it will be used, so why not get paid by others who would wish to use your data?” notes Professor Alan Woodward, of the computing department at the University of Surrey.Yet data brokers are clearly facing a backlash, whether from regulators, companies like Hogan’s or privacy-conscious citizens.If governments are convinced to enforce controls on the industry in favour of openness, if similar services to Datacoup are launched in response and those concerned individuals jump on board, it’s likely privacy will get a significant fillip on a global scale.
When US-based websiteCodecademywas founded in 2011, its emphasis was on adults taking online courses to learn programming skills.Three years and 25m users later, the company has found that it is not just useful for adults. In fact, one of its big pushes in 2014 is around children and coding.That is partly because it realised lots of children were taking its existing courses but also through partnerships with schools. Particularly in England, where from this month,coding is part of the new computing curriculumfor children as young as five.“What’s going on here is unprecedented. It hasn’t happened in any other G8 or major economy: forcing an entire country to learn programming,” says Zach Sims, Codecademy’s chief executive.“The results will be pretty extraordinary. You’ll solve a couple of problems pretty much immediately: the IT skills gap and, hopefully, the gender gap in technology. And hopefully, you’ll raise a more digitally literate generation.”Obvious caveats: Codecademy wants to work with more schools, so it is hardly surprising that it would talk up the curriculum changes. Meanwhile, if these changes are going to solve skill and gender gaps for the UK workforce, that is a long-term rather than immediate effect.Still, Sims’ enthusiasm provokes some important talking points. “There’s been this persistent voicing of ‘no one really needs to learn to program’, and we always said that someday it would be in schools, but we never assumed it would be required,” says Sims.“It’s an amazing opportunity for students to learn a skill that isn’t being taught effectively anywhere else in the world at this scale. And for us, it’s very interesting in so much as it’s the first time a state has mandated blended learning.”Blended learning is education involving students studying courses online at their own pace, alongside traditional classroom teaching.“It’s impossible to scale teachers at the rate at which this policy requires them to scale. So it’s the first real at-scale test of [whether] you effectively have teachers acting as facilitators with an online tool,” says Sims.What those tools are, the commercial motivations of the companies providing them, and how teachers and schools decide which to use, are some of the under-reported elements of the new computing curriculum in England.The curriculum is deliberately flexible. It specifies what children should be learning but not what tools they should be learning with – including, in coding’s case, what languages they should be using.The latter aspect is aimed at keeping the curriculum relevant to trends in professional programming but it does mean teachers (particularly at primary level) are not just having to learn to teach a new discipline but also to decide what to teach it with.Codecademy’s UK operations boss Rachel Swidenbank.This is why pretty much any company involved in programming education has spent the last year creating lesson plans, teacher tutorials and other tools – in Codecademy’s case, apupil tracking tool for teachers to monitor their students’ progress.The sense of the UK as a guinea pig for such an ambitious curriculum change is strong. Sims’ colleague, Codeacademy’s UK operations head, Rachel Swidenbank, says governments in countries like Japan and South Korea are monitoring the English changes carefully, with a view to following their lead if they succeed.How are teachers responding to the challenge, though? “There is a lot of excitement that kids are going to be taught skills that are actually going to be relevant to jobs in a few years for them,” she says.“The excitement is outweighing the nervousness that exists, and I feel that teachers are being really collaborative, supporting each other with advice and resources. But as with any big change, there’ll be some hiccups when it starts.”How about criticism that only a small proportion of children will go on to professional careers as programmers? Swidenbank provides a now-familiar rebuttal: that teaching children programming skills has other benefits for their development.“It’s really about the computational thinking that you develop when you learn how to program. It almost teaches you how to think. It’s not just the hard skill you’re learning: and bringing it in to schools allows kids to learn how to problem-solve in a new way,” she says.However, Swidenbank adds that critics should not underestimate the progress that children can make, when they’re introduced to computational thinking at primary-school level.“We always assume a language like Python is something you might learn in secondary school, but we’ve had a lot of primary schools saying they’ve actually introduced it to their 10 and 11-year-olds, and that they’re flying through it. So who knows?” she says.That ties in to another debate fuelled not just by the new curriculum in England, but also by the emergence of learn-to-code apps like Tynker, ScratchJr, Hakitzu, Hopscotch and others: whether apps designed for younger children do a good enough job leading them on to full programming later on.Sims praises the work of these startups but is diplomatically cautious about the question. “There is a bit of a jump from this notion of algorithmic thinking with characters and blocks of code, to programming. It’s not necessarily a smooth one,” he says.“We met a teacher recently who said that moving from something like Scratch to a programming-based interface like Codecademy can be a challenge for students. It’s a solid introduction and whets their appetite, but to actually build something, code is really the requisite building block.”The conversation turns back to the idea of programming in schools as a long-term solution for skills gaps in workforces – not enough qualified software developers for the jobs available – as well as for a gender imbalance between men and women in the technology world.“What tends to happen with technology policy is a focus on the shorter term. How do we solve the gender gap in technology? Offer financial incentives. How do we get more labour? The visa problem in the US. And this is instead of investing in education,” he says.“If you start educating earlier and if you make it mandatory, over time you’ll see the levels – the socioeconomic and gender diversity of people who get involved in a subject like computer science – start to change. And that in turn changes the profile of an industry.“But culture shifts don’t happen over a period of months. The press has recently been really big on demonising Silicon Valley companies for a lack of socioeconomic and gender diversity, without suggesting a real solution. But there’s a pretty clear solution, which is education.”Codecademy’s first iPhone app.Codecademy is among the companies jostling to make the most of that trend. But what else will govern its plans for growth in the months to come? Mobile looms large. Well, larger than it has done until now, anyway.In December 2013, the company launched itsCodecademy: Code HouriPhone app, offering an introduction to programming with bite-sized exercises. It was a toe in the water but there is seemingly more to come.“Whenever we talk about mobile, most people say ‘that’s impossible, how are you going to teach programming on a mobile phone?’. But we live in a world where you have to: people are spending more and more of their time on mobile devices,” says Sims.“For us, it’s the challenge of simplifying it. A lot of the core principles we have on the website – learn through doing; chunked and available for short periods of time; the community interaction; and real practical benefits – you’re able to build a mobile product that replicates that experience.“We’ve been working on that for a while now and you’ll see the fruits of that labour sometime soon.”Codecademy is also looking beyond coding, with Sims saying that when he co-founded the company, he only expected programming to be its sole focus for a year or so. The wave of interest since launch changed those plans.“We’re nowhere close to being finished with programming, but there are lots of forks of programming, as it were, that are relevant to 21st century skills,” he says.“How many jobs are there in big data? It’s a field that’s applicable everywhere. Or statistics, which we think is something that is super-important for many people to learn to be successful – and is learnable in an environment very similar to Codecademy.”Even so, programming will remain the company’s focus. “We’ve struck oil, and we want to make sure we get all of it before we move on and look elsewhere.”•Coding at school: a parent’s guide to the new curriculum
It's Friday.
The giant video game publisher Electronic Arts (EA) is not universally loved – if you play games or talk about them on the internet, you may have noticed. Despite releasing some of the most successful games of the last 20 years (Fifa, Battlefield, Need For Speed, Mass Effect) the company has plenty of detractors. Why?Like its great rival, Activision, EA is sometimes seen as a soulless corporate monolith, interested only in frisking players for as much cash as possible. For two years running – in 2012 and 2013 – it was voted the worst company in America by readers ofthe Consumerist blog, beating banks as well as corporate tobacco and weapons manufacturers. The disastrouslaunches of SimCityandBattlefield 4, the confining and somewhat invasive nature of the publisher’s Origin digital gaming platform and thevoraciously monetisedsmartphone version of Dungeon Keeper, have kicked further dents in its reputation.If you were to lead the company, what would you do? This was the question facing Andrew Wilson almost a year ago. Previously the president of the EA Sports label, the Australian became chief executive in September, replacing John Riccitiello. He took over a business that had seen six years of financial decline, its attempts to muscle into the casual gaming space having led to the expensive acquisitions of Jamdat, Playfish and Popcap, its sales falling, its MMO (massive multiplayer online) Star Wars: The Old Republic haemorrhaging money. What would you do?The player-first philosophyWilson looks every inch the young thrusting business exec. Square-jawed, tanned, super confident, he is what a 3D printer would come up with if you typed in “modern CEO”. He is personable but media savvy: when we met in Cologne, it was clear he has a message to get out there. He doesn’t waste time.“When the board asked me to take on this role, there were definitely things I wanted for the company – that I’d wanted for a long time,” he said. “I wanted us to be player first – to think about who the player is and what they want. For a long time, the games were the most important thing that we had. But then, in some ways, we got to thinking about EA itself, about how to to make it a good company. I said, okay, the player needs to be the lens through which we see the world and the filter through which we make decisions – and if we do that everyone wins. Players end up with great games, the people who work for the company end up working in a much more positive place and ultimately the shareholders will get a return.”But the philosophy was tested, and found wanting, within a month of his appointment, with the controversial launch of Battlefield 4. It was a mess; the multiplayer servers were continually down and saved games kept disappearing. Investors began a lawsuit against EA claiming that they had been misled about the product. Months later the company released its free-to-play smartphone version of much-loved strategy classic, Dungeon Keeper, but the game was full of aggressively pushed in-app purchases. Another controversy, another dent to the public image.What has all this taught him? “There are different elements that you hope to learn from,” he says. “As you push the boundaries, things are not always going to go how you like. One of the things we’ve tried to do is give our teams more space to evaluate where they are at at any given moment in time and change development process to facilitate that.“With Battlefield Hardline, we wanted to get it into the hands of gamers earlier and really test it. The beta test was stable, so clearly some of the things we’d learned since Battlefield 4, on the server and the client side, were working. We learned about scalability and stability and that allowed us to let gamers in earlier and give us feedback. What we got from the community was, ‘this is cool, but we think the fiction should go deeper’. We were then able to make a judgment call on that. I don’t think it would have been possible before.”Hardline, a spinoff from the main Battlefield series, featuring cops and criminals, was delayed to allow for more development. Responses so far have been mixed: some have seen it as a re-skinned Battlefield 4 but the hands-on sessions at E3 went down well. “Moving Hardline was the most frightening moment of the year,” said Wilson. “It was a hard … it was a big deal. But the feedback was positive from the gamers, the studio and the shareholders who invest in our decisions.”It’s ready when it’s readySo is this the EA maxim now: delay launching if necessary? Wilson says it is. “We decided that we couldn’t get an innovative Need For Speed title out this year so for the first time in 17 years we’re not launching one, we’re giving the team extra time. We moved Titanfall on Xbox One out of our fiscal year; we moved Dragon Age, we moved Hardline. These were difficult decisions. The business of what we do, as measured by the stock price and fiscal returns, has grown - to me that’s reassurance that we’re doing the right thing.”But there’s something else game players are worried about – the dearth of originality in the mainstream games industry; the reliance on long-running franchises. In 2008, EA released Dead Space and Mirror’s Edge, two idiosyncratic and fascinating games – they were not amazing sellers but they have dedicated fans. Can that happen again, in the era of 400-staff teams and multimillion dollar budgets?“We can experiment more now than ever!” exclaims Wilson. “I grew up in this business making games where the first [contact] you had with a player was when you dropped the demo. But the funny thing about demos was, by the time they were out, the game was done – if you got any feedback there was very little you could do. Now look at what we’re doing with Shadow Realms – we’re not planning on launching that until late 2015, but we had it playable on the showfloor at Gamescom.“Our objective now is to bring players in much earlier. It gives us a better sense of what we’re investing in and whether there is demand for it, and it gives players an opportunity to say, ‘we like this, we like that, but it would be cool if this happened’. Here is the reality of games development. When you sit down and talk to the great creative leaders we have in the industry, the vision they sell is often intoxicating and contagious. However, what often happens is that either the vision doesn’t manifest in the game, or the player never gets to the vision because of a dumb HUD or a poor UI or some other fluff that gets in the link between the idea and the gameplay.“This whole concept of the industry hiding everything until the very last moment is an outdated way to make games. Invite people in as early as you can, deal with the feedback and build that back into the game. What you get two or three years down the track are amazing games built with the help of the community.”Virtual reality and HollywoodWe talk a little about industry trends and virtual reality comes up. Wilson is clearly intrigued by the concept but isn’t sure if the consumer format will be head-mounted displays, holograms or some other platform. “We have a series of incubation labs working in and around that technology, across the company right now,” he smiles. “When and how [they will be released] we’re not certain, but it’s very interesting to me.”I mention that I think virtual reality (VR) will bring about new forms of gaming that are more about presence and emotion than action. He nods enthusiastically and tells me about something he saw at the USC School of Cinematic Arts, which has a successful game design course – Wilson has lectured there a few times.“They hada project set up on Oculus Riftwhere you’re in a hunger line waiting for food. As you standing there, the person in front of you goes into shock from low blood sugar and collapses. The researcher are registering the ways in which different people responded.“What I can tell you is, it’s amazing the impact that this experience has – you watch playback of people playing, you see them kneeling down trying to pick the person up, they’re reaching for their mobile phones! I just think … that’s games. I want to make games that immerse people like that.”That’s interesting, I say. Take a company like BioWare: it makes great genre adventures like Dragon Age and Mass Effect but it would be fascinating to see the studio tackling a drama, something in the real-world. A romantic comedy even. If games did that, couldn’t they truly overtake cinema as the emotional story-telling medium of our age?“I don’t want us to be a movie studio, but do I believe that story and emotion and the development of characters is going to play an important role in games,” says Wilson with unguarded enthusiasm. “If you look at a lot of films today, they’re basically video games. They should havebeenvideo games. When I sit down with Patrick Söderlund [head of EA Studios], this is what we talk about. We say, why aren’t we sitting in Hollywood reading cool scripts, and then building games that immerse people? Our medium can deliver on scripts so much better than a linear two-hour story can. Yes, I think that’s in our future.”Present tenseMeanwhile in the present, there is plenty to do. Fifa 15 is on the way; Dragon Age Inquisition and Hardline too. Sims 4 looks interesting but fans are worried about how much content is being left out of the initial release. Wilson says he doesn’t want to focus on extracting money from people, but a hobbled Sims release followed by waves of downloadable content would hit the company’s reputation once again. And Wilson says he doesn’t want that: he doesn’t want to be a contender in the Consumerist awards ever again.“We didn’t even make it out of the first round this year,” he laughs. But it is awkward and for a moment the tension shows. “When I came into this job, the board didn’t want the company to be perceived that way. I said if we commit to delivering amazing games built on creativity and commit to engaging with gamers when they think we have done them a disservice, then that puts us in the best possible position.“I hope we never appear on that list again, I truly do. But I expect that, as we push the boundaries of entertainment, we will get feedback from time to time that people want us to do different things. That’s okay. That’s the cool thing about our industry.”We’ll see. But certainly the company has reportedbetter than expected earningsin the last two quarters, with Titanfall proving a strong seller. It is expecting big things from The Sims 4, Fifa 15 and Dragon Age: Inquisition, and there issomething newon the way from Burnout creator, Criterion.I have to ask one last thing as I’m being ushered away. How is theEA Dice teamdoing with the much-anticipated shooter Star Wars Battlefront and the surprise sequel, Mirror’s Edge 2? “Both are in development,” he says. “We had a review in October, where the executive team headed up to Dice to see the latest on both of those games. They are making amazing progress. We also saw some other stuff that’s hiding in some dark corners up there; they’re incubating new ideas. We’re feeling very good about the future.”Sims 4 is out now on PC. Dragon Age: Inquisition is out on PC and console in November. Battlefield: Hardline is due on PC and console in early 2015. Keith Stuart travelled to Gamescom on a press trip with other journalists, with accommodation and transport organised by Electronic Arts.Battlefield: Hardline – hands-on with the cops and robbers shooterSims 4: gaming’s fascinating answer to reality TV
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNVIDIA launches patent suits focused on Samsung Galaxy phones, tablets &gt;&gt; NVIDIA BlogThis is an important day for NVIDIA. For the first time since starting this company 21 years ago, we have initiated a patent lawsuit.This afternoon, we filed patent infringement complaints against Samsung and Qualcomm with both the US International Trade Commission (ITC) and the US District Court, in Delaware. You can see our press release here, and the complaintshereandhere.We are asking the ITC to block shipments of Samsung Galaxy mobile phones and tablets containing Qualcomm's Adreno, ARM's Mali or Imagination's PowerVR graphics architectures. We are also asking the Delaware court to award damages to us for the infringement of our patents.Claims Samsung and Qualcomm are using Nvidia technology without a licence. Apple, Microsoft, and now Nvidia: who else is suing Samsung?Google to refund consumers at least $19m to settle FTC complaint it unlawfully billed parents for children's unauthorized in-app charges &gt;&gt; US Federal Trade CommissionGoogle has agreed to settle a Federal Trade Commission complaint alleging that it unfairly billed consumers for millions of dollars in unauthorized charges incurred by children using mobile apps downloaded from the Google Play app store for use on Android mobile devices. Under the terms of thesettlement, Google will provide full refunds – with a minimum payment of $19m – to consumerswho were charged for kids' purchases without authorization of the account holder. Google has also agreed to modify its billing practices to ensure that it obtains express, informed consent from consumers before charging them for items sold in mobile apps.Applehad to repay $32.5min January.Why Google just abandoned the 'Enterprise' brand &gt;&gt; CITEworldGoogle for Work security director Eran Feigenbaum told the story of how he joined Google in 2007, and it reflects this shift perfectly."I was previously the chief security officer of a very conservative financial organization. All of a sudden we're getting these calls from the support team, everybody's installing Google Desktop Search. They're saying it's a violation of our security policy, it gives all this data to Google."He continued, "A week later, I called a friend of mine who was the CIO of Google at the time, I told him 'You're killing us with this product, we have to go around and kill this on people's machines.' He replied, 'If you think I'm killing you now, wait until you see what's coming next.' He was talking at that point about Gmail for your domain."A year later, Feigenbaum joined Google to help drive that shift.Feigenbaum admits that Google's approach to enterprise security was pretty rudimentary at the beginning - "trust us, we're Google" was the company's mindset -- but over the last 7 years Google has added a ton of enterprise security features, including various certifications (like FISMA for its government customers) and encryption at rest.How should we program computers to deceive? &gt;&gt; Pacific StandardKate Greene:Just outside the Benrath Senior Center in Düsseldorf, Germany, is a bus stop at which no bus stops. The bench and the official-looking sign were installed to serve as a "honey trap" to attract patients with dementia who sometimes wander off from the facility, trying to get home. Instead of venturing blindly into the city and triggering a police search, they see the sign and wait for a bus that will never come. After a while, someone gently invites them back inside.It's rare to come across such a beautiful deception. Tolerable ones, however, are a dime a dozen. Human society has always glided along on a cushion of what Saint Augustine called "charitable lies"—untruths deployed to avoid conflict, ward off hurt feelings, maintain boundaries, or simply keep conversation moving—even as other, more selfish deceptions corrode relationships, rob us of the ability to make informed decisions, and eat away at the reserves of trust that keep society afloat.How do you get your computer to pretend that the cheque is in the post? A wonderful piece of research and writing.Intellectual Ventures: patent troll funds startups, new products &gt;&gt; BusinessweekGoogle, Apple, and Intel, among other companies, have gritted their teeth and paid IV about $6bn so far. "I think IV is basically a parasitic tax on the tech industry," says Peter Thiel, the venture capitalist and PayPal co-founder who's also a Facebook board member.Having earned billions in payouts from powerful technology companies, IV is setting out to build things on its own. Rather than keeping its IP under lock and key, the company is looking to see if its ideas can be turned into products and the basis for new companies. The first wave of products includes an ultra-efficient nuclear reactor, a waterless washing machine, self-healing concrete, and a giant squeegee for sucking up oil spills. One country has asked IV to help lower its temperature, and another wants it to create robots that can replace migrant workers.Might want along spoonwith that one.A future fuelled by phablets – worldwide phablet shipments to surpass portable PCs in 2014 and tablets by 2015 &gt;&gt; IDCWorldwide phablet shipments (smartphones with screen sizes from 5.5in to less than 7in) will reach 175m units worldwide in 2014, passing the 170m portable PCs expected to ship during the same period. Next year, total phablet volumes will top 318m units, surpassing the 233m tablets forecast to ship in 2015.While phablets are a relatively new category of device, first picking up volume in 2012, the pressure that the category has placed on the tablet market has already been clearly observed as the growth of smaller, 7in tablets has begun to slow. IDC expects more consumers to shift back toward larger-sized tablets with their next purchase. However, that trend hasn't made up for the decreased shipments of smaller sizes, which has resulted in lower overall expectations for the tablet market in 2014 and beyond."With Apple expected to join the space in the coming weeks, we anticipate even more attention on phablets as larger screen smartphones become the new norm," said Melissa Chau, Senior Research Manager with IDC's Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker.IDC expects phablets to grow from 14.0% of the worldwide smartphone market in 2014 to 32.2% in 2018.Of course, they won't be used forrealwork.The people camping outside the Apple store want more than the iPhone 6 &gt;&gt; QuartzZach Wener-Fligner:Four people have already lined up to buy the next versions of the iPhone, which aren't expected to go on sale for another 16 days. But they aren't really there for iPhones: They are being paid by companies hoping to glom onto the expected frenzy.Joseph Cruz and Brian Ceballo arrived in front of Apple's glass cube on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan on Sunday, August 31. They brought tarps, chairs, sleeping bags, and lots of T-shirts for BuyBackWorld, an online electronics retailer. BuyBackWorld is picking up their food bill for the three-week urban campout. The company is also paying for the iPhone 6 of their choice, assuming that's what Apple unveils at its event next week and begins selling, as expected, on Friday, Sept. 19.Intel and opening ceremony collaborate on MICA, a stylish tech bracelet &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comNick Bilton:Isabel Pedersen, the author of "Ready to Wear: A Rhetoric of Wearable Computers and Reality-Shifting Media," said that until now, companies have been treating the design of wearable computers as, well, the design of computers. In contrast, fashion designers think about style, age, taste and a number of other criteria when they make clothing and jewelry for consumers."Today's wearables are ugly and clunky because tech is a very male-centric industry, and as a result wearables are too ugly for most people," Dr. Pedersen said. "A wearable can't really hope to become part of everyday culture until these companies consider more than just the technology."For most wearable makers, it would be in their best interest to stop worrying about the gizmos inside, and start worrying about the look and feel of their products. Research firms predict that companies that crack the tech-meets-fashion codecould sell hundreds of millionsof accessories in the coming years.Start with something you want to wear, and then put a computer in it? How many tech companies are you going to persuade to do that?Apple iWatch still under EVT despite components already in production &gt;&gt; DigitimesDespite related components already entering into production, Apple's iWatch is still unlikely to become available until 2015, as the device is still under engineering verification testing (EVT) stage and has to still go through production verification testing (PVT), according to sources from the upstream supply chain.The sources pointed out that a product will need to first pass the PVT stage before entering to mass production, and between the EVT and PVT stages, Apple could still be change its design.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
What don’t Apple, Samsung, HTC or Sony’s smartphones have? Leather or wooden backs, of course – which Motorola is hoping will set its flagship Moto X phone apart from the rest.The new Moto X, initially priced at £419, has a full HD (1080p) 5.2in screen but the narrow bezels and a curved back to make it easy to hold. There are enhanced gesture and voice control features, including a customisable trigger word so users can use something other than “OK Google” to wake the phone for a voice command.“We think the [specifications] game doesn’t work with consumers any more,” Christoph Jeneba, Motorola’s head of product for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, told to the Guardian. “We have to offer more to differentiate ourselves from the competition.”A 5.2in screen places the Moto X into phablet territory.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianUsers can say things like “good morning” to their phone to wake it up, turn on notifications and turn off silent mode, or “good night” to do the opposite. Waving a hand over a ringing Moto X will silence it, while approaching the phone with a hand will show notification on the screen without fully waking the phone.Each of the bamboo backs is unique because of the grain in the wood.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMotorola will also be rolling out its phone customisation service Moto Maker in the UK and France soon, launching in Germany in September while having been available in the US since 2013.Users will be able to customise their Moto X with a wide choice of colours, backs and materials before purchase, including engraving and a 32GB storage model for an added fee.The aluminium frame gives the Moto X a solid, premium feel in the hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new Moto X replaces the old Moto X from 2013, which launched with critical acclaim in the US, but failed to sell well and stalled on launch in the UK months later.The new Moto X has a 2.5GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 processor and a 13-megapixel camera with a ring flash. It joins a highly competitive smartphone market but is priced lower than most of its £500-plus competitors like theSamsung Galaxy S5andHTC One M8costing £419 from the end of September.•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five star phone•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster - but still plastic•Moto G review: the best smartphone you can buy for £135
Motorola’s new Moto G, the follow up to one of the best-ever budget smartphones, has a bigger screen, better camera and costs just £145.The new Moto G has a 5in screen – 0.5in bigger than last years 4.5in screen – but the thin bezels mean it maintains “pocketability”.“With the new Moto G we’re trying to bring a premium experience to the next billion people ready to buy a smartphone,” Brian Metha, head of North American marketing at Motorola told the Guardian. “The trend is for big screens, but we didn’t want to compromise the pocketability of the phone so we made everything else as small as possible.”The back shell is curved to fit the hand and user replaceable with a range of coloured shells.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new model has an improved eight-megapixel camera, front-facing stereo speakers, a quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 processor and comes in 8GB and 16GB storage options, with a microSD card slot for adding up to 32GB more storage for music, movies and photos.Motorola has made the Moto G dual-SIM – a feature more common outside of developed markets like the UK – so it can use two SIM cards for different mobile networks, simultaneously allowing different tariffs, numbers and options to be used at the same time. It offers 3G connectivity only.‘Back on the map’The first Moto G, released in November 2013, was a surprise hit for Motorola in the US and Europe, principally due to its low price and comparatively high specifications. After six months, Motorola said it was its best-selling phone ever, and it looked as though it could pull the loss-making division – then owned by Google – back towards profit after years of losses. Though profits have not materialised, and the division is now concluding a sale to China’s Lenovo, expectations are high.“The original Moto G put Motorola back on the map,” Simon Collinson, international general manager for Motorola told the Guardian. “It propelled us from zero to 6% market share in the UK, and became the best selling Motorola smartphone ever.”The smartphone is available today for £145, but it should cost less as mobile phone networks begin to sell it like the old Moto G before it. The Moto G will ship with the latest version of Android “KitKat” with a guaranteed update to the next version, Android L.•2013 Motorola Moto G review – the best budget smartphone is just £135•Motorola Moto E: review – is this the best smartphone under £90?
Motorola’s highly anticipated round Android Wear smartwatch is attempting to move beyond its geek phase and appeal to mainstream watch buyers.The Moto 360 features a round screen, metal case and leather band that looks more like a large high-end watch than a piece of technology.“We think the key to getting people to buy smartwatches is to build a watch first, a smartwatch second,” Christoph Jeneba, Motorola’s head of product for Europe, Middle East and Africa, explained to the Guardian. “That’s why we’ve built a time piece, and it had to be round because 85% of normal watches are round.”Alerts are properly formatted, filling the round display.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe watch was first shown off at Google’s I/O developer conference in June alongside the LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live, but will only be released at the end of September costing £199 in the UK, £40 more than the G Watch and £30 more than the Gear Live.‘Have to get beyond the geek phase’Motorola believes that its focus on premium materials – the case of the watch is all aluminium and the strap leather – sets the Moto 360 apart from the pack.The Moto 360 beside the Samsung Gear LivePhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOn the wrist it looks much more like a traditional watch than a smartwatch, about the size of a chunky man’s watch though much lighter and smaller than the Gear Live.The smartwatches are about the same thickness and weight.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian“We have to get beyond that geek phase and design a modern day time piece, a modern interpretation of a classic time piece,” Simon Collinson, Motorola’s international general manager told the Guardian. “If you want to go mass market you have to provide a credible alternative to a watch.”The Moto 360 features a hidden heart rate monitor on the back of the watch, which can measure the wearers heart rate 30 times a day to track heart health using a bespoke Motorola app – something other heart rate sensor-equipped smartwatches do not do – while measuring activity, steps and distance covered.The optical heart rate monitor sits at the centre of the back.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIt iswaterproof to IP67 standards(immersion to 1m) but the rest of the specifications are very similar to the other Android Wear watches currently available. Motorola quotes a day of battery life; most others, like the G Watch, last around two days.The round screen has virtually no bezel, meeting the aluminium casing at the edges, but does have a squared-off bottom that resembles a flat tyre, where some of the electronic components are placed to operate the screen.A single button on the right hand side turns the watch on and off.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWho knows whether the Moto 360 is enough toconvince more than early adoptersthat smartwatches have a place in the world but it is the best looking smartwatch to date and looks matter more on jewellery than technology.•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear•Two months with Android Wear: the best smartwatches yet•LG’s G Watch R: the smartwatch that looks like a watch
Twitter may be looking to move away from its trademark chronological feed towards a more Facebook-style filtered feed, according to comments by the company’s financial chief Anthony Noto.Speaking at a New York conference on Wednesday, Noto said that the way that Twitter has worked for its eight years of existence – showing users the newest tweets from everyone they follow – “isn’t the most relevant experience for a user,” since important tweets might be buried at the bottom, or missed entirely.“Putting that content in front of the person at that moment in time is a way to organize that content better,” Noto said.According to the Wall Street Journal, his comments were made in the context of Twitter’s attempts to improve its search service, which is crucial if users are to find content which is buried without it being forced to the top of their timelines.Whether or not Twitter decides to take the plunge into a fully-curated feed, the company has made steps toward that change in recent months. In August, it introduced a feature which placed into the stream tweets favourited by people a user follows,to the dismay of many. It took weeks for the company’s CEO, Dick Costolo, to even explain fully how the new feature works.“You get favorites [in your feed] when you pull-to-refresh 2x and we have no new tweets from follows both times,”he said in reply to to a user’s complaint.While Twitter may be motivated by the significantly larger userbase and market cap of Facebook, which uses a complex algorithm to decide which content to show to users, some wonder if it’s targeting the wrong goal.“I’d think a filtered feed is better for new &amp; novice users, but, last weekend, casual FB users were telling me how much they hate News Feed,”writes the Atlantic’s associate editor Robinson Meyer.“I wonder if the seeming mass-acceptance of filtered, algorithmic News Feed is actually a mass number of users thinking it’s ~chronological,”he adds– a suspicion backed bya recent MIT study, which suggested that fully two thirds of Facebook users were unaware how much content they weren’t seeing due to the site’s curation algorithm.“Often, people became very upset when [they were shown that] posts from family members and loved ones were hidden,” the study’s authors wrote.When algorithms rule our news, should we be worried or relieved?
Internet image board4chanhas introduced a policy for complying with the American Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) for the first time.The site was the place where hundreds ofnaked selfies stolen from celebritiesincluding actors Jennifer Lawrence and Mary Elizabeth Winstead were posted.The policy sets out for the first time a procedure by which copyright holders can send a DMCA takedown notice to the site’s administrators. These inform a website hosting user-generated content that one of their users has uploaded copyrighted material illegally, telling them to take down the relevant content or face legal action.A DMCA policy is important in helping a site gain “safe harbour” protection from lawsuits, deflecting responsibility for user-generated content that it has not explicitly approved.4chan has named a DMCA agent for the first time and offers a postal address in Delaware – apparently a box at a professional services firm.Up until now, 4chan has been relatively well shielded from the consequences of the DMCA because of the ephemerality of the site. Although almost every post on 4chan involves an image, most of which are not licensed for use, most posts are deleted within a few hours of creation because the site trims any board bigger than ten pages.That means copyright-infringing images are typically removed from the site before the copyright holder is even aware they have been posted.“Threads expire and are pruned by 4chan’s software at a relatively high rate,” the site’s frequently asked questions page explains. “Since most boards are limited to ten pages, content is usually available for only a few hours or days before it is removed.”But that ephemerality has not been enough to protect the site from the legal consequences of its users posting the stolen pictures this week.After the first images were made public, lawyers for Jennifer Lawrenceimmediately threatenedto prosecute anyone who published them, saying that “this is a flagrant violation of privacy. The authorities have been contacted and will prosecute anyone who posts the stolen photos of Jennifer Lawrence”.The hoard of personal photos belonging to more than 100 celebrities was released on 4chan on Monday, after a few pictures went up individually over the weekend. The site, along withReddit, continue to be a hub for trading the photos but the bulk of the collection has moved elsewhere.TorrentFreak, a copyright news site, argues that sending DMCA takedown notices to 4chan would only be a partial measure. “In the meantime,”writes Andy Maxwell, “sites such as The Pirate Bay who care substantially less about copyright law than 4chan does, today are continuing to spread the full currently available ‘Fappening’ archives at a rapid rate. Statistics collected by TorrentFreak suggest that the packs have been downloaded well over a million times.”The attempt to use copyright provisions to scour the stolen pictures from the internet has already run into problems, as one porn site has refused to acquiesce to requests to remove photos of an actor, claiming that she does not own the rights to the images. The site argues that the copyright on the photos, which do not appear to be selfies, is actually held by the un-named photographer.Gang of hackers behind nude celebrity photo leak routinely attacked iCloud
Streaming music firmRdiohas unveiled its latest redesign, while launching the free version of its service in 20 countries.Both moves are an effort to reach a wider audience by Rdio. It has regularly been praised for its technology and design since launching in 2010, but has never published user figures, and is thought to be much smaller than rivals like Spotify and Deezer.“One of the primary goals here is to be more mass-market,” Rdio’s senior vice president of product, Chris Becherer, told The Guardian, ahead of the relaunch.“A lot of our users are very fanatical and passionate: they love Rdio, love the design and the UI [user interface]. But we need to go wider with our reach, and free is a way to do that.”Rdio’s relaunch puts the emphasis on its “stations”, streaming radio stations based on specific genres and artists; on the past listening habits of individual users; and now also on themed playlists created by the company’s internal team of curators.In the 20 countries where Rdio is now available for free, these stations will be what people can listen to, with the company making its money from audio advertisements in between tracks.Rdio will also try to upsell people to its existing £9.99-a-month subscription service, which provides “on-demand” access to its catalogue of 30m songs, with people able to choose specific songs and albums to listen to, as well as creating their own playlists.“The theme of this update is stations first. We’ve had these stations since last year, but we’re moving them to the forefront of the Rdio experience for the first time now,” said Becherer.He added that Rdio has stopped thinking about “two camps” of streaming music users: those who want personal-radio stations, and those who want to choose songs on-demand.“We really don’t see the customer experience as being separate. At different points in your listening, you’re going to have an appetite for one or the other. Some times, you just want to ‘turn on the radio’, and other times you want to listen to your favourite band’s new album from start to finish,” he said.“These are two sides of the same coin, and we don’t think any service out there is doing a good job of pairing those lean-back and lean-forward experiences.”That’s an optimistic claim. Pretty much every streaming music service is working hard on radio-style stations as well as on-demand access. The likes of Spotify and Beats Music already have editorial teams curating stations and playlists, which are increasingly prominent in their apps.In that sense, Rdio’s changes are part of a wider trend, rather than forging a new path. However, this week’s redesign of its website and apps shows that it’s still one of the leaders when it comes to figuring out how to put all this music in front of people.Users firing up Rdio will now see something called the Home feed, which presents them with “stories” of music they might like to listen to: “Essentially a music recommendation or set of recommendations, wrapped in some explanatory context,” as Becherer put it.For free users, these stories will be stations based on artists, genres, tastemakers, friends and what’s trending among other users, interspersed with tips on how to get more out of Rdio – for example, encouraging people to follow other users.“As you scroll through, you’re going to get this evolving set of recommendations. We think of it as your own personalised music magazine based on you, from our algorithms and our own curation team,” said Becherer.A new heart-icon button to “favourite” stations, albums, songs, playlists and artists will tune Rdio’s recommendations further.Paying subscribers will see all these features, but the stories in their Home feeds will be more varied: recommended albums and playlists, for example, as well as emerging artists picked out by Rdio’s editorial team.“The amount of music you’re exposed to should be much wider than it is in today’s Rdio,” said Becherer, speaking before the update went live.The new Home feed could help Rdio make money from its free service. While the revenues come from audio ads only for now, it’s not a big leap to imagine sponsored stories, whether they’re ads for music paid for by labels, or very-on-trend “native” advertising through playlists created by brands.“It’s a really good point: the Home feed is the type of UI that would lend itself well to certain advertising: Facebook has it in the feed, and Twitter too. It’s definitely something we’re working on, but we don’t have any plans to release that any time soon,” said Becherer.“Some of the advertisers we’re working with are very interested in how they could promote a branded station. At the same time, we don’t want to give you spam: we want the user to trust our personalised recommendations.”Rdio’s redesign certainly looks impressive, although it will take time to understand just how well it works: is the station curation better or worse than that of Spotify or Beats Music, for example, and are the recommendation stories more relevant?Going free in 20 countries is a big deal for Rdio, though: the company has done some smart marketing in the last year with mobile apps like Shazam and SoundHound to persuade people to download its app. Now it has a better chance at converting them into users (and perhaps, in time, paying subscribers).•Five big challenges looming for streaming music services
Uber, the cab-hire app, has reported a seven-fold increase in downloads in Hamburg since aban by the German government on Tuesday.The app, and its use by drivers, has been banned across Germany for allegedly breaking the country’s passenger transportation act on the grounds that its drivers do not have the correct permits or insurance and are not subject to standard checks.The US-funded company suggests the ban has driven a wave of signups in Germany, which has a population of 82 million androughly 53.2mvehicles in use.Across Germany, Uber says signups have risen by three and a half times, while in two of the five German cities where it has been operating demand has gone up more than sixfold. Dusseldorf has seen signups increase by 518%, the company reported, and signups in Hamburg increased by 590%.Those figures compare the number of downloads on Tuesday 2 September, shortly after the German government banned the cab-hire app, with the number of downloads on Tuesday 26 August, a week earlier.Uber refused to share any specific numbers with the Guardian to put those increases in context – raising the prospect that a 590% increase in the city of Hamburg could translate to 69 people signing up for the app on Tuesday compared to 10 the week before.Uber responded that the app itself had become on of the top ten apps in Germany – an achievement that, according to app analytics firm Distimo,required around 12,000 downloadsa day in 2011. The threshold has probably increased since then and not every download translates to a signup – suggesting 12,000 is a reasonable benchmark for being a top ten app.That in turn suggests – if downloads are proportional to population – that Hamburg, with a population of 1.8 million people, had around 2,747 Uber app downloads on 2 September, and hence around 400 downloads the week before. (By comparison Frankfurt, with about 680,000 inhabitants and where the post-ban increase was slightest, would have had around 1,100 downloads a day post-ban and around 320 pre-ban).In the biggest German city, Berlin, which has 3.4 million people, this model suggests at least 5,000 downloads on the day after the ban and 1,442 the week before.Uber is using the spike to argue its case against the ban. The company’s German spokesman told the Guardian that “we’ve just seen one of the biggest single-day increases in signups this year of Uber Germany, and this comes on top of five-fold growth since the start of the year.“This kind of public support simply reinforces our commitment to Germany as we expand into more and more cities across the country. We have also seen huge demand in rural areas, as people look for a safe and convenient way to travel throughout the country in areas where public transport is not readily available.”Previously, inthe face of a protest by London cabbieswho were angry that the company’s app lets its drivers charge a fare based on distance driven – something that the cabbies argue only they are allowed to do – Uber said it saw signups for its app increase by almost 900%, though again it did not give absolute numbers.After the London protest, Uber cars were still widely available in the city, meaning sign-ups could become actual customers. But in Germany, use of the app – and hence its taxi service – is temporarily banned pending a full hearing of the case against it. Uber has vowed to continue plying its service in contravention of the ban, saying that “you cannot put the brakes on progress”.Car sharing service Uber banned in Germany
The debate over whether consumers can hear the difference in high resolution audiostill rages, but Sony is hoping that better-than-CD sound quality will revitalise its music business.On stage at the Europe’s largest electronics trade show, IFA in Berlin, charismatic Sony chief executive Kazuo Hirai declared that Hi-Res audio – music recorded in higher quality than CDs – as crucial to the success of its audio products.“We see Hi-Res as a way to revitalise the music industry, creating a better engagement with the music and customers,” Hirai told a packed auditorium. “We see it as the future of our music business.”Sony Music, the recording label arm of the company, posted rising profits in the last few quarters, with 32.5% rise in operating profit and 14.4% rise in revenues year-on-year inthe third quarter of 2013, while the overall Sony business suffered losses.‘MP3s just aren’t good enough anymore’“I was listening to a famous Japanese artist in Hi-Res when I realised I could hear every breath and was much more engaged,” said Hirai. “I realised that a good enough listening experience as MP3 is, it wasn’t enough anymore.”Despite the evangelising of those in the music industry and consumer electronics business, consumers remain unconvinced of the difference. That means encouraging them to buy into a new system is a tough sell, Sony mobile chief executive Kuni Suzuki told the Guardian.“Experience is everything. Once you’ve experienced audio in higher quality you can’t go back,” he said. “But practice in the field is quite important for people to experience it and then tell their friends about the experience.”Suzuki said that Sony is relying on the power of word of mouth to sell the idea of Hi-Res music to consumers, fitting the technology into its high-end Xperia Z3 smartphones and tablets, as well as hi-fis and portable music players.Sony Music is also offering an expanding collection of albums from its artists in Hi-Res audio, with Pharrell Williams, Miley Cyrus, Kasabian among those recently released, bring the total number of tracks available in Hi-Res to over 300,000.A standards messHi-Res music comes in many different formats and qualities, however, suffering from a lack of industry standardisation.Linn records, for instance,offers tracksin the lossless audioformat FLAC, while others offer still compressed music in AAC or thelarge DSD files, which are used in professional recording of music the studio.“What we’re trying to do with our Hi-Res audio branding is to simplify it for the consumer,” Eric Kingdon, Sony’s senior European technical manager explained to the Guardian. “The idea is that whatever you throw at it it’ll play and meaning you don’t have to worry about file formats.”Sony is not the only one forging ahead with Hi-Res audio. Neil Young’s Pono player has spurred a renewed interest in high resolution audio, while Linn records and others like it have been offering “studio master” recordings – the music the artist originally recorded in the studio – for around £18 an album.The debate still rages as to whether high resolution music is actually audibly better, but the storage and bandwidth limitations that held it back in the past have eroded as smartphones, internet connections and technology has improved.Either way, “the MP3 will survive for a long while yet for sheer convenience, if nothing else” admitted Kingdon.•Sonos drops price of music systems and plans hi-res update•How much difference is there between MP3, CD and 24-bit audio?
Sony is developing a pair of smartglasses to rival Google Glass product, and has produced a slimmed-down pair of glasses with an integrated screen in the lens.The Sony Smart EyeGlass acts like a secondary screen for an Android smartphone, displaying information in the view of the wearer, overlaid on top of the real world.They use a tiny projector and hologram system to display a crisp green image in the wearer’s vision, which appears to hover about 2m away.The green blob looks pin-sharp to the wearer, displayed right in the centre of their vision of both eyes.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian“We’re developing some with industrial applications in mind, but our strengths are not in business so our primary focus is the mainstream consumer,” Hiroshi Mukawa, developer of the Eyeglass projector technology, told the Guardian. “Of course, that’s very challenging.”The glasses have a camera mounted in the left-hand lens and use an accelerometer, gyroscope and compass to track the motion of the wearer’s head, overlaying information to create augmented reality. They connect to a smartphone via Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, allowing Android apps to use the glasses for heads-up information.The camera in the left lens allows image recognition, photos and video.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianDemonstration apps from several developers were on show, including augmented reality app Wikitude, which displayed landmark and other points of information pinpointing their location as the wearer looked around.Another app, Cookpad, displays recipes and responded to voice commands while in the kitchen, taking a photo on command, while a social media application from Euclid Lab displays updates from those near the wearer.The most impressive app being demonstrated used the camera to recognise faces and display their names, relieving the awkward meetings where you can’t quite remember the name of the chap you should know.After 10 years in the making, the Smart EyeGlass smartglasses are being shown off in near-final prototype form at IFA in Berlin, as Sony is getting ready to launch developer kit versions of the smart glasses within a year with an SDK for standard Android apps due to be released soon.They currently require a small handheld control device that packs the battery, a touch strip, microphones for voice recognition and buttons for selecting menu items.The controller packs the battery saving weight on the glasses, but the end game is to put a bespoke special new battery into the glasses that will last more than a couple of hours.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMukawa explained that the primary reason for having the small controller, instead of building it directly into the glasses was the weight of the battery, which would have made the glasses uncomfortable and that touch controllers on the side of the head were difficult to use.The plan is to build the battery and a form of controller into the glasses before being released to the consumer in around two years.“Our battery devision at Sony is working on a special battery designed for wearables,” Mukawa said. “The tiny battery we could fit into the glasses now without being uncomfortable would only last around two to three hours.”“With batteries for wearables there is a significant safety concern that has to be addressed,” he said.The smartglasses link to a smartphone via Bluetooth for text and other data light actions, but Wi-Fi for streaming video and images.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe glasses are still in early stages, but the prototype form is nearly final, with a few miniaturisation tasks left to do.Google Glass, although onsale to any consumer in the UK for £1,000, are still described as a beta product for testing, rather than a final consumer product. Mukawa expects that Sony will not be far behind at the point of which Google finally releases their consumer smartglasses.•Google Glass banned in UK cinemas
Streaming music service Spotify says the aptly-named Summer by Calvin Harris was its “song of the summer” this year, after its users streamed the track more than 160m times since its release in June.Announced as part of a wider release about summer hits on the service – Harris beat Ariana Grande and Iggy Azalea’s Problem to top spot on Spotify’s chart – the feat becomes more interesting when you dig in to how much money Summer’s streams made for Harris.The short answer: nobody knows, because the exact amount will depend on the terms of his label and publishing contracts. But we can at least calculate roughly how much those rightsholders were paid for streams of the song.Spotify published its royalty payouts formulain 2013, including the claim that its average “per stream” payout is between $0.006 and $0.0084. Those figures cover payments to labels, publishers and distributors, who then pass them on to artists and songwriters.According to thestats shown on his Spotify profile, Harris’ Summer has been played 160,753,376 times, at the time of writing. That means a payout of between $964k and $1.35m so far. Or, if you take the mid-point between the two per-stream amounts: around $1.16m (around £706k).It’s a million-dollar hit on Spotify, at least, since these figures don’t include payments for streams of the track on YouTube (42.7m plays of the audio-only version and another 189.1m of the actual video) or other streaming services. Global download sales of Summer are unknown.Only Harris will know how much of Summer’s streaming payout comes through to him, and even he won’t know for a while, since royalty payments don’t tend to zip through the music industry system at a rollercoaster pace.These calculations don’t prove the arguments of Spotify’s keenest supporters or fiercest foes regarding streaming’s pros and cons for musicians: you could spin the figures either way, depending on your existing view.But the numbers are an insight into the scale of payouts for the biggest hits on this particular streaming service – although Summer has a way to go to catch up with Avicii’s Wake Me Up, which with 277.1m streams so far remains the biggest hit on Spotify.•Seven reasons Google might buy Spotify•Five big challenges looming for streaming music services•What next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify?
Connected-toy company Sphero has a new robust little robot that can zip across the floor at 14mph, hit ramps and do tricks, all controlled with a smartphone.Ollie is the follow up to the company’s Sphero robotic ball and focuses on the core “driving” experience while adding precision gyroscopic control forTony Hawk’s Pro Skater-style mid-air tricks, taking the play from the screen into the physical world.It can spin, flip, drift and jump, rewarding players with points on the smartphone app based on the difficulty and execution of the trick, just like a skateboarding game.Skateboarding sticks and stunts.“When we looked at the overall stats for Sphero, we saw lots of people just simply wanted to drive it,” explained Ian Bernstein, the co-inventor of Sphero, to the Guardian. “While driving of the features they used a lot was the main boost button, because they wanted to go even faster, which is where the idea of Ollie came from.”Ollie takes the idea of Sphero, a highly manoeuverable robotic ball that’s controlled via a Bluetooth smartphone, and gives it wheels for more directional travel and grip while maintaining the precise but easy to use control via a smartphone app.Reinvention of the remote-controlled carThe little wheeled robot is a reinvention of the classic remote controlled car that has just two wheels and can drive at up to 14mph (6 metres a second) up to a range of 30m from the smartphone.It has several different tyre options that change the handling of the robot providing more grip or allowing it to power slide, and lasts about an hour’s continuous racing on a two-to-three-hour charge.Ollie went from prototype to product in a little under a year, with the first created from Sphero cast-off parts.The first Ollie prototype was knocked up in an afternoon out of spare Sphero parts and 3D printed wheels.Photograph: Ian Bernstein/Orbotix“We pulled out the motors and rubber wheels from a Sphero and put them in-line,” explained Bernstein. “Then we 3D printed some bigger wheels and a frame and in an afternoon we had the first prototype for Ollie.”The product was then refined to be as robust as possible, surviving 100 drops of 1.5m onto concrete, while being built for speed. With a small ramp of around 10cm Ollie can jump at least 1.5m in the air.Ollie can jump over 1.5m from a small 10cm ramp.Photograph: SpheroOllie uses a Bluetooth low-energy wireless connection to the smartphone, but it can also enable the little robot to talk to its surroundings. The company is currently planning an intelligent ramp that has its own leaderboard, tracking player points as Ollie hits the ramp, as well as some race-track style gates for competitive racing.As with Sphero, Ollie is more than a simple remote control robot and can be hacked on a software and hardware level. Players can use Sphero’s coding apps to programme moves, dances, routes and anything else they fancy, or 3D print accessories to fit onto the outside of the robot like camera mounts, jousting sticks or mohawks.The little robot will have different coloured tyres, with nobbled tyres for traction on carpet or slick rubber tyres for hard surfaces.Photograph: SpheroOllie will cost £79.99 and will be available from 15 September, with smartphone apps available for Android, iPhone and iPad.•Robotic ball Sphero points to a new era in computer games: Tech Weekly podcast
Some of the world’s largest tech firms are planning a “go slow” day next week in protest of proposals that could create fast lanes on the internet for some companies.On10 September, tech firms including Etsy, FourSquare, KickStarter, Mozilla, Reddit and Vimeo will install a widget on their sites to show how they believe the internet would look if the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) overturns “net neutrality” rules.The FCC is currently redrawing its rules after a series of legal challenges from cable and telecoms companies undermined its authority to regulate the internet. One proposal could allow internet service providers to offerfast lanes to higher paying customers, a move critics charge would break net neutrality – the principle that all traffic is treated equally online.Evan Greer, co-founder of Fight for the Future, a pressure group helping to organise the protest day, said in an email: “Net neutrality is tough to explain to people, so we wanted to organize an action that actually shows the world what’s at stake. I think the three most hated words on the internet right now are ‘Please wait, loading ... ’ Unless internet users unite in defense of net neutrality, we could be seeing those dreaded ‘loading’ wheels a lot more often on some of our favorite websites, while monopolistic companies get to decide which content gets seen by the most people.”Several other large internet companies are expected to back the day of action, which is being coordinated by Silicon Valley lobby group Engine. Engine will direct people to call or email policymakers with their concerns.A similar campaign led to the FCC being flooded with comments on the net neutrality legislation – so many that at one point its systems collapsed under the strain.“With over one million public comments already filed with the FCC, much has been written about why the FCC’s proposed rules would damage the internet, but the FCC needs to see firsthand how Internet fast lanes would devastate startups,” Engine said in a blogpost.The FCC is redrafting its rules at the same time as it assesses the proposed merger of Comcast, the largest cable company, with Time Warner, the second largest. The FCC is also reviewing a proposal to overturn state laws that ban some local municipalities from expanding their own high speed internet service to compete with the cable companies.
Amazon has announced the European release of its FireTV video streaming device, which was introduced in the USA in April. FireTV will be available from 25 September in some parts of Europe and in the UK from 23 October, price £79.The goal is to get you hooked on Amazon Prime, a £79 annual subscription service offering free one-day delivery on physical purchases from Amazon, as well as Prime Instant Video, which has 15,000 films and TV shows on-demand. Prime members get £30 discount on FireTV if they order before Monday. There is also an app for Netflix subscribers and another for YouTube.Speaking at the press event in Berlin, Amazon’s senior vice-president of devices, Dave Limp, says that the company does not profit from the hardware and that the business model is based on subscriptions and sales of apps and games. What if someone buys FireTV but only uses Netflix? “Then we have failed,” replied Limp.The main device has higher specifications than rivals including the £79 Apple TV, Roku devices (ranging from £30 to £90) or Google Chromecast at £30. FireTV comes with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8064 quad core 1.7Ghz chipset, 2GB RAM and 8GB storage, and a Bluetooth remote with built-in microphones for voice control. Its HDMI output supports 1080p – the standard for HD (high definition) – at up to 60 frames per second (fps), and audio output supports Dolby Digital Plus with up to 7.1 channels.Amazon FireTV is going on sale in Europe for £79, with a 30-day trial of Prime included.Photograph: PR/AmazonMusic is available via Amazon MP3 or apps including Spotify; you can stream your own music across a home network. Internet radio is available from the TuneIn app but there is no BBC iPlayer yet. You can view photos stored in Amazon’s Cloud Drive.Amazon said that providing a cheaper gaming experience is also a goal. An optional games controller at £34.99 – which probably isn’t sold at cost – comes bundled with the inevitable first-person shooter, an in-house exclusive called Sev Zero (available separately for £4.99). FireTV is no graphical powerhouse but is good enough for fast-paced casual gaming.Why would you get FireTV rather than Google’s much cheaper Chromecast? FireTV has a different approach, since it is designed to work on its own, rather than to be a companion device for an Android phone or tablet. Voice search avoids the need for a keyboard and in a brief hands-on in Berlin, voice search worked first time. Voice recognition is done via a cloud service and, according to Limp , optimising search performance was a major development challenge; it takes just a few seconds.FireTV makes sense for Prime subscribers but availability of other apps is limited. The OS is Amazon’s version of Android. Developers have to port apps to work with Amazon’s services and there is no access to the Google Play store. Even apps made for Amazon’s Fire phone need tweaking. There is no web browser on the device and while one can download apps from the Amazon app store, there is no way to purchase physical items from Amazon’s online store.This last is a surprising omission. Limp says “we haven’t figured it out yet”, since he wants to achieve a user interface that works with sit-back viewing. The original Google TV – amassive and expensive flop for Logitechin 2011 – failed because it was too complex, he told the Guardian. If it represents commitment to usability, the non-appearance of a store app in FireTV is oddly reassuring.Amazon has sold fewer than 35,000 Fire Phones, data suggests
Getting more kids to code has been a cause célèbre for the technology industry for some time. Teaching programming skills to children is seen as a long-term solution to the “skills gap” between the number of technology jobs and the people qualified to fill them.From this month, the UK is the guinea pig for the most ambitious attempt yet to get kids coding, with changes to the national curriculum. ICT – Information and Communications Technology – is out, replaced by a new “computing” curriculum including coding lessons for children as young as five.This has been coming for a while: the new curriculum was published in September 2013 to fanfare within the technology industry. But it seems many parents will be surprised when their children come home from school talking about algorithms, debugging and Boolean logic.A survey of 1,020 parents of 5-18 year-olds in England commissioned by BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT, found that 60% were unaware or unsure about the changes to the curriculum. Similar surveys by tech firms O2 and Ocado Technology yielded similar results: 64% and 65% of parents (respectively) who were unaware of the changes.If you’re one of those parents, here’s a guide to what your children will be studying under the new computing curriculum; why there is more of an emphasis on programming skills; how teachers have been preparing for the changes; and how you can support your children and their schools over the coming months.Why is this happening?The shakeup of computer studies in schools has been trailed for a while, after criticism from ministers and technology companies of the existing ICT curriculum. The education secretary (at the time),Michael Gove, outlined the political rationale for the changesin a speech this January:“ICT used to focus purely on computer literacy – teaching pupils, over and over again, how to word-process, how to work a spreadsheet, how to use programs already creaking into obsolescence; about as much use as teaching children to send a telex or travel in a zeppelin.Our new curriculum teaches children computer science, information technology and digital literacy: teaching them how to code,and how to create their own programs; not just how to work a computer, but how a computer works and how to make it work for you.”This plays directly in to the complaints of technology companies that the UK has not been producing enough graduates qualified to fill vacancies. Microsoft and Google, along with BCS and its Computing at School working group, and the Royal Academy of Engineering were all involved in the new curriculum.There is more to this than jobs, though. Campaigners argue that learning programming skills will benefit children in other ways whatever their ultimate career – almost akin to the reasoning for giving children the chance to learn a musical instrument or foreign language.“We’re not just trying to encourage people to become developers. We’re trying to encourage children to become creative,” says Sophie Deen, head of Code Club Pro, which has been running training sessions for teachers this year.“At primary level, it helps children to be articulate and think logically: when they start breaking down what’s happening, they can start predicting what’s going to happen. It’s about looking around you almost like an engineer at how things are constructed.”“If you teach computing and do it right, you can help children develop their learning in literacy and numeracy,” says Bill Mitchell, director of education at BCS, citing children using the Scratch programming language to make animations for their creative writing, and suggesting that studying algorithms can help their understanding of sentence structure.“To me, the basic idea of computing is you have to get a computer to solve a problem: you have to come up with an algorithm, a set of instructions. If you can do that, it’s a hugely valuable skill whenever you’re working as a team for any kind of project,” he says.“Also, think about other subjects. When you learn physics, you think about physics. But when you learn computing, you are thinking aboutthinking.About how thinking works. You have to try to imagine how this computer is going to do something for you. There are lots of transferable skills.”What will your child be learning?There are three distinct stages for the new computing curriculum:Key Stage 1 (5-6 year-olds):Children will be learning what algorithms are, which will not always involve computers. When explained as “a set of instructions” teachers may illustrate the idea using recipes, or by breaking down the steps of children’s morning routines. But they will also be creating and debugging simple programs of their own, developing logical reasoning skills and taking their first steps in using devices to “create, organise, store, manipulate and retrieve digital content”.Key Stage 2 (7-11 year-olds):Slightly older primary-school children will be creating and debugging more complicated programs with specific goals and getting to grips with concepts including variables and “sequence, selection, and repetition in programs”. They will still be developing their logical reasoning skills and learning to use websites and other internet services. And there will be more practice at using devices for collecting, analysing and presenting back data and information.Key Stage 3 (11-14 year-olds):Once children enter senior school they will be using two or more programming languages – “at least one of which is textual” – to create their own programs. Schools and teachers will be free to choose the specific languages and coding tools. Pupils will be learning simple Boolean logic (the AND, OR and NOT operators, for example), working with binary numbers, and studying how computer hardware and software work together.At all these levels, children will also be studying computer and internet safety, including how to report concerns about “content or contact” online. The full breakdown of the changescan be found here.How have teachers been preparing for this?As with any major change to the curriculum, teachers will be at the sharp end of the syllabus. That includes tens of thousands of primary-school teachers who may be new to programming themselves being tasked with teaching it to their pupils.There has been plenty of activity around trying to train teachers for this. The governmentannounced £1.1m of funding for BCSin December 2013 to develop a programme for primary school teachers who are new to teaching computing, then a£500,000 fund in February 2014to attract businesses to help train teachers.You can see the kind of materials teachers have been getting by reading BCS’s two Computing in the National Curriculum guides, which have been sent to schools and published online in PDF form –one for primary teachersandone for secondary teachers.Code Club took £100,000 of funding from Googleto introduce its own training program in February, whileMicrosoft invested £334,000 in a partnership with Computing at Schoolto run “Back to School” training sessions for teachers. Meanwhile, companies making apps or services that teach children to code have been releasing lesson guides and other teaching material.There has been controversy around the involvement of private companies in training teachers: for example,Code Club director Linda Sandvik resigned earlier this month, saying she had been told not to criticise sponsors (eg Google) over issues like mass surveillance. In responseGoogle said it did not order any such silence, whileCode Club has published guidelines on its relationship with funders.What can you do to support your child?If you’ve got this far in the article, you’re no longer one of the 60%-plus of parents who do not know about the changes to England’s computing curriculum. That’s a decent start.Talking to experts about what else parents can do, I found a common theme: simply be interested. Just as parents chat to children when they come home about what they have been reading, writing, drawing and discussing at school, so they can talk to them about what they’re doing with computing and coding.BCS’s Mitchell adds that for parents intimidated by the idea of programming, talking through what their children have been doing – particularly at primary level – may be a good way to demystify the subject. “I suspect children will be delighted to tell parents something they don’t know about!”Code Club’s Sophie Deen agrees: “Parents can learn with their kids, if they’re worried about being daunted by it,” she says, adding that parents can also show schools that they are interested in how computing is being taught. “Asking teachers what they’re doing with the curriculum and what training they’ve done puts it on the agenda and shows they know and care about this,” she says.There are ways to go further, including learn-to-code apps likeTynker,Hopscotch,ScratchJrandHakitzuthat can be downloaded and used at home; an online coding contestShaun the Sheep’s Game Academybegan earlier this year. The BBC isgetting coding into some CBeebies and CBBC TV showsin the coming months.TheScratch programming language, already used widely in schools, is freely accessible online at home too. Meanwhile,Codecademy, which runs online courses in programming and is working with a number of schools already, has plenty of courses suitable for secondary-school children.TheKano build-it-yourself computermay be worth a look: it goes on sale soon, and includes its own visual programming language designed for children. If you’re flush with cash, the upcomingPlay-i robotsmay also appeal: two personal robots with companion apps that encourage children to code to control the devices.And then there are after-school coding clubs:Code Clubhas a network of nearly 2,500 around the UK for 9-11 year-olds,CoderDojohas dozens in the UK too, and a growing number of schools are running their own, run by enthusiastic teachers and/or parents and developers from local companies.But this is not to imply that the best way to support your children is by buying products and signing them up for services and clubs. The most important support remains showing an interest in what your children are doing at school.Even if you’re daunted by programming as a subject, seeing it through the eyes of a child will hopefully make it much less intimidating.•Seven kids coding projects that used crowdfunding•Linda Liukas on her Hello Ruby kids’ coding book•Minecraft add-on LearnToMod teaches kids coding skills
LeapFrog has been making educational toys for children since 1995, but its latest product is its most ambitious – and riskiest – yet.LeapTVis a games console aimed at 3-8 year-old children, which will go on sale in the UK in October for £119.99, with games available as physical cartridges or downloads, and a range of educational videos too.The console will ship with a controller that morphs between a joypad and a Wiimote-style pointer, as well as a camera providing Kinect-like motion-sensing features.Many of its games will use all three control systems, and all will have some form of educational twist to their gameplay, with maths, reading and science to the fore. Several also aim to get children off the sofa and jumping around.As LeapTV pre-orders started in the UK, LeapFrog’s product expert Nicole Adam gave me a demonstration of the device’s interfaces and some of its launch games, while explaining the philosophy behind it.The company has clearly put a lot of thought into the device, from its small-hands-friendly controller to its simple carousel-based menu screens, with audio prompts and character-heavy game icons designed to be accessible even to early readers.“We want independence for children, so they feel empowered to navigate it on their own, even if they don’t read. And to also free parents from the setup process each and every time a child wants to play a game,” said Adam.Parents can create five user profiles for individual children, with another slot reserved for guests – friends coming round to play.LeapTV games will cost £24.99 each in cartridge form, although prices will start at £3.50 from the console’s “App Center” store. Parents will access the latter from their own computers or mobile devices, with purchases then downloaded to the LeapTV over Wi-Fi.Adam showed three games. LeapFrog Sports takes its cues from Nintendo’s Wii Sports, with motion-based mini-games based on skateboarding, karate, swimming, baseball, bowling and other sports.Maths and shape recognition are part of the gameplay: for example when children have to punch the air to hit virtual blocks with rectangles on, while leaving blocks with circles or triangles.Dance &amp; Learn is inspired by the Kinect-led resurgence in dancing games on adult consoles: another collection of mini-games, this time based around music. The one I was shown involved responding to action commands – freeze, reach, hop, “squirm like a wiggly worm” – freezing between each one.“We did a lot of console-specific research with children, and found a lot of them saying ‘I want to play Wii Sports or dancing games, but they’re not right for me’,” said Adam. “We saw children wanting to play these kinds of games on adult consoles, but having difficulty.”LeapTV’s controller can be a joypad or a pointer.Photograph: PRMeanwhile, Disney Sofia the First is based on the popular TV brand: more mini-games, including a Temple Run-ish horse-riding game that involves dodging between three lanes while collecting magic gems, letters and numbers.“We will have eight cartridges available at launch, but by the end of the year we will have more than 100 games and videos,” said Adam. Besides Sofia, there’ll be games based on brands including Spider-Man and Jake and the Neverland Pirates.“Every game has a producer and a learning designer working on the title and making sure we’re integrating the curriculum in the right places,” she said. “We’ll have reading games, maths games, science games, problem-solving, creativity... It’s a broad selection, and all the content is reviewed by educational experts.”LeapFrog clearly has lots of experience in making educational technology, including apps and games through its series of LeapPad tablets, which have attracted support from some of the biggest children’s brands. LeapTV has clearly been created with a firm emphasis on the needs of children and parents.And yet... It’s going to face several tough challenges once it’s available, which can be summarised in three words: Minecraft, Skylanders and tablets.Minecraft remains hugely popular among children, as do the YouTube channels exploring it.Stampy, for example, was thefourth biggest YouTube channel in Julywith 199.6m video views. Many of the children playing on adult consoles like PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 are playing Minecraft.A children’s games console without this game may lack credibility among its target market, then. While developer Mojang may be rolling in revenues, it has a lot on its plate developing the existing computer, console and mobile versions. If a deal can be done to get Minecraft on LeapTV, it would be an important coup for LeapFrog.Second: Skylanders. Activision’s children’s game franchise has been a big, billion-dollar hit with children, with production values considerably beyond what we’re likely to see on LeapTV. Won’t LeapFrog’s device feel like trading down?“If you’re giving your child something they can do and enjoy, and you know there’s an educational layer on top of it, they’ll probably feel better about it rather than a slicker game that they’re struggling to play, or which doesn’t fit the child,” said David Lubliner, marketing manager at LeapFrog, in answer to that question.I can see the argument for parents to buy a console with more of an educational focus (and less of a “please can I have another action figure, please please PLEASE!” toy-pestering culture), but I suspect LeapTV may be a harder sell for the Skylanders generation of children.But the last challenge may be the most formidable: tablets. For the price of a LeapTV, parents can buy a decent Android tablet nowadays – Tesco’s Hudl was a hit with families last Christmas, for example – with a growing library of children’s apps and games.That’s Android, which hasn’t historically been the first priority for many children’s app developers. On iPad, there are even more high-quality kids’ apps with an educational aspect, and you could easily pick up 10 or more of them for the price of a single LeapTV cartridge.None of this means LeapFrog’s new console is doomed, but it illustrates how tough the competition is foranychildren’s console from devices already being used in families’ living rooms.LeapTV’s success will depend on how well it’s marketed to parents; the quality of its catalogue (including how many more big brands it can sign up); and whether there really is a demand from parents for a new children’s device under their TVs.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
It has taken 16 years but James Dyson has achieved one of his dreams: to build a robotic vacuum cleaner. As befits a device of the modern age, it can be controlled remotely via a smartphone app – and reports on where it has been.Announced on Thursday, the Dyson 360 Eye relies on two breakthroughs: a machine vision system that takes in a whole room from a single camera lens and a powerful lightweight digital motor that enhances battery life.Sir James Dyson says that the machine vision system for the device – which was introduced in Japan and is due to go on sale in the UK in summer 2015 – will have applications beyond household appliances.“We think vision is a technology of the future,” Dyson told the Guardian. “We believe it has other applications – that’s why we’re putting money into developing vision systems.” In February, the companyannounced a £5m investment in developing “intelligent domestic robots” with Imperial College, including work with Professor Andrew Davison, who developed 3D room-mapping using a single camera – as used in the device.Dyson hopes the 360 Eye will allow people to abandon their manually operated vacuum cleaners and leave the robot to clean their floors while they are out. “People replace their vacuum cleaners roughly every six years on average,” Sir James Dyson told the Guardian. “This will clean the floor and you can use a light battery-operated stick-style cleaner to do the curtains, sofa and so on … Most robotic vacuum cleaners don’t see their environment, have little suction and don’t clean properly. They are gimmicks.”While several companies have developed robot vacuum cleaners – including Miele, iRobot’s Roomba, Samsung and LG – they have gained little market traction. The Roomba has sold around 10m units since it was introduced in 2002. Dyson prepared a similar product in 2001 – but it had 84 sensors, two onboard computers and would have cost around £2,000.The 360 Eye, launched in Japan – the world’s biggest market for robot vacuum cleaners – will cost around £700.The essential vision system is enabled by a fisheye camera lens on top of the device that can see the whole room at once, analysing 30 frames per second of data to work out its position relative to corners and obstacles.Coding this software took 31 engineers more than 100,000 hours – and used algebra, probability theory, geometry and trigonometry to generate information about the robot’s location.The robot starts at a charging station attached to the mains and moves into the room’s centre, cleaning in a square spiral. It uses “tank treads” rather than wheels to avoid getting caught in deep pile carpets and to conquer lips or small steps. It has a “fall stop” system to prevent it tumbling down steps.Dyson claims that its methodical approach to cleaning – rather than following a random path or long sweeps – means it can cover maximum floor area per charge and never goes too far from an area it has already cleaned. When its charge dwindles, after 30 to 60 minutes, it returns to its station, where recharging takes less than two hours and reports can be made its progress to an iPhone app that also allows the owner to set a schedule for the device. It then sets forth to clean the remaining space.The company claims its innovations confer two advantages: greater awareness of the machine’s position and better cleaning power. Dyson says it has registered around 420 patents and patent applications worldwide for the 360 Eye.Dyson said that the 360 Eye, known until now as Project N223, was the result of £28m worth of research and development by more than 200 Dyson engineers.
What’s the IGF?The world’s ninth Internet Governance Forum (IGF), organised by the UN, is happening this week in Istanbul. The IGF is a free and open gathering of people from all over the world who have come to talk about how the internet is run. Last year’s IGF was in Bali. The year before was Azerbaijan. Turkey’s jailing of bloggers and recent attempt to ban Twitter are actually part of an established tradition of IGF host countries showing a certain carefree whimsy about human rights and the internet.IGFs are a bit like weddings or London glass box house extensions. They’re all basically the same, but the tiny, barely discernible differences between them consume vast amounts of energy and generate heartache for everyone involved.What’s the same about this IGF?For participants, IGF Istanbul is much the same as all the IGFs that came before. It has the usual long, hot queues for a registration badge, extravagant security measures and slavish worship of alleged VIPs, the near-riots by participants not about the free flow of information but the free flow of coffee; the endless, paint by numbers speeches by a dozen or so communications ministers, a venue network that barely functions, and a gala reception with no alcohol.These first world problems are actually a plus. They bring the 3,000 participants together, providing just enough shared moaning to break the ice between the different tribes of government, technical community, business and civil society.What’s different?Nothing overt, but the ground is shifting. This is the second IGF since the Snowden revelations shattered global confidence in the US’s leadership of the internet, and the first IGF sinceBrazil initiated a global dialogue about whoshouldbe in control. There is also the ongoing saga of howICANNcan prove itself worthy of being cut loose by the US government before the Obama administration finishes. But no world-changing announcements are expected at this IGF.As ever, countries including Russia that want to control the internet would prefer to have the discussion about it in a forum that governments dominate: theInternational Telecommunications Union. But those countries still come to IGF and take part, albeit grumpily. They see efforts to stop them getting their hands on the internet’s controlling levers as stemming from the west’s desire to keep it for itself, with freedoms and human rights simply a smokescreen. All the work-shopping and hand-shaking at IGF won’t mask the ugliness of the internet’s basic geopolitics, especially in a city straddling Europe and Asia, and looking up the Bosphorus to Ukraine, Crimea and Russia’s (other) Black Sea resorts.Who goes to IGF?Typically a couple of thousand people attend, from technical experts to ministry officials, from activists to business lobbyists. The business lobby is mostly American, though it’s usually fronted by a suitable, middle-income-country poster child for bootstrapping, intellectual property rights and government staying the hell out of the way.The government people clump together in groups, looking slightly bewildered by all the egalitarian questioning and relatively open discussion. They typically give off the air of nerds who’ve been unexpectedly invited to the party and can’t be sure they’re not being mocked.At IGF, nerds are not quite kings, but they’re the only ones who know how the whole internet thing really works, so we mortals duck into their workshops for the first 10-15 minutes to pay homage to our household gods.The real king of the IGF is Vint Cerf, the “grandfather of the internet”, who is omnipresent in his trademark three-piece suit. People say he’s selling himself cheap at this year’s event and appearing on too many panels about ICANN’s coming independence. I think he just happens to believe in it.Other larger than life figures include an EU commissioner,Neelie Krooes, who’s clearly enjoying her last few months in the job andsaying pretty much whatever she likes; Larry Strickling, the US assistant secretary at the Department of Commerce – when he opens his mouth, everyone else closes theirs, the better to parse every word and interpret them in a self-serving fashion later – and ICANN’s charismatic CEO, Fadi Chehadi, whose silver tongue could charm anyone, but just the once.And then there is my sometime tribe, the pro-freedom, human rights activists from civil society who agonise about whether being here legitimises all sorts of wrongs, from the host country’s jailed bloggers to the realpolitik really driving the internet debate. As Mao Zedong didn’t say about the French Revolution, it’s too soon to tell.Does IGF matter to the Internet?An old friend from the technical community stopped me today and said,àproposof absolutely nothing: “You must remember that we are here for damage control. Nothing more, nothing less.”This illustrates two things. One, that the people who built the internet and keep it running grudgingly accept they must keep explaining it to and protecting it from the governments and corporates who want to use it for their own purposes. Two, that many people here are on broadcast-only mode. One way to have a successful IGF is to come with a simple, honed message and tell it to everyone you meet. If you’re good, you’ll soon hear other people adopting your meme as their own. It’s good lobbying tactics but pretty poor for actual conversation.So does IGF matter? Not a lot. It exposes governments – often of not especially free or tolerant countries – to a wider range of views than they are used to. But the effects aren’t always what you might wish. I recently gave a session (not at the IGF) on the problems with electronic surveillance to an authoritarian-lite telecoms regulator. The feedback afterwards was: “That was good. But next time, could you make it more of a ‘how-to’?”But to some not-quite-insiders, the IGF is an annual chance to challenge powerful people with tough questions. Activists fly thousands of miles to tackle their national luminaries on topics like net neutrality, local communications monopolies, censorship, and failed broadband rollouts. I can only hope the end result amounts to more than the momentary thrill of watching senior civil servants squirm before their peers.How to survive the IGFYou need considerable stamina or, ideally, the ability to be in several spaces at once. How else would you choose between eight competing sessions, four times a day? Who’s to say which will be better; the internet and economic development in small island states or cloud computing in the post-Snowden environment? You won’t know till you’ve slogged up several floors, got lost twice, been flagged down by precisely the person you were trying to avoid, and finally arrived at an apparently electrifying session that nonetheless finished ten minutes early.My tactic is to do half an hour each in the best-looking sessions in any slot, only occasionally ducking into the main auditorium. The main sessions usually have the most grandstanding, canned and scripted inputs and speakers so diverse in experience and concerns that it takes the whole time to come to agreement on the basic terms of discussion. Best avoided in person and followed on Twitter.The key session to avoid is the opening ceremony. There is no reason to willingly submit to 25 ministers’ statements delivered in multiple languages but all following the same template:“The internet is important. My country is important. I am a minister. I too am important.”Ed Vaizey, UK minister for culture, communications and the creative industries, went down a treat at this year’s opening. This is because he largely confined his comments to enthusing about Turkish food. He also said governments shouldn’t get in the way of the people who run the internet, presumably in their stampede to the buffet.“Ed Vaizey likes food. Ed Vaizey likes the internet. Both are important. So too is Ed Vaizey.”Still and all, we’ve only got one internet (China’s private version of same notwithstanding) and we’ve only got one IGF. An Australian activist, Asher Wolf, tweeted to IGF participants this week that those of us in Istanbul are incredibly privileged to be here, and she’s right, and that we should speak truth to power every chance we get, and she’s right about that, too.Participate remotely in the IGF hereMaria Farrell is a consultant on Internet policy and infrastructure. She blogs at www.crookedtimber.org and tweets from@mariafarrell
Judging by the response when I’ve written about the controversial topic of in-app purchases in kids’ apps in the past, plenty of people think they should be banned entirely: freemium as a no-go area for children’s apps.I’m not so sure: when used responsibly and under the control of parents, in-app purchases can work well.It’s less about £69.99 buckets of coins or Smurfberries in free-to-play games, and more about discrete purchases of stories in apps likeMe Books, monthly subscriptions in apps likeHopster, and one-off unlocks in apps likeEndless Numbers– to name just three examples.Here’s a fourth: the new app from British publisher Nosy Crow. Available for iPhone and iPad,Nosy Crow Jigsawsis a collection of digital jigsaw puzzles based on the artwork from the company’s books and apps.It’s a really good app: the artwork is full of character, and it’s clear that a lot of thought has been put into the interface, complete with a pull-out “tray” of pieces ready to be slotted into place in the main puzzle.What’s riskier is that the app is freemium: free to download, and making its money from selling packs of puzzles via in-app purchase. But here too, it seems Nosy Crow has been treading very carefully.“This is the first time we’ve introduced an in-app purchase option to one of our apps, and we’ve done it in a way that we think is honest, straightforward, and sensitive to both parents and children,”said the company’s digital project and marketing manager Tom Bonnick.“This felt like an app that lent itself to the in-app purchase model – not least because we want to find a way to feed back money to the authors and illustrators whose work is so essential to the success of our business.”Parents downloading the app get five puzzles for free, as well as all the puzzles based on any previous Nosy Crow apps that they own, including fairytale apps Jack and the Beanstalk and Little Red Riding Hood, and educational wildlife apps Rounds: Parker Penguin and Rounds: Franklin Frog.They can then buy packs of 10 puzzles for £0.69 as in-app purchases, or pay £6.99 to unlock the app’s entire catalogue of 200 puzzles.Setting an upper limit to unlock everything an app has to offer would be frowned upon in the free-to-play games world, where publishers make a significant proportion of their revenues from heavy-spending “whales”. In the children’s apps world, though, such an upper cap is a responsible approach.“We’ve tried to be as upfront as possible: there are no tokens, or gold coins, or any similarly euphemistic currency that might confuse a child about whether or not they’re spending real money,” said Bonnick.“We know how many parents are wary of in-app purchasing – often with very good reason – and we’ve tried to be respectful of those concerns: we think this is a fair and transparent IAP model.”In an appearance at the Children’s Media Conference in Sheffield in July, Bonnicktalked honestly about the ethical dilemma facing children’s app publishers, trying to build sustainable businesses amid an explosion of freemium apps.“The challenge is that a lot of things possible for adult apps and game apps –in-app purchasing and advertising – are really frowned upon in a lot of kids’ content,” he said then. Nosy Crow Jigsaws is the company’s attempt to prove that freemium apps can be responsible in this area.•It’s time more parents started paying for children’s apps•Free-to-play children’s apps: time for a proper debate•OFT’s report into freemium kids’ apps raises questions
Microsoft has announced three new Lumia smartphones, the 830, 735 and 730, to try to build on the acquisition of Nokia’s mobile division earlier this year.It is also rolling out a software update called “Lumia Denim” that adds functionality exclusively to Lumia phones running Windows Phone 8 – but not Windows Phone 8 devices from other manufacturers such as HTC or Samsung.To further set the new phones apart, the company is focussing on camera quality, wireless charging and the availability of an NFC-connected device to display photos and videos from the phone on a connected TV.It is also aiming for the mid-market range, with the 830 priced at €300, the 735 at €219 and the 730 at €199.Neil Bradley, for Microsoft, said the devices are aimed at “a group of consumers who are inspired do-ers who are engaged with technology and make discerning choices”.Lumia 830: ‘affordable flagship’Microsoft’s Lumia 830 includes wireless charging and has a 5in screen.Photograph: PR/MicrosoftThe 5in higher-end Lumia 830, which Microsoft calls an “affordable flagship” offers a 10-megapixel PureView camera with a thinner optical housing than previous models - eliminating the bulge on the back of the high-end 1020 - and optical image stabilisation. It has 16GB of storage, expandable by up to 128GB with a micro-SD card; 1GB RAM; 2200mAh removable battery; and 1.2GHz processor.730 and 735 models: ‘built for Skype and selfies’Microsoft’s Lumia 730 and 735 devices have a wide-angle 5-megapixel front-facing camera to give a wider field of view for Skype calls and selfies.Photograph: PR/MicrosoftThe 4.7in dual-sim 730 and single-sim 735 are “built for Skype and selfies”, including a 5MP front-facing camera with a specially designed wide-angle lens which includes more of the surroundings in the picture. The Lumia 730 and 735 come with 8GB of internal storage, expandable by another 64GB via a micro-SD card; 1GB of RAM; a 2270mAh battery; and 1.2GHz processor.The three phones, and other Lumia devices running Windows Phone 8, will over time receive an exclusive software update that brings the Cortana personal assistant, presently only available in the US, to the UK and other English-speaking markets, and also to China.Lumia owners will also be able to create folders of tiles, the equivalent of apps on other platforms, by dragging and dropping one onto another - the same action as seen on Apple’s iPhone or Google’s Android system. The Windows Phone app store becomes a live tile in its own right, and a special “Glance” lock screen will include information such as weather, health and fitness information from apps, and smart home data.PureView devices will also get software updates to speed up shutter release and processing; Microsoft claims that they will have the fastest “pocket to capture” speed of any phone on the market. It will also be able to capture single frames from video to provide individual photos.The update will also mean that on the high-end 1520 and 930 phones, Cortana is listening at any time, and cued only to the owner’s voice - so that it will answer to “Hey Cortana” followed by an instruction or question.The aim of the “Denim” update is to differentiate the Lumia handsets from other Windows Phone devices, said Jenni Riihijarvi of Microsoft’s Mobile division.Wireless charging is also a key part of the promotional effort for the new Lumias. The 830 has built-in wireless charging, and pairs with a new charging plate in bright colours which can provide an indication of whether the phone has received a notification while it is charging, and also alert the owner when it is in range and the phone is low on charge.The NFC-enabled HD-10 screen sharing device works with any Lumia phone, connecting via HDMI to any TV and streaming content or the screen view from the phone - once paired by tapping - onto the TV.Nokia’s mobile division, whosepurchase was completed by Microsoft in April, is by far the biggest supplier of Windows Phone devices on the market.Data from AdDuplex, which tracks app use on Windows Phone devices, suggests that in August Lumia devices comprised 95% of the installed base, with HTC second at 3.3% and Samsung third with 1.1%.
Angry Birds Stellais the latest game in Finnish firm Rovio’s flappy franchise. Its pink heroine is joined by three female friends and a female arch-enemy; the game’s slogan is “best friends forever – most of the time”; and its aims include celebrating “female heroism”.Angry Birds For Girls, then? Which is a controversial thought, given that Angry Birds has always appealed to both sexes, particularly among the children who are its most fervent fans.Angry Birds Stella risks looking like an attempt to ghettoise female fans: Star Wars, Transformers, karting and RPGs over here for the boys, and something pinker and simpler for the girls over there.Blanca Juti, Rovio’s chief marketing officer, makes the company’s case against this interpretation. “Just as I hope people don’t think Star Wars is for boys, I hope they don’t say this is just for girls,” she says.“We want to challenge stereotypes, both on girls – that they only play easy games – and on boys, that they don’t like anything pink. We really want to challenge this, and there is already a bit of a movement around it.”Juti says that when Rovio had a playable version of Angry Birds Stella on its stand at the recent Comic-Con convention “a lot of guys came to play”, and more convincingly, that just over 50% of people watching the game’s trailer on Facebook have been men.“It does celebrate women: we have five female heroes and one male, and all the pigs... well, we don’t know what they are. But most importantly, we wanted to make a kick-ass game. I do think it will attract females as well. I hope it does. But it is not just for girls.”You can look at Angry Birds Stella in two ways. A pinkified gaming-ghetto for girls sounds bad. A game with strong female heroes that’s played by lots of boys as well as girls sounds pretty progressive, though.Having played it, I can testify that it’s not easier than previous Angry Birds games too. It will be interesting to see how reactions play out once the game is available, with cartoons, toys, merchandise and books to follow later in the year.Boys and girls? There’s another sensitive topic when it comes to Angry Birds, which is how Rovio balances its appeal to children with the company’s desire to adopt the “free-to-play” business model that’s become so dominant in the mobile games world: giving the games away for free, then selling in-app purchases.Angry Birds Stella has in-app purchases going up to £37.99 for a chest of 7,500 virtual coins. Par for the course in free-to-play games, but a potential eyebrow-raiser for parents whose children are playing – if not quite as big as the sight ofa £69.99 kart in the Angry Birds Go! gamelast year.“You can totally play the game without having to purchase stuff, but then on the other hand, if you want to purchase stuff, you can,” says Juti.“That’s where the industry is going: people want to get the game for free, but somehow you need to be able to build the game. It’s an industry standard now. For us, free-to-play is a positive thing: it makes it extremely accessible to people around the world.”The other big challenge for Rovio and Angry Birds in 2014 is staying relevant. Juti talks enthusiastically about its mainstream reach – “three to 103 year-olds: very few things in life, probably chocolate and Angry Birds, that have such wide appeal” – but there have been signs that its growth has stalled.Rovio’s revenues rose by just 2.5% in 2013to €156m (£128.4m), while stripping out its consumer products income revealed that the income from the Angry Birds games actually fell slightly year-on-year.In its results for 2012, Rovio said it ended the year with 263m monthly active players, but the lack of a comparable figure in its 2013 results hinted that the number may have fallen.Meanwhile, the company’s income pales next to that of rivals like Clash of Clans makerSupercell (£542m in 2013)and Candy Crush Saga publisher King (£1.1bn). Is Angry Birds falling back to earth? Unsurprisingly, Juti disagrees.She cites a survey recently commissioned by Rovio in the US, Brazil, Korea and Finland that found an average “aided brand awareness” of 91%, rivalling well established brands like Disney and Lego.That shows that people recognise Angry Birds, but it doesn’t necessarily prove that they love it and are still willing to spend money on it. That said, some of the other companies that Rovio has been compared to are encountering their own difficulties: witness evidence thatCandy Crush fever (and spending) may have peaked.“From the beginning, our aim has been to build a brand for 100 years, not 100 days. We have Stella coming in, Angry Birds Transformers coming out next month, another game soft-launched in Finland that’s coming soon too. So quite a lot of stuff coming this fall,” says Juti. “And we have a movie in the making too.”The mystery soft-launched game may beRETRY, a Flappy Bird-esque action game that has been tested in Rovio’s home country since May, although it’s not an Angry Birds game.Having dug around Apple’s App Store in Finland, there’s also a non-game app,ToonsTV by Rovio, which soft-launched there earlier this year but has yet to be released in the web. And ToonsTV might actually be Rovio’s best defence against claims of the company’s imminent decline.Already available within other Angry Birds apps and on the web, ToonsTV has quietly become a Netflix-style TV network for kids, populated by Rovio’s own cartoons, but also shows from partners including Transformers and Fraggle Rock.3bn video views since March 2013, and growing advertising from big brands, suggests ToonsTV is becoming an important second string for Rovio’s bow. “I would say to the sceptics, maybe hold on a little bit and play a few games,” says Juti.“We have built this brand on many levels, through the games, toons, parks, products, and in different countries you can see that one or other is consumed more. Well, that’s fine.”
