What software would you recommend to open an "ogg" file? I found several programs, but hesitate to choose one for fear of viruses and spyware. Sue Sanchez and Dave NullOgg indicates an Ogg Vorbis open source sound file. There's a range of options, but it's best to choose the one you like fromhttp://www.vorbis.com/setup.
On my PC, I have more than 100 entries appearing as a variant of $NtUninstal- KB820291$. Can I simply delete these? Denis LovelaceYou can try, but I'd suggest you don't. These are the uninstallation files for hotfixes provided by Windows Update, and they are hidden, protected system files. If you delete them, you probably will not save any space in the short term, because Windows Restore will secretly back them up. You can probably save more space by running CCleaner (http://www.ccleaner.com/) -- some care is required! -- or checking your hard drive with FolderSizes (http://www.foldersizes.com/) or a similar program.However, if you insist,Doug Knox has developed a utilitythat removes these back up files and the associated Registry entries. Obviously you must not simply uninstall the hotfixes as this could leave your PC vulnerable to attack.Backchat: I've been using Crap Cleaner (see above) since it came out, without any problems. However, last time I mentioned it, Bordeaux-based Terry Vincent was not so lucky. "I use a default language of English (UK) but I mix in a lot of French. After running CCleaner, I found that all of the French in my documents was changed to be English (US), creating an impossible situation with the spell-checker," he complained. This appears to be because CCleaner somehow turns on the language setting option ("Detect language automatically") in Word. The workaround is to untick the box for Microsoft Office 2003 before running CCleaner. Defensive strategies include backing up your hard drive, saving a copy of the Windows Registry, and creating restore points.
In an article on Saturday March 24, you gave some email addresses for online wizards that could solve problems on my system. I now find I am in desperate need of their services. Richard GebbieIn that article, Daniel Elkan reviewed four computer help services. You can read the article and find linkshere.
I have an old visual stimulus generator card that fits into an ISA expansion slot. I wish to put the card into a new computer but cannot find any with ISA slots. Humza TahirThe ISA (Industry Standard Architecture) bus dates from the early 1980s and we've had EISA, VESA and PCI since then. I reckon your best and possibly only option is the Ars Technologies usb2isa (http://www.arstech.com/item--usb2isa.html), which provides a way for an ISA card to work via a USB 2.0 port, unless someone out there knows of a better way.
When it was announced last year that theElectronic Entertainment Expowas hanging up its hat, the games industry shook to its very foundations. The industry event had quickly become one of the most anticipated and central events in the Western games calendar, and consumers anticipated reports from embedded journalists like rabid dogs waiting for a tasty chunk of meat.Not everyone liked E3, however. As it grew and grew, it became a tasteless marketplace for the big names, blocking the limelight from the smaller players. Developers worked stupid hours - recreating their scheduled crunch times - to get E3 demos ready for the cynical, jaded and increasingly underwhelmed journo hacks.It also seemed to miss the point; surely getting the big names together to show off their assets would have been better placed in a consumer sphere, where those who might actually be excited by the pomp and circumstance were not allowed access to the shiny lights and short skirts of the marketing orgasm.So when the industry E3 was cancelled and the consumer-focussedE for Allexpo was announced, it appeared that someone, somewhere had finally got their priorities straight.Gamespothas posted official information for the October event, scheduled to take place over 4 days.Single-day passes for Thursday and Friday will cost gamers $50 each, while admission on Saturday or Sunday will run $75. A full pass for all four days will also be available for $110. Dolaher said there might be a number of different promotions that could change the final price for customers.In effect, the event is now one gigantic shopping spree for gamer geeks. As the article explains,...attendees will get a chance to try out the big-name holiday releases in a finished state, participate in tournaments, and even add games to their collection from retailers in Kentia Hall.Just in time for the holiday season. How convenient.So does this appeal to non-US gamesblog readers? Will you travel to the West Coast of the USA to have a go on titles you'll get in your stockings a few weeks later, in PAL format?
Peter the pirate is working on buying his own island. The Swedish file-sharing enthusiast is a member of The Pirate Bay, a site that tracks files distributed using the Bittorrent peer-to-peer (P2P) file-sharing network. His group originally wanted to buy SeaLand, a former military base six miles off the coast of Suffolk, in the hope of turning it into an independent state with its own copyright laws - or lack of them. SeaLand's current owner wouldn't sell, so The Pirate Bay is looking at Caribbean islands instead. "We've got $20,000 so far," says Peter. They need $50,000 to make a go of it.The Pirate Bay is one of the most popular public "tracker" sites for Bittorrent files, and coordinates the downloading of content that includes commercially copyrighted work. Some other tracker sites have been closed down by film industry groups, but The Pirate Bay is located in Sweden, which has liberal laws concerning file sharing. It spurns legal takedown requests and even parades them on its pages. But while sites like this may laugh at legal threats, they and their users must fend off more subtle technological attacks happening behind the scenes.Counter measuresBittorrent is unlike early file-sharing methods such as Napster in two important ways. First, it is optimised for very large files, which makes it useful for transferring video. According to varying figures, Bittorrent traffic accounts for between 18% and 55% of all internet traffic.Second, it's a fragmented network consisting of a hotchpotch of different download clients and websites (see below). "You can't point at something and say 'that's Bittorrent'," says Randy Saaf, chief executive of MediaDefender, a company that works for copyright holders to stop online piracy over P2P networks.It normally takes several hours for a feature-length movie file to download using Bittorrent. But those trying to illegally download copyrighted video might have to wait much longer than that.Companies specialising in countermeasures to P2P piracy, like MediaDefender, have been injecting fake files into the network to try to make Bittorrent too tiresome for people to use. "These are open trust networks, and they can't authenticate all of the material on the network," says Saaf, who works for the owners of the pirated content.Decoys have also been used in other P2P networks that are good at distributing large files, including Gnutella, eDonkey and Ares. A decoy might contain garbage, making it useless, or promotional content such as trailers, rather than the real product.Another counter-piracy technique is when only 97% of a large file is uploaded. The remaining file parts are never released, meaning that people spend hours downloading most of the file, only to have it pause, endlessly and infuriatingly, just before the end. (These are sometimes called "stuck torrents".)However, the technique's effectiveness is limited, according to torrent tracking and indexing sites. "If people upload something like that, the community will find out and comment on it. It's just a stupid obstacle," says Peter."It's the new users that would fall for this," says the administrator of Fenopy, a site that indexes the many tracker sites and offers a search engine for torrents. "What they're just trying to do is frustrate new users enough so that they don't use the system beyond playing with it the first few times."In addition to indexing, Fenopy runs Fake Finder, a service using a complex algorithm to automatically identify fake torrent files. Visitors can read Fake Finder for free, and it publishes an online interface so that other indexing and tracker sites can automatically weed the fake torrents out of their search results.Decoy files have become easier to spot, Saaf admits, and they constitute only around 5% of his firm's work.Instead, it uses other techniques such as interdiction, in which it connects to file sharers to download their content as a way of stopping others from doing so. That works best when there are few people in a swarm, making it useful for files that have just made their way on to a network.Going privateAnother is swarming, where a countermeasures company pretends it has some parts of an existing torrent's file. When asked for parts of the file, it sends garbage, polluting the recipient's download.While the trackers and indexers do their best to thwart the P2P police, some users have simply closed ranks and formed private groups to exchange files.Private groups are paranoid about being discovered, and are like members' clubs; you must be introduced by an existing member. Nevertheless, some have been infiltrated, according to Peter Anaman, a senior internet investigator for legal firm Covington and Burling."Many groups didn't start off as private. They became private because they felt threatened, so we were able to get in when they were open," he says. The company's network of contacts can also invite it into closed groups that they have infiltrated. "Once you're in, you never take action. You just listen," he says.So the cat and mouse game between countermeasures firms and pirates continues. Ashwin Navin, cofounder of BitTorrent (which publishes the official BitTorrent client), has simply decided not to play. Instead, he started the BitTorrent Entertainment Network, which uses the Bittorrent protocol to distribute licensed, legitimate content from the studios."The tracker sites and the users are going to have to put up with that ongoing arms race, and that's the cost of piracy," says Navin, who hopes that people will be attracted to the legitimate content because it's more reliable.For the time being, The Pirate Bay is happy to battle on. While it saves for its island, it continues to ignore the studios' sabre-rattling. "We have one server that is in front of all our other servers, and that's in Sweden," says Peter, adding that the organisation doesn't know where most of its servers are. "If you found our main server and unplugged it, you couldn't find the others."In a sense, its network is something like a decoy Bittorrent file - fragmented, distributed and never entirely complete.How Bittorrenting worksTo distribute a file using the Bittorrent protocol, you use software to create a smalltorrentfile. This contains a unique fingerprint representing each small part of the video file, so that it can be recognised and distributed in chunks rather than all at once.The torrent is uploaded to a server called atracker. A link to the tracker is published online, and anyone who wants to download the file first downloads the torrent file from the tracker. The tracker then tells the downloader which users have the whole file, and the downloader begins receiving it in small chunks.Every time someone downloads the torrent, the tracker records where they are, and gradually compiles a list of people who have parts of the file. This list is called aswarm. The more people (orpeers) in a swarm, the faster and more reliable a download will become, because you can download parts of the file from multiple sources.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Can stuck torrents beat pirates?Online filesharing of movies and music has the Hollywood hotshots hopping mad, but they are fighting back with the help of anti-piracy firms, as Danny Bradbury discovers.Finding the music format of the futureQuality, copy protection and the threat of billion-dollar lawsuits are all factors when choosing encoding systems. Jack Schofield reports.Canada drops licences and adopts free model for map dataFree Our Data: Rationale for charging has gone, says government information expertHe's not the messiah, he's just a world developerAleks Krotoski: Curious things in cyberspace No. 372: The Green Cube Shrine to Second Life creator Philip Rosedale.GamesGuitar Heroes II | Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles | Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium WarsNewly Asked QuestionsIs Vonage toast after its patent battle with Verizon?Not yet, but it's beginning to look a bit brown around the edges, says Charles Arthur.Should Apple start manufacturing insulin pumps?Some people would be happy if Apple designed them. You might wonder: why should the coolest computer company consider a dull but vital gadget that keeps millions of people alive, writes Kate Bevan.Read me firstAndrew Brown: Why Linux is the perfect system for people who hate computers.To the average Joe, blogs aren't cutting itVictor Keegan: This month's state of the blogosphere survey by Technorati, the monitoring service, was greeted as if it were the online equivalent of the President's State of the Union address.TechnobileI know I've reached rock bottom, writes Pem Charnley, because I'm taking sick delight in watching RSS feeds eat each other.Can open source techniques be used to design a car?Hobbyists are taking on the giant car makers with the development of the world's first open source vehicle. Sean Dodson reports.Has Land Registry bitten off more than it can chew entering the matrix?Michael Cross: If I were setting up a giant government IT system designed to create new perceptions of the world, I wouldn't put the word matrix in its name. Really.Stand by for some home truths about power consumptionBy focusing their efforts on TVs left in standby mode, writes Ron West, environmentalists might just be missing the point.NewsbytesNerd in space | Game for a chat | Search Google vocally | Aids networking | Sing ring ring | Blogger crackdown | Free Anti-Rootkit | Infosecurity expoLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.
Guitar Hero II, Command &amp; Conquer 3 and - yay - Shivering Isles get thereview treatmentthis week. I've not played C&amp;C3 or GH2 on the 360, but my hamfisted efforts on Guitar Hero's PS2 version don't fill me with hope. Ironically years of playing videogames has left my fingers in no state to "play" anything other than the really simple axe-wielding tracks. You wait - 20 years time and web 7.0 will be crammed full of aged gamers bemoaning their arthritis. Shivering Isles is alright though - no insane dexterity needed here - and I've spent many hours playing through the Oblivion add-on. More of the same yes, but still hugely entertaining. Elsewhere Alekstalks shrines and Second Life.
I was just getting the hang of RSS, and then disaster struck. I was presented with choices so baffling they sparked a mini-breakdown. Last week, while in the act of subscribing to a feed, I was presented with the following option: would I like to have the RSS go to my Google homepage as normal, or would I like it to go to Google Reader?Google Reader? When did this happen? I opted for Google Reader because it was all shiny and new. Then I faltered: would I remember that Google Reader even existed? Well, I thought, best I put a link to the new RSS over at my Google homepage too, just to be on the safe side, as well as adding it to my bookmarks in a folder reserved for these special occasions. Just to further muddy the waters, I also thought it politic to have a link to the feed in my Google Notebook. You can't be too careful.But, almost inevitably, I began to fret. All these alternative routes to the same feeds left me feeling more paranoid about missing out on breaking news than ever before.By last night, I could see the sheer idiocy of my actions and subsequent confusion. I'd spent more time faffing, checking that these RSS feeds actually existed in all of their manifest locations than actually reading them. Therefore, I made the brave decision to import all of them into Google Reader.But it has become patently obvious that the latest device from Google Labs does little more than could be achieved over at their homepage. And this deserves retribution.I now find it joyous - and this is where the breakdown's kicking in - to have an RSS feed from Google Reader appear on Google Reader, thus allowing it to keep tabs on itself. This can be likened to a dog chasing its own tail, but this is scant revenge for the paranoia I've had to endure recently.Not only that, but I can ridicule Google Reader still further. Once I'd achieved the above, the page also presented me with the following option via the settings menu: would I like to set this feed as Google Reader's start page? Sublime. I've now set as the start page over at Google Reader the actual RSS feed from Google Reader. The page now opens with a feed from itself which takes up the whole screen.This is what I've been reduced to. I actually derive enjoyment by ridiculing an inanimate RSS reader. It's hardly surprising that I'm a mess. I feel I've been wired up to the national grid for nigh on a week now.The paradox? I've been left with no option than to walk away from the computer and buy myself a copy of the Guardian just to find out what's really been going on out there.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Guitar Heroes IIXbox 360, &pound;69.99, cert 12+, Harmonix/Activision, 5/5Although those familiar with Konami's Guitar Freaks might have wondered why the release of Guitar Heroes stimulated so much excitement, Harmonix's plastic guitar peripheral game took virtual rocking mainstream. After being the preserve of the PS2 for so long, the second instalment in the franchise has finally made it on to the 360, and arguably with the addition of new tracks and downloadable content, it's where the game has always belonged. Knowledge of guitar playing is not necessary to follow the simple press-the-buttons-in-time-with-the-scrolling-icons gameplay. That's not to dumb down the skill required to play the game on expert mode, which definitely takes some agile finger work. But as you strum your way through tunes like Hush, Strutter, the Trooper and Monkey Wrench, you realise that Guitar Heroes II has the ability to make anyone feel like a rock star.Rhianna PratchettElder Scrolls IV: Shivering IslesXbox 360/PC, &pound;20 (requires original Oblivion, cert 15+, 2K Games, 4/5The original Oblivion was a brilliant yet occasionally infuriating roleplaying game. A mostly fantastic glimpse into gaming's future - freedom, gorgeous environment - it was hampered by the past with clunky menus, regular death and intrusive loading screens. Shivering Isles is the first proper expansion pack and adds creatures, quests and a whole new landmass. Players can take use their existing character or create a new one, but the result is the same - absorbing entertainment. The reduced scale of the new area has helped, with a tighter focus and plot. The quests are more varied than before, usually asking you to do more than kill or deliver as you serve the crazed Prince of Madness. Humour is more prevalent, and it looks good as well - more stylised and colourful than the pretty but conventional original. It may lack the epic size, but Shivering Isles is a must for Oblivion owners and proof that less really is more.Greg HowsonCommand &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium WarsPC, &pound;34.99, cert 16+, Westwood/EA, 5/5It takes a very special game to go 11 years essentially unchanged and still be the genre daddy. Tiberium Wars has everything I love about this franchise - cheesy, overblown videos, perfectly balanced units blistering with futuristic technology and expertly designed levels that never deliver the same surprise twice. Into the old GDI/Nod mix come the Scrin, an alien race with organic technology. Again, it's not a new idea but nobody bar Blizzard executes these things better and Westwood has packed every level with primary or secondary objectives, some that are hidden unless you explore every nook and cranny. It makes for much more than a base-building game, and the multiplayer modes are promising, if a little buggy at present. Command &amp; Conquer is still realtime strategy at its finest.Mike Anderiesz
If I were setting up a giant government IT system designed to create new perceptions of the world, I wouldn't put the word matrix in its name. Really. HM Land Registry for England and Wales, on the other hand, seems undeterred by the prospect of being associated with sinister all-powerful forces and green digital rain. Earlier this month, it unveiled Chain Matrix, the public face of one of the most ambitious e-government programmes currently under way.Chain Matrix will post online the state of play of every transaction forming part of a property-buying chain in England and Wales. The idea is that everyone involved in buying or selling a home will be able to see at a glance when each other participant has agreed a price, exchanged contracts and is ready to complete. Transparency will make it easier to set a date for moving, and immediately show up any problems in the process. Anyone who has had their life expectancy shortened by the peculiar torture of the English system of property conveyancing will cheer: no more heartbreaking calls announcing that the biggest financial transaction in your life has just been wrecked because someone called Jones in Acacia Avenue says his buyer has cut his offer by &pound;20k.That is only one part of the Land Registry's programme to put online the process of buying and selling property in England and Wales (its Scottish counterpart has similar ambitions). According to the registry, e-conveyancing will also introduce electronic documents and signatures, together with electronic payments. The idea is not just to replicate existing practice online, but to transform the whole process by removing inefficiencies, delays and worry.With property transactions, even at their current low ebb, of crucial importance to the national economy, it is an amazingly ambitious programme. The big worry is whether Land Registry has bitten off more than it can chew. The registry's core function, to provide a definitive proof of title, is by definition a monopoly, based on absolute trust. Becoming a middleman in every single property transaction is another function entirely, and one that may not fit as easily with monopoly status. The system itself, handling transactions worth &pound;1m every minute, will have to be bulletproof. Any wobbles could imperil the credibility of the property register - and the entire UK economy.With an eye to the risks, Land Registry has moved with commendable caution. So far, e-conveyancing seems to have escaped being tied to political agendas of the kind that have driven other government IT projects up blind alleys. Plans for e-conveyancing first appeared in 1998 and were underpinned by law in 2002. (Secondary legislation in the form of rules still needs to be drafted and passed by Parliament.)The technology has gone live incrementally. The first steps involved computerising the register, then making it available electronically to solicitors and finally to the public at Land Register Online, with its irresistible revelations about house prices. Chain Matrix is being tested on a small scale by solicitors in Bristol, Fareham and Portsmouth. If it works, it will be offered to professionals across England and Wales, but the register will not commit itself to a deadline for going fully on the web.But caution has its own risks. One is that like medieval cathedral builders, the people running the programme will be long gone by the time it is complete. I hope the structures are in place to preserve continuity and accountability. Another risk is that by operating under the political radar, the programme will provoke a more extreme backlash when it finally does hit the headlines or politicians get rattled.Land Registry says it is engaging with four key groups of professional stakeholders - lawyers, banks, estate agents and other government bodies. However, it also needs to think about ordinary homebuyers and what they want from the system.Given the unpopularity of current practice, e-conveyancing should get a warm reception. Unless, of course, the whole thing really is the creation of all-controlling sentient machines.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
What does neutral mean?&#183;In an article on net neutrality, [Andrew Orlowski] has actually uncovered something that has been worrying me since I first heard about the debate (Can the internet be truly neutral, April 5). The problem is, how do you define the term? You can get five definitions from Wikipedia alone.technollama.blogspot.com&#183;When the ink is dry on this issue, historians will see it more as a testament to the power of the internet to win support for dubious causes than anything else. To think that neutralitarians have actually built a movement to pressure Congress to enact laws against unprecedented, speculative, hypothetical ills is actually mind-boggling. Don't they have enough real problems?bennett.com/blogIt's not so FlashThere is no doubt that Flash can provide richer content for web pages, and my daughter loves some of the Flash games that are available. But it was disappointing that the article (Flash is the new publishing tool of the century, April 5) failed to make any mention of the issue of accessibility (complying with the DDA) - an issue that has dogged Flash in the past. I know newer versions of Flash can produce content that is more accessible than older versions can, but it still relies on the authors of the Flash movies to understand all the issues and put accessibility features in (something that to a large extent you get for free with HTML). The reality is that few Flash developers do this.Graham ArmfieldWoking&#183;I'm a card-carrying member of the Mark Anders fan club, but saying that Flash is the new publishing tool of the century is a bit much. Flash may be Gutenberg's printing press, providing a huge jolt and showing everyone how revolutionary things can be, but there's still a lot of innovation to be had in our little section of the web.blog.digitalbackcountry.com&#183;First, members of my fan club have secret decoder rings, not membership cards, but more importantly, I had no idea what he was talking about with "the new publishing tool of the century" line. Where did that come from? ... I don't remember using those words, and interestingly, in the article they do not appear within quotes. However, in looking at the context of the statement, I think I understand what it means ... I do believe that as we've moved into the 21st century, the web has transformed to include more than just text and images, and that Flash has been an enabler of that shift to a richer web experience.andersblog.com&#183;The Flash/Flex/Apollo Ecosystem is a powerful combination when it comes to building not just web apps but disconnected desktop apps. But the true power of Flash is still being dreamt by Adobe so I expect exciting times for web publishing.blog.jodybrewster.netYou can buy DRM-freeYour analysis of EMI's move to drop DRM (Label leads way with DRM-free music, April 5) was pretty good. However, you neglected to mention Magnatune, an online music store that offers its DRM-free music in the customer's choice of Ogg Vorbis, MP3, FLAC, AAC, and more. In addition, 50% of their gross revenue goes to the artists.Matt FlaschenAtlanta, GeorgiaRwandan computersThe slight tone of scepticism with which you report Rwanda's rush to buy Negroponte's "$100" wind-up children's computers (Google joins the technology push into sub-Saharan Africa, April 5) is well-placed. Negroponte is pushing this clockwork-powered toy, which he intends to sell in its millions, as a serious development tool for the Third World; but, aside from the technical issues you raise, there also is a serious moral problem here. In a world riven with war, pestilence and hunger, is this the best way of spending (with the usual manufacturers) millions, which might otherwise be put to better purpose?Brian WinstonLincoln Professor of Communications, University of LincolnSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number
Few things seem to excite car designers more than the concept cars they wheel out at international motor shows. Each year gleaming displays of futuristic styling grace the circuit, revealing ever sleeker lines and tantalising technology that promises to do away with the car's deadly addiction to carbon-based fuel.Sadly for environmentalists and futurists alike, these cars rarely go into production. But there's another kind of concept car taking shape on the internet that, one day, just might. Far from the glare of the motor show is a car called the OScar. A concept car with a twist, OScar is being developed by a loose tangle of car designers, engineers and programmers - most working in their spare time - out to challenge the might of the big car makers.Driving forceOScar is taking shape using a single principle as its guiding light: it's an open source car. The open source idea is borrowed from the software industry that makes its code freely available under licence; the Firefox web browser and the Linux operating system being the most famous examples.In the hard, metallic world of car design this means that instead of protecting OScar designs by use of restrictive patents, as is the norm, the design is effectively open to anyone willing to contribute. And that does mean anyone. Like a much more complicated version of Wikipedia, OScar is being argued over by volunteer car designers, 60% of whom are moonlighting from within the car industry.Tens of thousands have signed up to the project, but in reality OScar is being driven by a core team of a few dozen, and steered by just one man. Markus Merz has for the past six years been trying to direct the design and development of a prototype car using the anarchic principles of open source. Although he is in the driving seat, decisions are based on a democratic system and everybody - including individual designers, companies, universities, and other organisations - can participate. (You can too, just by signing up attheoscarproject.org).Merz was raised on a Bavarian farm in the shadow of a large BMW plant, where he was eventually recruited to work on the production line. Soon he was promoted to the marketing department and eventually played an influential role developing the company's new media strategy. There he first encountered the principles of open source software and, while observing that the cars being developed by BMW were (and are) being designed almost exclusively in virtual space, he began to wonder whether he could design a basic prototype combining the two.OScar might well be a car of the future, but it is as about as basic as the car your dad used to drive. In performance terms, it's somewhere between the original Volkswagen Beetle and a Mark 1 Golf, and has a top speed of just 90mph. It should be sturdy and made from a minimum number of mechanical parts, but beyond that, the project has one fundamental rule: that the design should be freely available to every member of its community.But OScar also makes another technological leap. Using a modular concept borrowed from computer manufacture, OScar uses six discrete parts. Each module - the drivetrain (the car equivalent of a PC's motherboard), body, engine, power, safety and information systems - are being designed independently and, crucially, just like a computer, each can be mixed and matched with other modular components, so a future manufacturer could swap parts as needed, easily adapting a passenger car to a pick-up truck.You could argue that any car can be customised and changed into something else. Pimp My Ride wouldn't exist otherwise. But the modular approach means that a car, in theory, could be manufactured en masse because of its open source nature. Here the ultimate destination of OScar goes foggy, but the intention goes something like this: traditionally, car designs are protected by patents. So a small plant in, say, Botswana or Bangladesh must pay for a licence to produce the designs. A car under an "open licence" can be produced without those additional costs. At least one barrier to production is removed.Alternative approachIt has often been written that the age of the individual inventor is over. Corporations now dominate the development of new inventions, the argument goes, and our future belongs to ever-larger multi-national companies that will protect their inventions ever more aggressively. But study how many web-based applications are produced and you see that there is an alternative.An open source invention - be it the code for the popular Firefox browser or the blueprints for a $100 laptop - operates under open source principles. Until very recently, this has only thrived in the weightless world of computer code. But now pioneers like Merz are trying to break their ideas in the physical world. Others are not so sure that the ideas can be so easily transposed. As one blogger pointed out on Metafilter.com recently: "Open source software thrives because it's easily transportable ... When hardware comes into the picture, you suddenly have to contend with fabrication, distribution, packaging, etc. And at every step of the way you will be dealing with people who won't see it as a 'community project' but as a paycheck for something they are physically building or distributing."There are other reasons why OScar's journey towards production may not be such a smooth ride, says Merz. "There are some legal problems here," he says. "If someone is, for instance, a drivetrain engineer working at, for example, Mercedes Benz and they are working anonymously on our platform, it could conflict with their working contract because of the knowledge they put in to the project."Indeed, Michael Blabst, a spokesperson for BMW's innovation department, is sceptical that OScar will make it out of the garage. "It's a nice creative idea for enthusiastic people," he says, "but one that is of course strongly limited. [I think it suitable] for developing a very early concept. But more will not be possible. Car development has to be strongly organised and takes up to five years. [Making] a car means to bring together up to 20,000 parts in a perfect way."Merz admits that OScar is a hobby. But lest we forget, Karl Benz's invention of the first motor car was part of a lifelong hobby. His great rivals, Gottlieb Daimler and Wilhelm Maybach, developed a rival internal combustion engine in a makeshift garage in Daimler's garden. The car was invented and built by hobbyists. Its future may call on them again.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nerd in spaceFormer Microsoft Word and Excel programmer Dr Charles Simonyi is holidaying at the International Space Station.charlesinspace.comGame for a chatMicrosoft has confirmed that its Xbox 360 Spring Update software will include a version of Windows Live Messenger so Xbox Live users can do instant messaging on their TV sets.news.mygamercard.netSearch Google vocallyIn the US, Google Labs is trialling an automated interactive voice response service that lets users search for local information over the phone.labs.google.comAids networkingHIVConnect.net is the first social networking site for the HIV/Aids community - including friends, family and healthcare professionals.hivconnect.netSing ring ringSingTones lets UK users sing something, karaoke style, then cleans it up and converts it into a ringtone - for a fee.singtone.comBlogger crackdownReporters sans fronti&egrave;res says Malaysia plans to make bloggers register with the government to prevent the spread of "negative or malicious content".rsf.orgFree Anti-RootkitGrisoft has released free AVG Anti-Rootkit software to find things that might be hiding on Windows hard drives.grisoft.comInfosecurity expoInfosecurity Europe 2007 will be held at Olympia, London, April 24-26.infosec.co.uk
Some people would be happy if Apple designed them. You might wonder: why should the coolest computer company consider a dull but vital gadget that keeps millions of people alive?The answer is good design. Amy Tenderich, who has diabetes and writes a no-nonsense blog about living with the condition, noted that on Monday Apple said it had sold its 100 millionth iPod. Yes, 100m of the little blighters, which is pretty good going - a testament to the design skills of expat Brit Jonathan Ive.She points out that diabetes sufferers spend a lot of time hooked up to lifesaving devices. While an iPod may help you remain sane in the rush hour, Tenderich is referring to devices such as a blood glucose monitor or an insulin pump. And, as she observes, they're not pretty.But hang on a minute. The University of Cambridge has been trialling an "artificial pancreas" (a posh name for a sensor that measures glucose levels in the blood).Look closely at it and you'll see that it looks a lot like a shrunken version of the early iMacs, the ones built around a CRT monitor in candy colours. Clipping on to a belt, the device is about the size of an iPod and even has a small mono screen and buttons that wouldn't look out of place on an MP3 player.Medical devices are "also life devices", says Tenderich. She'd like a gadget guru like Ive to show the medical industry what is possible.However, it's not that straightforward, says Sarah Milsom of the campaigning group Diabetes UK, who points out that different patients have different requirements."Someone with retinopathy [which affects diabetes sufferers and attacks their eyesight] wouldn't want a tiny screen like the iPod," she says, although a younger patient without that condition might. "A younger person might want a smaller device, while an older one might prefer something that does the same thing but which they can use at home and not carry around with them. It just depends."Design is already a factor in some devices being used by diabetics, says Milsom. You can get insulin pumps for younger patients that sport cartoon characters, while insulin pens, used for injecting the hormone, can be made to look cool.Access to these devices, though, isn't a given in the UK. "It's something of a postcode lottery," says Milsom. "We want people to have what's best for them," whatever it looks like.Maybe Tenderich will get her way. Type II diabetes is on the rise among younger people, and they are the drivers of any consumer market.Or maybe not. We asked Apple if it was going to get into designing medical devices any time soon and it seems Tenderich hasn't yet registered on its radar. "We have no comment available from Apple at this time," said the press office.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Not yet, but it's beginning to look a bit brown around the edges. Last month a jury ruled that the American stock market-listed voice-over-internet protocol (Voip) provider had infringed three patents owned by the US phone company Verizon, and a judge forbade it from taking on any more subscribers.Vonage rushed to a different judge, whom it persuaded to delay what was tantamount to execution - for a business that can't grow has little future. Vonage must now pay 5.5% of every sale to a customer back to Verizon - which now has until Friday to respond to Vonage's stay of execution. In essence, Verizon can decide whether to let Vonage bleed slowly, or just kill it - if, that is, Vonage cannot kill the patent claims.Vonage's lawyer said that stopping it getting more customers would be "slowly strangling" the company, "because it cannot preserve that customer base" forever. Presently, "churn" of customers leaving is about 2.5% per month. "Vonage ... continues to believe that this case is an attempt to do in the courtroom what Verizon could not succeed in doing in the marketplace - which is to put Vonage out of business," the company said in a statement. The $66m (&pound;33.4m) damages won't hurt, as it has about $500m in cash.But Vonage seems to be struggling anyway. In the fourth quarter of last year it added only 166,000 new subscribers, compared to 204,591 the previous quarter and 256,000 in the one before that, while its marketing budget ballooned. If Vonage survives, it'll deserve a medal.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The future of HotmailI've upgraded to a new machine with Vista Premium and I'm disappointed to find that I can't set up Windows Mail to pick up my Hotmail. I've used Hotmail for years (and I don't really want to change to another account) and really liked being able to manage my different email accounts via a single program, Outlook Express. Is it really just about Microsoft flogging advertising space or are there benefits that I'm not yet aware of that mean I should stick it out?Gavin RandJack Schofield replies:Microsoft does have a long-term strategy, and hopes the future belongs to Windows Live Mail Desktop (WLMd). Briefly, the first stage of popular email used desktop programs such as Eudora and Outlook, while the second stage brought web-based services such as Hotmail. The third stage could be hybrid programs that have both an online and a desktop (or phone) component. That way you get both the speed and power of a standalone program, including off-line working, with the convenience of a web-based system. In Microsoft's case, the online component is Windows Live Hotmail, which is similar to Google's Gmail. The desktop component is WLMd, which has been available in a public beta version since last July.The Windows Mail program, which has replaced Outlook Express in Vista, is a subset of WLMd. Eventually I expect most Windows users will have WLMd installed. Like most Microsoft Windows programs nowadays, WLMd is being developed with public feedback. You can get up to speed by reading theMore Than Mail blogrun by the program manager, Tanja Fournier. It's good stuff.However, my current recommendation for those willing and able to change is to use Gmail with Thunderbird, the companion program to Firefox. Google doesn't charge for POP3 access (eg via Outlook Express) and lets you use your own domain name.Relocation problemAfter an automatic Windows update, my PC is giving a heart-stopping message about a system DLL being illegally relocated in memory, and it says: "The vendor supplying the DLL should be contacted for a new DLL." Otherwise, everything seems OK.Ian Smith, Dave Phillips, Roy Whitney, John Snowdon, Nick Martin, Pavel Vitek and many othersJS:This is a bug that can arise depending on the order in which files are loaded from two different security updates. Microsoft has published an explanation and a hotfixhere.Playing an oggWhat software would you recommend to open an "ogg" file? I found several programs, but hesitate to choose one for fear of viruses and spyware.Sue Sanchez and Dave NullJS:Ogg indicates an Ogg Vorbis open source sound file. There's a range of options, but it's best to choose the one you like fromvorbis.com/setup.Need for spaceOn my PC, I have more than 100 entries appearing as a variant of $NtUninstal- KB820291$. Can I simply delete theseDenis LovelaceJS:You can try, but I'd suggest you don't. These are the uninstallation files for hotfixes provided by Windows Update, and they are hidden, protected system files. If you delete them, you probably will not save any space in the short term, because Windows Restore will secretly back them up. You can probably save more space by runningCCleaner- some care is required! - or checking your hard drive withFolderSizesor a similar program. However, if you insist, Doug Knox has developed autilitythat removes these back up files and the associated Registry entries. Obviously you must not simply uninstall the hotfixes as this could leave your PC vulnerable to attack.Help wantedIn an article on Saturday March 24, you gave some email addresses for online wizards that could solve problems on my system. I now find I am in desperate need of their services.Richard GebbieJS:In that article, Daniel Elkan reviewed four computer help services. You can read the article and find linkshere.An ISA isn't foreverI have an old visual stimulus generator card that fits into an ISA expansion slot. I wish to put the card into a new computer but cannot find any with ISA slots. Humza TahirJS:The ISA (Industry Standard Architecture) bus dates from the early 1980s and we've had EISA, VESA and PCI since then. I reckon your best and possibly only option is theArs Technologies usb2isa, which provides a way for an ISA card to work via a USB 2.0 port, unless someone out there knows of a better way.Backchat&middot;I've been using Crap Cleaner (see above) since it came out, without any problems. However, last time I mentioned it, Bordeaux-based Terry Vincent was not so lucky. "I use a default language of English (UK) but I mix in a lot of French. After running CCleaner, I found that all of the French in my documents was changed to be English (US), creating an impossible situation with the spell-checker," he complained. This appears to be because CCleaner somehow turns on the language setting option in Word. The workaround is to untick the box for Microsoft Office 2003 before running CCleaner. Defensive strategies include backing up your hard drive, saving a copy of the Windows Registry, and creating restore points.
If you've got a computer and a fast connection, you can now download all the maps and satellite pictures you could ever want of Canada. Its government has decided to abandon the charging model that it used until last month for the use of its map data and move to a "free data" model - as being urged for Britain by Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign.Anyone is now free to download maps and satellite photos of Canada from its Geogratis portal (geogratis.gc.ca) and create a business around them. In just one week the initiative has drawn interest from companies previously put off by the complexity of the data licensing arrangements, according to Ann Martin, director of the data dissemination division at Natural Resources Canada (nrcan-rncan.gc.ca), the government ministry that looks after its vast environmental resources.She says the change was a policy decision driven by the rise of the internet. "Our rationale for charging for the data was based on the cost of distribution," she said. "But that was dropping dramatically." The cost of digital distribution of files is essentially zero, she said, so the cost of the data now reflects that. Moving to a free data model has also simplified charging, which Martin said previously involved extracting royalties from any reseller of the data."It was very complex - you almost paid by the pound," she said. "There were vector-related costs, and then charges that our distributors had to pay when they redistributed the data. It almost cost more to figure out what it would cost than the charges brought in."Dropping the licensing system means NRC is forgoing C$400,000 (&pound;177,000) of annual revenues - minuscule in comparison to the UK Ordnance Survey's annual revenues of around &pound;100m, because the OS works on a "full cost recovery" basis, in which it charges those who want to license the data it collects, as well as their licensees, so as to more than cover the cost of its operations. (It is required to make a "profit", which is handed back to the Treasury.) The OS had no comment on Canada's move.Martin says no formal study was carried out before the switch, but that companies that were not previously licencees have been in touch expressing interest.Another part of the move loosens the ties on the data - although Canada still uses Crown Copyright, it only asks for acknowledgement of the source. We suspect Canada will see the benefits quite soon. Will the UK follow?&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A British diplomat has discovered to his cost the hidden perils of the blogosphere.The head of the British embassy's political section in Bangkok thought nothing of jotting a few musings for a newspaper website as he approaches the end of his posting. But Ian Proud's innocuous blog has sparked a blizzard of comments on all manner of topics, including his forays into Bangkok's infamous red light districts.Yesterday a rueful Mr Proud, 38, was wondering what the Foreign Office would make of it all. "It's a real eye-opener seeing the depths of people's feelings about a common diplomat," said Mr Proud. "I couldn't write about my work. So it was harmless, cute little stories about Thailand. But the response has been quite remarkable."One mistake may have been posting a picture alongside his blog on the Nation newspaper website. A number of readers said they recognised Mr Proud from Bangkok's notorious Cowboy Street sex bars."I recall going to the embassy once and that same night was down on Cowboy and who did I bump into? Yes, it was Ian," wrote one. Another observed: "I saw him walking arm-in-arm with a girl that could only be described as 'two-dollar whore'. I bet that girl got a visa no problem."Visas and the refusal of requests are clearly a bugbear for those who posted comments, even though they are not Mr Proud's responsibility. Mr Proud does not deny being out on the town during his four-year stint, but adds: "I don't think there are many people here that haven't been in places like Soi Cowboy at some point. My last visit was about a year ago."The Nation's editor, Tulsathit Taptim, is discussing with Mr Proud whether to continue the blog. "Ian loves to get the reaction and he found it really fun over the first two days."Whether the Foreign Office will be similarly amused is another thing: Mr Proud did not anticipate the controversy so did not seek clearance.Next month he will take a career break and marry Lek, his Thai girlfriend, "if she'll still have me after all this."
SPOnGand other sources have lasciviously pored over a ten-page GTA IV preview featured in this month's Game Informer magazine. Some of the titbits include confirmation of a multiplayter mode as well as Xbox 360 exclusive episodic content available for download at a later date.The game centres around Eastern European immigrant Niko Bellic who arrives in a contemporary Liberty City to pursue the American dream after a few years spent working in the up-and-coming areas of human trafficking and murder. He is, then, a sort of cross between Scarface and the Daily Mail's perennial nightmare of Balkan madmen coming for our jobs. And daughters.This is a rather downbeat set-up for the series, eschewing the idealised period placement of previous titles, and opting for an ethnicity that exudes none of the easy allure of previous gangsta characters. There have been no mainstream rap records, no flashy Brian de Palma movies, about Croatian killers seeking American redemption. And still, no female lead character - perhaps they're saving that for thenextgeneration.
The PlayStation 3's Cell processor has been attracting attention recently for its impressive contribution to the Folding@Home project, where home users simulate protein folding for Stanford University's chemistry department. Now it seems Sony is thinking of renting out the same kind of capabilities to big businesses, according toThe Financial Times.Masa Chatani, chief technology officer at Sony Computer Entertainment, said in an interview with the FT on Tuesday that the company had received numerous inquiries regarding this "distributed computing" model."This kind of computing model could be used in a commercial application," Mr Chatani said. "For example, a start-up or a pharmaceutical company that lacks a super-computer could utilise this kind of infrastructure. We are discussing various options with companies and exploring commercial applications."According to the F@HClient statistics by OSpage, PS3s are currently contributing 269 teraflops, which compares with 21TFlops from Macs and 172TFlops from Windows machines. (It was doing even better when I last looked, a couple of weeks ago: the PS3's rating seems to have halved since then.)Of course, the PS3 runs a very specialised client program for F@H, which basically exploits its capacity for pixel shading. However, graphics cards can do this job even better. But would the FT take equally seriously the idea of using a distributed network of PCs with ATI Radeon 1900-class graphics cards, because these appear offerfar better performancethan the PS3's Cell.According to the F@H chart, only 989 GPUs (graphics processing units) are contributing 58TFlops, which appears to make each GPU roughly 4.5x more powerful than a PS3 for this particular purpose. Indeed, perhapsthe ATI processor in the Xbox 360-- which also has 48 pixel shaders -- could do better than the PS3, too.Of course, the F@H chart is not an accurate indicator of the actual power of any machine or network: it's based on the amount of work done. You can halve the apparent power of a system by turning it off half the time, or reduce it dramatically by running other software. The relative contribution of the PS3 to F@H may therefore fall if Sony launches a few decent games and/or some more affordable Blu-ray movies come out.If Sony goes ahead, this raises the amusing prospect of some pharmaceutical company having to go to a government regulator and say: "Sorry, we couldn't file out data on time because the new Spiderman movie crippled our supercomputer."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
A quick timeline:November 2006: Ed Colligan, chief executive of Palm (that's the company which sells the Palm and Treo handhelds, which run PalmOS and Windows Mobile), says of the rumours of Apple's iPhone: "We've learned and struggled for a few years here figuring out how to make a decent phone... PC guys are not going to just figure this out. They're not going to just walk in." (See John Gruber'sanalysis: "I'm not sure what I like best about it... Is it the way he describes Apple as "PC guys"? As in like, These guys just make computers, they don't understand the nuances of user interface and experience design, especially with regard, to, uh, handheld consumer electronics. Nope, no handheld consumer electronics expertise at Apple. By the way, let me show you how my Treo can play MP3s! Or is it the fact that Palm is using Microsoft's Windows Mobile OS on some of its Treo phones? Apple, they're just "PC guys", but Microsoft, they're connoisseurs of elegant UI design, apparently.")January 2007: Apple launches iPhone, a smartphone. Release dates are vague. Apple stock rises 15% immediately on the announcement; Palm's stock falls 5%.April 9: Dell announces it'snot going to sell its Axim handheld(introduced in 2002) any more, amidst stagnating sales of handhelds.April 10: Colliganannouncesthat Palm has been working in-house on "a new Linux and open source based mobile computing platform combined with Palm OS Garnet technology" that will be released "on new products later this year".April 11: Stock in Palm ticks up, very slightly - it's risen 20% since the iPhone announcement.But everyone wonders when, if ever, Palm is going to get anything resembling an act together on operating systems. There was a time when if you were thinking about mobile handheld computing, you'd think of Palm. Everyone carried Palm Pilots. Well, everyone who was anyone. Then it was sort of cool to upgrade to Treos, except they were pricey. And the Blackberry grabbed the corporate market while Palm was looking in the other direction, having failed to grasp the idea of "secure corporate email" on the move. And Microsoft made Windows Mobile better - better than Palm's own operating system offering. (We'll spare you the details of how Palm split into bits.)Our conclusion: Dell doesn't think there's enough money in handhelds. Palm can't get its OS act together. Everything's in smartphones - and Palm has a big battle to persuade people it can do that better than Apple,even thoughApple's product isn't even out yet.
Yesterday "at Palm Inc's Analyst Day, Palm CEO Ed Colligan officially announced that Palm will deliver a new Linux and open source based mobile computing platform combined with Palm OS Garnet technology on new products later this year," reportsPalm Infocenter.Colligan also revealed that this was a new platform that Palm has been working on, in house for a number of years*. He stated that Palm would not license this new OS to outside hardware companies, meaning this will be a Palm exclusive platform.This is a separate project from Palm Inc and is not related to the ACCESS Linux Platform, which is being developed by ACCESS, formerly PalmSource. Many of the technical software and hardware details have yet to be announced.We've been expecting Palm to launch Linux-based devices for a year or two. The point here is that it's going to use its own Linux platform, not the one developed by what used to be called PalmSource, which used to be part of Palm. Confused? Don't worry. The chances of Palm selling a lot of devices in competition with Nokia, Motorola, RIM and eventually Apple are pretty slim. However, I suffer from a little-known medical condition called NFTGDOP (Nostalgia For The Great Days Of Palm) and I also think Ed Colligan is a great guy.Colligangave Bloomberg an interviewon Monday, before his Analyst Day.* Tip of the hat toDavid Beers of Pikesoft Mobile Computingwho figured this out a year ago (Palm's Open Secrets Exposed) by reading Palm job adverts.
File this one under shameless self-promotion, but the shortlist for the Webby awards - Oscars of the interblahblahblah - is out, and the Guardian is lucky enough to have three nominations.Not only are we up forBest Newspaper(which we have won two years in a row), butComment is Freeis nominated in the best political blog category and ourpodcastsare in there up against NPR, the Onion and others.I would like to think it's my ill-informed rambling onScience Weeklythat made the difference. Iwouldlike to think it, but it's plainly wrong.Elsewhere there are some familiar names and some less so:check out the entire shortlist.
They come irrespective of fashion or need. They come despite desire. They come, simply, because they act as another touchpoint for a potentially important audience in a media-saturated culture. In-game brands are no longer a disliked possibility, they're a reality. And we're stuck with 'em.Yet they need not be tastelessly and mindlessly incorporated into interactive entertainment just because the bigwigs are passing cheques around;Gamasutra's front page column for the week of 3 April featuresWater Cooler Games'Ian Bogostmaking some prescient points to game designers about how to incorporate brands into games.Bogost is a veteran of interactive advertorial subterfuge; his excellent persuasive gameDisaffected!critiques the work practices of American photocopy chain Kinko's and uses their branding to illustrate his agenda. There are other examples of guerilla adbusting in games, includingMcDonald's Videogame, an interactiveFast Food Nation-style anti-fast food thought piece.However, such approaches are only possible for designers in the indie circuit; Toyota, Jeep, Adidas, Jaguar, Dominoset alhope their more mainstream partnerships are more positive. This doesn't mean, argues Bogost, that designers need to be at the mercy of marketers; taking a more proactive approach and thinking laterally could reinstate the ownership to the developer's side:You can use advertising to exploit cultural preconceptions about known items that then serve as a kind of shorthand for aspects of your game world. And that sort of attitude turns the tables on in-game advertisers, making advertising a tool in the hands of the designer, rather than one in the hands of the brand, agency, or network.By using the brand and its inherent, socially-definedmeaning, game designers can create levels of understanding in game worlds that, rather than take away from the game, contribute to the realism and immersion which players find there.A worthy read.
Microsoft has apparently barredEpic Gamesfrom making free Gears of War multiplayer maps available via Xbox Live Arcade. The developer's founder Tim Sweeney has alleged on anew podcast from 1up, that:"With Gears of War we've gone through our own effort and expense to build additional maps, which are free to download. We've already released two and we have four more maps that we've built. We've been wanting to give them away for a long time, but actually Microsoft has been pushing back on us for that.They're trying to build this business model around selling additional content for games and it's a valid idea, but definitely we would like to release more stuff for free, and we haven't been able to do so yet. It's unfortunate as there are a lot of good business reasons for releasing free content for games... you want to increase the player base, you want to keep the game alive..."Sweeny and colleague Mark Rein also voiced concerns about Microsoft'sGames For Windows Livescheme, which seeks to create a unified online gaming system for PC gamers, allowing them to compete against Xbox Live players. Although generally in favour of the initiative, the two claimed it was highly 'restrictive', with developers only able to make certain game features available to gold-level Live subscribers, rather than all PC gamers.This is not great PR for Microsoft and the timing couldn't be much worse...The company's Xbox Live service has generally been lauded, especially in comparison with the PS3 online gaming set-up, which relies more heavily on individual developers implementing features and currently has no equivalent of Live's achievement points, gamer scores or cross-game communications.Recently, though, the PS3 option has started to look a heck of a lot more attractive. There's no subscription fee for a start, and there seems to be no restriction on developers offering free content - indeed, Sony itself has distributed a free Gran Turismo demo. As for functionality, although several PS3 launch games offered disappointingly confused and deficient multiplayer modes, the excellent 40-player Resistance: Fall of Man option hinted at a future of well-implemented, server-based online gaming. Home and LittleBigPlanet only add to the allure.Microsoft should be doing all it can to maintain its image with online gamers. If Sweeney's comments are accurate, attempting to force a community favourite like Epic into charging for the sort of stuff it's been giving away free for years is not the best way to go about it.
It's weird how radio has come back into vogue. A few years ago technological sooth-sayers were predicting its demise, due to our increasingly visual culture manifested in the rise of satellite and cable TV. But then came iPod to get us interested in audio again, plus DAB and internet radio, their proliferation of new channels appealing to the magpie consciousness of the modern media consumer.Now Channel 4 has made radio a key part of its multimedia strategy (bringing several shows to PSP, via a series of Wi-Fi podcasts), and today Virgin Radio announced that it has launcheda special version of its Media Playerfor PS3 and Wii, allowing users to stream the station via their consoles. The service will also support ticket and CD sales, and listeners will be able to download music tracks through the Virgin Radio Ticket Store.Radio Todayquotes James Cridland at Virgin who states:"People are treating the consoles as part of their home entertainment media centre, and now Virgin Radio will be part of that experience. This platform has great growth potential, particularly among early-adopters and 25-44 audience popular with advertisers."Of course, what Wii and PS3 owners could really do with is Real or Windows Media Player compatibility so any of the thousands of internet radio stations would be listenable via console. I'm not sure about Wii, but I know that PS3 can handle radio stations that use Flash to stream audio - although this is comparatively rare. Sony has stated that it plans some kind of media player support in the future.For now, Virgin radio will have to do.
Develop have created a Power List of the world's games companies, based upon their 2006 revenue at UK pay points. Not surprisingly, most of the the top 10 is dominated by the major players, with EA and Nintendo grabbing the top 2 slots. The first pleasant surprise slides in at number 5: indie studio Traveller's Tales, creators of Lego Star Wars and The Chronicles of Narnia, squeezes in before GTA (PSP) makers Rockstar Leeds and any of the Sony studios.Number 8 is a bit of a mystery; does anyone know Japanese developers Yuke's?Best feel-good moment: Brighton-basedRelentless Softwareshows that its staffneed not be overworkedto be important players in the games industry space. They're at number 20.Headherefor the full list. The top 20 are below.1. EA Canada 2. Nintendo 3. Konami Corporation 4. Maxis 5. Traveller's Tales 6. Rockstar Leeds 7. Ubisoft France 8. Yuke's 9. EA Redwood Shores 10. Ubisoft Montreal 11. Amaze Entertainment 12. Treyarch 13. EA UK-Criterion 14. London Studios 15. Crystal Dynamics 16. Epic Games 17. Capcom 18. Sports Interactive 19. Radical Entertainment 20. Relentless Studios
It's been a time-honoured cliche that console manufacturers want to take over your entire living room. But finally - finally - it looks like some of those predictions might be fulfilled.This morning Virgin radio announced thatit was going to be available via Wii and PS3, and we've just heard that the Xbox 360 will now incorporateinstant messaging capabilities.Some are sceptical - GigaOM's line is that the Xbox deal is just an attempt to sellhigh end peripherals. But what if this is about something bigger than just selling some keyboards, and is about some greater change in behaviour?Even if people aren't quite yet using their consoles in a different way, the manufacturers certainly are. Sony's hoping that it can use PS3 to get Blu-Ray into people's homes - as Charlespointed out a couple of weeks ago- though it remains to be seen whether they've put the cart before the horse. And Microsoft is slowly (its extender capabilities, for example, that let you stream media from your PC to your TV via the Xbox).I've heard the lean-back, lean-forward arguments a thousand time - that people don't want to use the internet on their big screen TV. That, of course, depends on what you want to use the internet for full stop. Maybe a dumb terminal for the web isn't such a dumb idea, if we're using it as a complement to our other sorts of media consumption.With hi-def slowly encroaching into the mainstream, with the online capabilities growing and with web use becoming ubiquitous for many of us, that little box under your TV is getting more powerful by the day.
Neil McIntosh has written, on his personal site,a robust reponseto the "entirely unnecessary" proposal for a code of conduct for bloggers (below, andbelow). He warns:Seriously, my biggest fear is this kind of stuff tars a huge group of people with a rather nasty brush -- "you blog, therefore you are a misogynist", for instance. That's the kind of thing that gets repeated in a million newspaper stories, puts people off reading or joining in, and just begs trade bodies and legislators in to have a look around before taking some horrifically misguided action. There's probably a bureaucrat with a pen twitching in Brusselsright now.The main paper also had a big piece today --Howls of protest as web gurus attempt to banish bad behaviour from blogosphere-- from Ed Pilkington, who is based in New York. (Update: and on Wednesday April 11,a long comment piecefrom Jonathan Freedland.)Many will remember Neil as a former deputy editor of Guardian Online and the man mainly responsible for getting the Guardian into blogging. The two of us started Onlineblog at Blogger, the forerunner of this Technology blog, and Gamesblog was Neil's idea. He's now head of editorial development at Guardian Unlimited.
The steady march towards convergence continues, with the announcement that MSN Instant Messenger buddies will soon be integrated with the Xbox Live Friends List, thus allowing people to chat with their non-gamer mates from the comfort of their own sofas from May this year.From the release:"Bringing the largest IM community in the world, Windows Live Messenger, to Xbox 360 makes sense, as Xbox LIVE has really become the largest social network on television," said Jerry Johnson, product unit manager of Xbox LIVE at Microsoft. "For our growing community of 6 million on Xbox LIVE, using Xbox 360 is a very social, connected experience. They are using Xbox 360 to play games, music and movies while simultaneously communicating with one another through video, voice and text chat. With this announcement we are simultaneously expanding the access of Xbox LIVE users to existing friends and family while introducing Windows Live Messenger users to the benefits of Xbox 360."The skates are on at the big companies to create the MySpace of home consoles, as they chase the enigmatic non-gamers down on their chosen interactive platforms, tempting them into the fold through subtle non-gaming networking opportunities. But who will crack it? Microsoft with their existing powerhouse of social applications (like Instant Messenger and Windows-enabled mobile phones) or Sony, with their library of technologies (including mobile phones) and forward-thinking software (like Little Big Planet)?But wait a second, what about the games?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
So, the obvious first post after the delightfully clement Easter break: what did you play? Were you seduced outside by the sun, or did you stay in to wreak offroad havoc in Motorstorm; to indulge in some Advanced Warfighting; or to carry out your own Augusta golf tournament courtesy of Wii, Tiger Woods 2007 and few glasses of Pimms?And to give this a seasonal flavour, did you find any unexpected Easter Eggs in your chosen games?(PS. As well as attending the wedding of ex-Edge editor Joao Sanches - congrats Joao and Charlotte! - I spent the weekend in the garden with my 15-month-old son, a bucket of water and a plastic cup. His choice, not mine)
Apple has announced that the100 millionth iPod has been sold,slightly more than sixfive and a half years after it was launched (in October 2001).Here we've knocked together a graph showing how the total sales have grown, based on Apple's publicly released figures. (You'll probably find just as good a version atits Wikipedia pagesoon.) (Revised to show sales and totals on different y-axes.)What does it show? Not a huge amount, though it seems that iPods have been selling just as well since Christmas as during, since to hit the 100m mark now, Apple must have added 11.2m sales since its last announcement - which was of 21m sold in the past quarter. The real takeoff in sales happened in Christmas 2004 - comparatively recently.Apple's just finished a quarter (ended March 31), so that'll be why it's chosen to tout this number now. Well, now we can all ask two questions: how long will it take to sell the next 100 million; and will the iPhone be included in the totals, and will it slow down the iPod's sales growth rate? OK, that's three questions.
Tim O'Reilly of O'Reilly Media, Inchas followed upon his Call for a Blogging Code of Conduct (below) with a draft proposal based on theBlogHer Community Guidelines.Of course, the recent furore over Kathy Sierra's blog and associated insults/death threats isn't actually about bloggers: it's about vicious people leaving anonymous comments and/or sending threats via email.The Code addresses that in its first rule, which says:We are committed to the "Civility Enforced" standard: we will not post unacceptable content, and we'll delete comments that contain it.We define unacceptable content as anything included or linked to that: - is being used to abuse, harass, stalk, or threaten others - is libelous, knowingly false, ad-hominem, or misrepresents another person, - infringes upon a copyright or trademark - violates an obligation of confidentiality - violates the privacy of othersBloggers themselves aren't generally a problem because they have some sort of online identity to protect, and because their effects are localised. People who don't like what they write can just not go there. The problems are generated by anonymous commenters who are either jerks who get a kick out of being abusive or just inadequately socialised, either because they are young or because they never grew up.Which sort of makes the whole thing of somewhat limited value. You can have a code of conduct (as Guardian Unlimited does), but the people who are not jerks probably don't need it, while the ones who are will just ignore it.A New York Times article asks: "Is it too late to bring civility to the Web?Yes, it is. However, it's not too late to bring civility to any blog that wants to have a code of conduct and is willing to take the time to enforce it.My guess is that the Sierra incident will probably lead to more blogs doing that.
With EMI offering higher quality music files for a small extra cost, you have to wonder whether it's worth it. Can you, in fact, tell the difference?PC World has produced a page witha quick challenge. Eric Dahl has posted very short clips of Mozart and R.E.M.'s Man on the Moon in both 128kbps and 256kbps AAC so you can have a listen. Unfortunately he hasn't included WAV files as well, but you can easily produce your own test files -- and have the advantage of choosing music you know well.And if you really want to know if you can actually tell the difference, you'll need to set up a double-blind test.The drawback with PC World's test, of course, is that it isn't just testing the audio files, it is also testing your PC and speakers/headphones. You are also testing your knowledge and experience.With the average PC set-up, or a typical portable music player, I reckon most people would find it hard to tell the difference in a double-blind test. Playing the same files through a good quality hi-fi should make the differences more obvious, possibly very obvious.Of course, the fact that most people can't hear a difference doesn't mean there isn't one. Lossy audio compression frequently produces digital artifacts that are not as obvious as, for example, the visual blockiness you often get with digital TV displays, but they are there. If someone tells you what to listen for, you can probably learn to spot them -- but why would you want to?However, there are other arguments for going for the 256kbps files. One is that they come without DRM, so you have a much better chance of being able to play the same files in the far future. Another is that even if you can't hear the difference now, one day you may be able to -- either your ears may become more attuned to digital artifacts, or you may have a better-quality reproduction system.At the moment, I suspect only a small proportion of the population has heard the musical quality that can be extracted from a CD or, better, an SACD. But once you've become used to a system that distinguishes clearly between different instruments and separates them clearly in a 3D sound stage, then you tend to notice when, for example, DAB radio turns them back into mush.And if more people's ears are educated by hearing better quality sound from Blu-ray and HD DVD discs, then at least a few may become more sensitive to the audio quality of file downloads.
Ford Transit&pound;13,150Miles per gallon:33Seats:up to 17Good for:Fed-up fathersBad for:Teenage girlsJust as van drivers always seem to keep us waiting ('Tomorrow, mate, between nine and five'), so this review of the new Transit is also running a little late. It was supposed to coincide with the 40th anniversary of the vehicle which has been called the 'backbone of British industry', but somehow missed its slot ('Traffic's been murder, guv'). Then it was scheduled to run at the same time as the 5 millionth Transit drove off the line at its dedicated factory in Southampton - a milestone in motoring, as it marked the longest mass-production run for any British vehicle. But no, more hold-ups. Now, just as you have decided to smash the fridge/telly/sofa to pieces in front of the driver when he finally turns up, there's a ring at the door and you're all 'No, no trouble at all, I was planning to stay in all month anyway.' So here it is...The Transit's been criss-crossing the UK since it first made an appearance in August 1965. There is some debate among the vanoscenti as to whether it was the 6th or 9th of the month, but for most of us August is probably close enough - hell, the Sixties will do. The first mention of the Transit actually comes in 1961 with the code name Project Redcap. It was initially made near Heathrow, but the immediate and overwhelming demand for the no-nonsense carrier meant production was soon transferred to a purpose-built factory in Southampton, where it has remained ever since. Today, the van is also made in Portugal, Belarus, China, Turkey, Vietnam, Malaysia and Poland. White-van man has gone global.In the passing decades there have been numerous incarnations - from the Mark I to the Mark VII, and even a 200mph supervan. And many are celebrated and preserved by the Transit Van Club of Great Britain. A life-enriching hobby for all 297 of its members - that's not hyperbole, that's the posted membership. But of course these stand-out, collectible vehicles are missing the point. It is the Transit's very ordinariness, its glaring anonymity, its unstinting reliability that makes the Transit the unsung hero of light haulage. We've all driven one, had something delivered in one, cursed one and been cut up by one. And for all these troubles and blessings, the latest version of the Transit has been named International Van of the Year 2007, while judges on Britain's must-read What Van? have also given it six gold awards.To help celebrate, Ford kindly lent me a new 15-seat Transit minibus. Forget being the backbone of British industry: the minibus is also the legs and arms of thousands of schools, sports teams, charities, taxi companies and, in my case, a dozen shrieking schoolgirls whom my 12-year-old daughter had invited to go 10-pin bowling. Clearly, with such a high-maintenance load, any shortcomings would have been savagely punished.Was there anything the girls liked about the Transit? 'Doh, it's a van, Dad!' No mention of the overstated grille or the sexy stacked front headlights. The many useful cubbyholes, natty fold-down cup-holders or racy dash-mounted gearstick. Not even the cruise control or the remarkably refined 2.2-litre diesel engine. But they did like the sound system.martin.love@observer.co.uk
fl0wPS3For a console lacking a must-have game, flOw is an early example of what PS3 can do apart from slightly shinier-looking driving, fighting and shooting games. Set in the viscous fluid-filled world of micro-organisms, you tilt the Six Axis joypad to control your tiny amoeba, swimming it into other creatures to eat them and avoiding the jaws of the water's many predators. Looking and sounding gloopily immersive, the effect of the gentle tilting combined with the beauty of its visuals and womb-like quality of its soundtrack produces a faintly hypnotic effect. Deep, unusual and extremely accessible, this has the capacity to entrance gamers and resolute luddites alike.&#183;Thatgamecompany, online download fromuk.playstation.comSpectrobesNintendo DSRather than churn out more tat based on Mickey, Donald and chums or the latest increasingly tired-looking Pixar outing, Disney's interactive arm is bravely launching its own franchise - Spectrobes. Taking most of its cues, including Japanesey looks and collect-'em-up play mechanics, from the unstoppable marketing machine that is Pokemon, Spectrobes is the first game to involve any serious archaeology, with your hero going into the field to dig up then gently chip away at new Spectrobes before recovering them. You then wake them up by singing to them, a feature that immediately renders you a figure of comedy in public places. Fights are dull and the archaeology rapidly feels like a chore, but steadily whittling away at experience points and your collection of items exerts its usual inexorable pull.&#183;Buena Vista Interactive, &pound;30Full Auto 2: BattlelinesPS3, PSPFull Auto's combination of cars and weaponry is back to fill your screen with fireballs, flying glass and the pirouetting hulks of former competitors. Narrated by a neutral-voiced artificial intelligence, there's a load of post-apocalyptic twaddle to explain why you have to drive around shooting other motorists (essentially, they're bad) before getting down to the business of vehicular destruction. With races ruined by enemies that cheat ludicrously, swarming around you no matter how many times you shoot them to pieces, and arena-based combat that feels dispiritingly random, it's also impossible to tell the difference between objects that will shatter on contact with your front bumper and those solid enough to turn you into a neatly compacted lump of metal. Full Auto 2 gets neither the driving nor the violence right, even if it easily betters the squalid Twisted Metal series.&#183;Sega, &pound;40 (PS3 version reviewed)
Full Auto's combination of cars and weaponry is back to fill your screen with fireballs, flying glass and the pirouetting hulks of former competitors. Narrated by a neutral-voiced artificial intelligence, there's a load of post-apocalyptic twaddle to explain why you have to drive around shooting other motorists (essentially, they're bad) before getting down to the business of vehicular destruction. With races ruined by enemies that cheat ludicrously, swarming around you no matter how many times you shoot them to pieces, and arena-based combat that feels dispiritingly random, it's also impossible to tell the difference between objects that will shatter on contact with your front bumper and those solid enough to turn you into a neatly compacted lump of metal. Full Auto 2 gets neither the driving nor the violence right, even if it easily betters the squalid Twisted Metal series.ngSega, &pound;40 (PS3 version reviewed)
The Last Mimzymimzy.comThe Last Mimzy has just opened in cinemas and has been compared to classics ET and Close Encounters Of The Third Kind. Like the film, in which two young children develop special powers after discovering a magical box, the official website is a whizzy, sparkling joy that will really stretch your broadband capabilities. Regardless of how soppy the film is, the site's brilliant with lots of interactive toys - including one that lets you make a 3D model of your voice - info nuggets about time travels and video clips.Johnny DeeAll Songs Considerednpr.org/programs/ascIf you have a thirst for quality free music but don't want to tarnish your soul in the murky waters of illegal MP3 sharing, a good alternative to getting it is by trawling radio station sites. The BBC Collective area of bbc.co.uk has lots of free tracks, but none will beat this arm of the vast American National Public Radio station. All Songs Considered features lots of tracks from new albums by the likes of Modest Mouse and Kings Of Leon alongside real audio podcasts featuring plenty of free music. The best part is the incredible archive of live shows featuring the likes of Arcade Fire, Bloc Party, Arctic Monkeys and the Good, The Bad &amp; The Queen with streams of the whole gig as well as the occasional interview.JDWhat we learned on the web this weekWiggly eyesmake the world a happier place.teamwiggly.comThe 25 worstrapper names of all time.www.cracked.com/index.php?name="News&amp;sid=1776"The contentsof Syd Barrett's notebooks.neptunepinkfloyd.co.uk/text/SydsNotebooks.pdfKermit's gotthe Nine Inch Nails blues.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uLQRv0RjBBMStan Laurelliked writing letters.lettersfromstan.comWhat you calla beautiful woman on a trombonist's arm? Tattoo.http://www.osbornmusic.com/jokes.htmlBatman's waywith the ladies.members.tripod.com/~AdamWest/b-women.htmQuentin Tarantino's top 10movie posters.www.ew.com/ew/gallery/0,,20015648,00.htmlWhat was ontheradiothe night John Lennon died.What's inaChicken McNugget.A movie is as badas thenumber of helicoptersin it.Blog RollBedazzledbedazzled.blogs.comWonderful 1950s and 1960s music, television clips and commercials, film stills, trailers and vintage ads.101 Great Goals101greatgoals.comThe latest football highlights from the Premiership and beyond.Video Siftvideosift.comVote for your favourite video fluff from YouTube and beyond.Smashing Tellysmashingtelly.comOne blogger's endless discovery of full-length documentary programmes lost in Google Video.TV Commercial Blogadblog.wordpress.comThe best new TV ads from around the globe.Antvillevideos.antville.orgLinks to the coolest new music videos from Scroobius Pip to Emily Haines.Brohansbrohans.comPranks and weirdness including the five worst YouTube videos of the week and a clip of a beer can-crushing bosom.
MondayAnd the panda goes to...Jetpac flies backTuesdayGTA IV spectre looms, courts controversyNiGHTs returns for WiiAnyone for a fight?WednesdayRock on with Rock BandSonic and Mario: Sega and Nintendo speakSome mobile gamesThursdayConsole sales: the first four monthsMoney goes mentalConsoles: "days are numbered"
Om Malik started an interesting conversation about Google's My Maps with a blog post that said:Google MyMaps Smashes Mash-ups. David Galbraith expanded on that withThe Day Web 2.0 Died, and Om responded withWeb 2.0: End of Innocence.To put it crudely, if you're a start-up based on the Google Maps interface, Google just blew up your business model. It's a bit like the companies that added utilities to Microsoft Windows or Mac OS X only to see them incorporated into the operating system.In the long run, it probably doesn't change anything except people's perceptions of what's going on. So I think Malik has got it right: it's not so much the end of Web 2.0 as the end of innocence, insofar as there are still any innocent venture capitalists around.The real (but not really new) point is that the issue isn't specific to start-ups using Google or Amazon or someone else's Web 2.0 offerings, it's about competing with Google.As Valleywag points out:Once upon a time, venture capitalists would avoid software startups that looked likely to compete at some point with Microsoft. It's now Google, the new tech power, that is having the chilling effect.The Google giveth; it taketh away.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
As news stories go, it's a bit of a punt. Online gaming site, Jolt, attending some kind of launch event for Hewlett Packard's new range of PCs,heardthe founder of developer,Trion World Network, proclaiming "I believe the days of the console are numbered".Later, some chap from NVIDIA added, "Our advantage as developers is we know what is coming. And what is coming is far ahead of the console. You will see a huge difference between what you can get on a PC and a console." We presume he's talking about the forthcoming8800 Ultra graphicscard due in a couple of weeks.On one hand, this is a load of hot air. High-end PCs have regularly out-performed consoles through the last twenty years, but this hasn't stopped dedicated games machines from dominating the leisure software market - due to the fact that, historically, they're comparatively cheap; they provide a closed, stable and uncomplicated platform that doesn't need upgrading every six months and when you buy a game you get the finished article, not something that gets patched the second it's released and dozens more times thereafter.But actually, with the latest generation, consoles are in danger of edging into the seamier territory of PC ownership.There's price for a start. PS3 is 425, while Xbox 360 retails at around 270, but if you want a HD DVD drive and a couple of years of online gaming subscriptions you're looking at around 200 more. Plus, after barely a year on sale, a new version of the machine is now available - Xbox 360 Elite - offering combined functionality, and an unappetizing new PC-style sales model.Thing is, consoles now want to occupy the same space as the family PC. They download and play music and movies, they do web-surfing and online chat, they even have interchangeable operating systems (well, PS3 does). So in a bizarre way, they're actually dissolving their own USPs by becoming more multi-functional. As they get closer to PC functionality it gets harder and harder to distinguish them from the good old desktop workhorse.Meanwhile, PCs are coming in the opposite direction. Most manufacturers now have their 'living room' Media Center PC brands - like Packard Bell's SmartTV - and are eager for us to throw out our old TVs, bring in the computer from the study and use it to watch and record TV while streaming internet radio and checking out our MySpace pages. Of course, they've beentrying this for ages, but now they've got the specs and flashy OS to capture mainstream consumer imagination, plus Web 2.0 has made broadband internet an acceptable family entertainment solution.Of course, consoles are still cheaper than high-end PCs, and anything you can do on a PC you can do a lot easier on a dedicated games machine. Online gaming is still relatively complex on PC - often you have to find your own servers via a third-party like AllSeeingEye and if you want to talk to other players it's usually much better to go for a solution likeTeamSpeakthan to rely on whatever the developer has provided. None of this is the case with Xbox Live.Yet bad habits are slipping in. Regular firmware updates add functionality, sure, but some will find the prompts confusing. Also game patches are an unwelcome consequence of consoles going online and providing developers with a second, third or fourth chance to get their game code right. You could argue that if a developer finds a new way to get their multiplayer code running quicker then it's a good idea to send it out as a post-release extra, but it's a slippery slope - toward the point where you expect a game to have a new patch everytime you load it up.Maybe that's what the founder of Trion World Network meant when he said about the days of the console being numbered - it wasn't a jingoistic, pro-PC rant, it was an acknowledgement that consoles are turning into PCs, bad habits and all. Or vice versa, of course.Just what are we supposed to put beneath our TVs these days?
Mutant camels, intergalactic llamas and the world's first space sheep all indicate the presence of Jeff "The Yak" Minter, a games programmer who hacked his first code on a Commodore Pet, circa 1979. He's now working on Space Giraffe for Xbox Live Arcade. This looks quite a lot like an enhanced Tempest, but you need to play it differently....So why mention him here? He's the subject of a six-page interview atGamasutra.This covers a lot of the same ground as The Hairy One'sGoogle Tech Talk video, given a month ago. The video takes much longer -- an hour -- but you get to watch him play Space Giraffe, which makes much more sense than reading about it. (The action starts half an hour in.)You also discover that Jeff is rubbish at shooting mutant camels, which will offer some people a little comfort, albeit a couple of decades too late....
The wired world, so they say, moves faster than meatspace. In that case, one month, three weeks and five days might seem like an awfully long time to the digerati.But that's how long it took between Steve Jobs publishing his Thoughts on Music - an open essay telling the recording industry to drop copy protection - and EMI's announcement this week that it was going to offer downloads without Digital Rights Management (DRM).Jobs, reading from a script rather than delivering his sermon with the usual practised polish, took the stage in London alongside EMI boss Eric Nicoli to hail the decision as breaking new ground. Campaigners breathlessly welcomed the death of copy protection, and digerati around the web began wildly dancing on the grave of DRM. Are they right?At first glance, it seems like a situation where everybody wins: the record label can sell to customers without worrying about interoperability; iPod owners can buy from new outlets; Apple can sell to non-iPod users; other retailers can offer downloads from a big label. And, crucially, customers can (hopefully) stop worrying about interoperability.EMI said its entire catalogue would be available as unprotected tracks for any retailer who wants to sell them - on iTunes, these higher quality tracks will cost 99p, while lower-grade, DRM-laden versions will still cost 79p.Jobs was bullish about what this would mean for DRM overall, predicting that other major labels will follow suit shortly, and that half of the iTunes Music Store's 5m tracks would be available as unprotected versions by the end of the year.It is the first step to vindicating the long-held views of anti-DRM campaigners - and download stores such as Wippit and eMusic that have lobbied tirelessly against copy protection - and was generally welcomed by music sellers.Wider reach"This is great news, because we can sell a really significant amount of music to people we couldn't reach before," said Ben Drury, founder of download service 7Digital. As well as reaching iPod owners with unprotected MP3s, Drury says it allows many stores to reach previously troublesome markets."We can also sell EMI's tracks to Mac users - Microsoft's WMA DRM doesn't work on them - and to people using Linux. It's a significant minority."Some were more sceptical, however, and questioned whether Apple's move really opens iTunes up to everybody."The DRM-free tracks on iTunes are in AAC format, which isn't supported by the majority of digital music players. Jobs has played a very smart game," says Mark Mulligan, an analyst with Jupiter Research. "Apple has dropped the proprietary DRM but still have the customer lock-in due to AAC."But not everybody believes this to be the case. Although AAC might not have the ubiquity of MP3, it is far from being exclusive to Apple. The iTunes store was the first system to popularise the format, but other adopters include Sony, Nokia, Microsoft and Real.And, say audiophiles, it is significantly better quality than most other popular formats. An independent survey by Canada's Communications Research Centre showed that AAC was higher quality than most of its rivals, even when encoded at the same bitrate.But there were certainly some politics at play, as iTunes and its FairPlay DRM system had become something of a hot potato around Europe. Norway, in particular, has been getting itchy with allegations that iTunes benefits from an anti-competitive link with the iPod, and pressure was building on Apple to avoid a drawn-out court battle - a situation that clearly influenced Jobs' open letter in February.And although the EU this week announced that it had sent a Statement of Objections to the major labels and Apple over cross-border restrictions, it seems likely that the EMI deal will have soothed the brows of many critics.There were other, less travelled aspects of the announcement that could have positive impacts in the long term. For example, if entire catalogues from big labels begin to go DRM-free, some of the hidden costs of restricting rights could also disappear - time spent doing multiple encoding, working on new rights schemes and supporting customers who discover the music they've bought won't play on their desired device.Experimental credentialsEMI's motivations for the move were more than simply benevolence - business has been tough for the company, despite a roster of high-profile artists such as Robbie Williams, Coldplay and Lily Allen.And although the label also hosts digital refuseniks such as the Beatles and Radiohead (who only relented after several years of lobbying by fans), it is keen to promote its experimental credentials - Monday's press conference saw a performance from Damon Albarn's latest project, the Good, the Bad and the Queen, for example.The deal also covers music videos, which will be opened up in the same way, showing how video and audio are coming closer together. And it puts a premium on albums, too, offering bulk purchases at a lower wholesale price.The implications may be many and varied, but it is likely to take some time for all the wrinkles to shake themselves out. Not every record company is going to simply fall behind the idea, and not every customer is going to get exactly what they want. But nearly all observers agree it is a step in the right direction."There's no doubt about it, this is an interesting and potentially quite encouraging move," said Dan Cryan, an analyst with Screen Digest.How do the download stores compare on price, quality and format?iTunes Music StoreEMI artists 99p, unprotected 256kbps AACOthers 79p, restricted 128kbps AACeMusicBulk buy packages priced at 20-30p per song, unprotected 192kbps MP3WippitFrom 29-99p per track, unprotected 192kbps MP37DigitalUp to 99p, across a mixture of formats (protected WMA, unprotected MP3 and AAC) most at 192kbpsMSN (provided by OD2)75p per track, restricted 128kbps WMA&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last week, Rockstar tried to break the internet. It released a new trailer for GTA IV, accruing millions of hits and turning my broadband connection into data treacle. I eventually got to stream the footage after a couple of hours of trying - some lovely high-detail images from the streets of New York (ooh look there's Grand Central Station), then a violent-looking young man strolls by. "Life is complicated," he says. "I killed people, smuggled people, sold people ...". And we're back in the GTA fantasy zone of street culture and idealised thuggery. It'll sell by the bucketload.Or will it? GTA IV enters a very different videogame industry to the one GTA: San Andreas walked into three years ago. Wii has arrived and, according to most mainstream media sources, the Nintendo machine has changed videogame players into benevolent family-orientated consumers of harmless fun. But I'm getting sick of it.I'm sick of being told that the industry has somehow got it all wrong for the past 20 years, and that what people wanted after all was cute, simple games with a motion sensitive controller. Let me get this straight: an industry that made $12.5bn (&pound;6.3bn) in the US alone last year is making some kind of mistake? Wii is wonderful, but it's no panacea and it cannot maintain the industry, because the people who buy it will only buy one or two games a year - if that.Also, the novelty is beginning to wane - as Brian Hastings, the chief creative officer at Insomniac Games, wrote in his excellentdefence of PS3. Wii, reasons Brian, is this season's Furby. In the May issue of Wired, there's the first of probably manyGTA backlash articles. The writer references the comparatively poor sales of Rockstar's Bully, Warriors and GTA Vice City Stories titles as proof that consumers have outgrown the series. Hang on - Bully and Warriors aren't part of the GTA series and Vice City Stories premiered on PSP, an underperforming platform, and received a low-key port to PS2.No, GTA IV will sell by the bucketload because core gamers love it. They love the combination of a Nike advertising exec's image of urban grit with the accessibility of user-definable bad behaviour. And especially, they love the violence - just like gamers love the violence in Gears of War, just as they will love the physics-augmented violence of Battlefield Bad Company.And Wii-lovers out there, Nintendo was desperate to get Rockstar developing for their machine. Manhunt 2 is coming to Wii and people will love that, too. There will be no reconstruction of the entire videogame industry along Super Mario lines. There will be no ceasefire.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
There seems to be a perception in some quarters that EMI has dropped DRM, and that it is offering DRM-free tracks only in AAC format. Neither is true.First, EMI has not dropped DRM: it is offering its music in both protected and non-protected digital formats. In some cases, the DRM is essential -- for example, with subscription music services where users can download as many tracks as they like for a flat monthly fee. DRM also lets music labels release samples that, for example, only work for three plays or three days, or whatever. So while it would be nice to announce the death of DRM, it hasn't happened yet -- not even at EMI.Second, there's the format issue, on which EMI says it is agnostic. EMI has released the Albarn album, The Good, The Bad &amp; The Queen, in 256kbps MP3 format, andits DRM press releasesays the following:EMI expects that consumers will be able to purchase higher quality DRM-free downloads from a variety of digital music stores within the coming weeks, with each retailer choosing whether to sell downloads in AAC, WMA, MP3 or other unprotected formats of their choice. Music fans will be able to purchase higher quality DRM-free digital music for personal use, and listen to it on a wide range of digital music players and music-enabled phones.In other words, EMI has not chosen to support AAC: Apple has made that choice. Other music stores may well make different choices.EMI's Dylan Jones says the company supplies digital versions of songs to music libraries, who then do their own encoding. They could offer 256kbps MP3 or 320kbps WMA or whatever. The music store is free to choose the encoding and the quality, says Dylan, "above a certain level".EMI Group CEO Eric Nicoli is quoted as saying: "We believe that fans will be excited by the flexibility that DRM-free formats provide, and will see this as an incentive to purchase more of our artists' music."I hope he's right.Personally, I tend to support AAC/AAC+ because it is coming into use forweb-based radio, it is the standard format for DRM (Digital Radio Mondiale) and it's the chosen standard for DAB2 radio which, if Ofcom wakes up, will be available in the UK this century.Unfortunately AAC is heavily patent protected and the MPEG-LA licences it (viaVia) at some cost for the benefit of MPEG-LA patent holders. It's therefore important to have a choice. And I suspect that many people will still prefer MP3 to AAC, even though AAC is more efficient and therefore sounds better at the same bit-rates.Fortunately, MP3 files run on iPods, too....
