Great headline (above) in Fortune magazine, where an article suggests that Microsoft is threatening a sort of patent Armageddon. The story says:Microsoft General Counsel Brad Smith and licensing chief Horacio Gutierrez sat down with Fortune recently to map out their strategy for getting FOSS [free/open source software] users to pay royalties. Revealing the precise figure for the first time, they state that FOSS infringes on no fewer than 235 Microsoft patents.Fortune compares the situation to MAD, the threat of "mutually assured destruction" during the cold war. As soon as one side uses nukes, everyone loses.The warhead-rattling is probably Microsoft creating FUD (an IBM invention for Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt) to discourage risk-averse large companies from using Linux, or at least using a Microsoft-approved version from Novell. It doesn't really matter unless Microsoft lists the patents and launches some lawsuits.On the other hand, Microsoft's lawyers may have an exaggerated idea of the power of patents, given the billions that the company has recently had to pay out to patent trolls. Remember, lawyers aren't obliged to act sensibly, just legally. Since the US software patent system is an inherently bad idea, its patents are granted incompetently, and the court processes are farcical, it's pretty much a lottery. Microsoft's lawyers might be willing to try a few random bets to see if they win anything -- though the PR damage would, I expect, far outweigh any cash gains. And it's not as though Microsoft needs the money.It will be interesting to see what IBM does, since it is even more heavily invested in owning the patent landscape than Microsoft, a latecomer to the game. IBM makes well over 90% of its income from proprietary systems, but it does talk up its support for open source. (As well as saving on programming costs, it is a great way of accumulating customers that can be upgraded from Linux to AIX, or to "hosted Linux" on proprietary mainframes.) However, IBM's patent-based strategy means it can't ship its own Linux distro, which would technically be easy enough to do.IBM has a stated strategy of collecting money for its intellectual property, and recently extracted a bundle of cash from Amazon. TheIBM announcementsays:Dan Cerutti, IBM's General Manager of Software Intellectual Property, said: "At IBM, we place a high value on our IP assets and believe this agreement substantiates the value of our portfolio. We're pleased this matter has been resolved through negotiation and licensing. We look forward to a more productive relationship with Amazon in the future."Given that its cash hoard makes it such an attractive target, Microsoft might well benefit from the destruction of the US software patent system, if that happened to be the outcome. (No, I don't think it's a Machiavellian plot.) It would certainly be better for Microsoft than it would for IBM.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
I've written a long piece today aboutthe state of innovation inside the BBC, and whether the BBC Trust and other decision makers are failing to push the corporation forward in the manner to which we've become accustomed.It was kicked off by a couple of things: my post last week about theBBC Trust's decision on iPlayer, andcommentsmade to parliament by former director general Greg Dyke about the increasing problems. But it was also the result of a number of conversations with individuals working inside the corporation who feel frustrated and confused about where the Beeb goes from here.I've made my feelings clear about iPlayer before, but there were a few strands which I thought you might be interested that came out of a long conversation I had with Ashley Highfield, the director of future media and technology at the BBC, on Friday.Firstly, according to Ashley, there areno more than 100 people are working on iPlayer at the moment. This strongly contradicted information given to me - information which he flatly denied. He also rejected the idea that any staff had been moved from the suspended BBC Jam service over to the iPlayer project, again in contrast to information from my sources.Secondly, he was surprised when I suggested that there was a jarring quality to the BBC's increasingly close relationship with Microsoft. As I quoted in the article, he said "This is increasingly the way that business is done" - but it seems to me that there's a qualitative difference between, say, sticking your vids on YouTube and a "memorandum of understanding". This isn't about Microsoft; this is about the BBC losing the independence we value so highly.I feel like we're only touching the tip of what's going on inside the BBC at the moment, and asAndrew Grant Adamsonat Wordblog points out, it's a shame that I couldn't attribute much of the information to named individuals. But unfortunately given the nature of whistleblowing, it's almost impossible to get people to go on the record and (potentially) put their jobs on the line.In any case, I'd love to hear more from people inside the BBC to gauge their opinions: the address is easy enough: bobbie dot johnson at guardian dot co dot uk.
I was at St Mary's on Saturday to see Southampton getkicked off the parkby Derby in the first leg of the Championship Play-Off semi. As I watchedthe Ramspump yet anotherlong ballin the direction of their Sunday League shaped forward it suddenly struck me. No, not that Derby were doing a painful impression of Wimbledon FC circa 1990, although they were - but that videogame footy just hasn't nailed the uglier side of the beautiful game. Sure, you can do overhead kicks and fancy back flicks in FiFA and Pro Evo but elbows, niggly fouls and match-ending tackles aimed at talented teenage left backs? Not a chance.FIFA is the worst offender - a game that filters out the physical reality and replaces it with a sanitised vision of "soccer" unrecognisable to anyone who actually goes to matches. Pro Evolution is better. At least here the players have a physical grounding with the ability to shield the ball and hold off opponents translated fairly well. But there is still too much emphasis on skill moves and trickery. And as Saturday showed, teams that try and play football - ie Saints - can get beaten by more limited and physical teams. So why do videogame football games not reflect this? Is it harder to code? Less fun to play? Maybe Canadian (FIFA) and Japanese (Pro Evo) developers need to take a trip to some of the more agricultural footballing outposts in the UK (like Pride Park)Games are obviously supposed to be fun. Even those based on reality filter out the tedious elements - Tiger Woods titles concentrate on playing shots rather than the hike between each hole. But when you can get driving games that let you fiddle with the most obscure element of your engine and then actually see the effect in-game - i.e.Forza 2- it's time we had a football game that matched the gritty reality of most matches.
Hats (and other items of clothing) off to GOOD Magazine for a video from its Culture section onInternet porn. "With the latest edition to our video library, GOOD investigates the ins and outs of online porn traffic, and just how much cash those sweaty-palmed clicks are bringing in."It's all about statistics, and some are more vital than others....The other question is....Did it make you think ofMemento?
The San Francisco Chronicle has just run through some of the groups that are afraid of Google, includin gthe Silicon Valley tech industry, Madison Avenue, Hollywood and privacy advocates inWho's Afraid of Google?Of course, Google scares virtually everybody except its users. Even the people whose businesses depend on Google -- whether that's for traffic from search or cash from adwords or whatever -- are scared because tiny changes in Google algorithms can have a devastating effect. Or, worse, they can be removed from Google's index altogether.The story says:Rich Skrenta, chief executive of Topix, a local news and community forums Web site in Palo Alto, described Google as being so ahead of everyone else that there is no real No. 2. Startup executives cower at mounting a challenge, he said."It's past fear -- it's the stages of grief, it's resignation -- and now everyone's depressed," Skrenta said.There's a balancing section near the end where Ellen Siminoff, chief executive of Efficient Frontier, a Mountain View search engine advertising company, points out that "power shifts quickly in the technology industry, judging from recent history." She says:"There was a time when Netscape could do no wrong and a time when AOL could do no wrong, and then Yahoo could do no wrong," she said. "Now Google can do no wrong, but that can change."Sure, but Netscpe, AOL and Yahoo didn't have a really efficient way of monetising their traffic the way Google does. For most of the sites that are not Google, it boils down to a simple choice: either you stop Google from accessing your content, in which case you may not have a viable business, or you fight your way up the search rankings, in which case it's Google that rakes in the money.
Gamesblog amigo andTerra NovanRen Reynoldsis running a very interesting eventnext Thursday(24 May) at theLondon Knowledge Labas part of the London Games Research Group. The title, Computer Gaming &amp; Virtual Worlds Public Policy Workshop, may be a mouthful, but you surely have no doubt about what's in the tin:As computer games and virtual worlds gain mainstream attention they also attract the attention of policy makers and popular media. While insiders have known for many years that computer games have posed serious policy challenges they are often seen as a new and frightening phenomena by media and politicians alike, the danger that faces society is that policies are formed based on a lack of understanding and popularized framing of computer games as simply 'addictive', 'dangerous' or the one secret to the future of education. Such characterizations do not lead to sound policy formation.To stimulate an informed debate Ren Reynolds is promoting the formation of a think tank that will use the best of academic research to support a balanced public discussion about the uses, dangers and benefits of computer games and virtual worlds. Based in the UK such as organization would think globally but frame issues locally employing European sensibilities.The initial challenge that such an organization faces is where to focus. What issues are key for the UK right now?If you fancy tackling some of these important issues, RSVP Diane or Siobhan. Their details and more are onUpcoming.
The Peugeot 207 Coup&eacute; Cabriolet has a roof that opens automatically. Yes, I know: big woo-hoo. Cars whose metal tops rolled back at the push of a button might once have been the exotic preserve of 50s-era visions of the future, along with monorails and food pills. But now you find them all over the place - not just on the big, pricey marques, but on modest, budget-conscious numbers like, well, the Peugeot 207, for heaven's sake. They feel almost as humdrum as electronic windows.OK, maybe not that humdrum. There is still some frisson of eerie wonder to be had from watching a large and important structural part of your car's architecture split into bits and tuck itself away at your effortless behest, even if it does also happen on the &pound;10,995 Daihatsu Copen.And, even after a few years' experience with self-opening cars in various forms, I have still to perfect the appropriate facial expression to wear in the driver's seat while this mechanical action is raging above me. The situation seems to call for a calm, faraway gaze, probably directed out of the righthand side window and betokening nonchalance, bordering on indifference, but it's a hard one to pull off while your car is making a robot-like Transformer over your head. Certainly it seems a touch infra dig to crane around with puppyishly eager eyes and fists clenched tight in delight to watch the boot click shut.Perhaps with these behavioural dilemmas in mind, Peugeot has arranged for a drawing of the 207 to appear on the satnav screen during the roof-opening procedure. A highly stylised drawing, it should be noted, in which the car is wearing achingly hardcore alloys and a matt-black paint job and comes on like some sort of road-monstering sports car. Whereas my impression of the test model, in dull red, was that all the aggression had been carefully rounded out of it at the paper stage, leaving it looking mostly like a shoe for a doll.Anyway, as the top peels off your 207, so does the top off the one in the drawing. Presumably, if the roof jams, so do the pictures, and given that you would want to know when that happened, the cartoon could be said to qualify as some sort of public information film. Far more importantly, though, from the point of view of the self-conscious driver, it's somewhere to look.With the side windows down, and at any speed in excess of 25mph, the wind thrummed in my seat belt, causing it to vibrate rapidly across my collarbone. By standing up and adjusting the strap's position around my middle, I could probably have made it double as one of those old-fashioned, fat-jiggling muscle toners. But I suspect my driving and all-round attention to the road would have suffered. From the standard, BSM-approved driving position, the thrumming was a minor irritation, but persistent enough to classify as a potential drawback. You're happy, in a convertible, to feel the wind in your hair. You're generally less happy to feel it in your seatbelt.Otherwise the fun was pretty much unalloyed. Horribly fiddly stereo, it's true. But a reassuringly deep and quiet engine tone and a well-cushioned ride. And did I mention that the roof comes off automatically? How about that?
FEARPS3Standing rather conveniently for First Encounter Assault Recon, FEAR puts you in the boots of a rookie joining America's force against paranormal threats to homeland security. Almost identical to the PC and Xbox 360 versions, this is still an exceptionally atmospheric and scary first person shooter, blending tightly measured, slow-motion marksmanship and spectacular set pieces with Ring-style psychological horror - your fellow soldiers also swear a lot, just in case all that viscera wasn't enough to earn it an 18 rating. Graphically it looks absurdly sharp on PS3, which only serves to highlight the game's texture-lite two-year-old PC game heritage. Despite its ageing trappings, if you like being scared for fun, this should do the trick.&#183;Sierra, &pound;49.99Final Fantasy IIINintendo DSAlthough not regarded as one of the series' high points, Final Fantasy III still features the epic scale, gradual build-up of powers and young-innocent-turns-world-saviour plot that give the franchise its just renown. Benefiting here from a sparkling graphical makeover, it's not long before the game's mechanics expose themselves as the bag-of-bolts they are. Immediately noticeable are the random fights with monsters so frequent and utterly dry as to be a chore from the start, and one that is totally unavoidable - explore too much before you're strong enough and your reward will be instant death at the hands of beasts you're qualified to deal with. Its plot is also significantly more modest than recent outings and, despite well-implemented character development, anyone used to playing Final Fantasy X or XII will wonder what all the fuss used to be about.&#183;Square Enix, &pound;29.99Metal Gear Solid: Portable OpsPSPStarting where Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater left off in the early-70s, Portable Ops continues to fill the back story of grizzled antihero Naked Snake and his endearingly named elite black ops unit, Fox Hound. Following in the footsteps of Metal Gear Acid and its sequel, which blended stealth with turn-based fights, this is the first "proper" Metal Gear game for PSP, using all of Snake's usual moves and adding the important ability to take prisoners and talk them into joining your team. New recruits are also generated when your PSP detects a wi-fi network, encouraging you to switch it on wherever you go to see if there are any useful potential mercenaries nearby. Shorter cut scenes, tense combat and a storyline broken into perfectly judged chunks for gaming while you're away from the sofa instantly put this in the PSP's top five games.&#183;Konami, &pound;29.95
Considering the Rolling Stones are all approaching retirement age, the Zimmers (myspace.com/thezimmersband) - a group of senior citizens who have recorded a version of My Generation - is not such an outlandish concept as it once might have been.There's a great moment at the end of the video (tinyurl.com/24vezf) when the oldsters gingerly trash the instruments Pete Townshend style, something even the great man himself struggles to do properly these days (tinyurl.com/ytu39k).The Zimmers, who feature a 90-year-old lead singer and are touring later this summer, have rivals in the form of The Young At Heart Chorus (youngatheartchorus.com) - the long-running American nursing home group - whose repertoire of indie cover versions includes Coldplay's Fix You and, possibly more pertinently, the Ramones' I Wanna Be Sedated (tinyurl.com/24xjo3). The latter would no doubt meet the approval of One Foot In The Grave (onefoot.com), who claim to be the world's oldest punk band, and whose album, Lookin' Good! Who's Your Embalmer? includes the three-chord classic I've Fallen And I Can't Get Up
Top Poptoppop.nlDeceased glittery Dutch pop show Top Pop is gradually putting its archive online for our viewing delight and horror. The show's golden era was in the pre-video era of the late-70s, when music acts would have to suffer visiting television shows around Europe to promote their music. No expense is spared for the Jacksons, whose performance of Show You The Way To Go is augmented with bubbles and some flashing stars and stripes. Others, however, were less fortunate - Blondie performed their hit Denis atop a silver foil mountain. Then there was the interview with the show's presenter, Ad Visser, to endure - a baseball-jacketed clown who makes Mr Bean look subtle. The site is in Dutch but you'll work it out.Video Jugvideojug.comHow To Make A Thai Breakfast, Do's And Don'ts On The Dancefloor and How To Air Kiss and How To Give A Great Man To Man Hug are just some of the hundreds of subjects dealt with on this instructional video encyclopaedia that has the grand ambition of explaining life step by step. Taking a tone that's not dissimilar to the public information films of the early-70s, the two-minute long films here tread a thin line between being highly useful and utterly useless. If someone's talking too much, is it really wise to throw crisps at them? This is the kind of site that can be enjoyed by cleaning psychopaths, socially inept complainers and sheltered celebrities alike. Lindsay Lohan may want to watch How To Get Out Of A Car Without Showing Your Knickers - or, in her case, without showing you're not wearing knickers.Chicken Dinnerchickendinner.co.ukBilling itself as a site that provides "invaluable social ammunition", Chicken Dinner mainly concerns itself with the fine art of bluffing that you know exactly what you're talking about when it comes to gambling and, in particular, betting on sport. There are previews of forthcoming events loaded with facts, gags and the latest odds. Away from sport, they turn their gaze towards anything else you can make a bet on, such as the Phil Spector trial, The Apprentice and, bizarrely, the reasons for Bee Colony Collapse Disorder. As if this wasn't enough, there's also video of people making tits of themselves and a blog that includes the story headline "Imaginary Johan Cruyff brings fresh hope to prostitutes"..
URLwww.myspace.com/tenmaskedmenProfile views46568Friends4487Random comment"You're the best death metal band ever!! keep on rotting"These Balaclava wearing gentlemen from Tolworth, London perform "hit songs in the key of AAARRGGHH!!!" That is, they have discovered that any song - particularly, Tom Jones' Sex Bomb - can be improved immeasurably if sung in the style of a wookie to a chundering death metal guitar background. Operating under the mistaken belief that they sound like "Madonna if she grew a pair of big hairy balls", it is pleasing to note that Dave The Mauler and his colleagues are influenced not just by Slayer, "Maiden" and "Priest", but also by Sade and Suzanne Vega.
TuesdaySpidey falls flatWe're listeningBreak free from your virtual chainsBAF 2007: Immersive WorldsBeing a gaming parentWednesdayGames and public policy eventSpore delay?John Carmack interviewInterviews with AssassinsThursdayWii need some good gamesReviews, etcTop author gets Alone in the DarkFridayConsole strategyHide and Seek: big games in London
One of the amusing things about Microsoft conferences is that the company often makes entertaining little videos to amuse the crowd. Sometimes these feature Gates and Ballmer, and are very professionally made. The drawback is that they are missed out of webcasts and rarely emerge into the outside world. The oPhone skit shown at the Mobile and Embedded Developer Conference in Las Vegas is an exception. Although it's on YouTube, theInside Microsoft blogis running the Microsoft Soapbox version as well.In this case, the 3-way Pong is clearly a winning feature for gamers.
There are clearly a lot of benefits to using free Web-based applications, especially if you are a freelance or very small business. And you can get a good idea of what's available from a new list on Codswallop ofThe Freelancer's Toolset: 100 Web Apps for Everything You Will Possibly Need.All such lists are, of course, open to argument. To quibble, I find it strange that Remember The Milk is the first entry in Calendars &amp; To-Do Lists (and yes, I have tried it) while the30boxescalendar isn't included at all. Other famous but missing apps includePageFlakesandThinkFree. There are entries for desktop applications such as Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and AVG Anti-Virus Free Edition but the onlineTrend Housecallis missing. And so on.Still, the list is well worth a visit, because with 100 apps to choose from, you may very well spot something that you can use.
The BFI in London is running a series ofcompelling interactive real-world gamesover the weekend for a festival created byGiddeon Reelingin association with Lost &amp; Found, Sheer Lunacy, Coney and Wildlife. The event, called Hide &amp; Seek, brings pervasive street games to the capital, challenging Joes and Janes to run through the streets looking for fun around every corner:Think running through the city in the dead of night, searching for your contact while the chasers track you down... Think flashmobs with something to do.... Think waterpistol assassination tournaments, real-life videogames, hat scrabble and tube-running... Think all the best games you played as a kid with a grown-up twist.Pervasive games begin the second you get up from behind the screen. They transform the city into a playground, make your heart race, change the way you see the world, get you playing nicely with others. Some last a minute, others a month. It depends how deep you want to go...This sound like more fun than I could ever possibly imagine. And for the more erudite, there is a series of lectures, talks and discussions taking place at the BFI (yes, that's the BritishFilmInstitute) throughout the weekend.Check out the schedule of eventshere. Things kick off today withThe London Poetry Gameand the more rambunctiousThe Journey to the End of the Night. On Sunday you can play Jane McGonigal's and Ian Bogost'sCruel 2 Be Kind, where random acts of kindness are in the arsenal, and the general public is the target.Go forth and play, but don't forget to photograph. If you do, send us the pics and we'll send them up to thegamesblog's flickr site!mined from a tip-off by the inimitablebluejoh'sUpcoming listings
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
An attempt to force Google to stop censoring its search results in repressive countries has been rejected by its shareholders.The office of the comptroller of New York City, which oversees New York City pension funds, proposed the motion at the search giant's annual shareholder yesterday.The proposal called on Google to resist attempts at censorship, tell people when it is censoring search results, and tell people what data it is retaining.It won support from Amnesty -- one of many human rights groups who criticised the company in early 2006 for bowing to pressure from the Chinese government and censoring its search results in China.The motion also named Belarus, Burma, Cuba, Egypt, Iran, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam as countries where governments restrict access to Internet content.New York's pension funds own 500,000 shares, giving them a stake worth $235m. Google's total market capitalisation is $144bn.Patrick Doherty, representing the comptroller's office, told the meeting that censorship ran counter to the corporate values of Google, whose informal corporate motto is "Don't be evil."Mr Doherty received light applause from his fellow shareholders, according to the San Francisco Chronicle who attended the meeting at the search giant's Californian headquarters.But Google's top management, who cast 66% of its votes, did not support the plan, and thus it was rejected.Co-founder Sergey Brin admitted earlier this year that the Chinese censorship had damaged the company."On a business level, that decision to censor ... was a net negative," said Mr Brin, speaking at the Davos World Economic Forum in January.Those who invested in the company at the time of its flotation have seen their stakes rocket in value. Its shares have risen from $85 to $461, fuelled by rapid growth in revenues from internet advertising.But with chief executive Eric Schmidt and co-founders Larry Page and Mr Brin controlling two-thirds of the voting power, today's vote shows that smaller shareholders have no realistic hope of forcing the company to accept a policy that they disagree with.The trio own around 31% of the stock between them, but as Class B shareholders they get 10 votes per share. Class A shareholders get a single vote per share.An attempt to end this was defeated at last year's shareholder meeting, by the very top executives whose power it would have diluted.In other news, shares inYellwere up nearly 2% in morning trading in London, amid market talk that the directory firm could be a Google takeover target.
Slim pickings on the release schedule this week, withCooking Mamaon the Wii andCommand &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberum Wars(360) the "highlights". Actually the former could be quite amusing, especially if it matches the irreverence of the DS version. I'm not sure about Command &amp; Conquer though and not just because Real Time Strategy (RTS) is the most tediously conservative game genre there is, bar beat-em ups of course. No, the main issue is format. RTS games should be played PC only - although turn-based strat like Advance Wars on Game Boy/DS is worth a try off PC - with mouse/keyboard essential. Trying to manipulate your virtual armies with a pad is an exercise in frustration - anyone who struggled through Lord of the Rings Battle of Middle Earth 2 on 360 will know what I mean. Plus you need an HDTV to be able to actually see what is going on. Maybe C&amp;C3 will buck the RTS-on-consoles-being-a-bit-rubbish trend, but I doubt it. We'll see. Anyway, what are you playing this weekend?
Bats use very different wing motions in flight than birds, according to a detailed study of how the mammals fly. The results could provide fresh ideas for engineers who are designing new, more manoeuvrable robotic planes.Bats and birds represent two completely separate evolutionary solutions to the problem of flight. Archaeopteryx, the dinosaur ancestor of modern birds, developed its method around 150m years ago, but bats are relative newcomers to the skies. Earliest flying bat fossils date to around 50m years ago in the Eocene period.The differences in the nature of a bat or bird wing are obvious, but now researchers have shown that these differences mean the two groups use very different aerodynamic strategies to get off the ground.They studied long-tongued nectar bats (Glossophaga soricina) on the wing in a wind tunnel. To see how the bat's flapping changed the air-flow around their wings, the researchers added smoke to the airflow and took images of the bats at different points during each wing beat.The main difference between flight in bats and birds stems from the fact that birds have feathers. On each upstroke, birds are able to separate their primary feathers like the slates of a Venetian blind, so that the upstroke does not undo the lift generated by the previous downstroke. Bats cannot do this because their flight membrane is continuous.Anders Hedenstr&ouml;m, of Lund University in Sweden, Geoffrey Spedding, from the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, and their colleagues, showed that bats are able to gain extra lift on each upstroke at low speeds by flicking their wings backward. Each bat wing also generates its own vortex in the air which are interlinked by vortex structures shed by the bat's body.Another finding that differed from bird flight was that during each upstroke, different parts of the bat wing produce negative and positive lift. The findings are published today in the journal Science.Prof Spedding, an aerospace engineer, said: "Bats are agile hunters, capable of executing complex manoeuvres through cluttered environments. These are the traits we would like our unmanned air vehicles to have, because there are so many complex rural and urban environments in which we could use them."Engineers could copy the bats' aerodynamic tricks in their efforts to develop small, highly manoeuvrable robotic air vehicles for surveillance, he said.
Occasionally I come across a game that reminds me what it is that compels me to continue playing them, long beyond when most people in my age or gender cohort have dismissed them as child's play. There are times when I don't want to shoot, or collect coins, or pretend to drive or think strategically. During those special moments, if I'm going to lose myself to an interactive plaything, it needs to be something very special indeed. And so I return to Samorost, which won the Webby award for Best Game.It's not your typical game, although it undoubtedly is one. It takes the very basic elements and wraps them up in such a beautiful way that you forget that what you're doing is working your way through a space-based adventure.Wait, stop - don't run away. In a world of big explosions and madcap characters, the Samorost series is a symphony of simplicity. It doesn't matter that we're dealing with strange little alien guys who fly around in an old hot dog tin. That's not the point. The point is, it's like Prozac, but more fun.OK, I can tell I'm not selling it. But here's another USP: it's free. It's made in Flash and is online.But it's not like the annual Santa Claus shooting viral game or the one where you try to smack George Bush around the head with a fish.The world needs games like Samorost. It challenges every perception you might have about solitary spotty teenagers with thumbs grafted to PlayStation controllers. It's slow-paced and accessible. Its sheer beauty raises inevitable comparisons between games and art.And what dangerous territory it is to get lost in. I don't say that lightly: marriages crumble over this debate faster than they do over a hand of bridge.It has overtones of the classic animation that's come out of central Europe - unsurprisingly, as its developers are in the Czech Republic; yet unlike the other titles that have emerged from that region for the commercial audience, this game's independence means that it can experiment with pace, slowing down to an almost-crawl in some places. If Harold Pinter made games, they would look like this.Games like this, which are thoughtfully and independently made, should be celebrated more often. At the moment, the distribution channels are unnavigable, but indie gaming social networks, like the forthcoming Little Big Planet for the PS3, should I hope pave the way for more games like Samorost to emerge. I can only hope.Until then, I'm going to return to my happy place in the embrace of this little web game's arms.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
God of War 2PS2, &pound;39.99, cert 18, Sony, 4/5Coming so soon after the macho movie 300, God of War 2 has clearly picked its moment. The first game was an impressive, if not epic, arcade adventure, and the sequel ups the frame and body count nicely. Once again it's a mix of frantic hand-to-hand skirmishes, arcade puzzles and boss characters plundered from Greek legend crashing through the scenery. With stunning animation and new hero powers - the most notable of which allows you to swing from bits of scenery - there's plenty for both action and eye-candy fans to enjoy. Titles this impressive won't appear on the PS2 for much longer, which makes their absence on the overpriced PS3 all the more noticeable.Mike AnderieszFinal Fantasy IIINintendo DS, &pound;19.99, cert 3+, Square Enix/Nintendo, 3/5Released in 1990 but previously unavailable outside Japan, Final Fantasy 3 has belatedly arrived in the west. But with the Final Fantasy series now in its teens, is there any point revisiting the toddler years? FF fans will be intrigued to see an early example of the series but they might be disappointed by the adventuring action. Yes, a group of children is out to save the world again and it is up to you to guide them. The derivative characterisation and plot are understandable given the age, but the fiddly save options are not, especially if you get stuck in a dungeon while on the bus. FF3's updated graphics are huge step up from the rudimentary original and help disguise the fact that too much of the game remains stuck in the past. One for completists only.Greg HowsonWario: Master of DisguiseNintendo DS, &pound;29.99, cert 7+, 3/5Boorish, mad-eyed, materialistic and garlic-obsessed, Wario is Nintendo's foil to the relentlessly chirpy Mario. Now, at last, he has a proper starring vehicle of his own. With a typically bonkers plot - Wario swipes a magic wand which lets him adopt disguises and pursue a new career as a jewel thief - Master of Disguise is a mildly inventive platform game combining exploration, puzzles and boss battles that makes good use of the DS's stylus. Specifically, drawing symbols on Wario transforms him into, for example, Arty Wario (allowing him to draw temporary blocks and jump up to inaccessible places), Cosmic Wario (where he gets a laser-gun), and Dragon Wario (endowing him with a block-destroying breath attack). None of which exactly advances the boundaries of platform gaming, but the need to use a certain amount of ingenuity when exploring and in the boss battles should keep Wario fans happy.Steve Boxer
The UK is still on course to have the worst radio in the world. Ofcom's response to protests is that most people are happy with the current quality of DAB (digital audio broadcasting), apart from a very small minority of audiophiles. It's not bovvered that DAB sounds worse than CD and FM. And when home cinema users are moving from stereo to 5.1 surround sound, Ofcom is allowing stereo music stations to broadcast in mono. This is progress?Ofcom's summary of its latest consultation says: "Of the 210 responses to Ofcom's discussion document on the future of radio, over 70% (153) were regarding the quality of current DAB digital radio broadcasts." However, this was "primarily as a result of an article published in the Guardian's Technology section on 23 November 2006, entitled The future of UK radio is now in your hands, by Jack Schofield, who has previously written several other articles critical of DAB's audio quality", says Ofcom.Ofcom therefore got ICM to conduct a poll in January to find out what users thought. They interviewed 677 DAB listeners, and "81% of all respondents rated sound quality as either excellent or good, with a further 14% rating it as average. Only 3% rated it as poor or very poor, with 2% who said they didn't know." What Ofcom calls "DAB hi-fi owners" (listeners who defined themselves as such) had the same response "with 83% rating quality as excellent and a further 12% as average".This is, of course, nonsense. The current quality of DAB in the UK - which is broadcast at low bit rates using an inefficient MP2 codec - is provably worse than FM. But I don't think that DAB radio owners have cloth ears. DAB does have advantages in eliminating background hiss and avoiding the signal interference that can afflict FM unless you use a decent aerial. However, the most popular DAB radios are mono models with small speakers, and most listening is done in the kitchen on table-top radios that can't offer proper stereo imaging. You can't honestly evaluate audio quality on that basis.I suspect Ofcom's survey mainly shows that listeners think their &pound;100 DAB radio (prices range between &pound;40 and &pound;250) sounds better than the old AM/FM tranny on which they spent, what, &pound;25? But it would still be cheaper to provide them with something better.The point is that I'm not against DAB, just against the UK's mediocre implementation. It is possible to deliver better-quality digital radio - and offer many more stations - simply by switching to a more efficient codec.The rest of the world has recognised this and adopted a form of AAC (advanced audio coding) as the new standard for DAB+. AAC is also used in by Digital Radio Mondiale, the DVB-H and T-DMB mobile TV standards, Digital Radio Mondiale, Apple's iTunes Music Store and many music players and mobile phones.The main chip manufacturers, Frontier Silicon and RadioScape, are now working on dual standard systems that will support both DAB and DAB+. These could reach the UK market by the end of this year. There aren't any DAB+ broadcasts yet, but Ofcom could, like some other countries, announce plans. The Channel 4-backed 4Digital Group has applied to Ofcom to operate a new commercial digital radio system and seems very keen to use DAB+.Some people in the UK industry seem to be scared that if consumers find out about DAB+, this will have a negative effect on sales of DAB radios, which have sold fewer than 5m units since 1995. But this is the digital age, not the 1950s. You can't stop progress.People buy mobile phones, MP3 players, PCs, games consoles and digital cameras even though they have a life expectancy that could be only two to five years, and even today's DAB radios will last longer than that. But consumers also expect to be given fair warning about technological changes, and I don't see why the radio industry can't deal with that. Give people the facts and let them make their own decisions.Perhaps Ofcom should stop muddling along behind a radio industry that is in decline and give it some direction. Setting a schedule for DAB+ and some minimum audio quality standards would be a start. Ofcom's blueprint for the future of radio does neither.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because Dell's Mediadirect software interferes with it, in mysterious but provable ways. If you're recently bought a Dell 1210 laptop and get your email via Microsoft's Outlook 2007, you will have noticed snails sprinting past while your and tries to download comparatively small numbers of messages.The journalist Tim Anderson first drew attention to this onhis blog, where an array of commenters have pitched in to try to work out what it is that makes Outlook 2007 so much slower than its predecessors. It's been an iceberg issue - rumbling on beneath the surface - within corporate IT for a couple of months now.In the case of Dell machines, the culprit is relatively easy to find: a small addition called OutlookAddinSetup is identified in the comments of theSpendmatters blogas the source of all the trouble. Remove the program and Outlook whistles along.So what is Mediadirect, and why is Dell leaving it in there when it messes with Outlook's performance? Working backwards, the OutlookAddinSetup "is responsible for converting meeting requests to recurring meetings and creating calendar and contact folders when saving attachments".Mediadirect will, according toDell's website, "allow you to instantly access your calendar, your contacts, presentations and multimedia files - all at the touch of a button. No need to wait for your operating system to start up."Quite why this interacts so disastrously with Outlook one can only guess at, though scanning the program's monolithic storage file is bound to lead to trouble. Next: why does Outlook 2007 run so slowly on non-Dell machines? We don't have a quick answer for that. Anyone?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sun and its high-priced servers were virtually synonymous with the first web boom of the late 1990s; the company even dubbed itself the "dot in dotcom". But when the bubble burst at the end of 2000, Sun's share price sank to less than 10% of its peak - and stayed there.To make matters worse, as Web 2.0 startups began to appear around 2004, they opted to run their businesses not on Sun boxes, but on cheap Intel-based servers running GNU/Linux, which steadily ate away at the market share of Sun's Solaris operating system. Faced with these problems, Sun has been re-inventing itself in a surprising way - as an open source company.It began modestly, with what was little more than a tactical potshot at Microsoft, the company's arch-enemy. Sun had bought the office suite StarOffice from the German company StarDivision in 1999. A year later, Sun released the source code, and helped set up the open source project OpenOffice.org.Strategic shiftAlthough OpenOffice.org has developed into one of the most important free software projects - version 2.0, with an improved user interface and better Microsoft Office compatibility, was released in 2005 - it is not a core product for Sun. The heart of the company lies in Solaris, Sun's version of Unix. The release of OpenSolaris (opensolaris.org) in 2005 therefore represented a major strategic shift towards open source.But many people refused to take Sun's free software moves seriously while it also retained tight control over Java, its system for creating cross-platform applications, and in many ways its most important product. Moreover, many thought that if and when Sun did release Java as open source, it would be under a restrictive licence that left it firmly in charge of the development process.Against this background, the announcement at the end of last year that Sun would be releasing Java under Richard Stallman's GNU GPL, the "purest" of the free software licences, took the computing world by surprise.Sun's chief open source officer, Simon Phipps, explains why the company chose the GPL: "We felt that the biggest impact that we could have on the Java market was by settling the long dispute with the GNU/Linux community." That dispute arose from licensing issues, which meant that rigorously open source systems were unable to include Java in their distributions. By adopting the GPL, Sun removed those problems at a stroke.The result of these moves over the past few years is that Sun has now contributed more code to the free software community than any other company. "It adds up to a big help," says Stallman.Sun's chief executive, Jonathan Schwartz, has also pledged to make all of the code he can open source - legal commitments prevent him handing over absolutely everything - including new products like its massively multiplayer online game server Project Darkstar.But there remains an unanswered question: what will be Sun's relationship to the leading free software project, the GNU/Linux operating system, given that it has its own competing solution in the form of OpenSolaris? That issue was thrown into stark relief when Ian Murdock, one of the key figures in the GNU/Linux community, announced in March that he was joining Sun "to head up operating system platform strategy".Murdock is the "-ian" in Debian (Deb is his wife), an important free software project that forms the basis for many GNU/Linux distributions including the popular Ubuntu. As he wrote inhis blogabout the move: "I'll be advocating that Solaris needs to close the usability gap with Linux to be competitive; that while as I believe Solaris needs to change in some ways, I also believe deeply in the importance of backward compatibility; and that even with Solaris front and center [sic], I'm pretty strongly of the opinion that Linux needs to play a clearer role in the platform strategy."So far, there has been no further explanation what this will mean in practice, but perhaps there are some clues to be found in Phipps's thoughts on the future development of open source operating systems. "When you look at what Unix-like operating systems really are," he says, "each is a set of editorial choices about which free software userland [interface and applications] to assemble around which kernel [the heart of the operating system]. There's no reason why you shouldn't use Debian [interface and applications] with Solaris [as the kernel]."What's notable about this is that it suggests swapping out today's most popular kernel - Linux - and swapping in the one from Solaris. The resulting operating system would certainly "close the usability gap with Linux" that Murdock talks about. And who better to oversee its creation than Mr Debian himself?Speaking for the free software movement, Stallman says that if Sun decides to release its code under version 3 of the GPL licence, it "would be a reason for us to encourage use of Solaris" as part of a GNU/OpenSolaris alternative to GNU/Linux.Not surprisingly, Linux hackers are distinctly unimpressed by the idea. For example, David Miller, one of the most senior Linux coders and the person who led work to get Linux to run on Sun's Sparc processor in the mid 1990s, is dismissive: "The only tangible consequence of opening up Solaris has been that now everyone can watch how glacial the pace of Solaris development is compared to Linux."The creator of Linux and overall leader of its development, Linus Torvalds, is also untroubled by the prospect of Sun competing in this space: "I actually think that Linux is simply technically superior," he says, "and that it does a lot of things that OpenSolaris will probably never do, but I don't even think that that is Sun's real problem. The real problem is psychological." He goes on to offer an interesting analysis of the larger issues involved.Least of their problems"I get the feeling that Sun thinks that they lost customers to Linux because their customers wanted 'another licence', which is just silly. They didn't lose their customers to Linux really over the licence, but over the emergent secondary effects of the licence - the fact that suddenly their customers could choose their hardware freely, and their support and [operating system] suppliers freely too."I think the licence is the least of their problems," he says. "The company culture is a lot harder to change. The licence is there to just say 'you cannot compete by hiding the source code, you really have to compete on your own merits', but it doesn't really limit things in any other way. Is Sun really going to try to bolster that kind of competition? Somehow, I don't see it, and that's the 'company culsture' part."It's an insight that Sun - and other companies thinking about going open source - would do well to ponder. Open source is not something you can simply make a one-off decision to be, it's something you have to do, and keep on doing, all the time.&#183;Glyn Moody writes about open source atopendotdotdot.blogspot.com
Not judging by the reaction to the latest ruminations from Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, whose latest bit of blogging, entitled "A Greener Apple" (apple.com/hotnews/agreenerapple) - about the company's past and future environmental objectives - has drawn noticeably less interest than his previous one, in which he discussed whether online music should be sold with or without digital rights management software.Compare the number of links to the latter with those to the former and it's clear that at least in the blogosphere - which for these purposes is probably a sufficiently good proxy for the wider computer-buying public - people get a lot more het up about whether they can play music bought online on their iPod than on what environmental impact that same iPod might have when it's ditched for something newer.The blog indexer Technorati reckons there are 6,200-odd blogs writing about Jobs's take on DRM, compared to 860 or so about greening Apple; Google's Blogsearch puts the numbers at 3,300 and 450 respectively.Could it be that people simply don't care about their old computers, mobile phones and digital music players, and whether they're recycled into chain mail suits for seal pups, or instead will pollute vast swathes of China that perhaps made them in the first place?Greenpeace applauded "the enthusiasm with which Apple fans have greeted this campaign" - which it has been waging against since last August. Then, it published its "Guide to Greener Electronics", updated in December and again last month. By those rankings, Apple had slid from being fourth from last to last, ranking about 2 out of 10 on a "green scale".But Adam Engst of Tidbits (tidbits.com) says that "my impression from talking with Mac users is that Greenpeace's tactics have generally worked more to polarise than to persuade, with diehard environmental activists becoming all the more vocal about Apple's ills and longtime Mac users rising to defend the company".Certainly there's still little indication that people choose between computers or mobile phones or music players based on how they'll dispose of them. The European WEEE Directive, which comes into force in July (What is the WEEE Directive and do I need to care?, December 14 2006) will anyway oblige electronics manufacturers to take back and recycle their equipment from consumers - who currently dump 2m tonnes of electrical rubbish annually. So it looks like "greenness" will remain someone else's problem, whether or not Jobs or Greenpeace like it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
US war on YouTubeThe US military is posting official clips on YouTube to show US troops in combat. The Multi-National Forces Iraq channel is coded MNFIRAQ.youtube.com/user/MNFIRAQLovely Jubii?Lycos has launched the beta version of a social networking site that offers email, chat, SMS, picture sharing and dating - with 10GB of free storage space.jubii.co.ukHotmail goes LiveMicrosoft has rolled out Windows Live Hotmail, an upgraded version with 2GB of free storage.mail.live.comCurrys ejects tapesCurrys says it will stop selling cassette tapes once current stocks have sold out. The format was launched in 1963.www.currys.co.ukBlackBerry CurveO2 reckons it is the first UK network to ship the new BlackBerry Curve cameraphone, which has a qwerty keyboard.blackberrycurve.co.ukBlog her hereEurope's first conference for women business bloggers will be held at de Montfort University, in Leicester, on Friday June 8. Men may attend.nlabwomen.comGreener GTIA Green Technology Initiative has been launched in the UK to help businesses "make use of existing technology to reduce their carbon footprint".greentechnologyinitiative.orgWaiting gameA survey byTickbox.Netfor 1&amp;1 Internet Ltd says that the average internet user estimates they waste 2.5 days a year waiting for slow websites to load.
A tougher football competition to winManchester United takes the prize as the most searched-for football club in the UK, 3% ahead of Liverpool FC and 49% ahead of Chelsea FC. However, Liverpoolfc.com does a better job of getting people to its site, ranking as the most visited football team online.Manchester United fans are looking for transfer news and rumours, perhaps explaining why Manchester Unitedsearchers more often visit news sites. Fans of all three clubs are searching for tickets and kit. Liverpool fans are also interested in pictures and songs, while Chelsea fans are looking for wallpaper and the team's history.weblogs.hitwise.com
We're all familiar with the calls for blood donors. But donated blood, while valuable, also poses risks to the recipient, including diseases such as hepatitis C or HHIV, the virus that causes Aids.Wouldn't an artificial form be better? It could be made completely sterile, and might even be manufactured in dehydrated form: just add water and you have a litre of O negative, the universally transfusible version, which could be easily transported to locations where it was needed, or stored against future need.Lance Twyman is trying to do just that: with a PhD from the University of Kent, he's working to make usable plastic blood in his University of Sheffield laboratory.Twyman has long been interested in creating molecules that mimic nature, including synthetic enzymes to catalyse novel reactions. Early in his career he came across porphyrins, hollow square-shaped molecules which combine readily with metals like iron. "The iron is in the centre of the molecule, just like haemoglobin," says Twyman.Things are not quite the same in nature, of course. Although the oxygen-carrying protein haemoglobin in your red blood cells contains an iron-based porphyrin to bind oxygen reversibly (so it can grab oxygen from the air in the lungs, and then give it up at the tissues), porphyrin alone won't work. "It clumps together or ends up reacting with the oxygen rather than just binding it," says Twyman. "But if you combine porphyrin chemistry and polymer chemistry, you can make a molecule which mimics haemoglobin."Oxygen bindingMaking an artificial blood might not have occurred to Twyman were it not for a chance discussion with a cardiologist. Although perfect blood substitutes are a clinician's dream, creating something just to carry oxygen around the bloodstream seemed intriguingly feasible.Developed over the past five years, Twyman has now done just that by combining a porphyrin with monomers that build together in a hyper-branching or tree-like structure. His molecule is remarkably similar to haemoglobin in size and shape, while providing exactly the right environment around the porphyrin core for iron to bind and release oxygen. And the polyethylene glycol (PEG), a water-soluble polymer used to assemble the branched structure is already used for medical applications.So what does it look like? Twyman's plastic blood is a dark red water-soluble paste with the consistency of honey. As with real blood, the colour comes from the porphyrin.Putting plastic blood into your body - even to save your life - sounds risky. But Twyman points out that porphyrins are natural. He also reckons that the polymer component would be ignored by the body's immune system; there is some reassurance from existing medical uses. So far, though, his experimentation is confined to the test tube."At the moment, we have no idea regarding the polymer's lifetime in the body. However, for its intended application, a short lifetime is an advantage," says Twyman. "One obvious application is the battlefield or site of a major incident where replacing blood loss quickly can save lives."Unlike donated blood, it's easy to store and is stable at room temperature. A second-generation molecule is now being developed for more rigorous investigation and, if all goes well, human use may eventually follow.Professor Adrian Newland, president of the Royal College of Pathologists, says that people have worked on artificial blood for many years. It remains the medical equivalent of the holy grail - mainly because small foreign molecules in blood substitutes are swiftly removed from the bloodstream by the kidneys. "The drive has been to develop a larger molecule that will stay in the circulation and carry oxygen to the tissues," Newland says.The EU-funded Euro Blood Substitutes consortium is also undertaking such research and includes biochemist Professor Chris Cooper of the University of Essex. He says that there are two types of blood substitutes - haemoglobin-based substitutes, which use human or bovine haemoglobin, and the perfluorocarbons. "Many compounds have gone into clinical trials and there are currently two products licensed for use," Cooper says.Twyman's work now offers a third possibility that doesn't depend on haemoglobin supplies. "It's an interesting bit of chemistry. What they have to do is prove that the molecule is stable for hours in the presence of oxygen," Cooper says. "The phrase 'plastic blood' is cute, but a bit of a red herring as all blood substitutes add PEGs [polyethylene gycols]."Body's defencesNewland worries about using PEGs in the body in transfusion quantities, although small-scale medical use is well established in association with drug delivery. "The amount of PEG that you'd give with artificial blood is several times larger than the amount we give attached to a simple drug. There needs to be some idea of what happens to PEG if it's given in that volume," Newland says.While Twyman cannot yet answer such concerns, he says his approach uses a branched PEG, not the simple linear PEGs found with haemoglobin-based blood substitutes. "Hb [haemoglobin] work uses Hb extracted from animal or human blood. This has to be protected from the body's defences, usually using linear PEGs. These do work, but they migrate into the fatty lining of veins, which causes toxic effects. They also cause high blood pressure and there are ethical/religious issues regarding their general use," Twyman says.Newland says that modified haemoglobin doesn't stay in the blood circulation long and can cause allergic-type reactions. But once haemoglobin is removed from the body's red blood cells, no cross-matching is needed before use.An oxygen-carrying molecule that mimics haemoglobin would have universal donor characteristics - although the immune response and clearance time from the bloodstream is as yet unknown."If you are giving artificial blood, you don't have to worry about the transmission of infection from blood from donors, shelf life and the lack of availability from donations," Newland says. "It's a very interesting concept."While Twyman believes his work might find military use one day, the Ministry of Defence is unwilling to comment until more research has been done. Meanwhile, the plastic blood will be in "Plasticity - 100 years of making plastics" at London's Science Museum from May 22. Plastic blood may yet benefit people beyond laboratories.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Vote for integrityIf touchscreen voting is to be used successfully, such machines must produce a paper trail so that at the count the candidates' agents can ask for spot checks of these receipts in random ballot boxes (Hacking the online ballot box, May 3). Only if this tallies with the electronic count should the overall result be declared valid, otherwise such technology will undermine confidence in the democratic process.David NowellLondon&middot;The other half of the story concerns the voter who actually wants to be able to prove to someone else how he voted. This is why we require voters to cast their ballots in publicly supervised private booths and provide them with nothing that shows how they voted. It's also why stray marks on a ballot can disqualify it: the stray marks could be a secret code to identify the ballot with a specific voter, who can then claim his reward (or escape his punishment). So before we worry about whether internet voting schemes are secure, let's have a debate about the sacrifice of election integrity for convenience.Hamilton RichardsAustin, TexasSnap to it and get onlineAndrew Brown (Read me first, May 3) claims that amateur sites such as Flickr have killed stock photo libraries. Yes, those stock photo libraries which have failed to adapt and create an online presence are dying out - but you only have to look at the success of online agencies such as Alamy, which sells pictures on behalf of independent photographers, to realise that the market for editorial and commercial sales online is booming. Brown's old friend needs to digitise his stock collection and get online.Nick HannaHastingsDriven to distractionI recently upgraded to Vista and have not been able to upload my drivers for my digicam or even my Motorolla Rzar cellphone (Who should you blame if your kit doesn't work with Vista? May 3). It is so frustrating.Cecly Ann MitchellCurepe, Trinidad&middot;In Linux there is no assumption that drivers will be made available by product manufacturers. Indeed, Linux aficionados write them. Compare that with Microsoft, which denies any responsibility and forces hardware manufacturers to write drivers to comply with its operating system.Allan ThompsonGrimsbySay cheeseSure, but can a mouse calculate pi to a billion decimal places - and can a supercomputer eat cheese? (Newly asked questions, May 3).blogs.herod.net/steven/archives/213Radiating senseSimon Densley makes the unsupported allegation that: "There are plenty of well conducted, peer reviewed studies that leave no doubt ... Wi-Fi radiation can lead to cancer" (Letters and blogs, May 3). This is an absurd generalisation that cannot go unchallenged. Far from many reports coming to this conclusion, the overwhelming balance of expert opinion is that adverse health consequences only arise at very much higher power levels than are ever experienced in the normal environment. Could Simon Densley share the sources for the "plenty of peer-reviewed studies" that he relies on?Rob AugerHythe&middot;There is a massive difference between mobile phones which can radiate 3000mW at a distance of 5cms from the brain and a Wi-Fi device which radiates a maximum of 100mW and is seldom placed close to the head (at least until such times as Wi-Fi phones become more popular - people walking round with access points strapped to their heads are rare). Let's see some serious academic studies, or we're going to have to put up with more scare stories and the indiscriminate lumping together of anything that radiates energy as a threat to health by people who know no better or have an axe to grind.Geoff JonesBanbury
So, I'm a father now. Having a son makes me feel like I've been upgraded to Colvey 2.0. However, I'm losing interest in most things technical. This is probably just as well, because most things technical that I own have stopped working.It all started at Argos, several weeks ago. A &pound;99.99 gadget bought at the tat palace has ruined my evenings and plays havoc with my working life .Post-birth, my wife decreed that the baby version of me was so precious that he must be watched AT ALL TIMES. To this end, we - okay, I - bought a video baby monitor. It's wireless, meaning my wife can keep her oh-so-dedicated-mother eyes on mini-me when he's snoozing in the bedroom and we're wishing to relax elsewhere in the house. But thanks to "Viddy" (being pathetically soppy parents, we give everything in baby-grabbing distance a cutesy name) I now have fewer ways to relax.The trouble is that Viddy operates on the 2.4GHz band, and so does pretty much every other wireless device we own. So when Viddy is on, my Xbox stays off, because it somehow interferes with Viddy. Even if my Xbox didn't interfere with Viddy, it would stay off anyway because when Viddy is on, my Wi-Fi network won't work. Because my Wi-Fi network won't work, my Windows Media Center Xbox extender can't work. Because my Windows Media Center Xbox extender can't work, I can't enjoy all that media stuff I downloaded during the many months spent sober as a supportive dad-to-be.Because I can't enjoy all that media stuff, I'm now becoming a less sober, less supportive dad right now. During such times I like to eat junk food. But no longer can I find solace in Pot Noodles because using the microwave also causes Viddy's reception to go bonkers, which makes my wife go bonkers. All this has made me a bit bonkers.And this is just at night. Come working hours, Viddy is on duty during the little one's nap times. This causes my Dect phone to leave the building - literally. As I work from home, making or taking business calls means standing outside, for fear that my interview with the chief executive of Very Important Computer Company might otherwise interfere with Viddy, and that would never do.But it's not all bad news. We've had some fun with Viddy. Recently, we eavesdropped on our neighbours arguing. Turns out they've got a baby monitor too, albeit an audio-only one. They probably call it "Audi".These devices have channel switches but no security, see; and Viddy and Audi were on the same channel. Of course, when my neighbours read this, they'll realise that their device has no security. And then I'll probably wish I had some security. Yes, it's great being a dad.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Need a cool notebook?I am looking for an energy-efficient notebook PC. My current machine gets very hot - presumably guzzles energy like nobody's business - and is also very heavy to carry around.Wiebina HeestermanJS:Most portable PCs are about as energy efficient as the manufacturers can make them, because power conservation provides longer battery life. Inevitably, some waste heat is generated by the processor and the hard drive. You can minimise this by choosing a low voltage or ULV (ultra-low voltage) chip. Recent examples include the Intel Core 2 Duo U7500 and U7600 ULV processors with a "thermal design power" of only 10 Watts. Unfortunately, ULV chips tend to be relatively slow (the U7600 is a 1.2GHz processor) and expensive, and are mainly used in ultra-mobile designs. However, the biggest gain would come from having a more efficient mains converter, since these generate a lot of waste heat.Firewall mattersI have recently bought a Netgear router. The instructions suggest I no longer need to use a software firewall. Is this a good idea?Graham OakleyJS:No, it's a bad idea. You could unintentionally install malware from a webite or sent to you via email, and the router will regard this as legitimate traffic. A software firewall also monitors the software on your hard drive and can block outgoing traffic. It's therefore a good idea to have both.Finding an expertMy stepmother is in her 70s and doing very well learning how to use an old computer running Windows Me. She has a computer expert who calls when needed, and charges &pound;35 an hour to sort out problems. It took him two hours to install a firewall and hence cost &pound;70. That sounds like too much to me.Martin WhittleJS:It does sound too much, but home visits are expensive and technicians also have to cover the cost of travel. Some of the people who do this sort of thing work through Low Cost Computer Help (lowcostcomputerhelp.co.uk), which has a fixed charge of &pound;59.95, so even taking that route would only have saved &pound;10. I suspect it would be more cost-efficient to upgrade your stepmother to a new or refurbished system running Windows XP SP2 or Vista. These are more reliable, more secure and can be maintained remotely using the built-in Remote Assistance feature.Indeed, unless she needs to run games or some Windows-only software, consider upgrading her to a secondhand Apple iBook with an external mouse. This avoids Windows malware problems, is less susceptible to crashes due to "pilot error" and is dramatically more secure than Windows Me. You can probably work out how soon a new system would pay for itself in reduced support costs.The problem's OrangeWe're on Orange/Wanadoo, and over the past six months or so, sending email using OE has become ever more difficult. We often get an error message that says "your server has unexpectedly terminated the connection" with error number 0x800CCC0F. I'm convinced that there's nothing wrong with our computers.Nick SalmonJS:Microsoft has an excellentKnowledge Base article: How to troubleshoot error messages that you receive when try to send and receive email in Outlook and in Outlook Express. Error 0x800CCC0F is often due to a Symantec/Norton problem describedhere.But I suspect you are correct: there is nothing wrong with your systems except the random operations of the Orange/Wanadoo service. Try switching your outgoing (SMTP) mail setting from port 25 to the authenticated port 587, which should work more reliably. This is an internet standard, not specific to Orange/Wanadoo. If not, bear in mind that you can use Outlook Express or Thunderbird with Google's Gmail. This is free, and does not lock you into a particular ISP. Google also lets you use your own domain name, in which case you are not locked into Google either.Backchat&middot;To continue the topic of translating Winmail.dat attachments that arrive via email, Lesley White recommends WMDecode from Biblet Computer Services (biblet.freeserve.co.uk). The Windows version costs $10 (&pound;5). Also, I forgot to mention TNEF's Enough, which enables Macs to decode these files (joshjacob.com/macdev/tnef).
Atari has announced that US author Lorenzo Carcaterra will be providing the script for forthcoming survival horror comeback, Alone in the Dark. Carcaterra is probably best known for Sleepers, his dark tale of child abuse and revenge later turned into a really boring movie with Brad Pitt."Alone in the Dark was a challenge which allowed me to bring a realistic feel to an apocalyptic situation facing New York City and really dig into the Central Park conspiracy idea," said Lorenzo Carcaterra. "It also allowed me to write for hard-edged characters, some good, some bad, all forced to confront a force whose power they could never imagine. The story never stalls, always moves in overdrive and the characters zoom right along at warp speed, stopping long enough along the way to say a few lines that keep driving the plot forward. The end result is, I hope, a roller-coaster of a thrill ride that should be tons of fun to play."Alone in the Dark, being developed for PS3 and 360 by Eden Studios, is interesting as it's bought into the huge popularity of current US TV shows like 24 and Lost. The action is divided into a series of 'episodes' each with plot-twists and cliff hangers. It backs up what Assassin's Creed Creative Director Patrice Desilets was saying about the growing synergy between game and TV show development.Anyway, which authors would you like to see penning videogame scripts? Iain (M) Banks or Neal Stephenson? Or Alan Moore? Having just read Treasure Island, I'd love to have seen Robert Louis Stevenson have a bash at it...
The Guardian introduced its new home page today, and you won't be shocked to find it has the same sort of look as our Comment Is Free blogging arena. There are still lots of sections that have not been switched over, including Technology and this blog, but that's just a matter of time....Emily Bellintroduced the new lookon our News blog and Mark Porter, who led the design effort, has commented inGuardian Unlimited -- the new look explained.For me, the most surprising thing is that we've kept the logo with contrasting type styles, which is different from the printed newspaper's current lower-case masthead. Since I think the GU logo looks a lot better, I'm very happy about that.Update: There's some more technical information on the new design in two posts by Guardian Unlimited's Nik Silver.A new Travel site, and four uses for tags, posted in November, is about theGU Travel site, which was a precursor and test bed. Yesterday (Thursday), Nik postedGuardian Unlimited's new look: Some background on templatingand the use ofApache Velocity. Incidentally, while the new GU Front has taken a beating in comments, Emily Bell reports that the user numbers for the Travel site have shown a substantial increase. And this is one of those cases where numbers speak louder than words.
In the past week I've begun getting involved, outside work, in another campaign. It's not quite like Free Our Data, which we've been running for the past year or so, though it does involve (in a roundabout way) maps and places. This one - whose subject matter I won't trouble you with, except to say it involves bridleways, which before the internal combustion engine were things for horses and people - is less philosophical and much more practical. So I got talking to one of the organisers, who said that as a first step they wanted to start a website, and was there any chance I could help?Sure, I said. At the very least, I explained, they should get a hosted URL, make sure the hosting company offers the MySQL database and the web scripting language PHP, and set up a blog. Then the site could include photos that campaigners had uploaded to Flickr, suitably tagged, and videos on the campaign topic uploaded to YouTube - again, picked out by suitable tags - so the site could have news, pictures and video. And it shouldn't be too hard to pull in some web feeds using RSS from sites with related news, or indeed to keep tabs on those on the other side of the argument. Plus for maps, there are Google Maps, which you can now edit to create your own versions with markings on, or even Google Earth links that would show things in greater detail.The silence on the other end of the telephone line after I made this string of suggestions would have made interstellar space sound bustling. I think I could hear exactly what was going through the other person's mind: How much is this going to cost? Does he think we're made of money? And where on earth are we going to find someone else who can actually do all this?"But," I broke in to the silence, worried I might have prompted a stroke or something, "all of it is free stuff apart from the website itself. MySQL is free, so is PHP, and Flickr, and YouTube, and Google Maps and Google Earth. And the RSS too."There was another silence, and then an audible exhalation of relief. "Well, we do have some money," said the organiser. It transpired there was more than enough to pay for website hosting. Now all that remains is to build the website, probably incrementally, and then to do the hard part of any campaign - win hearts and minds.That conversation shows, though, how quickly the idea of campaigning has been transformed by the web. At least five and certainly 10 years ago one would have been printing posters and flyers to be distributed, at great cost of shoe leather and petrol, around the locality, door to door. A campaign website wouldn't have been able to rely on free photo hosting provided by one of the biggest internet companies; drawing lines on maps would have involved buying paper maps from Ordnance Survey and, well, drawing on them; sharing would have meant naughtily (under the existing Crown Copyright rules; free our data!) photocopying them and distributing them. And there'd be hell to pay if somehow one of the recipients worked for the OS.That doesn't though make the task of winning campaigns any easier, as I think the political parties are beginning to realise. Putting a site on the web is a means, not an end. The idea that creating websites will persuade voters is one that politicians find seductive; the idea of internet voting (whose flaws we discussed last week in Hacking the online ballot box) flows naturally from it. The reality, though, is that you still need persuasive arguments; to change the world you still need direct contact with those who move the levers of power (politicians, in the case of lobbyists; the public, in the case of would-be politicians). The web seduces us into thinking that getting things done is easy and free. But a screen can't change that much. Persuasion is still a task for humans. All the sites in the world won't change that.Vic Keegan is awaycharles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The "digital divide". What exactly is it? The answer, it seems, is not the gap between rich and poor, but the difference in the way young people and adults view the internet. At last month's UK Kids Online seminar, the grown-ups were wheeled out. Beverley Hughes, the minister for children, young people and families, talked about how kids use computers to "engage in social networking and to create unbelievably comprehensive personal music collections, [they are] also a valuable tool for their studies". She also, like most adults, fretted more about the risks than the opportunities.Far more enlightening, though, was a young speaker, the impressive James Downey, aged 12. James epitomises how kids use computers. A year ago, he mostly used his for homework. This year, though, he is heavily into iTunes, Bebo and YouTube. And he used the web to research getting a dog. "Fed up that my parents wouldn't get their act together, I searched the internet for the right breed at the right price." For him, "the computer has become the best place to find information of any sort".Social networkingIs James typical? I asked Josh, aged 13, whether he used Bebo or MySpace. "Oh, you mean social networking," he said. How about YouTube, I asked? "That's not social networking, that's user-generated content," he snapped back.Clearly he had no trouble understanding the phenomenon that has swept the world in the past two years. He could also explain why his generation's use of technology such as iPods, games players and mobile phones with built-in cameras and video - is fundamentally different from those over 30 or 40.Josh is no metropolitan smart alec, but lives in deepest Devon and attends a 2,000-pupil rural comprehensive on the edge of Dartmoor. To get a girl's view, I also talked to Anna, who has just turned 16 and goes to an all-girls school in Aberdeen. Both seemed to mirror James's attitude to technology: it's a tool to help them do what they want to do.And sometimes that goes into places where adults would struggle at the first step. A friend has two children aged 11 and 16. He explains: "The latest thing in Surrey right now is downloading high-pitched tones that only children can hear [the 17kHz "Mosquito"] on to their mobiles, Bluetoothing them around, and then starting up a cacophony in lessons - they can hear it and double up in agony, but their teacher can't." It's a metaphor for the adult/child gap: the children can recognise what the grownups can't.The teenagers reject adult complaints that they spend hours a day staring at screens or plugged into their iPods. Josh says he only listens to music for three-quarters of an hour on the school bus, and takes in a podcast in bed.Games are, admittedly, a problem. Josh's parents have had to ban the PlayStation in the evenings in favour of homework, but have accepted that he runs computer games around the edge of their 24in screen while he does his homework in the middle. This multitasking has not harmed his results so far. He also admits that he and his mates play multi-user online games in class during boring lessons when the teacher isn't looking.Broadly, Josh, Anna and James all use similar sites and programs in similar ways: their favourite sites are MySpace, Bebo, MSN, YouTube, the iTunes Store and they play World of Warcraft. Why one rather than another? Because "their friends are on there already"; loyalty can shift en masse. They do like sites to be easy to use. Josh prefers Bebo because he finds MySpace "fiddly".Josh has about 30 "friends" on Bebo, 25 of whom are active. Just under half are girls, who he reckons use the site more than the boys. Anna and her friends use MySpace as enthusiastically. Social sites such as this might even be the beginning of the end of the boy/girl divide in computer use.For homework, Josh finds the web more useful and stimulating than textbooks. He uses the BBC's bitesize revision program and regular BBC news downloads, but not the rest of the BBC's educational stuff. For James, books and newspapers are still important, but more as a trigger for real research on the web. He "would like to see all magazine articles finish with web links"; teenagers have already worked out the proper balance between paper and screen that the grown-up media are only now stumbling hesitantly towards.The young all use Wikipedia as their prime information source, whereas many adults are aghast at its unmoderated rawness and unreliability. Josh reckons he can suss out the dodgy bits and uses Google a second opinion.The teenagers also tend to dismiss the adult paranoia about the dangers of the net. Adults ask: "How do you know you are talking to another child?" Anna replies: "Because I know my friends." Josh is offended that anybody might think he would be stupid enough to "trawl networking sites looking for 'interesting people'". He claims that "an adult would be pretty easy to spot because of his use of language". He is aware, though, that there is a dark side of the internet: both he and James have had porn pop up at them and Josh has seen quite a lot of racial abuse.Anna's headmistress does worry. Last week, she sent a circular to all parents asking them to encourage their daughters not to write "anything unpleasant" about other pupils on their Bebo sites. She also warned about internet grooming.Adult worriesJosh is perplexed at the adult worry about the rich/poor digital divide. All his friends have one or two computers at home and most have their own laptops. He doesn't "know anyone at school who is so poor they can't afford a computer".However, national statistics persistently show the number of home computers is stuck at around 50%. Perhaps it shows that even in a comprehensive, a high-stream kid can lose touch with how the other, poorer, half lives.Josh, Anna and James insist that their incessant use of technology does not make them geeks. Josh explains that "to most grownups, a geek is someone who can use a computer. To us, a geek is someone who can build a computer and its applications himself." Neither Josh nor Anna know any real geeks, whom they consider to be rather sad.To them, computers and the internet are just tools to help them communicate with their mates. They are also helping them to solve problems, collaborate with each other and create their own knowledge. Did old-time education do all of this? Adults should stop worrying and join in. That could plug the child/adult divide - at least until the next generation.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The new Google Latlong blog (whose authors include Ed Parsons, formerly of Ordnance Survey, now at Google in the UK) haspointed outhow there are now before and after shots in aGoogle Earth layerof the devastation wreaked by the tornada that hit Greensburg, Kansas last Friday. Ten people died. Readers of the physical Guardian (which you all are, right?) will recall the stunning photograph, used in the centre spread which shows off the talents of photographers every day, showing how 95% of the houses had been flattened.Here then are thebeforeandafterpictures. More at the LatLong blog itself."After" means after the F5 - ie, strongest tornado expected by theFujita scale. (F6 would be an "inconceivable tornado", if you can conceive that.)Before:Andafter:(If you want to donate to relief for the citizens there, you can use theUS Red Cross website.)
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Thereviewsare in the paper today, with God of War 2, Final Fantasy 3 and the latest Wario game all getting the onceover. I've not played Wario yet but God of War 2 is a great send off for the PS2. Final Fantasy 3? One for fans only. Elsewhere Aleksgets very excitedby the loveliness that isSamorost. The free web game has just won a Webby award and is well worth a look - one step closer to "games as art"?
We're on Orange/Wanadoo, and over the past six months or so, sending email using OE has become ever more difficult. We often get an error message that says "your server has unexpectedly terminated the connection" with error number 0x800CCC0F. I'm convinced that there's nothing wrong with our computers. Nick SalmonMicrosoft has an excellent Knowledge Base article: How to troubleshoot error messages that you receive when try to send and receive email in Outlook and in Outlook Express (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/813514). Error 0x800CCC0F is often due to a Symantec/Norton problem described athttp://service1.symantec.com/SUPPORT/nav.nsf/docid/2001060516275506.But I suspect you are correct: there is nothing wrong with your systems except the random operations of the Orange/Wanadoo service. Try switching your outgoing (SMTP) mail setting from port 25 to the authenticated port 587, which should work more reliably. This is an internet standard, not specific to Orange/Wanadoo.If that doesn't solve the problem, bear in mind that you can use Outlook Express or Thunderbird with Google's Gmail. This is free, and does not lock you into a particular ISP. Google also lets you use your own domain name, in which case you are not locked into Google either.
From next month, anyone selling a home in England or Wales will have to provide an information pack about the property. Much of the information in the pack will come from local authorities, which scent a commercial opportunity. The result, according to the competition watchdog, could be higher prices for homebuyers.This is another example of what happens when a public body with a monopoly in raw data tries to sell products compiled from that data.In this case, the information is land and property searches - an essential step in most land transactions. Homebuyers have a choice when buying searches. They can order the necessary searches from the local authority, compile the search themselves from raw data - or, more often, hire a personal search company to do it.However, local authorities can be sticky about releasing "unrefined" information. Nearly two years ago an investigation by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) found that one in 10 authorities provided no access to records of Town and Country Planning Act notices - even though by law this information should beopenly available for free. A personal search company told the office that one third of local authorities do not provide information on highway developments.Councils argue that they are in a cleft stick. The fee levels set by central government for access to certain items of unrefined data do not cover the cost of dealing with personal search companies. On average, each request takes council staff 70 minutes. They therefore have to subsidise this service out of fees charged for compiled searches. Charges range from &pound;55 to &pound;269, with an average cost of &pound;119.The OFT warned that local authorities' reluctance to supply data might have serious consequences when home information packs became compulsory. Councils could convert their monopoly position into "a very strong position" in the market for compiled searches."This could reduce pressure [on councils] to be cost-efficient and price local property searches competitively, and could raise the overall cost of the pack for property sellers," it said. The OFT called on the government to set rules to ensure that local authorities allow fair access and set fair prices for their data.The government responded this month with a consultation document on "Good Practice Guidance" that urges councils to play fair. One key concern of the OFT - price transparency - is ducked entirely. This will be subject to "a further consultation exercise later this year".This response is disappointing for homebuyers, search companies - and for local authorities, which have to fund their land records departments somehow. Most worrying, it reflects a government unwilling to force public bodies to be transparent about the costs of providing information.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last month, you might remember, we ran a fantastic piece on how Operation Ore - the world's biggest investigation into internet paedophilia - had actually ruined the lives of hundreds of people becauseinvestigators didn't believe that suspects may have had their credit card details stolen.It's a horrible story, and Charles followed up by suggesting that it might be theworst ever policing scandal in the UK.The story is being followed up tonight by BBC Radio 4, which is looking into the claims in the latest episode of its seriesThe Investigation.There's no doubt that the prevalence of images of child abuse on the internet is a grave concern - I've spent time with both investigators and victims, and we can't underestimate. But the maxim of "innocent until proven guilty" rarely applies in such cases - the stigma of being accused is enough to destroy people, even if the accusations turn out to be false. (See our Letters and blogs for thepasttwoweeks.)A couple of weeks ago I listened to senior officials from the police and the Serious &amp; Organised Crime Agencyadmit that they were strugglingto understand, train for and investigate online crime. How can we be sure these mistakes won't happen again?Charles Arthur adds:you canlisten to the program again(though it's not clear how long the link will work). I listened live and found it astonishing that Jim Gamble, former head of the National Crime Unit, repeated his claim that nobody has been prosecuted purely due to credit card details (without, say, supporting - damning - evidence such as actual photos on their computer) when the program had testimony from someone prosecuted for exactly that (lack of) reason.Gamble made this claim earlier this year to a House of Lords committee; it will be interesting to see what the House of Lords committee makes of it. Definitely worth half an hour of your time, though not if you have high blood pressure.
I am looking for an energy-efficient notebook PC. My current machine gets very hot -- presumably guzzles energy like nobody's business -- and is also very heavy to carry around. Wiebina HeestermanMost portable PCs are about as energy-efficient as the manufacturers can make them, because power conservation provides longer battery life. Inevitably, some waste heat is generated by the operations of the processor and the hard drive. You can minimise this by choosing a low voltage or ULV (ultra-low voltage) chip. Recent examples include the Intel Core 2 Duo U7500 and U7600 ULV processors with a "thermal design power" of only 10 Watts. Unfortunately, ULV chips tend to be relatively slow (the U7600 is a 1.2GHz processor) and expensive, and are mainly used in ultra-mobile designs.A cheaper alternative is the 1.5GHz Via C7-M processor which is billed as having "12W peak power". It was used last year in the Everex NC1500 Energy Efficient Notebook PC, but I don't know how well it performs.However, the biggest gain would come from have a more efficient mains converter, since these tend to generate a lot of waste heat.In the future, solid state disks (SSDs) -- drives based on Flash memory chips instead of rotating platters -- should also offer an energy-efficient alternative to hard disks. At the moment, these are still too expensive for the mainstream market.Since 1992, the US Environmental Protection Agency and the US Department of Energy have been leading the way with their Energy Star programme. Their new Version 4 specification comes into effect on July 20 (http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?c=revisions.computer_spec). This is aggressive, and I'd regard any notebook PC that meets most of the Tier 1 requirements as acceptable. Leading manufacturers such as HP, Dell and Toshiba target these specifications for the systems they sell to US government agencies.Note: This is the full answer. The printed version was somewhat reduced.....
I have recently bought a Netgear router. The instructions suggest I no longer need to use a software firewall. Is this a good idea? Graham OakleyNo, it's a bad idea. You could unintentionally install malware from a website or sent to you via email, and the router will regard this as legitimate traffic. A software firewall also monitors the software on your hard drive and can block outgoing traffic. It's therefore a good idea to have both.Web-only comment, responding to Johnnydeverill: At the end of March, I answered a question:What do you need to keep Windows secure?This included: "at the moment I recommend and use the free Kerio Personal firewall, rescued by Sunbelt Software (http://www.sunbelt-software.com/Kerio.cfm). Of the commercial firewalls, I like McAfee."Kerio is free for personal use, has a good set of features, and is easy to use. As in all such cases, it's a question of balancing the pros and cons. Some poeple may preferZone AlarmorComodo, for example. Sorry, I have not triedPC Tools Firewall Plus.
My stepmother is in her 70s and doing very well learning how to use an old computer running Windows Me. She has a computer expert who calls when needed, and charges 35 an hour to sort out problems. It took him two hours to install a firewall and hence cost 70. That sounds like too much to me. Martin WhittleIt does sound too much, but home visits are expensive and technicians also have to cover the cost of travel. Some of the people who do this sort of thing work through Low Cost Computer Help (lowcostcomputerhelp.co.uk), which has a fixed charge of 59.95, so even taking that route would only have saved 10.I suspect it would be more cost-efficient to upgrade your stepmother to a new or refurbished system running Windows XP SP2 or Vista. These are more reliable, more secure and can be maintained remotely using the built-in Remote Assistance feature.Indeed, unless she needs to run games or some Windows-only software, consider upgrading her to a secondhand Apple iBook with an external mouse. This avoids Windows malware problems, is less susceptible to crashes due to "pilot error" and is dramatically more secure than Windows Me.You can probably work out how soon a new system would pay for itself in reduced support costs.
When I read Read/Write Web's list of the the 15 nominees in the StartUp 2.0 competition for European Web sites on Tuesday,I confessed that I'd only heard of one of them. Aargh!Bear in mind that I created the Webwatch column in the old Guardian Online and thus watched the web professionally for more than a decade. (It was originally called Netwatch as there wasn't much of a Web to watch in 1994.) I also wrote Technology cover stores about Web 2.0 (One foot in the future, November 17, 2005) and mashups (It's all in the mix, February 2, 2006). And I live in Europe. Shouldn't I have done better?Richard MacManus at Read/Write Web took up the challenge inThe Euro Startups Quiz -- What's Your Score?and did twice as well: he'd heard of two of the sites. And to judge by comments both here and there, that seems to be an excellent score.Yes, thanks, I fell better now ;-)But it also suggests that a UK version of TechCrunch would do pretty well, and I notice Michael Arrington is nowadvertising for an editor to do the job.... He says:I'm pleased to announce that TechCrunch will be re-launching in the UK. We are aiming for a June 1 re-launch.
It's time for another battle in the war over whether law can suppress technology well enough to enforce some social purpose. The publication of an Advanced Access Content System (AACS) encryption key used for current high definition DVD (HD DVD) content set off a round of legal threats trying to inhibit the spread ofcryptographic data. And those threats have been opposed by making the contraband information into a cause c&eacute;l&egrave;bre.We've been here before. During the controversies over the use of strong cryptography and the program Pretty Good Privacy (PGP), people put RSA encryption code in email signatures. Note, contrary to a romantic myth, the government investigation of PGP did not arise from Orwellian reasons. It was instigated by a private company out of revenge stemming from software patent rights disputes.Similarly, when DVD encryption was reverse engineered (not, as myth has it, by the teenage Jon Johansen, but by others, some of whom are still anonymous) the resulting code was the subject of a lawsuit that sparked an explosion of ways to express and publicise the algorithm.Now, a certain 128-bit number is being written all over the internet and this HD DVD key is the target of many legal notices (as well as spawning new myths). Digg has been the focus of controversy - and perhaps publicity stunts - over whether that information can safely be posted, as has Wikipedia. A full-scale net storm is under way and it's all fun and games until someone gets sued. Though the key is reportedly no longer being used on new DVDs, I suspect some of the legal threats are more to try to establish an intimidating posture, perhaps in preparation for the next key leak.Many people have been confused about the legal reasoning behind the threats. In the US, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act created a new set of regulations concerning technology which enforces copyright. One new offence is "circumvention" - a new prohibition involving technological measures that restrict the ability to manipulate a work. It has nothing to do with copyright violations such as infringement. That is, one can be making completely legitimate use (fair use) of one's own legal copy of a work, yet still be on the wrong side of the law because a company made such use technically difficult (tinyurl.com/2wlglx).Further, algorithms and cryptographic keys are arguably "technology" within the meaning of the act and conveying such information can be an offence called trafficking. A simple way to grasp it all is to consider this akin to a draconian Official Secrets Act, applicable to restrictions related to copyright rather than national security, and usable by any corporation rather than the government. So anything having to do with the means of decrypting copyrighted material can be treated as if it were a state secret.These extreme measures, where discussing details of DVD players could carry more legal risk than revealing military secrets, should not go unquestioned. Rather that speculate on who will win in conflicts of lawyer versus programmer, consider instead the amount of lawyering devoted to shoring up a system of rigid control over the ability to use content. That should give us pause.As Judge Alex Kozinski has written about the immense power that can be invoked in the name even oftraditional copyright: "Think about this for a moment. Congress has given courts the power to order books burned. In a legal regime as jealously protective of freedoms of speech and press as ours, this ought to give us some pause. What's that, you say? Classified documents about our Vietnam war effort have been stolen from the Pentagon and given to the newspapers? You want an injunction to avoid risking the death of soldiers, the destruction of alliances, the prolongation of war? No way, Jose; this is the land of the brave and the home of the free. But wait a minute - did you say someone drew a picture of OJ Simpson wearing a goofy stovepipe hat? Light the bonfires!"What freedoms will we incinerate to protect a business model?sethf.com/infothought/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..The kids are alright onlineWhile parents fret about timewasting games and online predators, young people are alert to the dangers and relaxed with technologies' potential, says Richard Sarson.Tagging Tokyo's streets with no nameThe famously baffling metropolis is home to an experiment in ubiquitous computing that could transform the city.Government ducks the issue on property search dataFree Our Data: The compulsory home information packs will hand councils a monopoly on raw land search information.Newly Asked Questions:Why does Outlook runs so slowly on my new Dell laptop?Because Dell's Mediadirect software interferes with it, in mysterious but provable ways.Do people care how environmentally friendly their PC is?Not judging by the reaction to the latest ruminations from Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, whose latest bit of blogging, entitled "A Greener Apple" has drawn noticeably less interest than his previous one.If Pinter made games, they would look like thisAleks Krotoski: Occasionally I come across a game that reminds me what it is that compels me to continue playing them, long beyond when most people in my age or gender cohort have dismissed them as child's play.GamesGod of War 2 | Final Fantasy III | Wario: Master of DisguiseWhat freedoms will we give up to help business get richer?Seth Finkelstein: It's time for another battle in the war over whether law can suppress technology well enough to enforce some social purpose.Campaign promises the web can't keepCharles Arthur: In the past week I've begun getting involved, outside work, in another campaign. It's not quite like Free Our Data, which we've been running for the past year or so, though it does involve (in a roundabout way) maps and places.TechnobileScott Colvey: Becoming a dad means I can't use my Xbox or eat Pot Noodles - but not for the reasons you think.Will Sun's Solaris put Linux in the shade?Sun's moves to make much of its code open source, including its own operating system, raises questions about its intentions.Ofcom is still clueless when it comes to DAB radioJack Schofield: Ofcom's response to protests is that most people are happy with the current quality of DAB (digital audio broadcasting), apart from a very small minority of audiophiles. It's not bovvered that DAB sounds worse than CD and FM.How plastic blood could move from test tube to battlefieldScientists are working to develop an artificial blood that could be used to save lives at disaster sites.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Visit theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesUS war on YouTube | Lovely Jubii? | Hotmail goes Live | Currys ejects tapes | BlackBerry Curve | Blog her here | Greener GTI | Waiting gameLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.SiteseeingA tougher football competition to win.
I literally blew the dust off my Wii yesterday - when will we get something new and decent to play? But maybe I'm missing the point. Reggie Fils-Aime, Nintendo of America's President,argues thatthe Wii is not only a gaming console but something that bridges the digital divide.(The Wii) is a conscious move into "white space"--in this case, that sizable gap between technophiles and technophobes where consumers just want an understandable way to catch up with the times.Reggie has a point. The Wii has been a huge sales success since launch - just getting hold of the thing is a game in itself. But what about Nintendo's core audience? What about releasing something decent for those of us who actually want to play more than just Wii Sports when the relatives are over? It looks like being a long hot summer until Mario Galaxy and Kart hit later this year. For now my Wii is in semi-hibernation. How's yours bearing up?
If you have ever enjoyed frustration-free, satnav assisted drives or the hissing serenade that preceded an important fax, then you can thank the city with no street names - Tokyo.A capital city without road names is a huge handicap. Collectively, the Japanese (especially trainee post workers) and bewildered visitors have spent decades lost in Tokyo's labyrinthine arteries - most, literally, without a name.But rather than just name the streets and number the buildings, the locals had a uniquely Japanese answer to the problem: improve an existing technology, in this case the fax, to send maps and directions to visitors. In the 1980s Japan shrank fax machines, making them popular and affordable, and later repeated it with the satnav to ease the headache of getting from A to B.Alas, Tokyo's complex subway still remains a challenge even to residents, something your correspondent pondered while making his uncertain way to a laboratory in western Tokyo. The lab is home to the Tokyo Ubiquitous Network Project, where scientists are planning a computer infrastructure that they say will fill such information gaps for good and enable us to give our maps, guidebooks and A-Zs that longed-for heave-ho.Heading the project is Tokyo University professor Ken Sakamura -who, with the aid of the Japanese government, is well on his way to building the world's first truly public ubiquitous computer network. It's "an infrastructure for the 21st century", he says, adding that it will see our everyday landscape guide us, inform us and generally hold our hand in an increasingly puzzling world.Sakamura foresees scenarios resembling those in the film Minority Report, where the hero passes intelligent ad boards and shops in the mall which acknowledge him by name and try to flog him stuff. However the real-life version, in Japan at least, will be less intrusive, Sakamura insists.Complete control"With this system the user is in complete control. As a user of such a network we will see our enviros us," Sakamura says. "We seek only to chip or tag objects and the environment, never people. With this system you can choose to read which you wish. The ubiquitous communicator - the pocket device you use to read the information around you - can only read and write, which means your identity is protected."Japan's government sees enormous benefits from making every object readable this way. Improved guidance for the blind is one, painless interactive guidance for the tourists Japan desperately yearns for is another, and even salarymen and befuddled gaijin reporters trying to get around hostile cities will benefit from the scheme. Working with Sakamura's outfit and Japan's top technology companies such as Hitachi, the country's Information Ministry has just spent &yen;1bn (&pound;4.2m) on a month-long field trial that covered several blocks of the famousGinza shopping district.During the trial last month, PDA-style communicators were handed out to reporters and tourists, who were then free to wander around picking up information on their PDAs as they went.Anyone emerging with a communicator at the Ginza metro station, for example, had a 3D, real-time image of the landscape above them beamed to their PDA, making it a cinch to see which exit you might want if you were headed, say, for the Mitsukoshi department store. Head towards the store itself and RFID tags in the building sense your presence then zap to your PDA a woman's image welcoming you to the store. To learn more about this Tokyo landmark's history, touch the screen.In the future, commercial applications could include pushing you news of sales if you have registered interest, or even digital money-off coupons to tempt you inside.Getting commerce involved is important, says Sakumura, as the cost of building the infrastructure will be gargantuan. The pilot scheme used a variety of electronic tags that can transmit information; some of which are tiny and cheap, such as Hitachi's sand grain-sized passive RFID tags. Other infrared tags, which can beam out signals at longer ranges, are more expensive. Add this to the cost of installation and many trillions of yen will be needed to build, install and maintain a truly ubiquitous network, says Sakamura. "Ginza used only a thousand tags and that cost &yen;1bn."The Ginza trial also highlighted some of the technical and security issues that have yet to be dealt with. Teething problems included cross-interference from illegal radio transmitters, as well as difficulties using the rather bulky prototype reader. "In the future the job of the reader will be done by your mobile phone, using a remote server," Sakamura says. "There are also still some regulation issues and security issues to iron out - one prankster even managed to slip in his own tag on to a Ginza lamppost that led readers to a porn site."Double-edged swordIf ubiquitous networks are going to take off, Japan is surely the place to watch. The nation has already primed itself by accepting RFID tags - tracing the provenance of food, or in "smart shops" that chip their clothes for ease of inventory and to satisfy customer queries instantly. Even children are chipped "for their own safety" - raising, of course, questions of privacy. Surely there will be more abuse of tagging in a ubiquitous computing world?"Yes, the technology is a double-edged sword," says the professor. "For example, ubiquitous networks will be great for teleworking, working from where you like with a small terminal linked to embedded computers or multiple tags linked to a big server, but it also means the boss knows exactly where you are. But as long as you the user agrees to reveal such information or can choose to withhold it, we will be OK."Clearly, one benefit of the project is the embedding of tags in existing "tactile walkways" - such as bumps at the side of the road indicating a pedestrian crossing - for the blind. Sakamura demonstrated in his lab how a white cane equipped as an RFID reader could become a directional sensor, interacting with information being beamed by the tags embedded in the street.Adding extra details such as announcing the distance across the street at a road crossing and flagging up hazards such as stairways are also part of Sakamura's project that the government hopes to have in place in Japan's streets within the next five years.With an extra 10,000 tags planned to be dotted around Kobe and Tokyo before the end of the year to kickstart the new information infrastructure, other fully functioning guidance and information systems will not be far away."Just as we built up roads, the next step in civilisation is to build a total information network that will form part of the fabric of things around us," says Sakamura.His vision is of all physical objects embedded with microcomputers with communication capabilities, sensors, actuators and so on, to supply us with location specific information. "They will operate in a concerted manner, processing, exchanging information with each other within the ubiquitous computing architecture. Making available location-specific information anytime, anywhere, to anyone."You might still find some things are lost in translation, but perhaps you wouldn't be lost in Tokyo ever again.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
