You could always carry a laptop and mobile phone, even read your emails or do some basic browsing on a high-quality handset. But for businessmen and women working on the move, when they left the office there was one essential tool that couldn't come with them: PC access to the internet.Even with a wireless LAN (local area network) card your laptop has to be within a certain distance of a source. But now mobile phone operators have added something new to the ever-expanding list of executive toys. The datacard or cellular PC card is simple. It is fitted with a Sim, placed in your laptop and allows access to the internet wherever you are. It is the final step to complete office mobility.'It is a chance to access data any time and anywhere,' says Neil Mawston, a senior analyst in global wireless practice at Strategy Analytics. 'Anything that lets you get data more quickly will help productivity.'It means businesses do not have staff wasting time travelling into the office to collect messages. Operators also offer a choice of connection to the internet only or to a company intranet as well. The latter can save time in jobs where stock tracking is important.But despite the clear advantages of being able to access the web in this way, uptake of the product has been slow and covers only just over 1 per cent of laptops. With the cards selling for about &#163;150 and connection charges erring towards the 'high side of expensive', according to Mawston, company IT departments don't have them high on their priority lists. Not yet anyway.However, the product is still new, with large companies only starting a promo tional push in the past couple of months. And so far their mood is quite confident.'Outlets I have spoken to have said they have been flying off the shelves,' says Ben Taylor, a spokesman for Vodafone. 'It is a great industry and it is expanding.'According to Strategy Analytics, one million cards will be sold in 2003 and the industry will continue to grow to a peak in 2006, when between 3-5 per cent of laptops will have them. After that the market is likely to ebb away as the technology becomes integrated with laptops.And although cost seems high, the buyers are by no means poor. 'Users are at the higher end of business,' says Mawston. 'The top 5 per cent of the organisation who tend to be quite affluent, middle aged and IT savvy.'One reason that sales have begun slowly may have been   the earlier problems of after-sales care. If your card wasn't working, who did you contact - the company who provided your card, your Sim provider or your laptop provider? To address the issue, mobile phone operators have started to take the responsibility.'Vodafone looked at it and said this is great but needs to be simple,' says Taylor. 'Now we have the Vodafone Connect Card, which is fully supported by us. Now customers can contact us, not three different companies.' Orange provides a similar service.The main difference between providers is their method of pricing. Most offer per-megabyte pricing that charges you when you send an email or upload a page, but Orange have chosen to offer a flat-rate system.As businesses search for their operator of choice, some worry that the operators are   failing to address the needs of differing buyers. Michelle de Lussanet, a senior analyst at Forrester Research, says: 'For mobile operators to be able to sell these things they need to know the needs of people out travelling. They need to really go in and get to know the customer requirements, to give a solution that will actually save them money.'And that is exactly what all of the operators claim to offer: a bespoke solution to customers' needs. 'We don't just offer a broad brush,' says a spokesperson for Orange. 'We work with customers to find what their need is and then we provide it.'Datacards are just one in a long line of devices that help people work on the move. Once the portable photocopier and fax have been invented, the only things they will be leaving at the office is the building itself.
The paperless office is so last century. The wireless office folded up into your tiny, mobile phone is upon us.Only 15 years ago, carrying a mobile phone was like lugging your office around because of the size of the cell and even, in the earliest days, the need for a separate battery block.Now you can text, email, surf the net, fax and - decreasingly, if the teenage generation is anything to judge by - even talk from phones or PCs no bigger than your palm. Everything, in fact, that you might do at a desk but without the wires. This is not tomorrow's world. This is today.If Cllr Ian Wilder of Westminster City Council has his way, the millions of workers and tourists who inhabit the core of London (from the Strand to Victoria, the River Thames to Regents Park) will be able to set up their offices on park benches in the very near future.A fan of the futuristic designer and film director Ridley Scott, Wilder can barely get the words out fast enough to describe his vision.'We want first Westminster and then perhaps London to be the world's first wireless city. Whatever we put in place now, our children will take even further forward. But we must act now. In this world people who do not embrace all this technology will be poor.'This month he has been overseeing the installation of the first radio transmitters to kick-start a pilot scheme for Westminster City Council workers. The whole of Soho, the test area, will be   unwired, for want of a better description. Workers will be able to send data back to base at the push of a button instead of returning to their offices to complete paperwork or enter data at a screen. Remote audio-visual transmitters will also be able to tip-off officials about unacceptable noise levels, currently very difficult to police. Wilder has grand plans for enabling people to find and even reserve parking spaces from their cars, as well as social schemes to link isolated groups to support workers.But in the meantime, experts are busy revolutionising businesses and 'automating what was fixed so that whole industries will operate differently,' as Nigel Waterson, vice president of telco media networks at Cap Gemini, puts it.Waterson's team has recently enabled 1,500 field service engineers to order parts directly from a job, where previously they would have had to return to their office to submit requests via a confidential, internal mail system. He says this has 'rocked their world'.'The magic which needs to be worked is to match the work that has been done over 30 years to make systems robust, reliable and secure with the new technology available in a wireless world,' Waterson says.'It is now possible for your email to reach you wherever you are in the world and, for most knowledge workers, email is the pivot of their world regardless of the device they use to pick it up.'So for lawyers, consultants, media types and even City slickers, the new technology opens up a radical way of working. The possibilities are still only being enjoyed by a few, however. Forrester Research estimates there are just 29m wireless workers in Europe. In Holland, 26 per cent of people with mobile phones use them for business, compared to just 5 per cent in the UK.Part of the reason for this is that fairly sophisticated phones are needed and the reality is that laptops are generally connected to them. The breakthrough, however, will be the sort of venture going on in Soho now where we can simply find a seat anywhere and our laptops or palm-held tablets can pick up a signal without even the need for a phone.Wilder says we are years behind Korea, Japan and even America. He blames EU legislation that has blocked a certain type of routing. Here is where it gets technical. To keep it simple, the Asian countries have adopted a system which enables incredibly rapid data transfer. We have not. So techies have found a part of the radio spectrum which is currently unlicensed, and therefore cheap. It is called the 80211 standard and the reason it is unlicensed is because it is used by microwave ovens and remote-controlled garage doors. To license it would mean charging each and every household with one or both of those commonplace devices.'We will never catch up now with Korea, having been miles ahead, but we can still move fast,' says Wilder, whose Westminster scheme is called the 4G Project, in recognition of the fact that it has leap-frogged 3G.Waterson says it is important in the meantime to work with what we have and that is GPRS, not even 3G. He cites Forester Research, which estimates that 65 per cent of phones will have GPRS capability by 2007, while only 10 per cent will be G3 friendly.He says Cap Gemini has already embarked on 300 pilots with companies who want their workforce kitted out to work remotely via their mobiles. 'People are sucking and seeing,' he summarises. 'Some people, like sales forces, love it at once and treat it like a shiny new toy they cannot wait to try. Others need to adjust to the emotional change.'Amid the euphoria it seems churlish to inquire about the downside of increasing the data zipping around our ears and the increase in the transmitters needed to fire the signals.'The power of these phones is very low because the transmitters can be installed on just about every lamp post and so are they are very weak,' says Waterson. Signals do not travel very far, but there are lots of them and they can be placed easily at regular intervals.Caf&#233;s in New York which have adopted 'WiFi' so that customers can use their laptops without mobile phones or modems - like some branches of Starbucks in this country - have noticed cyber-squatters on the pavement outside their premises. But the signal outside is so weak that there are only a couple of hotspots to crouch in.Wi-Fi might on the face of it be bad news for mobile phone manufacturers (why bother with a handset at all if a tablet will do it all for you?), but few believe that mobile phones will lose their popularity, even in the wireless world, for many years to come.Providers of the wireless environments are already devising ways of charging people for the airtime. Waterson says that it is possible to create an environment that needs a code to access the ether. Wilder says Westminster is looking into it.Whatever the result, the future of offices is less certain than ever except as places to team build or meet when necessary. Never mind 'Hello? Hello? I'm on the bus'. This is 'Hello, I am the office'.
The idea sounds simple: your mobile phone is your office. Pick up a tan as you work on the beach. Become the envy of your friends as you compile a PowerPoint presentation without leaving your bed. Amaze colleagues by being in three places simultaneously. For a new generation of mobile phone technology - otherwise known by its technical name, 'General Packet Radio Services', also nicknamed 2.5G - now allows users to connect to their office's IT systems from outside for the first time: the era of the wireless worker has well and truly arrived.But the reality of this brave new world is, actually, a little more complicated. While the idea of using mobile handsets to collect emails or connect to corporate intranet systems has captured people's imaginations, company IT managers need to do their homework before betting their budgets on the technology.This is because integrating a workforce to a business's 'back office' - servers and infrastructure that power a business's data services - involves making some crucial choices, choices which will have major ramifications on whether the new technology will help boost a company's productivity, the only reason it should be employed in the first place.The first thing an IT manager needs to work out is exactly what they want from integrating a company's workforce with its back office systems. While the idea of issuing all staff with the latest technology might win managers the love of their colleagues, they could be spending too much on stuff they don't need. Much will also depend on budgets and a company's size.Fortunately, the big network operators have developed a number of models to help befuddled companies work out what they need. These range from templates of the smallest company, up to the big corporate clients with workforces of more than 2,000.'We'll start by asking what problem is the consumer trying to solve and what the value proposition is,' says Alastair MacLeod, customer development director with Orange's Business Solutions.As ever, companies are focused on the bottom line - what return they will get on their investment. 'They're keen to find out the predictability of costs, otherwise it's hard to build a business case,' adds MacLeod.One of the key issues in deciding which integration approach to opt for is how much data a mobile workforce will need to download. The new generation of handsets might make their predecessors look prehistoric, but in terms of data processing speeds and capability they are still a long way behind a conventional laptop, which also has the added benefits of coming with a good-sized screen and keyboard.'It really depends on what you want the service to do. If you've got a workforce that needs to download big payloads you're better off using laptops with data cards,' says Paul Stonadge, corporate product executive with Vodafone. The cards work by allowing the user to connect a device to a Local Area Network, a fixed wireless network which can be accessed when the user is in close proximity. T-Mobile, for example, has struck a deal with Starbucks coffee shops to put LANs in a number of its outlets.Data cards create a range of possibilities, but they may not be suitable for everyone. For those employees who need to pick up their corporate emails while on the move, wherever they are, a system which integrates their mobile phone with a company's back office will be far more useful.But potential users should be aware that the industry is divided on this issue. The likes of Vodafone and O2 currently favour issuing clients with BlackBerry personal digital assistants (PDAs) rather than their own branded mobile phone handsets. The PDAs have become hugely popular with some users, many of whom are drawn to their ease of operation.Sir Martin Sorrell, chairman of advertising giant WPP, for example, is a convert. 'The BlackBerry solution is good for someone like me who's not that technical but needs easy and timely access to email and calender information. You only need the most basic skills to be able to use it and it means I've got instant email and can respond wherever I am,' he said.Sorrell chiefly appreciates not having to lug a chunky PC around with him when he's moving around his business empire. He can roam on Vodafone's GPRS network, allowing him to pick up his emails at any time. 'It means there are no logjams when you come back into the office. As an example, over Christmas last year I was trying to play golf and often had to check my email before we started the next hole.'BlackBerry devices, though, need to be integrated with BlackBerry soft ware and servers if they are to work properly. Engineers will have to install the kit - which should take only a matter of hours. Other mobile phone operators, though, led by Orange, have been reluctant to push the BlackBerry case. 'We're device agnostic,' MacLeod said. 'We find we get people who love their PalmPilots and others who've had an iPaq for years and couldn't do without it.'Whether both sides will remain so firmly entrenched on the matter is open to question. Orange hasn't categorically ruled out introducing a BlackBerry product to its suite of solutions and the other operators are also looking at how to broaden their range of offerings.Ultimately it is which network and which device works best for a particular business that should win the argument. IT managers should focus on what is on offer from the solution providers - those companies that create the applications to work with particular devices and networks - and which can give businesses a cutting edge before making their final decision.Theoretically, these applications should sit as comfortably on one network or mobile device as any other - thanks to agreed industry wide standards. But MacLeod offers a piece of advice: 'Standards aren't as standard as they might seem. The reality is different - networks work better with certain components than others.'
Some things never change. Microsoft's ruthlessness, for example. When the Bush administration backed away from pushing for the company's break-up following its conviction for breaching US anti-trust law, some fantasists believed that Bill Gates &amp; Co might moderate their aggressive behaviour.This was a bit like hoping that Serrasalmus nattereri, aka the red piranha, might one day take up vegetarianism. Instead of being chastened by the judicial verdict, Microsoft behaved as if nothing had happened - as if, in fact, the company had been vindicated by the outcome.Meanwhile, it's paranoia as usual in Redmond, despite the fact that Microsoft has no commercial opposition worth talking about. The company continues to have over 90 per cent of the world market for desktop software. But there is a non-commercial fly in Mr Gates's ointment - the Linux operating system, and the other open source (ie free) software that goes with it. This is continuing to drive the Microsofties crazy, for various reasons.First, it frustrates their desire to exterminate all competition. Second, open source software poses an increasing threat to Microsoft in certain areas of the market - notably that of server software, where free programs drive 26 per cent (and rising) of network servers and about half of web servers.And - worst of all - governments all over the world are beginning to take it seriously, often to the point where their procurement policies stipulate that open source alternatives must be considered before any contract goes to Microsoft. This last position, incidentally, is now the official policy of our own dear HMG - though whether that will feed through to the folks running the NHS's impending software-buying spree remains to be seen.Microsoft's attempts to tackle the open source menace have bordered on the certifiable. Company executives first tried slander: open source software was, they maintained, un-American. It was a destroyer of corporate rights which threatened the very fabric of the capitalist system. Chief executive Steve Ballmer (himself an intriguing case of hypermania) denounced Linux's licensing system as 'a cancer that attaches itself in an intellectual property sense to everything it touches'.These hysterical attacks were put on hold when market research (commissioned by Microsoft) revealed that the abuse was proving counter-productive: the more Ballmer &amp; Co denounced Linux, the more companies and governments took it seriously. After all, if Microsoft was so worried about this open source stuff then there must be something in it.In the long run, government opposition is probably what concerns Microsoft most. After all, a commercial company has to make a profit, so how can it win tenders against software that is in effect free? If official approval of open source continues to burgeon, who knows where it will all end?In recent times, much of Microsoft's marketing effort has been addressed to this problem. But until this week, most of us had no real insight into how they were going about it. Now - thanks to a cache of internal Microsoft documents which somehow fell into the hands of the  International Herald Tribune's man in Brussels - we know.Among the documents is an email headed 'Microsoft Confidential' and sent by Orlando Ayala, at the time in charge of worldwide sales at Microsoft, to the company's senior managers worldwide - including Ballmer. In it, Ayala sets out Microsoft's strategy for dissuading governments around the globe from choosing cheaper alternatives to Windows.The gist is: if a deal involving governments or large institutions looks doomed, managers are authorised to draw from a special fund to offer the software at a steep discount - or even free. 'Under no circumstances lose against Linux,' Ayala rants.So, public authorities please note: if you want to get Windows for free, just tell the Microsoft salesman that you are on the verge of ordering 100,000 copies of Linux.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Mick Jagger can't get no satisfaction - but he can get wireless internet access at an impressive 11 megabits per second. And when the driving force behind the world's biggest rock group starts spouting on about the merits of mobile communications, you know that a topic once regarded as of interest only to the 21st century's equivalent of the radio ham has entered the mainstream.This year's Forty Licks world tour will see Mick and the boys, with their huge entourage, travel the globe with no fewer than 140 laptops, each connected to the other by state-of-the-art wireless systems developed by US firm 3Com. Not only will fans be able to follow the Stones' every move online, the band's tour managers will be connected to their HQ's hard drives, so they can look ahead to the next concert venue.It sounds like a gimmick but the 3Com blurb explains: 'This allows for rapid re-working of extra performance bookings, changes to seating plans, last-minute promotions, business negotiations with venue operators and ticket pricing decisions.'It is also one of the more understandable examples of how managers are using mobile communications to improve their businesses. The Stones' tour uses a mobile technology known as Wireless Local Area Networks (see Sarah Ryle's article on page 6) which has become big news in the US and is starting to be appreciated over here.WLANs can be fitted as an integral component to a PC, but currently most are sold as add-on adapters - or data cards (see page 6) - that allow users to connect their computers to the internet without the need for clumsy wires.According to new research from IT analysts Gartner Dataquest, worldwide spending on WLAN equipment grew by 38 per cent to $2.3 billion last year. In unit terms, shipments more than doubled to reach 15 million adapters and 4.4 million access points and gateways.Brian Gammage, analyst with Gartner Dataquest, says: 'For PC vendors, wireless is fast becoming a must-have, not a nice-to-have. WLAN is already a checklist item that vendors have to offer if they're going to win the sale.'But, as we report later on in this supplement, WLAN adapters are not the only new technology to have attracted the attention of the corporate world. The next generation of mobile phone technology - commonly known as 2.5G - allows workers to send and receive emails on the move, along with a host of other applications. And, now with new mobile phone operator 3 becoming the first to offer even faster 3G services - capable of transmitting chunky parcels of data on the move (see Faisal Islam's feature on page 7) - companies have a huge range of options when it comes to connecting their workforce.But, despite the increasing popularity of wireless technology, the vast majority of companies remain dubious about what impact it will have on their bottom lines. 'These are relatively early days,' says Jonathan Tee, analyst with IT consultancy Analysys. 'Some companies have got stuff in place but not all.'As with any inchoate industry, there is no overriding agreement on myriad issues. As we report later on, there are debates surrounding the merits of data cards versus mobile phones, not to mention the way operators are divided over which sorts of devices are best suited for email on the move. As Conal Walsh makes clear in his report on page 9, security is another factor which companies need to consider carefully.Because there are so many issues at stake, it is hardly surprising that companies are cautious. Tee believes that quite often there is a cultural issue to be resolved before firms commit.'Often the people who make the decision on whether to invest are the senior people in the company, rather than the IT team,' he says. 'It can take time to find the right person to appreciate the benefits. You'll find a lot of companies will prefer to trial the technology - for between five and 50 people - before rolling it out.'And even if the senior manager has been convinced, there are further hurdles to be overcome down the line. 'Once you've got a champion in the organisation and it works technically, you have to get them all trained up,' he says. 'For this sort of systems integration you need consulting which can only work on a case by case basis.'According to Gartner, a wireless initiative is perceived to be successful when measurable benefits are obtained within 18 months. But this can work only if companies are clear what they want out of the technology in the first place. Nigel Deighton, vice president at Gartner, says: 'The crucial point is to understand how wireless and mobile technologies can improve enterprise performances, and to start rethinking business processes and working models.'But this is not as easy as it sounds. While managers might intuitively feel having a workforce connected wherever and whenever is a good idea, proving the business case can be a difficult process.'Take email. It's hard to build a "return on investment" case based on people getting more access to email,' says Alastair MacLeod, customer development director with Orange Business Solutions.This is not to say there isn't a case, simply that companies need to be aware of the right questions to ask when contemplating an investment in mobile technology. Start with the most obvious question of all. 'Why would any business want to have mobile connectivity of any sort?' Tee points out. 'There is only going to be a demand for it if the business needs to be in contact with employees who are on the move. A lot of companies don't even issue their staff with mobile phones.'Even those services which many employees might consider as crucial while in their offices may not be vital for staff on the move. A new report from IT consultancy The Yankee Group casts doubt on whether mobile email is a necessity for small and medium sized businesses at all.'This is largely because mobile email provides little quantifiable benefit in a local context, except during extended commutes; it is truly valued only when travelling abroad. It also remains relatively expensive,' concluded the report, which predicts that less than 5 per cent of western Europe's full-time workforce will be using standalone mobile email by 2007.The more credible solution providers and operators will attempt to quantify what a company will get back on its investment. There are some case studies which suggest this return on investment can be as much as 40 per cent - an extremely high figure. A more likely ROI is between 10 and 20 per cent - still impressive and enough to justify the initial investment.But in these straitened times, only those mobile phone operators that can drive home this message will have the ears - and the budgets - of business.
"This is the Walkman of the 21st century," was one of the most captivating phases uttered at this year's E3 games convention in LA. The man behind the quote was Ken Kutaragi, the president and CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment and the father of the PlayStation. The product poised to usurp one of the most enduring symbols of 80s pop culture is Sony's newly announced piece of gaming hardware the PlayStation Portable.Not that we can tell you much about what the PSP looks like since, with a release date of 2004, and therefore another E3 before then, the announcement was more of a PR exercise than a product launch. So while the aesthetic specifics have not been decided yet, Sony has been keen to promote the technology behind the new handheld. The PSP will play games using Sony's Universal Media Device, a 60mm optical disc that can hold 1.8GB of data, and will also include a 4.5in LCD backlit screen, a USB-port and be able to read Mpeg4 files."Just as PlayStation and PlayStation 2 revolutionized in-home computer entertainment, we aim to become a new driving force in the portable entertainment platform arena," said  Mr Kutaragi. "The world of PlayStation encompasses hundreds of millions of users worldwide, most of whom view computer entertainment as part of their everyday lives. We look forward to extending the experience through a portable entertainment platform, and are excited about the possibilities and impact PSP will have on the market. Along with game applications, PSP will have a huge potential for delivering other forms of entertainment as well as live entertainment through the network, anywhere, anytime."Sony's PSP announcement certainly succeeded in stealing the limelight from Nokia, which was also promoting a new handheld, the N-Gage, in a somewhat downbeat and lacklustre showcase. The release date and price for the N-Gage had been kept under wraps for some time, but Nokia finally announced that it would get a worldwide release on October 7, and then proceeded to stun the crowd by slapping on a $299 (£184) price tag (no European price has been quoted yet).The hefty cost of the N-Gage was not completely unexpected since the device also includes a phone, MP3 player, radio and internet access. However, the price is still almost three times that of the GBP-SP at £90. Although Nintendo has aimed its new handheld at a slightly older audience than they have for previous GameBoys (by utilising a slinky, stylish design and advertising space in most of the men's mags) the N-Gage is clearly going to be ruling out a younger audience by its price alone.But of course, what people really go to E3 to see are the games, and there were plenty on show to delight the industry and gaming enthusiasts lucky enough to get tickets. Halo 2 and Half-Life 2, the two titles we reported on last week, were definite show stoppers, with other highlights including Resident Evil 4, Doom III, Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater and Grand Turismo 4. The footage from Half-Life 2 in particular has been one of the most popular downloads at IGN and as soon as you get a chance to see it you will find a game that is nothing short of jaw-dropping, with immersive environments and great gameplay physics that seem to have turned even the most jaded of games hacks into hyperactive babbling toddlers.Top 10 games - all platforms(compiled by the Electronic and Leisure Software Publishing Association)1) The Legend of Zelda: the Wind Waker (GC) Nintendo - £39.992) Midnight Club II (PS2) Take 2 - £39.993) Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft - £37.994) The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.995) Championship Manager 4 (PC) Eidos - £29.996) Fifa 2003 (PS2, XB, GBA, PL)) Electronic Arts - £34.997) X-Men 2: Wolverine's Revenge (PS2,XB, GC, GBA) Activision- £37.998) Burnout 2: Point of Impact (XB, GC, PS2) Acclaim - £39.999) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PS2) Take 2 - £32.9910) Dancing Stage Party Edition (PL) £19.99The Getaway (PS2) Sony - £25.99
"Police and other officials are making around a million requests for access to data held by net and telephone companies each year, according to figures compiled from the government, legal experts and the internet industry," reports theBBC. Well, maybe it's only half a million, but the Metropolitan Police alone made about 350 requests a day in 2001. "Lawyers who spoke at the debate said that the government's claim on retaining data contradicted the European Human Rights Act which states that there must be a good reason to interfere with personal data."
Disney is to try "renting" disposable DVDs that "rust" and become unplayable after a couple of days, reportsReuters. The EZ-D system has been developed by Flexplay Technologies Inc using material from General Electric.
Computerworldhas a brief interview with its inventor, Bob Metcalf. The party will be at Xerox PARC. . . .
NewsMax.com, the online version of a rightwing US tabloid, is tapping into postwar jingoism by selling a spoof version of the "Iraq's Most Wanted" playing cards - a deck depicting the 54 "weasels" most guilty of opposing the US-led war.In the past, NewsMax has flogged replicas of the original US army playing cards, showing the most wanted members of Iraq's former regime. It has also plugged T-shirts (sample caption: Live Free or Die - above a big picture of the Stars and Stripes), books and videos on rightwing politicians and moralists, in a bid to extract cash from its monthly 8 million online readers.Now NewsMax, the baby of US conspiracy theory journalist Christopher Ruddy, has added to its line of tasteful all-American merchandise with a deck of cards vilifying the 54 public figures it deems most guilty of unpatriotic behaviour over the Iraq war.The "deck of weasels" includes images of such notorious seditionists as Kofi Annan and Barbra Streisand.NewsMax says the cards "depict the enemies of America and Iraq's liberation in a satirical way" while revealing the evidence of their "hatred" - their own quotations indicating their un-Americanism.The Ace of Spades, NewsMax exclusively reveals, is "none other than French prime minister Chirac, Saddam Hussein's partner in crime of 30 years". It backs up this accusation of Saddam-loving with the following rather lukewarm quotation: "Our position is no matter what the circumstances, France will vote no."The deck includes a suite of "bleeding Hearts" - Hollywood actors such as Susan Sarandon, Tim Robbins, Martin Sheen and Sean Penn, regularly criticised for their anti-war sympathies. The jokers are represented by Jimmy Carter and Jesse Jackson.The website's Chris Morris-like endorsement of the product predicts: "You'll laugh out loud looking at the faces of the world's greatest weasels - each wearing the beret of Saddam Hussein's Republican Guard ... the Deck of Weasels is not only great fun, it's also educational".The rightwing supermarket tabloid, described by Michael Reagan, its columnist and son of the former president, as "the only independent news source in America", is notorious for its sensationalism. American Prospect magazine recently described Newsmax as "a juggernaut of over-the-top tabloid reporting and commentary focusing obsessively on the Clinton scandals".Mr Reagan's recent attempt to connect his father's legacy with a campaign to stock the nation's libraries with his magazine  raised eyebrows on the US political scene. In a letter to readers, Mr Reagan extolled the tabloid as the "only &#91;US news source&#93;  prominently promoting the vision of Ronald Reagan".On the website, Mr Reagan elaborates: "I guarantee that you'll love NewsMax magazine. The liberal media moguls hate NewsMax. Not only does it expose 'liberal' shenanigans without mercy, it's dedicated to making America once again a 'shining city upon a hill'. "And supplying it with top-grade chauvinistic tat.
"The X-tra Fun Bluetooth module for the GameBoy Advance SP will go on sale around Christmas 2003 for $49," reportsExtreme Tech. You will be able to get online via a Bluetooth phone.
Following the Sendo disaster, Microsoft's problems continue in the smart phone arena.Reutersreports that Europe's second largest mobile phone operator, T-Mobile International, has abandoned plans to introduce a phone using Microsoft's Windows CE-based software.
Mobile PhonesNew Becks phonesDavid Beckham will shortly have some new phones to get his head around. Coming at the end of the month to the Vodafone Live! network is the successor to the Sharp GX10 camera phone - the GX10i. It has a fairly similar specification to its predecessor, though it is finished in grey, boasts an enhanced screen, and its triple-band capability means it can be used in most countries. It's expected to retail for around &#163;150. The Nokia 3650 camera phone will be added to the Live! portfolio at the same time.Vodafone is also lining up the successor to both versions of the GX10 in the Sharp GX20. Details are sketchy, but it appears the new model will feature a higher resolution camera, a colour sub-display on the front, triple band roaming and an improved screen. Expect it in late summer at the earliest.&lt;A HREF="http://www.vodafone.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.vodafone.co.ukPalm phone arrivesIt has been a bumper month for Palm users, for a week after the high-end Tungsten C PDA launch comes the UK debut of the Tungsten W PDA/mobile phone. Similar to the Tungsten C with its large screen and keypad, the Tungsten W adds internet, email, and SMS via its GPRS facilities. It has 16MB memory, uses the 33MHz Motorola Dragonball VZ processor and sports a 320x320 TFT screen. The phone comes with a hands-free headset and delivers 10 hours of talk time and 200 hours on standby. It is available now for around &#163;500, although deals with networks -Palm says the Tungsten W will also be sold via Vodafone - should lead to more competitive prices.www.palm.com/ukMotorola madMobile phone manufacturer Motorola has once again been parading a selection of futuristic gadgets. Among its innovations are a phone built into a glove, a life recorder (a tiny shoulder-mounted video camera that lets owners archive their life on a hard disk), and a Bluetooth crash helmet that enables motorcyclists to make and receive phone calls. Don't pester your phone store for them just yet, though. For also on display was a wristwatch phone the company first unveiled back in 2000!More likely to reach the stores is the A835 3G phone, the successor to the   A830 currently on sale in the UK via the 3 network. Unlike its predecessor, the phone has an integrated digital still and video camera. It also has 256MB of storage and an on-board GPS system. No news on a UK launch yet, though.InternetGoogle latestGoogle plans to add a weblog-only search, according to its chief executive Eric Schmidt. The firm, which gave no further details, has been criticised by some commentators for giving undue prominence to blog entries as a result of the emphasis it places on hyperlinks,   and such a search could allow users to filter out blogs.Google has also started a UK version of its news service, which automatically orders headlines from 4,500 sites, grouping together reports of the same story from different sources. It looks like a useful resource, but is not foolproof: on Monday, as our screenshot below shows, the search engine's system was grouping stories about Madonna's happiness about living in the UK with one about home secretary David Blunkett's attempts to get the imam Abu Hamza al-Masri out of the UK, to comic effect.http://news.google.co.ukFaster TelewestAfter putting the service on trial for a month, cable company Telewest has launched its 2Mb broadband internet   service - the fastest currently available to consumers in the UK. But customers are going to have to dig deep into their pockets to pay for it. New subscribers will pay &#163;54.99 per month to access the service, which promises download speeds up to four times faster than traditional ADSL broadband networks. The monthly fee drops to &#163;50 if users also take the company's phone service. Existing customers can upgrade their service via the company's website.www.blueyonder.co.ukApple shareSteve Jobs will not be amused. Enterprising fans of Apple's iTunes have discovered a way to hack the latest version of the music player, so they can share music over the internet. It's a development likely to spark the ire of the big music labels Apple has been   wooing in recent months for its iTunes Music Store.The team behind Mac fan site spymac.com were among the first to discover that a feature of iTunes could be exploited to allow iTunes users to listen to fellow Mac-heads' music, streamed over the net. Their hack allows iTunes users to make their music available to other iTunes users.In the case of commercially sold music, that's likely to be a big breach of copyright, which is why the music labels will be upset. Apple intended the feature to allow downloaded songs to be played only on another computer on the same local network.&lt;A HREF="http://www.spymac.com/music"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.spymac.com/musicGadgetsRoombaFancy the Electrolux Trilobite robot vacuum cleaner we featured two weeks ago, but not quite ready to shell out &#163;1,000 for one?Well, the Trilobite's much cheaper rival, the Roomba, is now available in the UK via the Let's Automate website, for a less princely &#163;200.Already a huge success in the USA, the Roomba is smaller and thinner than its rival (making it ideal for cleaning under beds), though it is nowhere near as intelligent or as stylish. It works in a similar way, using an infrared system to weave its way round obstacles while sucking up dirt from the floor. After a two-hour charge, it will clean for as long as three hours.www.letsautomate.comOne-size-fits-all, audio-visual solutionInvite a hi-fi buff to listen to a prototype of the latest high-end system from Linn Products and shock him with your choice of demo material: not Madame Butterfly, but Mario Andretti driving round in circles in Super Speedway. The company known for its devotion to vinyl is about to enter the home cinema market, but without leaving audio behind.The idea of the Unidisk 1.1 is that you should be able to feed it a disc and it should simply play it. That means DVDs and audio CDs, of course, but also CD-R/RW, Video CD, all variants of DVD-R/RW, DVD-Audio, SACD super audio, and even your holiday snaps, whether JPegs or PhotoCD format. This is possible because the Unidisk has three sets of electronics: Linn's CD platform, SACD from its partner, Sony, and DVD from ESS. Simplicity has its price - &#163;6,500, including installation - but cheaper versions are on the way, and Linn is also offering its design to other manufacturers. Oh, you will also need a multi-channel processor. Linn plans to launch one, the Kisto, for about &#163;8,000.
Cathie Stemp uses the internet for email and chat, to order groceries from Tesco and to research period costumes for the Phoenix Players amateur dramatic group in Portsmouth. Nothing unusual in that, you might think, but Stemp is a bit of a phoenix herself. She's 72 and disabled, but with her PC and broadband internet connection, she's as good as anybody on the net. In fact, her skills and her enthusiasm have just won her the Silver Surfer of the Year Award for 2003.This is a big week for "silver surfers," a group generally taken to include anyone over 50. Tony Blair, for example. Age Concern has just launched its national Silver Surfers Festival, and tomorrow, Hairnet, which specialises in one-to-one training, has organised the UK's second annual Silver Surfers' Day. Hairnet events are being held throughout England and Scotland, with the aim of getting people who are not internet users to try it at their local public library or cybercafe.The problem with the internet is that the older you are, the less likely you are to use it. According to figures published by the national statistics of fice in February, the figure for internet users aged 65 and over is only 17%. This is bad news for a government committed to e-democracy, and it means the people who are most likely to need government services are the ones least likely to be able to get it online. More than half the disabled, for example, are over 65."Online government services should make life quicker and easier for everyone, and older people are among those who stand to benefit most from using them," according to the e-envoy, Andrew Pinder. The government is therefore supporting Age Concern's Silver Surfers' Festival with Get Started, with UK Online centres offering free internet starter sessions.There's evidence from people like Stemp, Jorjoh Ceesay and Allan Perrin, her runners-up in the Silver Surfer Awards, that older people can benefit. Stemp, for example, admitted that "computers frightened me to death", and quit her job in Debenhams when computerised tills were brought in. But a friend dragged her to an Age Concern computer class and within months, she had her own PC. She has now upgraded to Windows XP and broadband.When a bad fall restricted her mobility, she used the net for shopping   and chatting to friends and family, including her son in South Africa. She also tracked down her brother, whom she hadn't seen for 40 years.Jorjoh Ceesay, 71, a former nurse in Gambia, is bringing up four grandchildren in North London, and uses the internet to manage an extended family. Allan Perrin, 52, was made redundant and turned computer training into a community business. His Cyber Cafe in Immingham, Lincolnshire, now hosts computers for the government's UK Online scheme, while networked games and dance mats pull in the kids.Lucy Winter, of Age Concern, says it's important that older people can learn at their own pace. "We always have peer-to-peer trainers for training sessions, and try to create a comfortable, friendly environment."Emma Solomon, who co-founded   Hairnet seven years ago, says: "If you've not had much exposure to IT, you need a personal relationship with someone who will listen to you."Where Age Concern provides free training - it's paid for by sponsors, including Microsoft and Cable &amp; Wireless - Hairnet may charge around &#163;20 per hour. But Solomon reckons this is economical.Hairnet started with the over 50s training other over 50s, but is now branching out into the corporate market. "We specialise in beginners, but it's not exclusively over 50s any more," says Solomon. "We've found people want friendly, approachable training whatever age they are."Graham Andrews, who runs the I Don't Feel 50 website, thinks there should be more emphasis on fun online. "We've got to attract people's   attention with what the net can do for them, not frighten them with the complexity of it," he says. So IDF50 hosts groups sharing their photographs, paintings and poems online, and playing word games.But Andrews agrees there's an access problem for seniors, even though they can use the net for nothing at public libraries and UK Online access centres. He says that 86% of the over 50s who use the net are from the middle and higher income brackets, so he's campaigning for free internet access for the over 65s.Statistics show there is still a "digital divide" and everyone thinks something must be done about it. Says Solomon: "You can put in all the infrastructure you want, but unless people have the confidence and skill to use it, you might as well put it on the moon."Useful linksSilver Surfers' Daywww.silversurfersday.org/events_2003.htmlProgress in making e-services accessible to all - encouraging use by older peoplewww.nao.gov.uk/pn/02-03/0203428.htmAge Concern Silver Surfers Festivalwww.ageconcern.org.uk/silversurfersHairnetwww.hairnet.orgUK Onlinewww.ukonline.gov.ukI Don't Feel 50www.idf50.co.uk
Remember portals? Back in the 1990s, when fortunes were made from promises to capture eyeballs and click-throughs, everyone wanted their homepage to be the gateway to the internet.Governments, both national and local, are still at it, with mixed results. The big divide is between thin and thick: is a portal a glorified page of links, or going after an audience in its own right?UK Online, the national portal run by the Office of the e-Envoy, is unashamedly content-thick. It tries to encourage return visits with a changing front page of features and news. The site quickly earned the nickname "Pravda.com" for its relentless good news about government initiatives, but recent splashes have covered everything from Sars to the National Audit Office's report on the electricity industry. This week, the banner is recruiting volunteers to become "internet angels", which may irritate users merely trying to contact a government office.The US equivalent is thinner on news content, though brasher with graphics - on the site it is always Fourth of July. When the space shuttle Columbia exploded in February,    the site took more than a day to take notice. Like the French portal, its main function is as a search engine to government. (The French government webmasters save their hot air for the prime ministerial site .)Even if it is pure propaganda, national governments always have e-content on tap. But how can local authorities create a thick portal? Several seem to think it is worth the effort.The pioneer is Rutland's award-winning Rutnet, which has been on the web since 1996. Rutland is England's smallest county, and visitors to the site are presented with a map of the county that Whitehall could not abolish, a clock showing Rutland Standard Time and links to major international news stories. The portal also hosts the county council's services, such as dial-a-ride for elderly and disabled people.Another small authority with a distinctive identity is Hartlepool. It is planning to create what could be the most content-thick local portal yet. The site, so far unnamed, is being developed by a local partnership under the chairmanship of the local MP, Peter Mandelson. "It will catch on and it will become addictive," says Mandelson.An electronic gateway to Hartlepool was seen as an "early win" for the town's e-strategy, which, among other things, aims to encourage local small businesses to use the internet.The &#163;500,000 portal, due to go on the web this autumn, will offer a conventional A-Z of services, organised around life episodes such as leaving school or having a baby. But instead of just clicking through to other organisations' sites, it will trawl them for relevant information for repackaging with a Hartlepool slant."We don't want a veneer-thin portal which clicks to other web sites," says Gus McGill of SX3, an IT services firm developing the portal for the partnership. "What we want to do is suck the information out and present it in one place."The buzzword is "remote authoring" - outside agencies such as the NHS and police forces will supply information. The idea is bold, but it raises questions ranging from editorial control to copyright to budgets.One of the most common problems is how to fund portals once the start-up budget has been spent (Rutnet is one of the few to carry commercial sponsorship).McGill says that a cross-cutting local portal can make a real difference to quality of life, in dealing with abandoned cars, for example, where the police, the council and a tow-away company are involved.But the Hartlepool portal will also have softer content. The team is talking to the local paper, the Hartlepool Mail, about taking a feed of local news. Other ideas are webcams (McGill thinks weddings will be interesting) and weblogs. The aim is to present a picture of what it is like to live and work in Hartlepool, as well as a trip down memory lane for Hartlepoolers overseas."We want to create something that is funky, interesting, where you want to go every day," says McGill.
In comparison with other parts of the state sector, local government IT is doing pretty well. Research by its professional body, the Society of IT Management (SocITM), tends to show an increasing number of successful e-government projects. But the society's spring conference gave members few reasons to feel complacent.Kate Oakley, an independent consultant and associate of the think-tank Demos, told delegates that the focus on delivering services electronically was reductive. "When we started talking about e-government, four or five years ago, there was this notion of the consumption of e-government services."But this treats councils like service delivery companies rather than democratically elected bodies, she suggested. "Democracies are not known for efficiency, and they shouldn't be. We need to create a new public sphere, in the way that public broadcasting of the postwar world gave us a space to debate ideas."Helen McMahon, an inspector for the Audit Commission, hit delegates from the opposite direction, telling them that their work often lacked realism. She has carried out comprehensive performance assessments for five local authorities. "One council had a gap of two or three months between one benefit system and the new one. Complete mayhem ensued, as no benefits were paid."She said the Audit Commission expected that "top tier" authorities, such as counties and unitaries, should be running basic, high-volume services such as online renewal of library books."Be ruthless about local priorities," she advised. "Don't get sidetracked into what's interesting, rather than what's important. The really successful authorities are those that are not scared of technology, but make it fit the purpose."One reason for poor IT project management is that computing specialists rarely make it to the board, according to Fahri Zihni, chief ICT officer at Wolverhampton city council and newly elected president of SocITM. "In this country, if anyone has got anything to do with science or technology, it stops them being well-rounded managers," he said. To his knowledge, no other European language has an equivalent of the derogatory term "techie".SocITM is to sponsor five members a year on the Open University's MBA course, paying half their fees. "We want IT to move centre-stage in the boardroom," said Zihni, pointing out that IT officers often report to finance directors. "Finance is all   about procedure and structure, appropriate ways of doing things. Information technology, in its current state, is all about risk-taking."Zihni said that IT ignorance was worn as a badge of honour by some senior managers. "The accusation is that IT people are inarticulate techies. It's a cop-out for the technophobes, who comprise a lot of boards in the public and private sector."The conference also dealt with another threat: security. Vince Freeman, technical security manager of the Metropolitan Police, described how the force connects its systems to other parts of government, through the Criminal Justice Extranet (CJX), a secure network for the police and court services, which links to the similarly secure Government Secure Intranet (GSI).The Met and other forces are setting up authentication systems that will allow any officer, and even automated processes, to obtain police data - as long as they have the security clearance, and are recognised to need access.But, he pointed out, local authorities are not connected to the CJX/GSI networks - a problem when it comes to transferring information between council social services staff. That leaves the internet. "But that's for information we would be happy to leave lying on a park bench," he said.Clive Carmichael-Jones, operations director at IT security firm Vogon International, said that enforcing effective policies on computer usage has got much tougher, with volumes of data in the average email database multiplying by a factor of 15 or more in the past three years.However, he did have some good news. "We don't see as much pornography as we used to," he said, as staff realise that what they do online and by email is recorded. But, he added: "We see more from management than from the shop floor. I'm not sure what that tells you about modern management technique."
They played Elgar as the nurse strapped me down. I was wearing just paper underwear, and it was, she said, for my own good. I was at the San Francisco branch of Ameriscan, a company offering full body MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scans for anyone with $1,000 to spare. You don't need a referral and anyone can walk in off the street. One hour later you will emerge with a CD-Rom of images of your insides and either peace of mind or a diagnosis of serious illness.In a country where getting sick is expensive, the level of health checking offered by Ameriscan is increasingly popular. More than 10,000 people have been scanned in Ameriscan centres, most of which are in shopping malls across California and Arizona.The ability to see into arteries or lungs and check out organs offers far more than a stethoscope and a tongue depressor ever could. And it's effective: Ameriscan claims that 10% of customers discover a condition that requires immediate treatment - without any symptoms.Founded by 35-year-old Dr Craig Bittner, Ameriscan is taking advantage of advances in MRI technology,   the internet, and the ubiquity of personal computers in the home. A scanner now costs about $1.5m - a relatively small outlay for a business charging $1,000 for a 15-minute procedure. The expectation is that the patient will also have a PC.The centre sends images over the internet to radiologists. After scanning, the patient is given a quick run through of the results by a doctor and a CD-Rom of the images. Ten days later, the radiologist at Ameriscan's head office writes to the customer with a more in-depth review.MRI works like this. By placing your body inside a massively strong magnetic field, the machine causes all the atoms in your body to line up and spin in the direction of the field. Some will point from your head to your feet, the others from your feet to your head. Most pair up with another pointing the other way, and stay locked together. But in a few cases (a handful per million), they will not match up.Those lonesome atoms will be free to point in either direction or, given the chance, change direction. The chance is given by the second stage of the MRI procedure - the radio frequency pulse. By tuning an RF pulse to affect only hydrogen atoms, which   make up 63% of the body, the machine causes the unpaired hydrogen atoms to absorb energy and spin in a different direction.Here's the clever bit: when you turn the RF pulse off, the excess energy in these lone atoms is released, and can be detected. By combining the detection of the energy given off by each atom, and by varying the magnetic field and the frequency of the RF pulse, the MRI imaging software can create images of the different types of tissue in the body, and where it is.One feature of the MRI is the ability to take images very quickly, and then line them up after each other. The images on your CD-Rom are in the Dicom standard, the official format for medical image data. Dicom contains information to let you ani mate these images - providing you with videos of your heart beating, and so on.But MRI isn't totally safe. The magnets are immensely strong - people with pacemakers are banned, as is anyone with shrapnel in the body: it could be ripped out. One problem, according to Ameriscan, is the prevalence of cheap hip transplants from Mexico. Americans sometimes pop over the border, and come back with a hip joint made of metal that could be attracted to the magnet.For the same reason, no metal is allowed into the scanning room. Neither is it particularly comfortable when you are strapped down and slid inside the noisy scanner.Not everyone is convinced of the scan's efficacy. The American Cancer Society says that while they are good   for finding heart conditions, they are too expensive and unproven to detect lung cancers. Others are concerned that customers may be scanned too often, exposing themselves to radiation levels higher than normal. Ameriscan disagrees, saying people could have five a year without exceeding the recommended dosage.Full body scanning is not the only advanced medical procedure to become available on the high street in the US: laser eye surgery, plastic surgery, blood testing and even DNA testing are available in shopping malls or through the post.What did they find with me? Not much, thankfully. One bunged sinus and a lower back showing signs of future gyp, but free arteries, tiptop liver and vibrant lungs. For peace of mind alone, it could be well worth the price.
Park your mobileEdinburgh will introduce mobile payments for parking at 266 pay and display machines, following the introduction of a similar system in Dublin. The Scottish city will introduce the scheme, which the operator, Irish firm Itsmobile, says is the first of its kind in the UK, in July or August. Users must register in advance, then ring a number on the meter from their mobile and follow the instructions to collect their ticket: the process can take less than 30 seconds.The system can charge a user's credit card or Royal Bank of Scotland bank account, identifying users through their mobile number. According to the Irish IT website Electric News, the deal is worth a six-figure sum to Itsmobile, which is planning to announce another UK win in the next few weeks.www.electricnews.net/newswww.itsmobile.comWatch it?Two dozen European organisations from 12 countries, including AbilityNet in the UK, have signed a memorandum of understanding that will result in a EuroAccessibility Project. They aim to develop a common evaluation methodology and a European certification authority for web accessibility,and thus harmonise European support for the World Wide Web Consortium's Web Accessibility Initiative, and EC resolutions on Knowledge Based Society. The idea behind the WAI is that people with disabilities should have equal access to the web. This precludes, for example, pages that don't work with the screen readers used by blind users. AbilityNet says that in the UK, the Disability Rights   Commission has already launched an investigation into the accessibility of 1,000 websites in the context of the Disability Discrimination Act. This is being extended in October next year to require online service providers not to discriminate against disabled users.www.abilitynet.org.ukExactlyWatchfire, the company that took over Bobby, the web-accessibility checker, has launched a free service that checks web pages for quality and privacy, as well as accessibility issues. Watchfire's founder, Michael Weider, said the aim was to help people design web pages that "comply with industry standards and best practices". WebXACT tests for compliance with the US Government's Section 508 and the World Wide   Web Consortium's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, plus whether or not a page links to a privacy statement, and uses visitor-tracking technology such as cookies. Companies intending to use WebXACT a lot can host it on their own website.http://webXACT.watchfire.comhttp://bobby.watchfire.comPC sales upUK users bought 5%more PCs in the first quarter of 2003, according to the latest research figures from International Data Corporation. The desktop PC market failed to bloom - IDC reckons that consumer sales of desktop PCs fell by 12.7%compared with the same period last year. However, sales of notebook PCs jumped by 14.7%, and servers by 15.1%, to grow the total   PC market. Hewlett-Packard's PC shipments increased by 17.9% and, following its takeover of Compaq, it now has almost a quarter of the UK market, by units. Dell's shipments grew by more than 25% leaving it in second place with almost 24% of the market. Time Group, Toshiba and Fujitsu Siemens made up the top five.Read my lipsIntel has unveiled some open source software that will enable a computer to read your lips. Computer designers will be able to combine face detection algorithms from Intel's OpenCV computer vision library with Audio Visual Speech Recognition software to locate someone's face and follow their mouth movements. The stated intention is to improve the accuracy of speech recognition systems, particularly in noisy environments. This could be invaluable on the factory floor. And if the system uses so much processing power you need a new PC, so much the better.Pioneer diesDr Edgar "Ted" Codd, the father of the relational database, has died in Florida at the age of 79. Dr Codd was born in Portland, Dorset, and flew as a pilot in the second world war. He moved to IBM's San Jose research lab after graduating from Oxford and Michigan universities. In his 1970 paper, A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared Data Banks, he proposed storing data in tabular rows rather than in more complex structures - the basis of relational databases.Dr Codd won the Turing Award in1980, as Larry Ellison was taking advantage of the concept in building Oracle into the world's second biggest software firm. The relational model is now the standard for databases worldwide.www.miami.com/mld/miamiherald/news/obituaries/5674257.htmwww-3.ibm.com/software/data/news/efc.htmlwww.acm.org/classics/nov95/toc.html
Staying in touch throughout the day, passing on interesting web sites, sharing a joke, bouncing ideas off each other, deciding when and where to meet. Does that sound like wasting time at work or a virtual workspace for building relationships and sharing information with colleagues?If you think instant messaging at work is a frivolous distraction with security implications, you're not alone. Companies worry about employees spending too much time chatting, swapping virus-laden files without going through firewall controls or making off-the-cuff remarks about confidential subjects. That's why SurfControl sees a gap in the market for its Instant Message Filter, which stops users running specific IM and file-sharing applications: something that's awkward to do by hand because of the number of different ways these applications connect.SurfControl suggests that the IT department can pick groups of users who can continue to use IM, but that defeats the point of IM: being able to get in touch with all your contacts, wherever they are. While managers are unhappy that users are installing software without their approval, most people using IM at work will tell you it helps them get their job done faster or better.It's all about efficiency and convenience. Short conversations without the time lag of email or the intrusiveness of a phone call have huge potential, especially when people work from home or in a different office. IM is invaluable for supporting a colleague on a sales or technical call by sending them useful information. And once a significant proportion are talking by IM, company phone bills should show the difference.IM can go beyond chatting. Conchango has developed a web service that lets you retrieve details from the corporate directory or customer information from a database. Office 2003 will link documents to authors with a task pane that includes IM as one of a set of collaboration tools.IM providers are turning employee enthusiasm and business suspicions into a sales opportunity, with corpo rate versions of their free consumer software that add security features - and a price tag.The priorities for business messaging are different. It's more important to make sure messages are logged and files scanned for viruses than to have amusing icons. Companies want to use their own directory services for the user list, rather than a public server, and they want business features such as whiteboards and shared documents, with options to block file-sending or video chat.Yahoo! is the first of the free providers with an enterprise IM client. Yahoo! Messenger Enterprise Edition adds encryption, authentication against a corporate directory and message archiving. Administrators can either block file sharing or force virus checking, and an add-in from VeriSign encrypts messages. Yahoo! is counting on frustrated users for leads with its Save Smiley campaign: if companies block Yahoo! Messenger, Yahoo! tries to sell them the enterprise version.One alternative to banning free IM clients - and driving determined users to browser-based versions - is controlling them. Analysis tools and security policies let you measure and contain the impact, as long as they include security on the desktop.The next stage is software from companies such as Blue Coat, FaceTime and IMLogic, which add security features by logging IM conversations, filtering for keywords, preventing file transfers or redirecting IMs between employees to internal servers to keep them off the public network. That's a route Microsoft and AOL are taking: AOL has teamed up with FaceTime and Microsoft with IMLogic.AOL is adding encryption to version 5.2 of the AIM client (due by the summer), with VeriSign selling the security certificates, but it's also brought out Enterprise AIM Services. These add access control, archiving, local routing and developer tools for integrating messaging with business applications. Directory integration is promised for a future release.Microsoft's MSN Messenger Connect service already integrates with Active Directory and Exchange, logging messages in an SQL Server   database. But Microsoft sees secure and manageable instant messaging as just one tool for what it calls "real-time communication".When it comes out in autumn, Real Time Communications Server 2003 (codenamed Greenwich) will include management, security and logging tools, but it is also a platform for developing applications to integrate peer-to-peer voice and video conferencing, telephony, application sharing and other ways of working together. Reuters used an early version to develop its secure IM service for banks.Windows Server 2003 users will get a free cut-down version with presence technology, which shows when users are online and available.But you don't have to wait for (or commit to) Microsoft technologies to develop applications around instant messaging. Jabber is an open source, commercially supported XML   messaging protocol. You can download the Jabber Messenger IM client, run your own company Jabber server and configure it to control such features as file sharing.You can also integrate messaging with other systems. What the Jabber server basically does is route XML messages - which could come from a person typing or an application or web service - to clients, which can be as simple as telnet connections. There are numerous add-ons for Jabber, including voice messaging and gateways offering interoperability with other IM systems. Jabber is also working on a standard that could bring together the different IM systems, Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP).The big three's slow response to what business is looking for has encouraged other players. So much so, that Gartner's labelling of 2003 as the   year of business IM applies as much to the flood of providers. IBM is a big player with Domino-based SameTime, which it is working on integrating with the WebSphere architecture. Sun offers instant messaging as part of the Sun ONE Portal Server Suite (for Windows and Solaris) and is promising a corporate IM server running on Linux. Oracle's Collaborating Suite includes instant messaging and application sharing with the new iMeeting service. Numerous startups and smaller companies offer IM as part of suites of messaging tools.The importance of IM in the business world is more than instant gratification for users. Now is the time to see IM in business as an opportunity rather than a threat or a free ride. But with arguments about standards and interoperability still raging, it's hard to choose the right IM tools, let alone a development system.
People whose view of the industry doesn't stretch much further than the ends of their noses - just as far as their PC screens - naturally see Microsoft as the dominant software supplier. Meanwhile, Microsoft is struggling to make an impact in huge areas of the software business where it is the underdog. These include games consoles, handhelds and mobile phones, server operating systems and software, and business applications.Handhelds and mobiles are the two most prominent applications for Microsoft's embedded operating system, Windows CE (originally Consumer Electronics). It is also used in smart computer terminals, wireless screens, internet phones, cars, tills, television set-top boxes, cable modems, DVD players, robot   arms and other products, including a sewing machine.Microsoft's PocketPC group is probably the biggest customer for CE. It takes the modules it needs and packages them into a platform for sale to PDA manufacturers. But many companies use Windows CE in computers that are not PocketPCs or even handhelds.Windows Automotive is another CE platform, and includes a speech interface. It is used in 17 car lines from eight manufacturers: BMW, Citroen, Fiat, Honda, Mitsubishi, Subaru, Toyota and Volvo.Unfortunately for Microsoft, embedded operating systems do not command high prices. At this month's Windows Hardware Engineering Conference in New Orleans, Microsoft announced a headline price of about $3 per copy for the operating system core.To compete with embedded versions of Linux, Microsoft also has a "shared source" initiative for Windows CE. You could download the source code, change it and use it for educational purposes. Last week, Aubrey Edwards, director of Microsoft's embedded and appliance platforms group, told me: "We've expanded that to include commercial companies developing prototypes and running trials. As long as they don't get paid for the device, they don't have to pay for the operating system image."Microsoft also announced Platform Builder, a Wizard that makes it easy to generate code for a device. Products range from a digital video receiver to Windows Thin Client, and software such as Windows Messenger, WordPad, etc.As with other tools, such as PowerPoint, Microsoft has   deskilled the task so anyone can do it... as long as they don't mind their results being much like everyone else's.All this is fine if you are using a 32-bit processor, and need a wide range of features. Internet networking, a firewall, Windows Media Audio and MP3 codecs, and internationalisation facilities are all part of the core system; Bluetooth and Wi-Fi wireless support are easily added. Microsoft's big bet is that lots of device manufacturers will need them.But today, most don't. Many want to use cheaper 8-bit and 16-bit processors and as little software as possible. There may one day be a big market for wireless knitting machines that download patterns from the net, and smart phones with PDA features, but until then, I suspect CE will remain of minority interest.
Let's shoot this sacred cow called privacy. Don't worry, I'm not inviting the home secretary to install CCTV in our bedrooms. But we do need to stop claiming - usually in shrill and formulaic language invoking Orwell - that privacy should enjoy privileged status among human rights.IT commentators do it a lot, especially when talking about joined-up electronic public services. Of course, the people who campaigned against the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act and who are now raising concerns about ID cards aren't all like this. Neither are they all - in David Blunkett's words - "intellectual pygmies".But some of these sentinels on the slippery slope to totalitarianism are pretty ignorant: I recently   read an attack on identity cards claiming that Britain has no bill of rights. More worrying is the assumption that privacy is somehow an "inalienable" human right.Privacy is a right, recognised (in a roundabout way) in the European Convention. But it is a new right: the seminal essay by Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis defining a "right to be let alone" only dates from 1890. And it is not inalienable: privacy must be balanced against social responsibility. For privacy usually comes with a social cost.In some cases, the cost is worth paying. People are more likely to seek medical advice if they believe doctors will keep their conversations confidential. That's good for public health, so society gains more than it would from medical data being available to all comers.In other cases, where privacy   allows people owing child-care obligations to disappear, for example, society loses. The perception that some people (usually foreigners or members of racial minorities) are enjoying a "free ride" can cause more damage than the cost of the free ride itself.Political scientists will spot the communitarian theories of Amitai Etzioni. Communitarianism gets some stick as a one-size-fits-all political philosophy, but Etzioni's definition of privacy is radical.Privacy is not an absolute right but "a societal licence that exempts a category of acts (including thoughts and emotions) from communal, public, and governmental scrutiny". Note the difference between a right and a licence.But what of the slippery slope? By accepting this definition, are we irrevocably on the way to   Nineteen Eighty Four?No. The trouble with slippery slope arguments is that they depend on the assumption that the slope goes in one direction and that we are on the last secure toe-hold.Etzioni argues that concerns about totalitarianism confuse cause with consequence. Although totalitarian governments do use ID cards to curtail freedom (and worse), totalitarianism does not creep up on the tail of measures such as ID cards but from breakdowns in social order.And are these breakdowns in social order more likely to result from efficient government or from a society riven with resentment about foreign free riders? One for the pygmies to discuss.LinksUK Onlinewww.ukonline.gov.ukThe US equivalentwww.firstgov.govThe French portalwww.service-public.frThe French prime minister's sitewww.premier-ministre.gouv.frRutland's award-winning Rutnetwww.rutnet.co.uk&#183;The Limits of Privacy, Amitai Etzioni, Basic Books, 1999.
Were you quick to embrace the computer to make music?I resisted for a while but did use it a few years ago to write a choral piece for the British Symphonia. It was initially written on Cubase, then I dumped it all on to Pro-Tools. I also usedSibelius softwareto transcribe and print out the score. The only problem with Sibelius is that the quantisation makes the music expressionless when it's put on to the printed page -but it is three years since I used it!How are your typing skills?I had to write a book so I tried using Dragon Dictate voice-recognition software, as   I'm a notoriously bad typist. But it's almost as if you have to speak in some weird Esperanto! I spent a horrible week trying to use it while I was in Spain, so trying to contact the support people was a nightmare.Any platform preference?For typing or writing, I usually go for a PC with Word, but for other things, the Mac is so versatile and makes life much easier. I do a lot of video editing and I went in to look at some new software and the guy said "Hey, are you a Mac-head?" I walked out! I hate the lingo that goes with the technology.What do you use for video editing?I have anAvid systemand once you get that, you're a slave to it - the dongle alone cost &#163;7,000! Now they're refining it and you can buy a whole system a lot cheaper. There's alsoFinal Cut Pro, which is quite good.Are you a dedicated follower of technological fashion?I try not to be. When you get a system installed, they say you have to wait for new software for it to work properly. It's all about money - who sells anything that doesn't require an update six months later?Favourite sites?I try to avoid most websites - particularlywww.arsenal.com! It's too painful.What's your take on file-sharing?It sounds like a wonderfully progressive way of looking at the world but it's putting people out of work. The music industry is greedy and it was slow to react - it should have jumped on it!Why were they so slow?The kid who started Napster honed into the new technology really quickly. It was so fast   how you can turn things around on something like Napster: it takes corporations a year to put a record out. Imagine how long it takes them to investigate how to utilise the internet?Microsoft?It's the same element of control over people as, say, Walt Disney. It's about imposing their values. There are probably some who learn how to read and write using Microsoft products and when someone has that level of control over others, it's sad.Whose email would you like?I used to live in the next building to John Lennon so if I'd had his email 20 years ago, I'd have said "don't go out today John, give the studio a miss". He'd no doubt email back "fuck off!"&#183;Visit:www.raydavies.net
The success of Apple's 99 cents a throw music downloads (more than 200,000 on the      first day) proves that people are prepared to pay for content even when free      alternatives are available from the "peer-to-peer" black economy.But don't draw the wrong conclusion from it. This is not a victory of consumers over      producers. It is the reverse. Producers (the record companies) have regained the      initiative thanks to Apple's innovative pricing mechanism. Record companies will now be      able to charge almost as much per track as they do with CDs in the shops without having      to lay out the huge expense of manufacturing them, packaging them, marketing them,      dispatching them and transporting them.Apple takes a cut of every sale, but there is no      wholesaler or retailer with premises to maintain.       Music companies are dis-intermediating (cutting out the middle men in the supply chain)      while keeping nearly all the benefits for themselves.This is brilliant for them while it lasts. But how long can it go on before new companies      spring up, undercutting the media moguls? Or the artists themselves wake up to      discover their new empowerment? The music companies are able to get away with it      because they still own what they regard as the crown jewels (the contracts with the      original artists) plus access to Apple's payment system.But in future, artists would be better off dealing directly with Apple, or the legion of      competitors who will undercut it, rather than with the music giants - especially for back      catalogues. The only value that record companies can now add is publicity, because the      distribution system has been taken from them. And there are plenty of specialist      companies that can do publicity better than the record companies.If the music companies have any sense, they will speedily drop the price of the      downloads by well over 50% in order to deter all the new entrants that could undercut      them.The initial success of the 99 cents a track download serves only to emphasise what a      runaway success really economic (ie cheap) downloads would be. The fact that people are      already prepared to pay 99 cents for tracks they could easily get for nothing      (admittedly at the cost of reduced quality and time consumed) shows what a law- abiding      lot we are - as long as we don't feel we are being ripped off. I know someone who has      been downloading tracks through Apple for 99 cents a piece even though he knows he has      them lying around the house somewhere.He finds it more convenient to do that than      waste time looking for them.       It is ironical that Apple unleashed its new system in the very week that a US district      judge ruled that companies providing the software for peer-to-peer file sharing were not      doing anything illegal.But, instead of this leading to an explosion of free downloads,      people suddenly started paying for them. The principle of unintended consequences could      have no better memorial. And the revolution is only just starting.
Marsupial mythsMan hits kangaroo with car. Man, believing kangaroo to be dead, dresses it in his jacket for novelty photograph. Stunned marsupial wakes up and hops away with man's valuables. If the plot of the film Kangaroo Jack (released tomorrow) sounds familiar, that might be because it's an urban myth that dates back as far as 1902. The terrifyingly comprehensive Urban Legend Reference Pages trace the tale's origins.Click on "What's new" to see the site's editors Barbara and David Mikkelson doggedly attempting to verify every email rumour and inspirational fable currently clogging their in-box, from "Does the Coriolis effect make toilets flush clockwise in the northern hemisphere?" to the recent story about US marines using a CNN video phone to call home, unquestioningly repeated by many webloggers at the time.www.snopes.comwww.lt-smash.us/archivesCGI FridaysDigital film festival OneDotZero returns to London tomorrow, now featuring one of its most navigable websites ever. As well as the usual videogame cut-scenes and Japanese animation, the highlight of the year is a retrospective of Gallic pop-video visionary Michel Gondry, responsible for the mind-boggling visuals in videos for the White Stripes, the Chemical Brothers and Bjork , among others. The festival is also showing Gondry's feature film debut Human Nature - not a huge box-office   success, though the rodent-filming experience stood him in good stead when he went on to make the recent mouse-headed people ads for Levi's.www.onedotzero.orgwww.director-file.com/gondryStarter for 10Former University Challenge quizmaster Bamber Gascoigne continues his mission to educate mankind with the One-Click Edited-Access Network (Ocean) index of selected historical content. Ocean prides itself on using human editors to find precise links to your topic of interest, as opposed to what you might get from Google. Two institutions have so far slipped through Bamber's net: the UK's only Museum of Computing in Swindon, plus London's very first Museum of Techno Music, which, according to its online visitor's guide, was founded in 1837 to create a permanent home for Sir James Soame's "unique collection of badboy kickdrums".www.oceanindex.netwww.digitalhistory.org.ukwww.museumoftechno.orgStars to scaleStarship Dimensions - at last - threatens to make an entire class of late-night conversations redundant by providing precision scale diagrams of spacecraft from Star Trek, Star Wars, Independence Day and Babylon 5. At more than 800km across, Return Of The Jedi's Death Star II is the largest, dwarfing the 98km V'Ger from Star Trek: The Motion Picture, plus all the real-world objects supplied for comparison. And should you find yourself with a collection of unused 3.5in disks and a taste for sculpting sharp metal edges, How To Make A Starship Enterprise Out Of An Old Floppy Disk is somewhat less accurate than the scale diagrams, but no less entertaining.http://mirror.wolffelaar.nl/zardalu.sytes.nethttp://asciipr0n.com/archive/0013/bonnie/craftSatire at seaBritain's most confrontational Onion-style news site, The Rockall Times, has decided there's more to life than coming up with stories like Scientists boast of 'fully functional' cigarette machine by 2050 and Harry Potter to be made into book. In a bid backed by journalist Donal MacIntyre, tech news site The Register and the Isle of Lewis Linux centre, the site's staff aim to conquer their geographical namesake - the 74-foot high granite outcrop of Rockall, 230 miles off the coast of Scotland. The plan is to raise money for the charity Mental Health Media, and they're still seeking sponsors of both a commercial and individual nature. They set sail in July.www.therockalltimes.co.uk/rockall-hoNew and notedSecondhand books, all &#163;3.75www.greenmetropolis.com'Banned' Xbox expos&#233;http://hackingthexbox.comLondon Wi-Fi-finding game tonighthttp://downlode.org/noderunnerHonda adwww.tcfilm.ch/lauf_txt_e.htmSix of the best:Free big readsThe Best of Project Gutenbergwww.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/cdproject/cdUp-to-the-minute miscellanywww.blackmask.com'Professional' science fictionwww.baen.com/libraryInternet archive Bookmobilehttp://webdev.archive.org/texts/bookmobile.phpUnix-Haters Handbookhttp://research.microsoft.com/~daniel/unix-haters.html
Thumping endJack Schofield ends the piece with a thump, doesn't he? "So whether social software really is the next big thing depends initially on the potential size of the blogosphere, and whether it can extend its reach beyond that to the whole internet. But my bet would be that the most important social software isn't going to develop out of blogging anyway: it will come from instant messaging."And then, I want to hear the segue into the confluence of instant messaging, blogs and other social software. I agree, but I would like to hear the thesis.Stowe Boydstoweboyd@aworkingmodel.comComplex rubbishYour article from the Emerging Technology Conference (Social climber, May 8) mentioned Turing's work on complex structures as an example of an "emergent" system. I'm not sure if the example was yours or an ETCon speaker, but I'm not convinced. I wrote on this atwww.swintons.net/deodandswhich is reproduced below.If "emergent" means anything, it means properties that you can only see in a large enough interacting system and can't easily predict from the behaviour of the individual players, whereas Turing's reaction diffusion theory is good, old-fashioned applied mathematics. It only predicts emergent pattern in the sense that radio waves are an emergent property of Maxwell's equations. You might claim that his theory ofFibonacci phyllotaxiscomes a bit closer: it has at least an idea of complexity increasing through time via a simple iterated dynamics. In this case, the complexity is in the parastichy numbers, which count how many spirals are seen in a sunflower, say, but the increasing complexity is that the parastichy numbers are 55 and 89, say, not three and five. These are differences of degree, not of kind: there's not anything to "emerge".Andrew Hodgeshas said that Turing was in a position where he could have gone towards chaos theory, but that remains a might have been. There is always a mushiness inherent when people start using such words as "emergent". It was John Maynard Smith who said toAndrew Brown: "Complexity theory is crap. Crap with good PR but crap".Jonathan Swintonjonathan@swintons.netStory dealAfter yet another Guardian article about online literature (Don't write off the net, May 8) that failed to mention the world's No 1 short story site, I felt I should write and make some introductions. Short-stories.co.uk is genuinely "uncovering the next Dickens". Not only are we widely considered to be the best source of quality contemporary and classic stories by our 60,000 monthly readership, but other publishers agree: in the past six months, three of our authors have signed major publishing deals through the site. We are easy to find: try typing "short stories" into Google or click onwww.short-stories.co.uk.Alex PattersonEditor,www.short-stories.co.ukSpam mistakeShurely spam mishtake? While we appreciated the mention of AOL's spam blocking efforts last week (Report that spam, May 8), at 5.5 million you were a few spam short. Globally, we are blocking up to 2.3 billion unwanted emails every   day before they reach members.However, our members are reporting spam to us at the rate of more than 9m times a day - mostly using the new Report Spam button in AOL 8.0, which is now available to our members in the UK.But in addition to filtering out junk and giving our members strong anti-spam tools, we are also pursuing litigation against spammers to get our point across. We have filed more than 25 lawsuits against spammers, and, just recently, we won a court award of $7 million in a major antispam victory. Furthermore, we are actively seeking more effective anti-spam legislation and working with industry partners such as Yahoo! and Microsoft on better technical solutions to this unwanted nuisance.The top spam killer, though, is the new tool in the AOL software that allows the customer to pick the spam from the sirloin - and report back to us to help increase that 2.3bn spams blocked daily number even further.Jonathan LambethAOL UKjonathanlambeth@aol.comProduct gagI have just seen your article covering the "new" product by Microsoft called the I-loo (Logging on, Online on the web, May 8). It sounds remarkably similar to my idea that I designed and made in 2001 and displayed at various shows, the most recent being the Ideal Home show, which finished at the beginning of April. (Seewww.idealhomeshow.co.uk.)It now seems that the clever people at Microsoft have cottoned on to the idea and are even calling it the i-loo (again same as mine)! Another example of Microsoft monopolisation squashing the little people?Andrew Cubittv   andrewcubitt@blueyonder.co.ukEditor's note:Microsoft now says the announcement of the product, whch took place on May 2, was an April Fool's joke.
A new breed of internet service provider is being launched on an unsuspecting public this week. Pre-paid internet access claims to offer greater value and convenience.For a one-off payment of &#163;10, MyInternetPass.com offers 30 days of unlimited usage for heavy users, or 2,000 minutes of access over three months for those who visit the world wide web less frequently. There's no   contract, no additional phone charges and no software to load, and it works on any computer connected to a BT line.The hope is that pre-payment could do for web users what the pay-as-you-go model has done for mobile take-up, and even restrict the reach of ISPs such as BT Openworld and AOL.Cards can be bought online or through a network of retailers, although at the moment distribution   is limited to 400 stores, including Balfour Convenience Stores.Managing director Phillip Glyn says the company has been cautious about extending its distribution network. "From a trade point of view, we've had a phenomenal response. &#91;Interest is&#93; focusing along the lines of pay-as-you go mobile and the pre-paid international calling cards," he says.This model of internet usage has been tried before but did not carve a permanent niche in the market. But SurfBanana will launch a pay-as-you-go service next week following a two-month pilot in the Midlands. It will offer 25 days' access for &#163;10.In the US, such services have been on offer since 1997. In the UK, MyInternetPass.com says it also expects competition for the pre-paid internet space to become as intense as that in the international pre-paid phone call market.The new launches coincide with the government's latest drive to encourage people to use the web. Get Started aims to get the 17m people who haven't "experienced the internet in the last year" online for the first time or as a returning surfer.The question for the pre-paid operators is whether their market - and MyInternetPass says it's looking to get 2% of the ISP market in the first year - will come from new consumers or simply take a share from the big ISPs.
Kids' stuffI have had a brilliant idea for a computer game, but haven't a clue where to start. Could you recommend a good book/website/ CD-Rom that could help me?Christopher Keenlyside(aged 10)Jack Schofield replies:Most commercial games are produced by large teams with the help of graphics and music specialists, but it is still possible for individuals to write enjoyable and hugely successful games. Examples include Tetris, FreeCell and Snake. Also, games designed for educational purposes, or to run on the web or on mobile phones, can be much smaller and simpler than the latest movie-based blockbuster.There are lots of tools that make it easier to write games, especially adventure games. Most run on Windows. SeeEngines/Authorware for Non-Programmersfor a list. Alternatively, try Squeak, which is a very accessible version of the Smalltalk object-oriented language.Squeaknot only knocks most computer languages into a cocked hat, it is easy to use and educational. It also has some games that could help you get started.For background reading,GamaSutrawill teach you a lot about how games are developed, and how the industry works. You could also read Chris Crawford'sThe Art of Computer Game Design(1982), which is available free online.HousekeepingI have been told that dust building up inside my computer can cause it to heat up and become unstable. However, I have also been told that vacuum cleaners generate static electricity that can damage sensitive electronic components. What is the best way to clean the dust from inside my machine?John EnglishJS:All of that is true, though I would not expect dust to be a major problem with PCs in most inhabitable environments. The main thing is to make sure the fans do not become clogged up. There are "approved PC vacuum cleaners" such as theDataVac P, though I've got away with using a long extension tube on an ordinary domestic machine. The standard recommendation is to blow dust away using a can of compressed air, but avoid blowing compressed air into disk drives.Fan noiseMy PC has developed an alarming hum/buzz, which I assume must be the fan. Can I expose the fan and lubricate it? And if so with what: oil, graphite?S LordJS:If a fan is kept clean, I would expect it to outlast the useful life of the PC. If it starts making a noise, my preference would be to replace it, especially if you have an AMD processor rather than an Intel Pentium 4. (When overheating, the P4 turns itself off to avoid meltdown.) However, the Fan maintenance web page providesa good illustrated guideto oiling a fan with sewing machine oil. Seewww.dansdata.comat your own risk!DegaussThere's a button on my monitor called degauss, which makes a noise when I press it. What does it do to the monitor?David BoardsJS:Degauss is derived from Johann Gauss, who studied the effects of electromagnetic fields. Degaussing is a common way of erasing magnetic media such as floppy and hard disks. It is used in monitors because a colour cathode ray tube has a screen shadow mask or aperture grill just behind the screen. If the shadow mask is affected by the earth's natural magnetism or other magnets, electrons will not be directed to the right spots of phosphor on the screen and the image will be imperfect. Pressing the degauss button remagnetises the shadow mask to compensate for the effects of the earth's magnetic field. Most monitors automatically degauss when you turn them on, so the degauss button is rarely needed, unless you have a monitor that swivels through 90 degrees, or you move the monitor somewhere where the earth's magnetic field is different, eg Australia.Backchat&#183;Carole Watts asked about pop-up adverts that were appearing from a Windows Messenger service in Windows XP, and I explained how to block them. Pete Baker complains, very reasonably, that I "failed to identify that this is merely the symptom of a potential more dangerous problem (at least in security terms). The preferred solution should always be for the user to either install or properly enable a firewall." Seewww.microsoft.com/windowsxpand Microsoft Knowledge Base article 330904, Messenger Service Window That Contains an Internet Advertisement Appears.&#183;Last week, I said "hard drive space now costs about &#163;2 per gigabyte". Smiling Crow (sic) points out that prices have come down since I last bought one. An 80GB drive now costs about 75p to &#163;1 per megabyte.
Midnight Club 2PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Rockstar/Take Two, ****As the name of the developers suggests, Rockstar produces games for grown-ups. The masterful Grand Theft Auto series is a case in point, although it's best to forget the dire State of Emergency. Thankfully, Midnight Club 2 takes its influences from the former to produce a driving game that adds some welcome variety to the hackneyed genre. Rather than straightforward racing, Midnight Club 2 lets you drive around town looking for opponents. Find one, flash your headlights and a challenge is accepted.What follows is a gripping race through urban environments as you battle for bragging rights. The cars handle totally unrealistically, perfect for this kind of game. Speeding off jumps, racing on two wheels and nitro bursts are more important than perfecting the racing line. That's not to say driving skills aren't necessary. Your opponents are devious, often using short cuts and aggressive tactics. But, crucially, they are fallible, often getting caught in traffic. This AI mix   makes for exciting races with enough incentive to keep coming back.Start winning and you can begin upgrading your mean machine. But rather than the dour realism of the Gran Turismo series, the upgrades here include Two Wheel Driving and Slip Stream Turbo. Progress further in the game and new, sexier, cars become available, as well as motorbikes. Sadly, the graphics are merely average, while the speed and confusing city layouts mean squinting at the map takes up too much time. But with its cracking multiplayer and refreshing slant, Midnight Club 2 is another Rockstar game worth worshipping.Greg HowsonPokemon SapphireGame Boy Advance, &#163;29.99 Nintendo, ****The Pokemon phenomenon has received plenty of brickbats for causing playground ructions and interfering with schoolwork, but it rumbles on regardless. Pokemon Sapphire is the second version of Pokemon specifically designed for the Game Boy Advance (after Pokemon Ruby), and, as was the case for its predecessors, it is such a beguiling playable game that one feels compelled to sing its praises.New features - typically for any Pokemon iteration - are few, although the ability to perform two-on-two battles further enhances the game's considerable tactical depth, and the chance to turn wild berries into revivifying Poke Blocks lessens your reliance on purchasing healing potions. With Pokemon Sapphire, Nintendo has concentrated on the storyline (which is cute, but never syrupy) to such an extent that it rivals the Zelda games for depth.As ever, you wander around a surprisingly extensive and varied world, bottling up wild Pokemon in Poke Balls, fighting other Pokemon Trainers, building up your Pokemon, acquiring badges and performing all   manner of missions for a variety of characters. One aspect of Pokemon games that is rarely mentioned is that they try to be educational - wander around a shipyard, for example, and you are told all sorts of basic facts about shipbuilding. The environments are as rich as the real world, too - cities, for example, have markets, museums and the like.The game's sheer addictiveness has been well documented, however, and we would defy even the most hardened cynic to resist its deceptively simple gameplay. Pokemon remains unassailable in pure gaming terms.Steve BoxerRise of NationsPC, &#163;29.99 Big Huge Games/Microsoft, *****After Age of Mythology, Age of Empires and Impossible Creatures, Microsoft clearly has a thing for realtime strategy. Nevertheless, at first glance, Rise of Nations looks like a step backwards. To say the graphics are dated understates just how small and fiddly they are - an early impression that takes time to dispel.For a while, it seems the developers are compensating for ropey visuals by throwing in enough micromanagement to make your head spin. Rise is a game you have to learn before you can truly start enjoying it. However, after a couple of hours everything clicks into place and it becomes a bottomless pit of gameplay.Rise is the natural successor to Sid Meier's seminal Civilization, a classic concept in urgent need of updating. Making the action real time, rather than turn-based, works well enough, although the strict time limit on most missions feels artificial, and poor path-finding will see your troops charging off to certain death if you don't watch them constantly.However, warfare is only one aspect of the game. For example, the Conquer the World campaign allows you to choose which of 18 nations you wish to control for the next 2,000+ years while you plot world domination. Your reward could be resources, access to trade routes or even resource cards - which can be played before each battle to increase various aspects of your performance. Consequently, each game is a different tactical experience, giving it considerable replay value.If you like strategy games, this is a fusion of all the best innovations so far. Just be grateful that looks aren't everything.Mike Anderiesz
It is nearly 40 years since Ivan Sutherland, the man who invented computer graphics, unveiled his head-mounted display at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). It was an extremely heavy, clumsy and uncomfortable piece of technology, but it soon became known as the first computer you could actually wear.Forty years on, and Sutherland's display is inspiring a new generation of technological pioneers searching for ever smaller and lighter electronic devices that can be stored or worn on the body somewhat more discreetly.Last month, Motorola unveiled its Offspring range of future digital assistants. Designed by the award-winning Frog Design of Sunnyvale, California, Offspring is a "family" of wearable devices. There is a pen, a rather bulky wristwatch, a tiny ear piece and a "wearable" digital assistant (WDA), which serves as a hub and storage device.The whole kit is wireless, save for a thin tethered cord that runs out the back of a pair of goggles into a small battery that can be secreted in a back pocket. The design is only a concept, but Motorola is user testing and plans to market a product based on the design within two years.The Offspring range might just be a mobile phone by other means, but not one device offers anything like a numeric keypad. Instead, they use a combination of voice recognition and a navigation device that looks a bit like a games controller. The most exciting piece is the pair of goggles. A sleek descendant of Sutherland's head-mounted display, they look no more futuristic than the sunglasses Darren Gough might wear before he opens the bowling for England.Motorola is not the only mobile   company making wearable technology. In February, during London Fashion Week, Siemens launched a range of electronic jewellery called Xelebri. The pendant-like devices can be worn around the neck or hooked on to clothes. "They are fashion accessories that make phone calls," explains George Appling, president of the new division. Xelebri will be sold in fashion stores in time for Christmas. There will even be two collections a year, one for spring and one for autumn. "We envisage the scenario where people will own many fashion accessory phones and wear the one that matches their mood, the occasion or their attire," says Appling. At &#163;250 a pop, you can see why he would.So do these products mean we will wear computers in the future? We already are. During the war in Iraq, fighter pilots read target information displayed on their visors. In the dark, the infantry wore head-mounted monitors. Most doctors in Baghdad continue to work with pagers attached to their hips. Back home, joggers in the park have started to wear heart rate monitors. One firm is developing a wristwatch that beams data to your doctor. Another is developing wireless sensors for diabetics. And consider that two-thirds of Britons carry a mobile phone with more processing power than a ZX Spectrum or a Commodore 64.In the US, a number of corporations are introducing wearable computers to the workplace. McDonald's is testing wearable tills in 45 stores. The hope is that wearables will reduce "drive thru" queues during peak hours. North West Airlines gives staff similar wearable "check-in" computers. Parcel carriers FedEx and UPS issue package handlers with rings that can scan items while loading   and unloading vehicles. In Washington DC, engineers armed with wearables are rebuilding the Pentagon.But will we ever wear computers like we wear garments? A number of technology and textile companies are already collaborating on this. Smart fabrics that contain screens secreted in a sleeve, thermochronic inks that change colour in response to the fluctuations in temperature of a body, earphones stowed in hoods, watches   connected to the internet while email attachments could even be woven into the fabric of your shirt. Far-fetched stuff, maybe, but it is all being developed in research labs from Israel to Indiana.And the reality could be closer than you think. Consider the product on sale by Finnish company Clothing+. It is a rucksack with a pouch designed for a Nokia mobile phone. You put the phone into the pouch and wear the rucksack on your back. When the phone rings, you just pull a cord attached to the straps and talk. So does carrying a Clothing+ rucksack - or even just using the hands-free console on your mobile - mean you are wearing technology?Some academics would say you are. They argue that wearable technology is part of a larger evolutionary trend going back more than 700 years. The brief history of wearable computers onMIT's websitetraces wearable technology back to 1268, when Roger Bacon wrote the first comment on the eyeglass. Others point to the way clocks were miniaturised first for the pocket and then for the wrist, or cite pagers that have been buckled to belts since the late 1950s.So what will we wear in the future? Last week, at the Magna Centre in Rotherham, there was an exhibition exploring wearable technology and smart fabrics. In the high-vaulted chamber of a former steel mill, an ensemble of metal shirts, mountain jackets and futuristic "firefly" dresses hung from the ceiling. With everything bathed in red light, the Wear Me! Exhibition looked like Rem Koolhaas had designed a new Prada store for South Yorkshire."History is littered with examples where technology and fashion have come together," explains Andrew Chetty, the exhibition's curator. Chetty collected work from across the wearable spectrum. Work from prominent designers such as Hussein Chalayan and Corpo Nove was on display, as were prototypes from students at St Martin's College in London and MIT.One garment was the Puddlejumper jacket. Designed by Elise Co, a graduate of MIT's Media Lab, the Puddlejumper is a luminescent yellow hooded jacket. Painted on its surface are several electroluminescent lamps wired to interior electronics. Water sensors are placed on the jacket's back and left sleeve. When it rains, the lamps light up, creating a flickering pattern that mirrors the pitter-patter of rain."I've always been interested in fashion," laughs Co. "At   MIT, I started to feel very limited by general computer inputs like a keyboard and things that run on a screen.  I started to get interested in things that were much more lightweight and smaller. I liked the idea of devices that could be in spaces that you could touch and pull and interact with in this very physical way."I am totally willing to place technology on my body," she admits. "I see technology as being very enabling, and for me it is an expressive medium. Because of cell phones and Walkmans, people are used to having small devices near their head, and that is opening people up to having technology around their body."But the question remains: exactly who wants to wear technology? Apart from fashion designers, interface designers, skiers (the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology has just launched a wearable avalanche beacon) and rock climbers seeking interactive route guides, the most passionate advocates you are likely to find are professional dancers.Ghislaine Boddington is the process director at Future Physical, a London-based commissioning agency for dancers working with technology. For the past nine years, Boddington has been working with motion sensor and motion capture systems that enable dancers to influence and change aspects of choreography, such as sound, lighting or video. The dancers wear the sensors, which can influence elements of the stage by their movements alone. More recently, the company has signed a scientific research contract with Xybernaut, a leading US manufacturer of wearables."If you put a wearable on a dancer, they will test it to extremes," says Boddington. "Athletes do, too, but it is often in a more repeated way. Companies are gaining a lot from working with dancers because organisations like ours report back the limitations of their gear. Ultimately, what the pedestrian needs is something that moves freely with the body."The prospect of wiring our bodies excites many, but fills many more with fear. It doesn't help that people in the wearable community openly talk of wearables as being a "pervasive technology" as if it represented no further intrusion into our lives. For many, the wearing of technology could herald a whole new meaning to the term "always on".And slick designs from mobile phone companies and innovative textiles don't mean that mass acceptance of wearables is round the corner. The wearable industry has also been littered with failures. Two years ago, Levi's failed to sell many of its industrial clothing design jackets, which included a control panel that ran a GSM mobile phone and an MP3 player. And although Nike and Adidas have poured millions into wired training shoes, neither has enjoyed mass-market success.But what is less in doubt is that people are moving ever closer to their computers. As miniaturisation continues apace, it is likely that in one way or another, technology will be woven into the fabric of our clothes without it looking outlandish or inelegant. There may well come a point where we wear our computers and don't even notice it.&#183;online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
SCO is warning that the "legal liability for the use of Linux may extend to commercial users," according to aComputerworldreport. SCO has already suedIBMfor more than $1 billion over intellectual property rights to Unix, which it alleges are misused in Linux. Background: SCO owns Unix, which it got from Novell, which got it from AT&amp;T, which created it. "Linux" is a copy of Unix. The creation of "Linux" was started by Richard Stallman, long before Linus Torvalds came along, because he wanted a free operating system. This kick-started the free software movement, which was later renamed "open source" in order to get rid of the ethical and moral dimensions and make it more appealing to big businesses. Comment: SCO's lawsuits must be considered a threat because: (a) America's intellectual property regulations are insane; and (b) the system is run by incompetents. However, hackers in garages can feel safe: there's never been much mileage in suing people who don't have any money.
Microsoft UK today admitted it had been caught short over plans for an internet-ready portable toilet, which it only yesterday dismissed as a hoax.The so-called iLoo, which was to delight this year's Glastonbury audiences with the prospect of surfing from the comfort of the smallest room, was scotched by the firm's American HQ as anApril fool's joke.But today Microsoft's UK press centre insisted that the iLoo was real. Press spokeswoman Demelza Fryer-Saxby emailed Guardian Unlimited its "official UK statement" on the matter, which is reproduced in full below:"The MSN iLoo was not false or a hoax."It follows a UK strategy to bring the internet to as many people in  Britain as possible and encourage debate about how the internet can  affect our lives now and in the future."It follows other initiatives such as MSN Street and MSN Internet Bench  where we placed the internet in real world scenarios."The press announcement was a UK story about a UK market initiative and  naturally was aimed at British culture and humour. However it was a  serious concept that came about after the success of MSN Internet Bench.  It was properly researched to concept stage with product designers and  specialist manufacturers to see how people would react to it in the UK.  It was always meant to be a one-off pilot not a major manufacturing  project."The attention the story generated has made us sure that the concept is  valid, however there was some misunderstanding about the context of the  initiative along the way and therefore it will not be built."If you have any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact the  press centre."So we did. Ms Fryer-Saxby was only slightly more forthcoming on the phone, issuing what she called "the final comment on the subject"."This was a tongue-in-cheek marketing initiative that was created in the  UK for introduction in its specific market. This was intended to be  the next in line of a number of clever initiatives in the UK involving  introducing the internet in interesting locations, including MSN Street,  MSN Park Bench and MSN Deckchair."After further review, we decided not to  move forward with it. We regret that the press release was  distributed before the program was finalised and apologise for any  confusion that has resulted."Unfortunately, the confusion over the legitimacy of this effort was  caused by people moving too quickly and who misspoke before gathering  all of the relevant information. We apologise for the miscommunication  and assure you that this is the final word on this subject."So, despite garnering worldwide publicity and thrilling headline writers in newsrooms across the land, the iLoo is doomed to remain on the drawing board.Only time will tell what emerges as the new project from the MSN UK team. The broadband biscuit? Online ovens?Were heads rolling at the Microsoft UK press centre? Ms Fryer-Saxby wouldn't say. But somewhere, a Microsoft worker is flushed with embarrassment.
Reutershas the story, such as it is....
The Sony handheld seems to be based on yet another new Sony format.... - a new all in one portable entertainment platform called PSP - scheduled for release in fourth quarter of 2004 - allows consumers to enjoy gaming AND other entertainment content anytime, anywhere - new platform is UMD - Universal Media Disc comprising of a 60mm optical disc (1.8GB) - PSP will have a wide screen 480 x 272 pixel TFT LCD monitor - video quality equivalent to DVD video at low data rate with MPEG4 - USB 2.0 port compatible with Memory Stick
Computer company Apple is negotiating with record labels to launch its iTunes online music download service in Europe by the end of the year following the venture's much-hyped US debut.Apple launched iTunes in the US two weeks ago. It has got off to a strong start with more than 1m songs downloaded in its first week.Apple and its chief executive Steve Jobs now want to show it can solve the problems facing record companies in Europe too. The secret of Mr Jobs' success is partly to do with Apple's cachet, its reputation for good design and for championing consumers rather than corporations.It is also to do with the simplicity of the transaction. Songs cost 99 cents to download, and the company has developed software that allows users to "burn" an unlimited number of tracks on to a CD or transfer them to the Apple iPod portable music player.A list of this week's leading downloads through iTunes in the US suggests British record company EMI could profit from the system. Two of its acts - Coldplay and Norah Jones - are among the most popular.At present the service is only available to owners of Apple computers but the company is planning a Windows version for PCs before the end of the year.Record industry insiders said they were impressed by the early success of iTunes but cautioned that launching in Europe would not be easy.They said that, with many artists signed to different labels in different countries, rights agreements would take time to secure.However, the success of the iTunes store is expected to convince those leading artists who have yet to license their 
 music for use on the web - including the Beatles and the Rolling Stones - to look again at the idea.Mr Jobs, a big fan of the Eagles, intervened personally in order to get the veteran Hotel California rockers to change their minds about music on the web.Given the growing enthusi asm of record labels for the concept of paid-for downloads, as shown by EMI's recent decision to make more than 90% of its catalogue available on the web, the service could launch in Europe by the autumn."Hitting 1m songs in less than a week was totally unexpected," said Warner Music chairman Roger Ames recently."Apple has shown music fans, artists and the music industry as a whole that there really is a successful and easy way of legally distributing music over the internet," he said.
At this week's E3 games conference in Los Angeles, Sony has announced that it will ship a handheld version of the PlayStation by the end of next year, reportsReuters. Sony currently controls the market for "static" games consoles though Nintendo has a monopoly of the handheld market with the Game Boy and Game Boy Advance. The EyeToy mentioned in the Reuters article was developed in the UK and was reported in Online last year.
It sounded like every geeky Glastonbury-goer's ultimate online experience. But hopes of surfing the web from the comfort of a portable toilet have been dashed after Microsoft claimed that its fanfares about the iLoo were an April fool's hoax.The "joke", though, was created 30 days late. MSN UK issued a press release on April 30 announcing the creation of the so-called iLoo, which it described as "a unique experience for surfers looking for an alternative to the bog-standard festival loo experience".  The iLoo would feature at "a majority of the summer season festivals", MSN said.The release also quoted MSN marketing manager Tracy Blacher as saying: "It's exciting to think that the smallest room can now be the gateway to the massive virtual world."However, Microsoft spokeswoman Bridgitt Arnold told the Associated Press yesterday:  "This iLoo release came out of the UK office and was not a Microsoft sanctioned communication and we apologise for any confusion or offence it may have caused."The fake release was covered by the Wall Street Journal, the Associated Press, Internet Magazine and Reuters. Guardian Unlimited was alsotaken in.MSN UK has now removed the press release from its site, although it remains on the web as acached versionsaved by the search engine Google.Meanwhile a rather sheepish Microsoft spokeswoman today told Guardian Unlimited that she was waiting for a statement on the matter from MSN UK and could not comment or answer any questions in the meantime.     Tech news site CNet called the iLoo "an elaborate ruse", while the Associated Press was keen to stress that it had checked out the story with the usual sources: it had confirmation of the veracity of the iLoo project from two of Microsoft's PR firms, Waggener Edstrom and the Red Consultancy.
I'm house hunting, as anyone who read my weeklycommenton Guardian Unlimited today would have realised. Clearly, the whole issue of estate agents on the net is a sore point for lots of people - I've had a big response since the story was posted this morning. Everyone agrees there's a problem (haven't heard from any estate agents themselves, yet), although there's been some praise forFoxtons'website. But of the three emails praising Foxtons' website, two have expressed reservations about the agent's other qualities, suggesting their prices are high. It seems, just like houses themselves, there's always a "but...".
Spam. Spam. Spam. Spam. Spam. Little did Monty Python's Flying Circus realise when they created that magical song 30 years ago that one day spam would come to mean something other than a lump of postwar processed meat.Now I have seen in the LA Times a picture of the man who effectively invented spam (as in unsolicited email). Gary Thuerk, who came up with the invention of mass emails in 1978 when he was marketing manager for Digital Equipment Corporation, looks perfectly normal. But then, of course, so did Hannibal Lecter.Known now by his colleagues as Father of Spam and Spam Man, he is apparently completely unrepentant over what he has unleashed on the world.The article suggested that 2.5 billion pieces of spam are circulated every day. So few? It also claims that 80% of the emails arriving at the world's biggest internet provider, America Online, are spam. I'm sure the figure is much higher and most of them are being sent to me.My day now starts with a cup of tea and a massive evacuation of about 96% of the emails that have arrived overnight. They seem to come in waves although there are two constants: one offers the chance to "enhance" a part of the male anatomy by a simple procedure, the other offers to enhance one's bank account by the simple procedure of supplying all of one's bank details to a stranger.Most recently I have been offered a chance of dealing with unsightly post-birth stretch marks. I have many problems in life and many things I might like to change about my body but post-birth stretch marks are not yet something that keep me awake at night. But still they come.The most irritating emails now are the ones sent my someone with a vaguely familiar name - Greg, Susie - and a friendly message like "good to see you the other day." Once you open the email you find that, once again, it's another chance to enhance something.     I foolishly responded a couple of times to the people who offered me an opportunity to make millions  merely by allowing my bank account to be used for a dictator's widow to make a deposit or something along those lines."What a great idea," I wrote. "Drop a line to the Fraud Squad at Scotland Yard and I'm sure they'll get back in touch." Or "I think your scheme is wonderful but unfortunately I was born in 1944 rather than yesterday." This bit of clever-dickery merely had the effect of encouraging more pleas for bank details.Some of the more persistent forms of spam seem to have tailed off. For a few weeks now, farmyard sex and college students inviting strangers to their dorms seem to have disappeared. In their place are fabulous offers for inkjet printers - unless this has a secret sexual connotation that has passed me by.I know there are all kinds of offers to fight spam. But they come in the form of spam themselves so how are we to know?Meanwhile, at least I now know what Gary Thuerk looks like.Oh, Gary, Gary, we know you didn't mean it to end like this - and if you could invent it, surely you must be able to stop it. Or is spam now like Dracula and only a wooden stake through its cyber-heart will do the trick? The least you could do is say you're sorry and make a public appearance eating humble pie - made of the dear old spam.
CNet has interviewedJeff Hawkins, creator of the Palm Pilot and co-founder of Handspring. Like Psion, he concluded that the market was going to move from PDAs to mobile communicators such as the Treo. That optionally comes with a RIM Blackberry-style keyboard, and he now thinks keyboards are the coming thing....
In the days before I first got my hands on a camera phone I used to dream of the many and varied tasks I could use it for.No more having to shop for clothes together. I'd just whizz her a picture of the new shirt I was about to buy and wait for the thumbs down image to follow. When meeting people I could send them an image of where I was so they could find me more easily. I even toyed with a friend's rather sad suggestion that I create a pictorial archive of the celebrations of every goal scored at Arsenal's Highbury ground this year.Of course when my first camera-toting mobile finally arrived I used it for around two weeks and then pretty much forgot it had a snapper on board.My collection of photos consists of a several snaps of my baby, a couple of my dog and a few entertaining moments at a friend's stag night. Pretty pathetic, really. Perhaps you feel the same and that the gloss has gone from your camera phone.Well, here's some ideas of things you can do to re-ignite your love affair with your Multimedia messaging mobile.Print your photos outGot a killer shot you'd like a proper print of? Coming soon are booths in public places that will print out camera phone images for you. Snappers use their phone infrared or Bluetooth facilities to transfer the images which is printed out on the spot. Several companies are working on systems, including Siemens and Kodak. Expect to see them cropping up in shopping centres and airports sometime next year.Snap a celebCalling all celeb spotters. Next time you spot your favourite soap star, snap a quick picture of them and e-mail it to a site calledCelebsnapper.com. This service than sends out the image as Multimedia Messages to its subscribers, presumably so they can and join their fellow stalkers.Many celebs have rather unsportingly/understandably (depending on your point of view), got a little sniffy about camera phones. In fact all the key celeb hangouts from The Ivy to the Soho House have now banned them from their premises - though I must admit I'd like to see doorman who tells Madonna that she has to leave her Sony Ercisson P800 at reception.Camera phones are upsetting more than a few celebs. Several countries, including Saudi Arabia, have banned them completely. Camera phones have also been outlawed in gyms and swimming pools. There were even calls for European privacy laws to be extended to cover mobile phones after a snapper took images of a nude swimming night in Aqualand in Cologne and then posted the pictures on the web.Send holiday snaps homeSurely the ultimate use for a camera phone is the instant holiday photo of you reclining on a beach lounger, which lands on the phone or PC of a work colleague struggling with their accounts back in the UK. This works fine if you are holidaying in Mablethorpe, but what about Marbella?Swedish company Telia Sonera recently announced it had secured a worldwide deal for GPRS roaming and that its customers would soon be able to send image back to phones in Sweden from Western Europe and the USA.It's good to see the UK networks aren't far behind. Vodafone in particular is claiming that MMS will work in most of Western Europe and the USA, while the other three networks have all the major holiday destinations (Greece, Spain, France) covered. Most networks have information on their websites. However, given my experience of using mobiles for anything over than voice calls and text messages outside the UK, I'll believe it when I see it.See who is in the pubOne day soon you might soon be able to receive a Multimedia Message consisting of a snap showing you who is drinking in your local. In June Nokia is to launch its £350 Observation Camera which courtesy of a technology called Machine to Machine (M2M) enables its user to send it a text message and receive an image of whatever is in front of it by return.Start your own blogThe blogging craze looks like it will soon be extending to mobile phones. An Irish company,Newbay Software, has pioneered a system that enables camera phone owners to create their own blog web pages. Users simply take images or send text messages and they appear on the page. Sadly the system is network dependent and while the service will soon be offered in Europe and the USA none of the UK networks have taken it up.
"TheFlight Riskweblog tells the incredible story of Isabella V., a wealthy young woman who claims she went into hiding in early March to avoid an arranged marriage."Wiredtracks the story of what sounds like a hoax....
"When you meet someone now who is writing a compiler or hacking a Unix kernel, at least you know they're not just doing it to pick up chicks."Paul Grahamlooks at the nature of programming.....
Denim ageThis month, Levis is celebrating the 130th anniversary of the 501 range by holding its first digital art competition. The brief "required students across Europe to reinterpret and explore the rich cultural heritage of the 501 jean for the web environment". Go to the European site and you can vote for your favourite bits. Unfortunately, the site is done in Shockwave Flash with a user interface from hell, but some of the work is being shown at London's Institute of Contemporary Art from May 12-14. The winner will be announced on May 31. However, the most disappointing thing on the site is the advertising section. You should be able to replay about 60 commercials, going back to Rivets in 1984. Some were entertaining and/or featured great songs. I sampled a few but only got the message: "Sorry, but the online rights for this advert have expired." Are these people insane?http://eu.levi.comwww.ica.org.ukwww.levistrauss.com/about/history/jeans.htmFilm MogulFirst there was the Hollywood Stock Exchange, which was followed by the BBC's Celebdaq celebrity stock exchange. Now there's Film Mogul, which lets you hire "real-life actors, actresses and directors" and make movies. But you are not condemned to a life of drudgery as a studio head or producer. You can also sign up to a life of drudgery as an agent, a critic or even a journalist, which means the editor in chief of The Film-Mogul Times will send you stories to write for the paper. "Journalists are paid at a rate of $500,000 per printed story, and the top 10 journalists receive $2 million per week as a salary." The top 10 critics also bank $2m a week. Pity it's only a game.www.film-mogul.comDNA revisitedThe DNA story has now been retold countless times from the Crick and Watson point of view, but Linus Pauling has often been forgotten. Pauling, who won two Nobel prizes, was the world's leading structural chemist and odds-on favourite to win the race. His story has now been told in day-by-day format in fantastic detail by Oregon State University, which has 4,400 feet of Pauling's papers. The collection includes correspondence, notebook pages, photographs and audio and video clips. And considering the vast amount of stuff available, the site's designers have done a good job of making it accessible. America's PBS network has also done a nice site about Rosalind Franklin to go with Nova's TV documentary, Secret of Photo 51.osulibrary.orst.edu/specialcollections/coll/pauling/dnawww.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/photo51Band namesElvis Costello reckons that "talking about band names is like dancing about architecture". However, there is a certain anorak fascination to knowing the origins of names such as the Ramones, Cabaret Voltaire, R&#246;yksopp and so on. Vast numbers of band names are missing, of course, but the site has just been a Yahoo Pick, and visitors can submit the origins of names they know.www.8ung.at/nina_mMay weeksThis is a busy month. The National Baby Safety Week ends today, but we go straight into the National Endometriosis Awareness Campaign (May 6-16), National Breastfeeding Awareness Week (May 11-17), Allergy Week (May 12-16), National Vegetarian Week (May 19-25), and World No Tobacco Day (May 31). It would be nice to suggest the month might include a little jollity. However, National Smile Week is only intended to remind you to visit your dentist, or at least brush up your oral hygiene. What's ahead for the coming year? The National Assembly for Wales site is keeping a handy diary.Cot death awarenessEndometriosis AwarenessBreastfeeding AwarenessAllergy WeekNational Vegetarian WeekWorld No Tobacco DayNational Smile WeekNational Assembly for WalesNew &amp; notedE-commerce competition:www.ecommerce-awards.co.ukBBC Innovation competition:www.bbc.co.uk/science/innovation/about.shtml100 years of Harley-Davidson:www.loc.gov/rr/scitech/harley100Six of the best: RevisionBBC Bitesizewww.bbc.co.uk/schools/gcsebitesizeGuardian Learnthingswww.learn.co.uk4Learningwww.homeworkhigh.comRevision Centralwww.revisioncentral.co.ukSchoolsnetwww.schoolsnet.comLinksrevisionlink.co.uk
It is as thick as three human hairs, can be rolled into a cylinder, bent, twisted and, say its developers, the latest computer screen is an important step towards electronic newspapers you could fold up and read on the train.The 0.3mm reusable screen, which displays black text on a whitish-grey background, is made possible using a thin foil topped with circuits that activate an electronic "ink".It can be updated in a quarter of a second, making it fast enough for text, and can be viewed crisply from almost any angle, though is not quite yet suitable for single-sheet electronic newspapers or books.Yu Chen, of the E Ink Corporation in Cambridge, Massachusetts, however said it was a "major step forward"."We have cleared a big obstacle in electronic paper development," he told the science journal Nature.But until the screen is thin enough to be folded and bent through any angle it will not be true e-paper, which would revolutionise publishing and many other areas of life.Later versions of the screen could be used for newspapers, downloaded onto the e-paper each day, computer screens sewn into clothing allowing users to read maps and listings in an unfamiliar city and credit cards showing the available balance.Other aims include upping the speed the screen can switch to a new page of text so it can show video, incorporating wireless technology and squeezing a full range of colours out of the electronic ink.Robert Wisnieff, senior manager of IBM advanced display laboratory in Yorktown Heights, New York, said the flexible screen will help to make electronic screens part of every day life."This is a peek at the future," he said.
Computer giant Microsoft is developing a portable toilet which allows users to surf the internet.The iLoo, or www.c as its designers have dubbed it, has a built-in keyboard and plasma screen at seat level and a surround sound speaker system under the sink.Connection to the internet is via fast broadband technology through an aerial fitted to the roof.In a sign that nowhere is sacred when it comes to advertising, Microsoft is in talks with toilet paper manufacturers about putting the names of websites on each sheet.The first to try the toilet will be revellers at some of Britain's biggest summer music festivals this year.Microsoft has not forgotten about the notorious queues for toilet facilities at such events either and is planning to have a computer station with a keyboard and screen so those waiting in line can send emails.Tracy Blacher, from Microsoft, said: "The internet's so much a part of everyday life now that surfing on the loo was the next natural step."People used to reach for a book or magazine when they were on the loo but now they'll be logging on."It's exciting to think that the smallest room can now be the gateway to the massive virtual world."In 1997 Microsoft created the first "cyber Brookside" by taking an ordinary London street and giving each home a personal computer connected to the internet which they could use to communicate with one another.
Justin Hall is chain smoking, his tanned face pressed close to the glass of a monitor. He reaches around, taps a set of editing controls and a flurry of images settles into place. He looks satisfied."That should do it," he says. Part adventurer, part old-fashioned explorer with a 21st century conscience and a self-taught ease with the latest communications technology, Hall cuts an almost evangelical figure.It's not long since he and his travelling partner, Jason Hosh - the other half of the Running Man experiment - returned from Bolivia. The result of those travels is being aired on the Discovery Travel &amp; Adventure channel. But for Hall and Hosh, Bolivia has simply been the latest of a long series of projects, using technology for the benefit of threatened peoples.The pair travel to some of the most remote locations. They broadcast daily web reports and video feeds, plus text diaries and still images - a form of "super blog" - about the situation facing the indigenous groups they encounter. They also film material for use in more conventional documentary TV. It's an approach that tests endurance to the limit, and sees the pair travelling using traditional methods and working in tandem with local people.Fingering the wooden running man pendant hanging from his neck, Hall explains: "Running Man is a series of documentaries filmed on location in some of the most stunning, remote and, at times, hostile environments known. Each episode is an extreme expedition and carries a strong message raising important ethical questions." Adds Hosh: "It's adventure with a social conscience."What comes out is a mixture of travelogue, video diary and educational programme, combining elements of each in an unconventional but often compelling format. Uniquely, it's a format open to online debate via the web and online forums, allowing the viewer to draw his own conclusions.The pair are gadget freaks, scouting out the latest technology. The array of technology used to produce the programmes is impressive. "In the past, we used Getac military spec laptops, and a World Communicator dual ISDN satellite dish, which was brilliant. Then Real Producer for compressing files for FTP transfer and Adobe Premiere to edit, store and forward film sequences."Jay had Olympus digital cameras for expandable stills," he continues, "and we both used Uni-Pac 30s solar systems - incredible for charging camera batteries anywhere."For the second trip, we added a Raytheon Chameleon military spec laptop, plus Palm 505s protected by rugged housings, and Iridium Sat phones. The Raytheon Agama handhelds we took with us this time were a clever bit of kit: Bluetooth, satellite-connected, with GPS, mapping and GIS (geographical information systems) software."The main considerations are power and weight, as well as solar potential. Hall acknowledges it isn't easy using such equipment in hot jungle and freezing desert terrain."Logging on with the World Communicator was simple and reliable. Even while floating in the middle of a flooded forest, looking for a clear line of sight, we were still able to send data-heavy files (video, still and text entries) to two simultaneous locations. Water damage due to extremely high levels of humidity caused some problems, but only with the Olympus stills camera. On one occasion, Jay had to dismantle the CL2500 and lay all its components in a bed of silica overnight. An annoying process - but it worked."Hall says the Raytheon Agama handhelds were fantastic: the GIS software made plain environmental impacts from afar. "It illustrated deforestation over periods with real satellite images, for example."So, presumably technology is key to what they do? "Oh course!" says Hall. "It is integral to our missions, particularly if we are to draw attention to the issues we encounter."The web enables us as non-specialists to draw on the advice and guidance of others, regardless of their geographical location. It is through their contributions that we hope to relay a realistic and informed opinion of the issues we encounter."When I first met them two years ago, they had just returned from Suriname, in South America, for their Mission One. Now, with Bolivia, the poorest country on the continent, they have extended the theme one step further.In the new series, the team pursued a more typical documentary approach, living with traditional salt miners, child labourers working in the world's oldest silver mine (in a mountain thousands of feet above sea level), and following steps to eradicate coca growing (the base constituent of cocaine), which has left traditional farmers despairing for their livelihood. It is powerful and, at times, unsettling viewing."It wasn't possible to utilise all the web-interactivity on this mission," says Hall. "We had to follow a certain template, but we plan to expand the interactivity on Mission Three."We love that approach and so do the people we meet," adds Hosh. "The reception is really good every time we show up in a village.""All these groups are very animated about bringing the sharp end of technology into their villages," says a passionate Hall, "so that their representatives - the tribal leaders, chiefs, and so on - can speak directly to other groups and organisations."Hall describes how the pair stayed with villagers in Bolivia and Suriname. "The technology has granted us incredible access, seeing how people live and the problems they face."During an encounter on Mission One, for example, the children and headmaster of a school in a tiny, remote tribe told Hall about a lack of essential equipment. He presented the observations to the Running Man web community, using Hosh's pictures and video diary. A girl in Holland was so inspired that she convinced her friends to put together a container with gear for the community."There still is a reaction because of our visit," says Hall. "I had a meeting in Amsterdam with one of the largest concession owners of mining in Suriname, whom we'd met out there, and he's entering into negotiations with the Yana. Before, he wouldn't have done this."Raising finance is always tough, and Hall has contracted malaria on his journeys, too. However, he remains determined to push on with Mission Three. There are plans to visit the Congo, as well as the Muluku Islands, in Irian Jaya (Indonesia). The trips will not be without difficulties, not the least being civil war. However, a new team is being pulled together and everyone is looking forward to the adventure.For these trips, Hall thinks that GIS and ArcSoft/view software has immense potential. "To be able to draw on multiple information sources and overlay data on to Landsat images is by far the most graphic way of understanding and elaborating on the issues we encounter."There will be more use of Agama units and Bluetooth networks, too, plus Flexis rugged keyboards and armoured PDAs, which should reduce power requirements and will allow each team member to respond to questions via the web independently.Although there are plans to put up broadband satellite systems or 3G networks that are satellite based, the pair say they will continue to rely on the World Communicator systems."If our trips were in Europe, we could leave with a camera, a PDA and a 3G phone. However the Congo is a little less... domestic."&#183;See:www.runningman.tv
Apple's new iTunes music store grabbed the headlines last week. But the company also unveiled its redesigned iPod portable music player, which hooks up to Macs and PCs. Online has had an exclusive first play. The verdict? More of the same in some ways: more space for songs (7,500) than most of us are ever likely to need, all the original's ease of use, and slick synching with Apple's iTunes software (or MusicMatch for Windows users).But there are differences: the new iPod is slimmer, and the controls have been redesigned. It might be that this original iPod owner is used to the old controls, but I did not find the new setup as straightforward.Battery life remains excellent, however, and the iPod's software has also been enhanced. The new desktop dock also gives the iPod a decent home when it's being charged or updated, and includes a line out, so you can hook it up to a hi-fi system. This little box can make a big noise, in more ways than one.From &#163;248.99, incl VAT.See:www.apple.com/uk/ipod
"A Los Angeles man has filed a proposed class-action lawsuit against Best Buy and Microsoft, accusing them of scamming customers by charging them for online services without their knowledge," reportsReuters. Basically, the suit says that Samuel Kim bought a PC from Best Buy with a debit card, and the PC included a CD for Microsoft's MSN online service. "Best Buy apparently sent Kim's debit card information to Microsoft, which activated an MSN service account in his name without telling him. Kim did not use the compact disc but discovered after receiving his bank statement that Microsoft had deducted a monthly service charge from his account, the suit said."
InternetMidband bluesBT has confirmed that its "midband" internet access service will cost &#163;35 a month, making it more expensive than its ADSL broadband service. The telco had previously said that "&#163;20 to &#163;25 seems about right" for the service.The Register, a tech news website, reported that the flat-rate service will be limited to 75 hours' usage per month, if used at its maximum speed of 128 kilobit per second (kbps), and 150 hours if used at 64 kbps. There will be a two-hour limit to each session, and a hoped-for always-on email service has been dropped for technical reasons.Shaun Thomas, who is campaigning for broadband in the Colne Valley in Essex, says the result will be of no interest to him, even if his area does not get an ADSL-enabled exchange: "&#163;35 a month, limited to five hours a day, is worse than broadband," he said. But the new service will be available to a much larger proportion of the country than ADSL and cable broadband.Pay as you goMetronet has become the first ISP to offer a form of pay as you go broadband net access in the UK. Whereas its rivals offer unlimited access with a fixed fee, Metronet's service bills users on the amount of data they download.Its cheapest option, PayGo500, costs &#163;10 per month and offers traditional broadband download speeds of 512kbps and uploads of 256kbps. Users can download up to 200MB per month free, thereafter they pay an additional 2.3p per megabyte. The service is capped so the maximum a user can pay on this tariff is &#163;23.99 per month no matter how much they download.Metronet is also offering one and two megabit services. The systems runs via BT's ADSL exchanges so won't be available to all users.www.metronet.co.ukReport that spamInternet service provider AOL will release version 8.0 of its software, including a Report Spam button, within the next fortnight. The button simultaneously deletes junk email and reports it to AOL's abuse department.Its introduction in the US led to sharp rise in reporting, with 5.5 million spam emails blocked in one day in March. The ISP is using this data to take legal action against a dozen spammers in the US: in December it won damages of $7 million against CN Productions, a US pornographic website firm, for breaking an injunction to stop spamming AOL members.AOL's move comes as email management firm Brightmail says that pornographic spam makes up 19% of spam, up from 5% in November 2001. The firm says that 45% of all email is now spam.Meanwhile, SecurityFocus.com reports that spammers are turning to virus-writers' techniques to keep the junk emails flowing.GadgetsSnapper updatedCanon has unveiled the latest incarnation of its popular Digital Ixus digital camera. The Digital Ixus II stainless steel-finished snapper is smaller and lighter than its predecessors, takes 3.2 megapixel images and features 2x optical and 3.2x digital zooms. It can shoot and store video clips of up to three minutes with audio. Most significant of all is that the Ixus II is Canon's first camera to use the Secure Digital (SD) card for storage. Previous Canon models have saved images on the much larger CompactFlash card. The Digital Ixus II is expected to go on sale in the UK in June priced at around &#163;370.www.canon.co.ukSmart callSiemens' mission to reinvent the mobile phone continues with the June launch of the SL55. Following on from a pendant style mobile (Xelibri) and a smartphone with buttons flanking the screen rather than beneath it (the SX1), the SL55's design twist is a slide-down keypad. The tiny phone also boasts a colour screen, picture messaging   (although to send images the &#163;100 QuickPix snap on-camera is required), Wap via GPRS and the option of assigning different ringtones to different callers. Available in either chrome or red, the triband phone will be sold initially through Orange with a price tag of around &#163;200&lt;A HREF="http://www.my-siemens.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.my-siemens.co.ukMake some noiseLast year saw the release of innovative product called the Soundbug which could be used to turn any flat surface like a desk or a window into a speaker.Now a British company, Omnivox, has used a similar technology to develop a far more powerful product aimed at the corporate market. Designed to be used in presentations the small circular Omnivox device connects to a laptop PC and then turns the desk into its speaker.   It is accompanied by a neat carry case that includes leads and a universal power supply. The Omnivox is available now priced at around &#163;300.www.omnivox.bizZen-likeDays after Apple took the wraps of its new 30GB iPod MP3 player, Creative Labs played its trump card - the latest incarnation of its Nomad Jukebox Zen which sports a 60GB hard disk offering twice as many tunes as its rival player (16,000 as opposed to the I-Pod's 8000). The Nomad Jukebox Zen also claims a battery life of 14 hours, twice that of the iPod, and will retail in the US for $400, $100 less than the Apple product. There's no news yet of a UK launch or pricing.The player is also not unlike the iPod in terms of styling, though it is larger   and arguably less elegant than the Apple player.http://uk.europe.creative.comMusic everywhereYamaha Audio is claiming to be the first company to offer a multi-room audio system that works wirelessly by using the 802.11b format. Due to launch in the UK in September, the MusicCast system has a large capacity music server that transmits the audio to a series of terminals that have to be connected to speakers. Owners can listen to up to eight different musical streams on eight different terminals/speakers. The server features 80GB of storage - enough for 100 CDs or 1,000 albums of MP3 compressed music - and has an integrated CD burner to enable users to create their own discs.www.yamaha-audio.co.ukHardwareFaster eMacsApple has just unveiled an updated version of its eMac desktop computer for education. Two of the three new versions of the machine, which has a CRT rather than flat-panel display, now boast a 1GHz G4 processor, while the bottom-end model has a 800MHz processor. All the machines have improved graphics and the capability to be fitted up with 802.11g Airport Extreme wireless networking. Prices start at &#163;699 including VAT, rising to &#163;999 for the version with built-in DVD burner.&lt;A HREF="http://www.apple.com/uk/emac/"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.apple.com/uk/emac
Social software is the next big thing: everybody's talking about it. A lot of people are developing exciting new programs to aid social interaction. Social software is being massively overhyped. It's just a sideshow run by a few geeks with a tenuous grip on reality. Social software isn't new: we've been using it for decades. We already have email, Usenet newsgroups, chatrooms, instant messaging, bulletin boards, multi-user games and more. Social software isn't a new technology at all, it just reflects changes in society. Take your pick...Whatever the truth may turn out to be, social software was certainly the hot topic at last month's O'Reilly Emerging Technologies conference (ETCon) in Santa Clara, California. There was a stream of talks about it, including some based on British developments such as the message boards at UpMyStreet.com, and the iCan website, which the BBC is going to launch to help promote local activism. The newly formed Social Software Alliance held an evening meeting to which "birds of a feather" duly flocked. And Hydra collaborative note-taking software was the hit of the show.In an ETCon keynote, Clay Shirky, a professor at New York University, attempted to put social software in a context that made it comprehensible. He argued that people were most familiar with two kinds of communication: two-way point-to-point formats such as email and the telephone, and "one-way outbound" formats exemplified by all forms of broadcasting. To these one-to-one and one-to-many approaches, you can now add many-to-many types of communication supported by the internet.Shirky had co-organised a Social Software Summit in New York in November, and has now co-founded a group weblog called Many-to-Many to explore the ramifications."Prior to the web, we had hundreds of years of experience with broadcast media, from printing presses to radio and TV. Prior to email, we had hundreds of years' experience with personal media - the telegraph, the telephone. But outside the internet, we had almost nothing that supported conversation among many people at once. Conference calling was the best it got - cumbersome, expensive, real-time only, and useless for large groups. The social tools of the internet, lightweight though most of them are, have a kind of fluidity and ease of use that the conference call never attained," he writes.People who have been using The Well, Cix and similar computer-based conferencing systems since the 1980s will no doubt protest but, sad to say, there have only been a few thousand of us.Of course, Shirky concedes that software for group interaction has been around for decades. These include mailing lists, bulletin boards and multi-user games such as Mud (Multi-User Dungeon). But, he argues, we've also had the technology to do blogs for almost a decade, so the real question is "why now?"One reason is that there is a web-based platform emerging, based on weblogs, Wikis (web pages that any user can edit), and RSS feeds (either Rich Site Summary, or Really Simple Syndication - a way of sending messages when a site's contents are updated). Another is ease of use: "ridiculously easy group-forming is really new," says Shirky. A third is ubiq uity. In some cases, he argues, all the people in a group will have web access, so they can take its use for granted.In other words, the world has changed. In the early days of online communications, the online and offline worlds were like two Hula Hoops that may have had little or no connection with one another. Users typically had groups of friends online, with whom they did online things such as chat and share files, and groups of friends offline, with whom they went to the pub, or whatever. Today, the Hula Hoops overlap, and offline groups will naturally develop online components.At ETCon, there was naturally a very large overlap, since more than half the participants were geeks toting wirelessly networked notebook computers. During Shirky's talk, for example, you could chat online to other people in the audience via IRC (Internet Relay Chat) or instant messaging. Several people were blogging the talk live, while   others were reading what they were writing. Many people were taking their own notes, but there was also collaborative note-taking going on using Hydra software, which only runs on Mac OS X 10.2. Hydra allows several people to type into the same document at the same time - a bit like a live Wiki page, as someone observed.Tim O'Reilly, founder of O'Reilly Associates, said he thought this was one of the most interesting aspects of the conference. "The electronic back-channel is a significant change in our culture. When people in a meeting are able to make comments and bring in new information like this, it makes for a richer, more immersive experience. We're just starting to get into these blended physical world/ electronic world experiences, and I think that's going to be a major change."It's hard to disagree, though its usefulness will be limited if it only works with notebook PCs connected   to the internet - especially since some of the dumber social software designers already assume you have a notebook with a large screen. If the idea makes the leap to smart phones and wireless PDAs, as I assume it will, then it could become very powerful indeed.But Tom Coates, from UpMyStreet. com, has reservations about the "current hysteria". Three months before the conference, he posted a short essay on his blog, Plasticbag.org, saying: "There's something about the abandonment of concepts of 'online community' and the complete rejection of familiar terms and paradigms like the message board that worries me. There seems to be a bizarre lack of history to the whole enterprise - a desire to claim a territory as unexplored when it's patently not."Coates has been working on what would now be called social software for several years, and at ETCon, he gave a talk on UpMyStreet.com's Conversations feature.   This is "almost anti-web" in that it is based on geographical proximity rather than people gathering around topics of interest, regardless of the physical distances between them.Users tell the Conversations website their postcode, and "posts are organised by nearest to furthest away, rather than by time," says Coates. The assumption is that if they live in the same area, they could have a lot in common, including shared concerns about local shops and schools, house prices, and perhaps the politicians who represent them.But social software advocates could regard this as an old-fashioned approach to developing social software: figuring out what people could use and trying to provide it. This idea has not suddenly become obsolete, and it can work well, but it is still a top-down way of doing things. The alternative is to provide simple tools that groups can adapt to their own needs, using a bottom-up approach.This idea is favoured by another ETCon speaker, David Weinberger, the author of Small Pieces Loosely Joined, a perceptive book about the web. He wants to see "emergent social software that tries to mould itself to the group, rather than assuming it knows what the group needs ahead of time. That approach actually models the design of internet. Emergent social software repeats that at the group level."So why is it becoming important now? It's not that there's been a technology breakthrough," he says. "Maybe we're just absorbing the more informal ad hoc behaviours typical of the web, so that emergent software is beginning to make sense to us. I hope!"The concept of emergence can be traced back to a paper on morphogenesis by the English mathematician and second world war code-breaker, Alan Turing. He applied mathematical tools to, among other things, flowers, which showed how complex structures could assemble themselves by following simple rules.Another ETCon speaker, Eric Bonabeau, showed that some social phenomena can be explained in the same way. Ant colonies, for example, don't need a massive, centralised controlling intelligence: complex social behaviours just emerge from individual ants following simple rules.If there is a new type of social software emerging, it is clearly emerging from the blogging world. Weblogs that started as simple collections of links rapidly developed into diary-like personal platforms, and many have already turned into group discussions, as members of a clique list one another on their blogrolls and leave comments on one another's blogs. Links, RSS feeds and new protocols such as Trackback are increasing the number of connections between groups of people and their blogs, creating a parallel universe that is already known as the blogosphere.So whether social software really is the next big thing depends initially on the potential size of the blogosphere, and whether it can extend its reach beyond that to the whole internet. But my bet would be that the most important social software isn't going to develop out of blogging anyway: it will come from instant messaging.Software AllianceUpMyStreet ConversationsClay Shirky: Social Software and the Politics of GroupsMany-to-ManyHydraShirky's talk - Hydra notesTom Coates: The excesses of "Social Software"David WeinbergerWikiWikiLogsTrackbackAlan Turing and morphogenesisonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
