"The board and officers of the American Nudist Research Library did not attend the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize Ceremony at Harvard University this past week. None of them, apparently, could find a thing to wear. That's too bad, because the library, in sun-kissed Kissimmee, Florida, won this year's Ig Nobel prize for literature, "for preserving nudist history so that everyone can see it," said Marc Abrahams, director of the hilariously cornball annual awards ceremony, and editor of The Annals of Improbable Research, or AIR, a magazine that pokes fun at real, but offbeat, research," reportsWired News."The 2004 Ig Nobel Prize Ceremony was presented by Abrahams, who wore a top hat and was surrounded by actual Nobel laureates and can-can dancers. He billed the event as "honoring achievements that first make people laugh, and then make them think."
Microsoft will acquire "life and death power" over the entire digital media market for years to come if the European commission's sanctions against the US software group are suspended, Europe's second highest court was told yesterday.On the second day of Microsoft's application to lift EU penalties imposed in March, when the commission fined it a record &euro;497m (&#163;340m), the company's lawyers told the court of first instance that forcing it to offer a version of its Windows operating system without its Media Player audio-visual software would cause the firm irreparable damage.But James Flynn, lawyer for the Computer and Communications Industry Association, said: "If Microsoft acquires another dominant position, it will have power of life and death over all digital formats, not just in computers but in mobile phones and other devices."Antoine Winckler, appearing for RealNetworks, maker of the biggest rival player to Microsoft's, warned that without regulatory intervention there was a real risk of "abandoning tomorrow's essential media distribution channel to a monopoly".He said: "Virtually all media - news, movies, music and business communications - will be distributed in digital form. A company that dominates the media player market can control how digital media content is created, delivered, secured and played."Microsoft's opponents argued that the software group would gradually squeeze its rivals out of the market and damage consumer choice - as it had with internet browsers, they said. Mr Winckler said that having taken a 60% share of the media player market in only five years, Microsoft was well on the way to "tipping" the market forever in its favour.
Internet bank Egg is in talks to sell its unsecured lending business in France to the financial services arm of the French retailer Auchan, the company said yesterday.The business, part of Egg's loss-making French operation, has 66,000 credit card customers. It is in talks with Auchan's Banque Accord and is consulting the French works council about the sale.Egg is 79% owned by Prudential. Its British business has been undermined by losses from its misjudged foray into France. About 100 of Egg's 450 French workers would transfer to Banque Accord if the deal went through. The closure costs of Egg France will be approximately &euro;170m (&#163;117m).Egg's share price was down 1.1% at 93p. Prudential's shares were up 2.9 % at 463.5p.Banque Accord specialises in electronic banking, the management of payment cards and the distribution of financial products including loans, savings products and insurance.It has 3.5 million clients in Europe including more than two million in France, and employs more than 700 people.
PStwoNot content with virtual ownership of the global console market and dismayed by sales that are finally starting to slow down, Sony has a plan to get even more consumers to buy a PlayStation 2. Much as the original PlayStation was revamped into a smaller, bar-of-soap style children's bedroom accoutrement renamed PSone, its younger brother is soon to get a similar makeover in the shape of PStwo. At 2.8cm thick and 75% smaller, it also comes with a built-in network adaptor for online gaming. Pretty much the only downside is that your old multi-tap (allowing you to connect four joypads) won't work. If you already own a PlayStation 2 it might be hard to justify this purchase, which is a shame, because once you've seen one you may find it hard to leave the shop without it.&#183;Out Nov 1
The Video Game Revolution (pbs.org/kcts/videogamerevolution) documents the rise of the arcade game from fad to phenomenon and includes an excellent quiz where you have to match the classic game to its sound effect.You can pay homage to the gods of retro gaming at The Space Invaders Shrine (spaceinvaders.de), where you can download an emulation of the classic 1980s game or purchase a Space Invaders thong.Pong-story.comtells the tale of Ralph H Baer, inventor of the magnificent Pong, while a tour of 1980s arcades at can be taken atatarimuseum.com.For a glimpse into video game hell, visit Buckner &amp; Garcia (bucknergarcia.com), a duo who released an album of songs dedicated to Pac Man, Frogger and Donkey Kong, andaudioatrocities.com, which exposes hysterical crimes against both acting and the English language in computer fantasy games.
Star Wars: BattlefrontPC, Playstation 2, XBOXAfter years of appalling gaming tat peddled in the name of Star Wars, you could be forgiven for fearing the worst when offered Battlefront's opportunity to take part in the universe's most famous battles from Hoth to Cloud City. Playing as one of five classes of foot soldier from each of the various factions, your job is to capture command posts and incinerate the enemy in much the same format as Battlefield 1942. It sounds good, it looks very nice and the scenery is immediately recognisable, but it all feels so dry. The painfully stilted single-player mode can comfortably be conquered in an afternoon, and online, although more exciting, there are big problems with server speeds limiting games to disappointingly few players. Being able to slaughter Ewoks and Jar Jar's stupid mates is slender recompense.&#183;LucasArts, £35-£40Animal CrossingGamecubeImagine a game without guns, anatomically improbable heroines or customisable cars. Difficult, isn't it? Animal Crossing is one such title, set in towns filled with cute and cuddly woodland animals who like it when you do them favours, and at no point suggest that you kill each other using magic weapons or attack helicopters. Along with tasks for your animal chums, there are other things to take care of, like decorating your house and making new friends. Because the game takes place in real time, if you roll into the town square after getting home from the pub, you'll find it deserted, but turn up on Christmas morning and it's a world of seasonal fun. Bizarre, surreal and frighteningly compelling, Animal Crossing's eventual arrival in the UK is good news for gamers jaded by way too much of the same.&#183;Nintendo, &#163;40
Have standards started slipping at EA? Following the Burnout 3online cock-upcomes news that Tiger Woods 2005 hasbeen recalled. The game, which was released last week and already sold in considerable numbers, has a bug that prevents completion. EA hopes to replace all copies within three weeks, but it still remains an embarrassment for the world's biggest games publisher. Thanks to those who sent in mails about this.
Well, the name at least.The BBC's attempt at helping encourage and boost public campaigns at grassroots level,iCan, ischanging its monicker.Comment:Apart from helping the BBC keep an eye on groundswells of opinion so that it never missed the fuel protests again, I never quite got the point of iCan. Or, more accurately, it seemed like a very under-funded and sidelined attempt at encouraging activism. The name change would suggest they're not too happy with its performance either.Still, helping people to campaign for what they believe is a laudable objective.
You know the drill; a small website with something interesting on it gets picked up bySlashdotand suddenly collapses under the weight of traffic.Fear no more! Some bright spark has come up withMirrordot, according toWired News."Mirrordot works by automatically copying the entire contents of a Slashdotted site to servers hosted by Deru Internet, which for now is donating the required bandwidth. Following the model of Google caching, Mirrordot puts a frame around the mirrored page in an attempt to make it clear that what it is displaying is not the original page. Further, because many sites pay for themselves through ads, Jacobson said Mirrordot maintains the original ads and their referral links to ensure that any traffic would still benefit the original sites."
"The University of Maryland's Robert H. Smith School of Business received a $235,000 award... for the business school's Business Plan Archive (BPA) to capture and organize the business, marketing, technical plans, and venture presentations from more than 2,000 both failed and successful Internet start-ups," , reportsInternet Week."The stories of the entrepreneurs, their customers, and investors will be part of the BPA and the LC's digital-preservation project."Comment:According to the story's quotes, more than 30% of business records never turn physical: so these guys are documenting the history of businesses - good and bad - to hand over to future generations.Bet there are plenty of failed dotcom business models they could get their hands on.
When I was in Austin last month for theWomen's Game Conference, I heard about a machinima series (or independent animated cinema created from and within computer games) calledRed vs. Bluecreated with XBox uber-game Halo. Everyone raved about it so I had to check it out. It is rather incredible, and blindingly funny.But the big news isn't this ol' news, but the announcement at/.that they're going to be building a new sitcom from the Sims 2 world called "The Strangerhood". You can see a clip of ithere.The folks who're behind it have made a bit of a name for themselves, and they're going to be at this weekend'sresfest, a digital film festival in London. I'm booking my place on the Sunday event"Filmmaking and gaming, Gaming and Filmmaking"at the NFT and may kick around a little bit earlier forBushwacked!shorts.Hopefully the RvB boys will show off some of their latest Halo-based series (there are two thus far and another one on the way) in the manner it was meant to be shown – on the big screen.Woo hoo! Culture!
Microsoft was close to a deal with the European Commission earlier this year which would have revealed more of its secrets than it has now been ordered to hand over, a court was told yesterday.The US software group is attempting to get the European court of first instance to suspend the commission's ruling that it is violating anti-trust law, which would force the company to reveal its software code to rivals.In March, the commission found that Microsoft used the power of its Windows operating system, which it said held virtual monopoly in personal computers, to cripple competitors and ordered the company to change the way it does business.Court president Bo Vesterdorf must decide whether to delay the enforcement of the order pending Microsoft's appeal, a process which could take several years, or allow it to be implemented at once.Microsoft, which was fined a record &euro;497m in March, has consistently argued that the EU decision would cause it "irreparable harm" by allowing rivals such as Linux and Novell to effectively copy its unique server technology.They in turn argue that the group is abusing its virtual monopoly in desktop operating systems by making it impossible for competitors supplying rival servers to inter-operate with Microsoft systems.Brad Smith, the US software group's counsel, told the court yesterday the two sides had virtually reached a settlement in early March. "We were prepared to go further and make concessions that are outside the scope of the &#91;Brussels&#93; decision," he said.Senior commission officials confirmed that the US group had been ready to go further and seized on his admission as undermining Microsoft's case that it would suffer "irreparable damage".The final stumbling block is believed to be the commission's demand that an independent trustee monitor the disclosure of the secret protocols in servers.Microsoft's advocate, Ian Forrester QC, described this as "the commission's private sheriff".Mr Smith said: "We were prepared to enter into an agreement even though at the top of the company we did feel it would result in harm in some areas. We would have avoided a fine and three or four years of litigation."Earlier, Microsoft's smaller rivals urged the court to uphold an immediate implementation of the EU decision or risk finding that the US group had extended its monopoly through the planned launch in 2006 of its latest Windows version. A final court hearing on Microsoft's appeal is likely after that date.Jeremy Allison, co-founder of Samba, which is closely linked to Linux, derided Microsoft's claims that its server protocols were a multi-million investment. "They're valuable because they're kept secret and that prevents competition."Accusing Microsoft of simply adding "tweaks" to known technology, he said his company had been given access to the protocols in the 1990s - before the US company had established its monopoly - but this had been withheld with Windows 2000."We will fall only further behind if these remedies imposed by Brussels are delayed."
Egads. Nintendo's handheld machine has always featured some really out-there applications, fromcamerasto TV remote controls todiabetes glucose counters, but this one really takes the Oscar for most entertaining use of the portable games console. It's amovie playerthat transforms your GBA into a very small cinema screen, using compact flash cards (like you'd find in a digital camera, a PDA or some discerning PCs) to play music, watch the latest blockbuster, read eBooks and re-visit Nintendo (and others') retro games. To date, it's only available in Japan. We may have to wait until the rivalPSPallows us Westerners to experience Hollywood in the palms of our hands.Neat-o. What's next? A virtual kitchen sink?CheersJoystiq
While Aleks and Greg discuss ostensibly important new titles like Half-Life 2 and Sims 2, I'd like to continue banging on about retro mobile games if I may. Earlier this year,THQ Wirelessbought the rights to seven classic Midway arcade and console titles: Joust, Defender, Marble Madness, Robotron, Spy Hunter, Root Beer Tapper and Mortal Kombat. The resulting Java conversions are almost ready for release and will be filtered out onto all the major networks over the coming weeks. And I've played them.Well, some of them. THQ is aiming to provide pretty accurate ports of the originals with the odd exception (looks like Spy Hunter will feature a new road layout). Joust and Defender look very similar to their arcade daddies, right down to the sound effects, although at the moment the shortcomings of Java as a games language means that every time an effect plays, the game slows down. This, I'm assured, will be sorted out. Marble Madness looks really nice too, but probably won't be taking advantage of the freaky tilt controller than comes with the newNokia 3220. Shame.Mortal Kombat looks like Mortal Kombat of old - it even has those crazy digitised graphics we all thought were amazing in the early nineties. The moves list has been significantly cut-down of course and it looks like the finishing moves might not make it in: apparently the major phone networks are a bit squeamish about games where people rip each other's throats out. Spy Hunter was at a really early stage when I saw it, but it looks okay and the top-down view seems to suit mobile handsets better than a forced 3D perspective - at least in terms of controls.THQ also told me that the deal with Midway allows them to create their own sequels to these old skool gems. The question is, why didn't they buy the rights to fabulous (and soul-destroyingly hard) shooterSinistar?
Great news for fans of Hudson's legendary Bomberman games: German publisherLiving Mobilehas the rights to distribute mobile titles based on the series, and has two newcomers lined up for Europe. Bomberman Puzzle represents a different slant on the maze-based explode-'em-up series – you have to push each bomb (you're not allowed to pull them) in the correct direction to clear a route through the level. There are 100 stages to get through each requiring more intricate bomb moving skills. Then there's Super Bomberman, an updated version of the classic Bomberman complete with nice new slightly isometric visuals and a range of power-ups (including remote control and bomb boosts). Okay so this isn't a direct conversion of the SNES classic, but it's the closest we have on mobile, and it looks very similar to the16bit Super Bomberman titles. Puzzle is out now on select networks and Java handsets, Super Bomberman is out next month.
Do you want to know the secrets of buying underwear for a woman, but are too proud to ask? Do you want to get a review of a film while outside the cinema? The answer, say the founders of Kwickee, is to start downloading such nuggets of information to your mobile from their "mobile information exchange".Founder Julian Fisher says the idea for the service came to him when he was frustrated in his attempt to publish short "how tos" and travel guides. "Publishing agents wouldn't even look at them, so I thought: why not do it on mobiles? And why not invite others to do the same thing?"He describes Kwickee as a kind of mobile eBay, where snippets of information and pictures have replaced real things, and where most of the content for sale is from ordinary people who just want to sell their creative work. It contains 10,000 "how to" guides, facts, reviews, soap operas, life experiences and adult fiction. Each piece is downloadable in three chunks of about 250 words to most Wap-enabled phones using GPRS.The downside is the pricing. Each piece costs between 50p and &#163;1.50,   which is not cheap when compared with the price of a newspaper, or a story printed free from the internet.Fisher disagrees. "When people are out with only their mobiles, they are prepared to pay for something interesting or something that helps them at that moment - such as a review of an MP3 player they are thinking of buying," he says. Buyers can also reduce the cost by about 30% if they pay in advance on theKwickeeweb site.But Phil Taylor, director of consumer data services at Strategy Analytics, is sceptical. "All the main operators are already doing this, and are tending towards less information of higher quality rather than offering work from unknown authors," he says. "I think Kwickee is overestimating things when they say it is simple to download one of thousands of pieces of information."I had no problem using the service on three mobile devices - the Nokia 6600, Motorola V700 and a BlackBerry 7730. Unfortunately, the Wap address did not work, and this is being fixed. Otherwise, it takes only about 30 seconds to download a Kwickee. The menu is very basic, and although it is simple, it was easy to waste time moving back and forth   between menus. The search option did not work when I searched for a particular writer, but downloading pieces from the menu was successful.If it becomes widely used, however, life could be one big party for wannabe writers who can create appealing Kwickees on a sale-or-return basis.But on the downside, its marketing budget is tiny compared with the   likes of Vodafone live! and O2 Active. Kwickee expects writers to develop their own audiences by word of mouth and viral marketing to ensure healthy sales. Also, the service does not work with some phones - notably the XDA II, Sony Ericsson P900 and Treo 270 - though Kwickee says these problems will be solved shortly.Kwickee essentially provides the   network services through an SMS operator, Wireless Information Network, and provides some support and advice to encourage writers to sell their content on the service. As soon as content is sold (and the operator paid about half), Kwickee shares the profits with writers, roughly 60/40 in its favour. So just like eBay, it gains revenue by skimming its percentage from each transaction.It has already created something of a community among its core writers - the ones it calls "commissioned writers" - and pays them a slightly larger cut. More than 3,000 contributors have registered and are expected to start adding material.It has signed up seven partners - reputable content providers - and 25 commissioned writers with varying degrees of experience. To provide quality control, some writers also act as editors, checking content before it is uploaded.Fisher believes the service is the first opportunity for novice writers to publish and let the public decide if their stuff is worth reading. Anyone can become a content provider by signing up on the Kwickee website, and inputting stories using a basic template.Hampshire-based part-time model and former media student Heather Whitbread writes most of the fashion content and has just covered the London fashion shows. "It is very easy to upload my articles on their website, and I think once it's up and running, it will have its own niche," she says. "I think this is great for new writers."But Nick Booth, a London-based journalist, was less impressed: "I tried registering to be a writer but found it too fiddly, and it really wasn't that clear how much money I could make because they have a complicated system of payment."With mobile operators ensuring that downloading such content remains rather pricey, it looks unlikely that Kwickee will recoup its investment any time soon.&#183;Text 'Hi' to 83238 to receive Kwickee services. No charges are made unless you download content.
My blog escapeIn response to Jim McClellan's article (Inside the ivory tower, September 23), I would also like to point out that blogging also opens up new career paths for academics.After nearly a decade teaching creative writing and English literature at universities in Scandinavia, blogging encouraged me to quit the ivory tower for freelance journalism. I now write for the Times Higher and Times Educational Supplement tracking the Nordic region.I got fed up with teaching because so much of it seemed to be about encouraging others to develop the skills I already had; however, because of the heavy teaching load I never had time to write. Keeping a blog for a couple of years, even using one as part of my teaching, reminded me that the reason I'd gone into academia was because I loved to write and enjoyed communicating ideas through writing. So this spring, I walked. Without blogging, I'd probably be teaching TS Eliot this morning instead of scribbling a piece on the Swedish health industry.Jon BuscallTaxing suggestionVictor Keegan (Second Sight, September 23) really put my back up. As if the number of stealth taxes we have in the UK isn't high enough as it is. Now he proposes a tax on analogue TV sales. Any other bright ideas? A tax on analogue radios? Analogue hi-fi systems? Analogue watches? I have a better idea. What about a 100% tax on mobile phones and mobile phone calls. That possibly would   make people think twice before they make that annoying "I'm on the train" phone call that everyone hates.Steve AyresFar from convertedVictor Keegan repeats the fallacy that is often used to justify the switch-off. True, most people have bought some kind of digital tuner so they can receive BBC3, BBC4, 24-hour news and other channels not available on analogue.Most of us, however, only put up with the poorer reception and the occasional hiccups of digital TV when absolutely necessary, and normally watch channels 1, 2, 3 and 4 in analogue. So it does not mean that "55% have already switched to digital". And if you add the extra unconverted analogue sets in these households, the conversion cost imposed on the public will be enormous.No one has proved that the existing spectrum can be sold for a high price, so the economic justification for the switch-off is doubtful, especially when we take into account the fact that almost all the new equipment will be imported from the Far East, adding further to our trade deficit. It is to be hoped that the public will demonstrate against this dictatorship.Maurice RichardsonHatfieldUpgrade us nowVictor Keegan admonishes us for not purchasing new digital TVs. Wait up, Mr Keegan! Thousands upon thousands of us have no access to digital TV unless we purchase a satellite dish: I'm not prepared to do this. If the government wants a switch-off, it should give us upgraded transmitters now. Many parts of this country cannot get BBC2 - and a few cannot get FM at all!Helene Perron SummersGloucestershireUnder the bonnetIt seems my recent letter (Feedback, September 16) on the new iMac has   put the cat among the pigeons. My complaint was merely that the iMac is a &#163;900-&#163;1,300 computer with a good processor but only &#163;30 worth of memory and a &#163;45 graphics card - PCs and Macs use the same graphics and memory chips.Bad PC manufacturers use similar dirty tricks by forcing a 3GHz processor into an inferior machine. But as Macs are touted for their design ethos and superior art and graphics capabilities, using such poor components is inexcusable. It is like popping the hood on a new Ferrari to find the injection system is the same as that of a Ford Fiesta.The iMac has a great processor, a great look and a solid OS. If Macintosh put in a gigabyte of memory and a reasonable graphics card, then the iMac would be truly great. I hope people can see beyond the pointless Mac/PC rivalry and point out poor products wherever they exist.Michael HaleMessage receivedI read the letter from Andy Potter (Feedback, September 23) with great interest. In the true spirit of research, I sent off messages from my Yahoo to my Hotmail account and then the other way around. In both cases, the messages arrived within a minute of being sent.Meera RanganathanMessage delayedLike Andy Potter, I communicate by email with a friend who uses a Yahoo account and find that occasionally, the receipt of messages is delayed by several hours in both directions. However, I do not use Hotmail but a normal ISP POP3 account, so I suspect the problem lies with Yahoo. Others who have the same experience and wish to complain can do so on Yahoo's well-hidden feedback page athttp://add.yahoo.com/fast/help/uk/my.Malcolm CouplandLondon
A year and a half behind its original schedule, Vodafone has finally announced a November launch for its 3G live! mobile phone service for consumers. It has also promised that several of the 10 new 3G mobiles it announced last week will be in UK stores by Christmas.To say that Vodafone has kept everyone guessing about its consumer 3G plans for the UK is an understatement. While it has launched services in other European territories, and run trials in the UK, it has kept stalling on a launch date.There are a number of theories as to why it has taken so long. Possibly its 3G network wasn't quite as evolved as it had planned. Or maybe it wanted to test handsets and applications in smaller markets such as Portugal and Spain before tackling the UK. Perhaps it was worried about how attractive key 3G applications such as person-to-person video calling and video downloads would be to UK consumers.Certainly one of Vodafone's key problems was that the 3G handsets it was trialling were bigger, clunkier and had much shorter battery life than its existing GPRS phones.While the jury is out on Vodafone's 3G network and its applications, the company appears to have made progress with its handsets. The phone that is sure to get British gadget lovers excited is the Sharp V902SH, the first for the European market to feature a 2.0 megapixel camera and an optical zoom.Also impressive is the Sony Ericsson V800, another clamshell that boasts a quality camera (1.3 megapixels). The model, which also features an integrated flash for the camera, is much slimmer and lighter than Sony Ericsson's existing 3G phone, the Z1010.Vodafone has also lined up a deal with Motorola for three handsets, including the high-end E1000, which also sports a one megapixel camera, music and video-playing facilities. There are also Samsung handsets and Nokia's innovative 3G smartphone, the 6630. Almost all the handsets feature person-to-person video calling and video download facilities, and offer better battery life than their predecessors.Ed Brewster, spokesman for rival network 3, is surprisingly enthusiastic about Vodafone's new range. "They have a really good portfolio of handsets. We should know because we have half of them."The company, which promises at least one more handset from each of its major suppliers before the end of the year, also welcomes the arrival of Vodafone into the consumer 3G arena. "It is a mature market now and we are confident it will be a 3G Christmas," adds Brewster.Quite how big a chunk of 3G sales Vodafone will take this year, though, remains anyone's guess.
Jeeves savesAsk Jeeves, the Teoma-powered search engine, has launched a beta test version called My Jeeves. It's much the same as the old one, except that it allows you to save and organise links in folders, instead of using Favorites or bookmarks: just click the Save button next to Ask Jeeves results. The other advantages are that you can keep these links private, or you can share them online. The basic service allows you to store up to 1,000 results without having to sign in, but you can register if you need more. It's not really a "personalised" service, but it is personal. However, most people would probably find it more useful to organise their links across multiple search engines, and the Pluck toolbar does that. Pluck also lets you share links, run "persistent searches" (perches), and it doubles as a Really Simple Syndication reader. Pluck is still in beta test form and requires Windows 2000 or XP and Internet Explorer 6.www.askjeeves.commyjeeves.ask.comwww.pluck.com"Who2?Who2 is an interesting biographical database with canned searches, called Who2 loops. At the moment, for example, you can look up famous people who were mauled by lions (or other big cats), who disappeared, or who have modelled Victoria's Secret underwear. Who2 also has an impressively eclectic selection of thumbnail biographies. The B list includes, for example, Blackbeard (the pirate, Edward Teach), Bucephalus (Alexander the Great's favourite horse), Buddha, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Leopold Bloom, Betty Boop and Bugs Bunny, as well as more obvious Bs such as George Bush, Sir Tim Berners-Lee and ex-Babewatch babe Yasmine Bleeth. It does not have much depth, but it is   entertaining. You can easily spend 45 seconds looking someone up and 45 minutes browsing.www.who2.comGame revolutionAmerica's PBS public broadcasting network has consistently produced great websites to go with its shows, and one of the latest is The Video Game Revolution. The two-hour TV programme, produced by KCTS/ Seattle, covers the history of video games since 1952, and features people like Shigeru Miyamoto and Peter Molyneux. You can also test your games knowledge in three different quizzes. Nova, the science programme, also has a nice site on string theory to accompany its mini-series, The Elegant Universe.www.pbs.org/kcts/videogamerevolutionwww.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/elegantWebbies 9The International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences has announced a call for entries for the ninth annual Webby Awards. This year, the number of categories has shot up from 30 to 65, and as usual there will also be People's Voice awards for the best sites as voted by web users. Categories range from Activism to Youth and include Blogs and NetArt, as well as business activities such as Financial Services, Investor Relations and Pharmaceuticals. Nominees will be announced in April and the results in May.www.webbyawards.com/webbysShirt voteThe Recordstore.co.uk website says: "We're holding a poll to find the UK's most loved and most hated music T-shirts." It is asking for nominations now, with voting due to start on October 4. Curiously, this is when Recordstore plans to launch Teeshirtstore.co.uk to flog you your favourite music T-shirts, sweatshirts, caps, badges, posters and thongs. Running a meaningless popularity poll is a cheap way of attracting publicity, but it's amusing and obviously, it works.www.recordstore.co.uk/teeshirtstorePro EuropeEuropean Schoolnet has launched a new version of myEurope, a website designed to help teachers to raise their pupils' awareness of European issues. It contains lots of teaching ideas and materials in three languages: English, French and German. European Schoolnet has also been chosen to develop an eTwinning portal for the European Commission's eLearning programme. It should be available in January.myeurope.eun.orgNew &amp; notedFast food bagwww.breakawaybag.comGoogle Alerts UK betawww.google.co.uk/alertsDogpile renamedwww.webfetch.comSix of the bestBrowser helpersPluckFurlSpurlFrassleiKeepBookmarksLinkman
When Josh Welensky started selling MP3 players to his friends at school he thought he had found a way to make some pocket money when he became a student. Little did he think that he and his cousin would end up owning the largest specialist online retailer of portable music in the UK. And it happened without debt or external investment.In 2001, long before Apple started earning more from selling iPods than it did from computers, Welensky saw the potential of portable music or what were then universally known as "MP3 players". It was his Þnal year at school in Edinburgh when he saw a player on the internet that particularly caught his eye - the Nex IIe, which was both cheaper and better speciÞed than anything else he had come across.Finding no mention of a British sales outlet, he e-mailed the manufacturer, Frontier Labs, in Hong Kong, without really expecting to receive a reply. But the company did get back to him saying that although it did not have a local agent it would be happy to ship him a device direct.He ended up buying not just one for himself, but another six for his school friends. Then he started selling them on the internet auction site eBay, making £1,000 in the process. At that point, he thought he had discovered a way of paying his way through art college.In fact, by the end of his Þrst academic year it was clear that the business was too successful to combine it with his studies. So he put his course on hold for 12 months. Meanwhile, he had also enticed his cousin Andy Gordon back from Montreal, Canada, where he was working for the world's third largest electrical distributor. Even with this experienced help, Welensky felt he had to take a second year away from his studies to cope with the growth of the business. But this autumn he is Þnally returning to Edinburgh College of Art to Þnish his graphic design course, although he will still be based just a few miles from his company's headquarters in Musselburgh.Much of the success of Advanced MP3 Players can be put down to the enthusiasm the two partners have for their products. It was, after all, the reason the whole business came into being in the Þrst place. Their excitement is reflected in the website which soon replaced eBay as their principal route to market. The site is now attracting up to a million hits per month.One of the main elements driving visitors to the website is its online forum, which Gordon claims is the most active in Britain when it comes to discussing MP3 players. Many companies shy away from hosting and even encouraging such a service because it can be seen to invite criticism of the very products they are trying to sell."The forum works extremely well," says Gordon. "It means, for one thing, if there's a problem with a product we become aware of it really quickly and can respond accordingly."We also show it to suppliers so they can see what their customers really think of their products. The reviews are a huge resource and we really don't have to do anything to them."The customer reviews also help solve a problem faced by many online retailers: how do you sell products that customers cannot see, feel and, in this case, hear? Online recommendation or virtual word of mouth is, Gordon believes, extremely valuable. It is backed up on Advanced MP3 Players website with as much written and graphic information as possible.Being a small business with only seven employees also enables the company to maintain a close relationship with customers, who are encouraged to phone in with queries. The employees are all enthusiastic, knowledgeable users of the latest MP3 players, so the conversations tend to be about the merits and functions of different devices rather than a hard sell.As a virtual company with a website instead of a shop window, much of the business's promotional effort has gone into search engine promotion. This ensures that when a potential customer uses Google or a similar internet tool to try and Þnd an MP3 player, one of the Þrst sites on the list will be Advanced MP3 Players. The company also advertises in computer and gadget magazines, whose readers are likely to buy portable music devices."We're also looking at less obvious markets," says Gordon. "We noticed that a lot of joggers were carrying fairly heavy CD players whereas a lot of MP3 players weigh as little as an ounce. So we started to advertise in Runner's World, ran promotions with LA Fitness and were one of the sponsors of the Edinburgh marathon."It's worked well and it has shown a good return on investment. One of the advantages of selling from a website is that we're able to track the effect of promotions fairly accurately."The company has so far resisted the temptation to move into other areas of electronics. However, the number of different types of music player has increased dramatically in the three years since the company  began.To begin with there were just MP3 players that used a memory chip to store music downloaded from a computer. Then came CD players that could play several hours worth of MP3 music recorded on to a CD using a computer. This was followed by MP3-based car stereos and the hard-disc based portables such as the iPod which can store thousands of songs. And now, the latest devices have tiny colour screens that can also store and play videos.Advanced MP3 Players sells variations of them all and its sales continue to grow. Gordon conÞdently predicts turnover of just under £3m last year will double for 2004. It differs dramatically, however, from the e-retailers that appeared as part of the dotcom boom, and generally disappeared shortly after. These relied heavily on investment from venture capitalists.The development of Advanced MP3 Players has, instead, been totally organic. "Even when we've had to put tens of thousands of dollars upfront for stuff coming in from Korea, we've been able to provide the money ourselves," says Gordon. "I think our bank Þnds it slightly confusing. They keep asking us what we want to do with the money."
The difÞculty with job interviews is that so much advice is published on how to survive them - if you're the interviewee. Imagine the interviewer naked. Imagine the interviewer on the toilet.These will reinforce your sense of superiority - but if you're applying for a job in a small business that's not been running for very long, and which lacks a dedicated HR team, how about the ultimate?Imagine the interviewer has had little or no training in interviewing, has an idea of the job available but not the foggiest notion of what to do in an interview situation. Because this is actually by far the most likely scenario.The interviewer's role can be among the least supported in the body of a business. "It's kind of taken for granted that people know how to do it," says Jaine Bentley, regional manager of recruitment agency Adecco. "But nine times out of 10 it's not part of their main role."There are, however, a few common mistakes people make which can be worth running through. Bentley points to the timeframe as a starting point. "People tend to want to see as many people as they can for a job, and they spread this over a few weeks," she says."The problem is that on one day you're not in the same mood and frame of mind as you may be on another. And by the time you get to the end of that process there are candidates from the Þrst day you've forgotten about, or they're no longer available." The issue is that owner-managers in particular don't have the time to set aside a day for the process so they assume it can Þt around their other responsibilities - and the inevitable result is a longer and costlier process than would otherwise have happened.The other hazard that crops up if an interviewer has only half an eye on the recruitment ball is inconsistency. Bentley has seen examples in which one candidate gets asked one set of questions which looked right on the day, and another candidate gets asked an entirely different subset. "So you haven't got anything objective to go on."Adecco's advice is pretty basic. Plan a day from your diary on which you'll see all candidates - this may mean doing a great deal of whittling before arriving at a sensible shortlist - and make sure you see them all when you're in the right frame of mind, then ask them a consistent set of key questions. Give them the same amount of time. "Often what we'd say is a good idea is that if you think someone is suitable, introduce them to other members of the company," she adds. "That opinion of someone as regards a personality match can be absolutely key."Another useful screening technique is based on the speed-dating concept. Speed interviewing works, says Bentley. "If you want to see 10 people and they all look qualiÞed, you can give them all 10 to 20 minutes, because you'll tend to wheedle out the people you deÞnitely don't want to spend longer on. What you'll often Þnd is that after 10 minutes &#91;in an ordinary interview&#93; somebody's decided that, actually, this person isn't suitable for this job, but they feel they have to give them another half an hour. Speed interviewing eradicates all of that and they just invite back the people they feel are more suitable for second interviews."The questions themselves can be something of a mineÞeld. Elsewhere in this issue there is coverage of some of the legal issues surrounding recruiting a job candidate, but these don't stop when you're interviewing. Clearly you won't be asking something that deliberately sets up a discriminatory environment, but there are other questions not to ask, conÞrms Bentley: "Certainly at Þrst interview stage it's key to avoid questions about status and home life in terms of having dependents - if someone has dependents but has good childcare arrangements they'll be just as reliable as someone who has no dependents."Adecco, along with the other reputable recruitment agencies, offers legal advice on do's and dont's for questioning and indeed disability discrimination in anticipation of the forthcoming legislation in October. "If I'm honest, it's rare that people make mistakes in that Þrst interview stage rather than when they take someone on, but we'd obviously advise some questions to steer away from like 'are you married' and 'do you have children'."A lot of it, in other words, is common sense. Scheduling, preparation and the thought that you don't have to see everyone whose application suggests they might conceivably Þt into your organisation will all help, as will some sort of consistent approach to every candidate.And if that fails and you're still nervous, you could always try imagining them on the loo.
How often do you go into your bank branch to service your current account? Probably about as often as you visit your phone company to pay your bill. The swift growth of telephone and internet commerce means that anyone with a computer and a connection can orchestrate their personal Þnances quickly, easily and with a cup of tea close to hand. The same is increasingly true in the world of business.Computer-based banking services aren't new. British and US institutions experimented with PC banking - where you download what is essentially accounting software on to your computer as opposed to simply accessing details on a secure website - in the early 1990s.The Þrst fully online banking operations were tentatively launched by the Royal Bank of Scotland and Nationwide in 1997. The emergence of internet-only operations such as Smile and Cahoot in 1999 kick-started Þerce competition in the personal banking sector, which in turn has spread to business banking.   Now, all the major banks offer online business banking to some degree, and the range of services is widening thanks to advances in mobile phone and digital television technology.A recent survey revealed that 90% more small and medium-sized businesses use online banking now than Þve years ago. Five years from now, the number of SMEs that conduct their banking affairs via the internet will outstrip those who use bank branches. The study of 300 businesses by Þnancial intermediary Xbridge showed that 45% of SMEs are currently using the net for banking, up from 5% in 1999. Branch usage by SMEs has dropped by a third and 65% of businesses said they expected to switch to online banking by 2009. the Þgures can be taken with a pinch of salt - XBridge has an interest in getting more businesses online - but the underlying trend is upwards.The most obvious beneÞt of online banking is the convenience and flexibility it affords. No queues, no time wasted getting to and from a branch and more time to concentrate on the day-to-day business at hand. But the move from face-to-face dealings to electronic transactions raises important issues for banks and their customers. Isn't maintaining physical contact with your bank a valuable part of the relationship? Will less branches mean less personal advice and more call centre or email-based contact? Will security be compromised as the majority of businesses shun their branches and Þre up their internet connections?Steve Richards, head of business products at the Royal Bank of Scotland, said: "For RBS, internet banking is part of the broader choice of telephone banking and branch services. We see these areas as complimentary and don't push the online aspect any more than the others. The strength of our business service is centred around relationship managers, but we realise business people are busy and need to look in detail at their Þnancial operations whenever they want. They are increasingly choosing to do this online."Branches are here to stay, according to Richards: "Very few businesses are truly, completely independent of a branch. Many handle cash and many want face-to-face advice. We will continue to invest in our branch network because that is a core service that customers want. Local contact for local businesses is still very important."RBS can boast the highest proportion of business customers banking online, at 56%. This Þgure is expected to rise to 72% in the next Þve years. Half of the bank's business customers currently use their branch but just 22% plan to do so in the future. It's a similar story elsewhere. Almost three-quarters (73%) of Barclays customers said they would switch to online services by 2009, compared to the present Þgure of 41%. Lloyds TSB customers are turning away from branches, with 44% fewer expecting to use their branch in Þve years.What should you expect from an online banking service? The core services include being able to check your balances and statements, setting up monthly transactions, making and receiving one-off payments and paying bills and salaries. Most banks offer free Þnancial planning software that you can use to organise your Þnances in tandem with the internet service. Other services include secure messaging and PC banking or WAP phone options.Check you are being offered the same rate of interest as on a branch-based account, check the charges for electronic items such as standing orders and Þnd out the level of customer service on offer in terms of technological support and business advice. Use the business account Þnder provided by the British Bankers' Association and Þnancial data provider Moneyfacts (www.moneyfacts.co.uk) to Þnd the best account for your needs.Once you opt for an account, check the market each year to see if you can get a better deal.Security is understandably the main concern for those thinking about moving their Þnances online. Recent headlines about so-called phishing scams (where bogus emails purporting to be from your bank ask for your account password and details) have raised questions about how easy it is for criminals to inÞltrate bank accounts. Before you get too alarmed, you should bear in mind that banks never send emails asking for your account details. If you get one, delete it, block the sender and inform your bank.As for criminals being able to tap into your account, banks use the strongest encryption available to protect your data, so the chances of anyone being able to breach your account are very slim indeed. If you are in doubt, ask to see the bank's online security policy.Xbridge says banks will have to respond to the change in demand from SMEs and treat online banking as the primary means to service small businesses as well as drive new customer acquisition. The explosion of personal internet banking meant banks had to raise their game, such was the competition for new customers. Will the same happen in the business sector?"We must be doing something right with what we are offering, but we would make improvements if there was a demand," says Richards. "It's about letting businesses do the things they need to easily and quickly, not about adding degrees of complexity."SMEs have been slower in their online uptake than the Xbridge Þgures suggest, but the medium itself is helping to drive trafÞc. "Small business were the last ones to get on to the internet," said Richards. "The government is trying hard to get businesses to transact on the internet, but it's been a slow growth. What we are seeing now is that start-ups are information-hungry and are  using the internet as a research tool. This use of the net as a core part of their business will bring more people to online banking in the future."
When a skills crisis takes hold, it's the small business that suffers most. Unable to match the remuneration packages and prestige of larger enterprises, many Þnd themselves having to think far outside the box when it comes to attracting and retaining the people they need to develop their business.Because the UK is now nearing full employment, more than two thirds of businesses are currently having problems Þnding specialist and experienced staff, according to the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development. Holding on to good people is proving an even greater challenge, with 77% of companies reporting difÞculties retaining staff during 2003, up from 72% in 2002, according to its June 2004 UK and Ireland survey report, Recruitment, Retention and Turnover 2004.So, when the competition is Þerce, how can smaller, lesser known employers make sure they don't lose out?The usual response is to focus on flexible working and a less hierarchical ofÞce culture, where the chance to be part of a friendly team, and play out a vital yet varied role in a growing business, offers a refreshing contrast to the often sti¤ing environment of a more established company.But the bigger players have responded to this with more ¤exible employment terms of their own. So where can the smaller enterprise turn next?The good news is that there are several possibilities - if companies are prepared to look hard enough. Because the buoyancy of the SME market is so important to the economy, schemes are being introduced all the time to enable small businesses to keep up with the corporate community.Take the DTI-funded Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) programme (www.ktponline.org.uk). This enables small companies to employ the services of university post-graduates and academics at a subsidised rate of just £16,000 a year. The programme works particularly well where young but growing businesses need extra resources for a special project.Paints and coatings company Ludlow's of Luton, which has eight staff and turns over just under £1m a year, was so happy with its KTP placement, Declan Duggan, that when the two-year arrangement ended recently the company welcomed him on to the payroll.Duggan, who was studying for an MA in marketing from the University of Luton, was brought in to spearhead the UK marketing of a new environmental paint product. He contributed directly to a 114% growth in business over the last six months, and the addition of 24 new trading accounts."It would have been hard to get someone of his calibre on the budget we could afford if we'd gone to the open market - especially for a limited period of time," says Ludlow's managing director Peter Wills. "Declan has excellent marketing and customer relations skills, and has grown this part of the business substantially. After two years' experience here, he has a lot to give back to the company so we've offered him a permanent role with a good salary."Another option is to recruit an older workforce. A new report from the National Audit OfÞce (NAO) notes that, against the background of an ageing population, a high overall employment rate and skills shortages in the labour market, around 2.7 million people between 50 and state pension age do not work. Between 700,000 and one million of these would like to, with some 200,000 actively seeking employment. Barriers they face, however, include low skill levels and low conÞdence, as well as age discrimination among employers.Brian McKechnie, programmes manager for lifelong learning at the University of Strathclyde, Scotland, is among those trying to turn this situation around. As well as managing an academic programme for mature students, McKechnie's department also runs vocational training programmes for the over-50s, to equip them for a modern workplace.So what can an older workforce offer? "Because older people tend to be less aggressive, and more 'interested' and helpful, they tend to work well in service-based organisations like call centres," says McKechnie. "They're also ideally suited to care-oriented environments such as nurseries and residential care, and to the tourist and hospitality industries."But what of modern ofÞce skills? "It is a myth that you can't teach an older person new tricks," he says. "They just learn differently. Once they've got it, the knowledge tends to go in at a deeper level, often with better results."McKechnie, who sits on lots of committees on over-50s employability, is currently exploring ways of promoting ¤exible working practices as a means of enticing this section of the population back to work. "One of the challenges facing older workers is their caring responsibilities, whether that's looking after a spouse, or grandchildren," he says."We're trying to promote different patterns of working, such as weekend work, job-sharing, and teleworking. So far, this is proving very successful, particularly as a means of holding on to experienced staff that might otherwise give up work.The same applies to working parents, too, of course. "The waste of talent in this country is criminal," says Dr Gill Hunt, who runs Skillfair (www.skillfair.co.uk), an online meeting place for freelance business, IT and engineering consultants. "You only have to look around a primary school in a middle class area to Þnd highly skilled graduates working for £6 an hour as teaching assistants because it Þts in with childcare."Whether you're a parent who needs to Þt work around school hours, or someone deemed 'too old' at 40 to work in the IT industry, the problem is the same. Many employers seem unable to deviate from the 9-5 model of work, or consider employing someone with more skills or experience than they need," she says.  A smart small business can call on the services of the specialists it needs, without making a permanent employment commitment, with all the risk this entails, if it is willing to manage people by tasks and results instead of hours spent in an ofÞce, she notes.Similarly, if small businesses want to boost their top-level expertise, but don't have the budget, they could do worse than appoint an interim manager. Executives Online (www.executivesonline.co.uk) is just one organisation offering an "executive sharing" scheme, aimed at giving smaller businesses access to "big management talent".Executive Online's database boasts over 4,000 senior managers, who are charged out at between £450 and £900 a day. This might not seem cheap, but managing director Norrie Johnston notes that there are none of the hidden recruitment costs to consider such as bonuses, holiday pay or employers' NI contributions - "The sort of costs that can turn a £60,000-a-year role into something which actually costs a company over £100,000," he says.The market for interim services has grown by 137% over the last four years, according to Johnston.Tips for attracting and holding on to your best staff&#183;Consider flexible working, including flexible hours and the chance to work from home at least some of the time. A recent survey by Inter-Tel found that, while 40% of SMEs said they couldn't recruit the right skills from their local market, 49% had no flexi-workers, despite 30% agreeing it would be easier to attract staff if they offered this option&#183;Compensate for lower basic salaries by offering good performance-based bonuses&#183;Judge staff performance based on results rather than hours spent at their desks&#183;Acknowledge the need for internal development to keep staff interested&#183;Always acknowledge and reward success in any way you can, even if it's just in words&#183;Never underestimate the need for staff feedback, internal communication and group activities for raising morale
GC: Tell me about the company.PE:HiFiBitZ has been going for Þve years this November. It was born out of a typical retail premises which was owned by my business partner. The company itself is reputed to be the oldest hi-Þ retailer in the country. It was about 75 years ago that the premises Þrst began selling hi-Þ equipment.GC:How did modern IT start playing a part?PE:The argument I put was that the internet allows you to expand your customer base with very little cost consideration. The actual cost of setting up the website in the Þrst place was around £175 - of course, there was a lot of investment of my time to be able to sit down and generate the thing, put product on and so on. But the actual cost consideration was a bit of a no-brainer for us.GC: Did you write it from the ground up or use a packaged system?PE:We used Actinic, which was a fantastic piece of software. It only takes you so far, but it took us far enough. We were able to grab market share very quickly - our forte has always been specialism, we don't go head to head with the big guys like Empire Direct.GC: So the site was working. How did it go?PE:The way Actinic works is that you're running it from a single PC. The same was true of all the customer service emails we got - they were actually all coming to a central point. The problem then is: what do you do with them? We were in a situation where the girl doing customer services was receiving 150 emails. We could employ people, that's not a problem, but how do you actually pass those e-mails around? We had three people on customer services forwarding e-mails to other people, which was an absolute nightmare. Then customers would get in touch and say they'd emailed the other day about such and such a thing, and where were we up to with it, and the honest answer was that we hadn't got a clue.I'd have to rummage through three people's machines to Þnd out what the original response was.GC: Right. So where did you go for help?PE:Originally, we didn't know we had a problem. And even afterwards, we never envisaged that there would be a direct solution to the problem. You tend to Þnd in this industry that you feel a bit isolated, you do feel as though your situation is unique. My solution to it, because I've got an IT background, was to do with IT. But I started from the wrong direction - I started looking at things like Exchange Server and email sharing programmes, which I now think are the wrong way to address this. RightNow Technologies (www.rightnow.com) came to us and put its 'contact centre system' idea forward. It's an odd one for a company the size of ours - RightNow services companies like Pioneer, which we deal with, and you'd think it would cost a bloody fortune. But when we started talking to the guy and he put some Þgures on the table, it was an absolute no-brainer. We could actually apportion the cost against employing someone.GC: So what does it do?PE:RightNow, for us, is customer service through and through. It's a way in which we can actually allow the customer to communicate with us and we can respond to them in a timely and orderly fashion. We can put a uniform approach back to the customer, so if a customer asks about overseas delivery, we send the same response back to every customer who asks that question.Second, the incident will be coming to us through a couple of different channels: it can either catch emails coming to our customer service address, or they can go on to our support centre online and type it in. We don't care whether it's come through email or wherever - if it's about order cancellation we attach it to the order cancellation group, if it's stock availability we attach it to the stock availability group.When we arrive in the morning the most important incidents for us are the order cancellations - we don't want to be sending stuff out that's been cancelled, it costs us money. So the Þrst thing we look at is the order cancellations, then the stock availability. So processing those in a timely manner is a revenue earner. Compared to where we were before, those emails were coming in and they were just stacked with all the others.GC: So how long did it actually take to put the new system in place?PE:It actually took so little time I can't actually put a timeframe on it. It's on an external server so it's more or less "here's your link, off you go". We had a site redesign last year which was delayed, so we just put a couple of HTML links and that was it.GC: And what did it cost?PE:The way I look at it is that it costs £4,000 per year. If you want to talk about return on investment...GC: That was the next question.PE:Well, the alternative would be employing someone and all the costs surrounding that. Once you've wrapped your head round it, it's a no-brainer - an extra employee all the time, 365 days a year from whom the customer gets a uniform response. And it doesn't make spelling mistakes, which can make you look unprofessional.
Crime against Britain's small businesses is on the rise. The Business Crime Index 2004, compiled by Axa, reveals crime-related insurance claims in the second quarter of 2004 were up 19.3% on the previous three months. Around 20% of all business claims settled by the insurer between April and June were a result of crime.Theft is still the most frequent problem for businesses, accounting for around 66% of total crimes. Malicious damage (vandalism) has seen a dramatic increase in frequency and now accounts for over 30% of crimes, with arson the third most common problem.The survey revealed that Bradford was the riskiest place for businesses, with 30% of all insurance claims relating to criminal activity. Birmingham, Nottingham and Bath were close behind. Liverpool fared best in the survey with 15% of claims relating to crime, with Ipswich and Glasgow showing similar results.Neil Mercier, property insurance manager at AXA, says business owners need to be vigilant. "There are many simple, cost-effective measures which can be taken to make businesses more secure  against criminals," he says, "and these can also help reduce insurance premiums. The government and many local authorities run schemes to assist with improving security measures."The government says it is "very concerned" about business-related crime and has set up the Home OfÞce Business Crime Team to combat the problem. It aims to forge links with businesses, gather and exchange up-to-date intelligence on business crime in local areas, develop a central support service for SMEs and improve links between businesses and existing multi-agency partnerships.A good example of the partnership approach is Business Crime Direct. The project has been active in Liverpool for the past four years and can probably take some of the credit for the city's good standing in the Axa survey.The project is based in the Liverpool Chambers of Commerce and Industry and includes Merseyside Police among its partners. It aims to help businesses with less than 50 employees reduce their risk of crime with practical advice and, where necessary, Þnancial assistance.Tommy Jopson, a business crime reduction manager with BCD, says a holistic approach is needed. "When we started out we just looked at target hardening - helping businesses with shutters and grilles and so on. We learned very quickly that this alone doesn't work. Now we look at an area in its entirety - if we do something for a business in a block, we will try to do something for the whole block, because stopping crime against one set of premises will just displace the problem on to someone else."The project offers not only businesses advice and small grants, but also access to fairly sophisticated policing and anti-crime techniques. Jopson explained: "It's vital that businesses in an area where there is crime communicate with each other. We can give them radios to keep in touch with each other, the police and the CCTV monitoring unit."It's a strategy that seems to be working. In the last two years theft in shops in the city centre (Jopson's patch) has been reduced by 16%. In fact, the project has been so successful that the Home OfÞce is looking at the possibility of employing similar schemes across the country.Good security will deter professional criminals, minimise your loss if you are a victim of crime and make repeat attacks less likely, says Axa. What practical stakes can you take to protect your livelihood? The government's Business Link service (www.businesslink.gov.uk) recommends installing an alarm system for starters. It also suggests you consider installing CCTV, ensure entrances to premises are well-lit and use anti-climb paint.Valuable items should be protected by cabinets, grilles, alarms and dummy goods. A safe is a good investment. Business Crime Direct has had some success with "smart water" (water with a  unique "Þngerprint" that covers a thief or equipment during a break-in) and smoke and dye identiÞers.When you are handling cash - for example banking your takings - use a recognised cash handling company. If you do the job yourself, use a secure container, vary your route. In short, use your head.Axa offers a free crime prevention toolkit designed to help businesses protect themselves against criminal activity. It offers detailed advice on a range of security issues, from types of lock and shutters to handling employees. It can be downloaded atwww.axa4business.co.uk.Linda Lindsey runs Quality Eye,  a west London-based company that recruits the general public to take part in market research projects for consumer products.  The company also carries out recruitment for social research purposes.Lindsey said: "While I have a fear of a physical break-in or vandalism to the ofÞce, I would have to say that from a business perspective,  I have a far greater fear of online crime. I've worked in this area for many years and know it well, but I do listen to crime prevention advice."As well as the costs of keeping her workplace secure, insurance premiums can be higher.  Lindsey added: "It's a standard requirement for any insurance policy to place an obligation on the policy holder to take adequate steps to keep business documents, equipment and premises secure.  Due to the cost of equipment, premiums for businesses versus domestic use are higher, but a necessary evil."
It used to be just the two of us. When my partner and I hired a car, I'd navigate and he'd drive; since he has the driving licence and I have the A-level in geography, it seemed a sensible division of labour. In recent times, however, a third party has joined us in the car. She has made my navigational skills almost totally redundant.Welcome to the world of GPS navigation. The last few years have already witnessed a minor revolution in planning car journeys. Rather than consulting the atlas in advance, working out a route, and either annotating the pages or writing out the details, you can now rely on a variety of websites to do the initial planning for you and present it in a concise, printable format. The AA (www.theaa.com) and the RAC (www.rac.co.uk) produce their own versions, while Michelin (www.viamichelin.com) covers Europe and Rand McNally (www.randmcnally.com) does the same for the US.All have big advantages over paper atlases. The return journey, often surprisingly hard to deduce from a set of outward directions, is calculated automatically. Trying to pick the right lane while peering at an atlas at an unfamiliar junction should be a thing of the past. Best of all, online travel planners are free.None the less, there are drawbacks. You're still taking your eyes off the road to read the instructions. The real problems start, though, if you take a wrong turn. Unless you pull over and consult the atlas, you have no geographical context at all. This is where GPS in-car navigation really comes into its own.Once it detects that you've deviated from the route, a GPS system will recalculate it and, within a few seconds, will begin to guide you back.None of this comes cheap. Whether you decide to install a complete in-car navigation system, choose the RAC's voice-only option, buy a bundle of software for your PDA and a data card and connect it to the cigarette lighter, or buy a new PDA with integrated GPS, navigation systems have - until recently - been a substantial investment.What has changed that is the arrival of Bluetooth-enabled smartphones with bigger screens and larger memories.While cars in the US are increasingly sold with a GPS system built in, European navigation systems are technologically more sophisticated than their US counterparts."The ones in Europe have terrific information on traffic cameras, for example," says Dan Benjamin, an analyst with ABI Research in the States. Mobile GPS software, he predicts, could erode the market for the most expensive in-car systems.Drivers tend to appreciate the big touchscreens and visual mapping, but the trend - particularly in the light of the recent UK legislation on hand-held mobile phones in cars - is for audio-only systems which understand spoken commands from the driver.So should you jump in and invest in a GPS system now, or wait for prices to fall further? Much depends on the kind of hardware you already possess. With a smartphone or a PDA, you shouldn't have to pay more than £250 for software and any additional memory. Without them, you'll pay more for a larger screen and louder instructions.Do you tend to become flustered if you have to take your eyes off the road? If so, then an audio-only system might suit you better."If you're only an occasional user you might want to hang on for a year or so," says Benjamin. "But if you're a road warrior then go for it, because these systems are pretty good."
Figures about the SME market fly around with alarming regularity - they're spending this, there are that many of them and so on. The Guardian has conducted some of its own research to try to quantify the market and find out where it is placed as regards information and communication technology (ICT).According to Guardian figures, there are 4m SMEs in the UK, when an SME can have between two and 199 employees. These companies account for 55.6% of employment in the UK and, between them, spent £9.6bn on ICT in 2003, up 21% from 2002. This figure is forecast to grow to £14.4bn by 2006. The larger companies are clearly spending more on technology, with an average of £21,298 going out of companies with 50-199 people, compared to £4,271 from companies with between two and five employees (note, though, that the figures per head work out vastly more expensive for the smaller companies). Unsurprisingly, IT and internet companies spent most in the area with professional services coming second.What was more interesting was the qualitative rather than quantitative elements of the survey. Forty one per cent of SMEs disagreed with the statement "We only invest in new technology when existing equipment breaks down", and three fifths of respondents intended to upgrade their equipment in the next year. Presumably, this means more SMEs are noting benefits from staying ahead of the competition in terms of the technology deployed. This ties in neatly with the idea that the buying decisions are heading out of the hands of the specialist IT staff and, indeed, away from the boardroom - over two thirds of non-directors are involved in authorising ICT spend.The ICT specialists have moved on and are involved in identifying and shortlisting suppliers then evaluating the products. Ninety six per cent of ICT staff are involved in product evaluation, a figure that dwindles to 58% when it comes to authorising the expenditure.Internet awareness is high among the SME community. Even among the smallest companies, comprising between two and five people, 72% have a website, rising to 99% when you look at the top end; an average of 26% of those companies accept orders online and broadband is clearly spreading - an average 67% of companies across the SME spectrum have it. Of the companies with broadband, 59% said it had improved their business performance a lot, 23% said it had made a little difference and the rest said it made no difference at all. Fast upload, download and general internet access were the main benefits.Of the most interest, however, was the perceptions of suppliers and availability of certain products. Thirty three per cent of non-broadband companies said they wouldn't get it within the next 12 months because it wasn't available, but they took no account of cable modems or fixed wireless alternatives. Twenty seven per cent thought most ICT suppliers were not interested in servicing their needs, and 31% felt the ICT suppliers didn't appreciate their needs - these are minorities of course, but substantial minorities.Finally, wireless technology, although much written about, continues to be a minority pursuit. Although there were variants according to company size, only 32% of companies in the SME sector were using any form of wireless technology. Sixteen per cent were using Bluetooth, 21% had Bluetooth of some description and only 8% were mobile through GSM/3G. Forty nine per cent of those with the technology felt it was delivering benefits.&#183;Storage technology  specialist Storagetek has introduced a product it believes delivers enterprise-level technology to the small business - the Streamline SL8500 modular tape library system. It is a rack-mounted storage system that aims to keep archive files in a compressed, backed-up manner that will ensure they are organised and available quickly without taking up lots of space on individuals' hard drives. The system works across standards to consolidate Windows and Unix platforms.&#183;It seems we all know security remains a threat to business. So it's odd, then, to be reporting that - according to business advisors MacIntyre Hudson - the majority of businesses still do nothing about it. Thirty eight per cent of owner-managed businesses see fraud as their main threat according to research the company has done; in spite of this, when it comes to recruitment, only 39% of employers checked a candidate's qualifications, 34% checked for criminal records, 39% carried out on-the-spot checks, while only 26% required two signatures for a cheque and 11% had ever bothered to change the staff who reconcile their bank accounts.
Recruiting staff is notoriously costly and difficult to get right every time - hence the articles about recruiting and interviewing in this issue.To save appreciable amounts of money and time, clearly it's a good idea to ensure someone's going to stick around once they've started. And a lot of companies, particularly of the smaller variety, unfortunately get this wrong within the first few days by fouling up the induction period. It's another one of those consequences of being a small concern - there's probably nobody around whose job it is to ensure the process runs smoothly.Paul Armstrong, consultant with business advice company Penna, says the first thing to do is not to allow induction to happen by itself. "It takes time, energy and sometimes agency fees to recruit. Why switch off the feeling that someone has joined a bright, go-ahead organisation with a badly planned induction?" he says.SMEs, Armstrong suggests, may not be recruiting in large numbers and therefore they spend a lot of the time and energy on recruitment, then delegate downwards to someone who also hasn't got the time to address induction properly.David Brooks-Wilkins, managing director of IT service company Onlico, has refined his induction process. "I was generally quite lucky because when I started the company off on my own, I was running for three months before I needed somebody else," he says. "We're based at King's Cross, and we happened to be based with a company called Centre, an enterprise agency, so I had a business advisor to ask what I was supposed to be doing."The advice was to look at the main objective of an induction period, and work a programme up from that. Brooks-Wilkins had a look at how he wanted that person to be working and addressing clients. "One thing I had to do was to make a job role for myself, so I had to pretty much summarise exactly what I was doing day to day and then what I wanted this person to be doing and how I saw them working." This included information on clarity - IT people tend to talk in techno-speak internally, whereas clients like to listen to clear English. "The idea was to tell the employee how I wanted them to run and review it on a regular basis."This was simple when there were the two people in the office and, to be fair, the hiring over time of a further seven people didn't make it unduly difficult, but Brooks-Williams was keen to keep employee inductions under review."Having worked for other companies myself, I could see when things were good and when they were bad, and you think as a small business you're going to get it right yourself, but then you take a couple of people on and you see them fumbling around in paperwork," he says.Learning from rather than preaching to employees became important. Brooks-Wilkins came to realise that the company's paperwork was distributed further around his office than would be the case in most companies, so this needed to be made clear during recruitment.The answer was to create a company handbook of sorts. For a small company like Onlico, this was a two-page sheet rather than a book as such, but it gave starting employees a flavour of the practicalities. This is very much in line with advice that comes from government agency Business Link, whose guidelines suggest putting a company handbook together with information about the company, health and safety issues and some practicalities, and supporting employees with training when required.The timing of an induction session is important. It's tempting, almost as a knee-jerk response, to get people into their induction as soon as they have started work. Armstrong suggests this is often a bad idea. "A lot of small companies think an induction is a one-day event talking about the history of the company, how we formed, where we are at the moment before leaving the individuals to get on with things," he says. Armstrong suggests inducting people after they've had time to see some of what's actually going on and therefore have mental pegs on which to hang what they learn. He also advocates using the inductee(s) as a resource."Induction should be a two-way process. People have value as beginners, as they don't come armed with the baggage of working for your company for a long time, so there's a great opportunity to take a fresh perspective on what you're doing." You'll never get a better chance to get people working on a genuine business issue and come up with fresh ideas from outside. The other thing to do, he urges, is to have a follow up in which your own company is critiqued by the incoming staff."The other important thing is to engage them. Get them involved in a project; get them physically doing something. Don't just send out an agenda for an event. Make them part of the event. An induction should be participative."The follow up to an induction sessions is, Armstrong adds, as important as the induction itself. Inductees will benefit from reviewing their initial learning after a few weeks, and this in turn will allow the employer to improve the process the next time around.Inductions can take many forms. For a small company, it can be a matter of attaching someone as a "buddy" to offer peer support and following up, or it can be an intensive half-day or day-long session with follow ups. As long as it's planned and you know why it's in the shape it is, that's fine. The trouble (and disillusionment) starts when someone turns up for their first day, is shown a desk and wished the best of luck. Given limited resources, this happens all too often. The new employee will be less inclined to stay. This means a replacement becomes necessary, so resources become even tighter next time around...
If you're reading this supplement there's a good chance you're a business manager or possibly a business owner. You'll probably be working in a small business environment with very few employees, which is Þne from the point of view of keeping your company under control but a complete nightmare when anyone is distracted from their core task.And this doesn't mean there has to be a crisis. You can be growing successfully and need to take on some more people, and you don't have the time to dedicate to recruiting someone. You can train a successful employee, keep them on board for a few years, then watch them move on - it happens, it's reasonable and it can be a positive thing - and you need to recruit someone to replace them. Recruitment is one of the great hidden costs of a business.You need to be aware of a number of things:&#183;attracting the right candidates&#183;arrangements for interview&#183;the interview process&#183;preparing for someone to begin work.All of these will take time and you will need to be aware of this and the costs this time attracts. There will be the direct cost of the advert if you advertise a job, then there will be the cost of your time and that of your colleagues spent interviewing and selecting. And then there's the opportunity cost of the work on which your business would otherwise be focused while the recruitment process is taking place.Afterwards, you'll probably require some sort of induction process - this can be as informal as getting a colleague to show the new employee just what happens in the company, but it's another item that will distract from the core task of running your business and attracting revenue.Most small businesses start their recruitment cycles by drafting an advertisement. Even at this early stage, mistakes can creep in - such as when businesses do a great job of selling the position, but don't reveal enough about the kind of person needed to Þll it.The inevitable result - particularly when the economy turns around and jobs are in short supply - is a ßurry of inappropriate applications. And you or an employee have to sit down and take up company time running through the lot. There are no short cuts, except to sit down in advance and work through some sort of ideal personal speciÞcation for the candidate you want. Incorporating at least some of this into the initial job ad will help candidates screen themselves in advance of applying.But beware, difÞculties can arise for the uninformed. You won't want to build any prejudices or exclusions into your process, for example, unless they fall strictly within those that are legally permissible. Stephen Levinson, specialist employment lawyer with legal Þrm Manches, points to what's known as the Chinese Waiter exception for authenticity, in which it's reasonable to insist on hiring a Chinese waiter to serve in a Chinese restaurant (although he points to other case law in which public sector organisations have found the courts won't uphold insistence on a black advisor or counsellor for black clients - if you have a lawyer it can be worth checking).In accordance with this, many job ads state that the recruiting organisation is an equal opportunities employer, or working towards being an equal opportunities employer. This has no hard-and-fast deÞnition, but the aim is to show that you're not going to exercise racial or sexual discrimination during the recruitment process, which can mean taking care about the language you use. "So these days waitress, salesgirl, postman and stewardess are no-nos - not that they don't get used but, if you ask a lawyer, they're no-nos," says Levinson. "Unless you have a separate statement, something like 'applications are invited from men and women'."This is a moral and legal issue at the outset, but it becomes a practical one when someone takes action: the Cardiff Woman's Aid Society once advertised for a black or Asian woman for a particular position and faced a lawsuit from a white woman who felt she had been discriminated against, for example. Levinson conÞrms that she didn't get very far, mostly because she hadn't actually applied for the job, but it still took time and money from the organisation to Þght the case.The disability and advertising rules are less straightforward but will be brought into line next year, he continues. "They're essentially chaotic at the moment because they require someone to have applied and been turned down for a job before they can bring a claim." The cover-all statement that you welcome applications from all sections of society is likely to get you around all of these areas as long as you don't discriminate during the rest of the recruitment process.Always assuming the basics of the advertisement are sound, the next stage is to work out where it's going to be best placed. Or is it? There are people who will suggest that a useful stage before that is to look into whether an ad is the best way to get a suitable recruit at all. Going through the agency route is perceived as expensive, but some of its exponents suggest - unsurprisingly - that this is a short-term view.Kay Fletcher of Select Appointments, for example, suggests the headline costs are not the ones to look at. "Some small companies try to do their own recruiting but they haven't got the proper resources to be able to do it," she says. "They will think 'OK, I need to recruit a member of staff, probably the easiest and cheapest way would be to advertise in a newspaper', not realising what the response is going to be - if there are just one or two people handling all the responses, it can be quite overwhelming."People expect a response quickly and will follow up by phone if they haven't heard - that's telephone time as well. "An agency can take away a lot of the time and hassle. We might be deemed to be more expensive up front, but it can be money well spent."A lack of experience can also skew the recruitment process against the right candidate, she suggests. "The advertiser often has in their mind exactly what they're looking for, their applicant must have this and must have that," she says. "And, actually, when the person who's leaving started they didn't have all of those skills - you have to look at what everybody's got to offer and what they bring to the company. Very often when someone's leaving people only remember what they're doing now but not where they started from. In an ideal world we'd like to get the perfect replacement, but it might have taken that person two or three years to become efÞcient in that role."The issue of interviewing is discussed elsewhere in this issue, but after that comes the time to make the appointment. It's worth exploding a few myths about this. Positive discrimination is often seen as a good way of ensuring that your organisation reßects the society it's supposed to serve - but it's also illegal, except when you're bringing in someone with a disability.There's also the question of whether you can ask about any criminal offences - under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act you can't, unless you're working in one of the areas that's excluded. The argument is that if you were in a particular industry you'll probably know, which is quite an assumption if you're a start-up business. The best advice is: when in doubt, consult a lawyer.Once the interview is complete and the employee in  place, there is the issue of how long someone should keep the notes from an interview, including references. "People have got the right to request a body to disclose information held about them under the Data Protection Act, but there's an exception for references," explains Levinson. "But you can't ask your former employer to produce a reference they've given to somebody else - you have to ask your current employer who received it."However, the person who is giving you that disclosure has to ensure they don't reveal the identity of any third parties, so the person who gave the reference needs to consent to their name being revealed." At this point, some potential employers might want to have a little lie down."It's all a bit much for a small business without an HR department," says Levinson, who concedes he has a job keeping up with it all - and he's a specialist. The good news is that very little of this crops up in practice and, with a bit of planning, the recruitment process should go smoothly.A useful checklist might read:&#183;plan your personal speciÞcation for your ideal candidate&#183;decide whether to recruit yourself or to outsource the whole thing&#183;select your advertising medium carefully - don't neglect the online world, where Reed has 60% of job seekers logging on, TotalJobs.com has 53% and Fish4jobs has 50% (source: Nielsen/NetRatings, period: quarter ended July 04)&#183;allocate enough time and resources to complete the recruitment properly and legally - and consult with a lawyer when necessary.
IBM is pinning high hopes on its latest hardware strategy for its blade server products. Now anyone can produce blades for the IBM BladeCenter under an initiative called OpenBlade.The blade server concept reduces servers to their basic motherboards, or blades, which slot into an air-cooled box, the BladeCenter. Inside the box is a backplane connection board that provides links between the servers and onwards to the network. By allowing all-comers to design boards to fit this connection under the OpenBlade initiative, IBM is opening up a host of possibilities for the BladeCenter.Tikiri Wanduragala , the company's evangelist for the xServer series, describes it as the biggest development for IBM since the PC was invented in the early 1980s. It is certainly an interesting gambit to gain dominance in a market that is still in its infancy.What makes Wanduragala so excited are the possibilities that lie ahead. "IBM was late to market with its blades and that has made us look at the market in a different way. With Intel, we have designed a packaging standard that means that anyone can design for the IBM chassis. This means we may see different proces sors, operating systems and even dedicated boards appearing in the future."The key to success for OpenBlade will be attracting enough computer manufacturers to its architecture. This could give customers a broader choice of blades, and lower prices through competition among OpenBlade partners.In the wider field, competitors for the blade server market include Sun Microsystems with its Sun Fire Blade System, Hewlett-Packard's HP BladeSystem, and Dell's PowerEdge server. Sun, Dell and IBM have limited their blades to server applications, but HP is broadening the concept by incorporating desktop PC boards. This brings it into competition with ClearCube, a start-up company that specialises in PC blade centres.IBM may be freeing up the blade market, but it plans to keep a tight, proprietary grip on the BladeCenter that houses them. Wanduragala's allusion to the IBM PC covers an era when IBM invented the platform but lost control of the market when PC clones appeared, notably those from Compaq. The company seems determined not to make the same mistake with OpenBlade.The first partner and co-founder of the initiative is Intel. James Gover  nor, principal analyst at RedMonk, sees this as a major plus for IBM. "You've got to view Intel as a king-maker. If IBM didn't have Intel on board, it would have no chance of making this fly," he says. "IBM plays a very interesting role because it is building servers based on a wide variety of chips. It has Intel Itanium and Xeon machines, AMD machines   and Power machines. The notion of having all those in a rack is something that every IBM customer in the world is going to be interested in."Intel is known as a chip manufacturer but it also makes motherboards for inclusion in third-party computers. The company has shown no real interest beyond this motherboard market, which makes it an ideal   OpenBlade partner. For IBM, the fact that it can sell its BladeCenter for use with Intel boards adds credibility to the product.Wanduragala's dream is that the computing environment and network switching can be collapsed into a single chassis. Already, networking companies such as Cisco and Nortel have produced network switches for the BladeCenter. This means that a single mains lead and set of cooling fans can power several servers and their associated network. Additionally, full redundancy can be provided for all components so that failure of a system can be handled by management software to keep the system fully operational while the faulty board is replaced.Even hard disk storage can be housed on a blade. IBM has them and is considering using laptop-style 2.5in disks to provide secure RAID storage boards in the near future.Looking further ahead, Wanduragala sees no reason why a branch office or small business could not have a complete system of desktop PCs, servers, appliances, storage and networking in a single box. Wireless connections could provide cable-free links to desktop clients, thereby reducing clutter on the desk and simplifying management, installation and expansion. This would reduce the total cost of ownership.However, that is a hard argument to hang sales on, and the main hurdle is reducing the purchase cost. The current BladeCentre needs to be populated with seven server blades to make it price-competitive with standard servers. And PC blade sales will need to achieve very high volumes before they are competitive with standard PC prices.The OpenBlade pioneers hope that the concept will achieve the volume sales that will enable IBM to reduce the price of the BladeCentre itself. In the meantime, Sun, HP and Dell will be watching the progress of OpenBlade and may adopt similar strategies if IBM seems to be winning. It could even encourage a move to a genuinely open standard for blades, rather than one owned by IBM.
Mobile workers are still drowning in paperwork, but that could be helped by the raft of smartphones coming to market. It may be years before they become common in businesses, but some companies are starting to exploit them.Smartphones do much more than make voice calls or take photographs. They include mobiles that run the Symbian operating system, which developed out of the company that made Psion personal organisers. The Sony Ericsson P900, Motorola A920 and Nokia's 7610 and 9300 (available next year with up to two gigabytes of storage) are all Symbian phones.Mobiles running Microsoft's Windows Mobile software, such as the PocketPC, are also classified as smartphones. These include O2's Xda and Xda II, which look like personal organisers but have a built-in phone. There's also the SPV C500, a small smartphone from Orange, for around &#163;80, and the larger SPV E200 and M1000. One of the latest is a Mobile Windows-based phone from Sierra Wireless. This has a flip-open Qwerty thumbpad for writing emails.Other mobiles classified as smartphones include the Nokia Communicator and the BlackBerry, from Research In Motion, which will be available to Vodafone customers next month in a phone format.So there are plenty of smartphones, but what are they good for? Alice Temperley, a fashion designer whose London Fashion Week show attracted the glitterati, uses her Xda II to take photos of models she plans to use in shows, and to make "mood boards" of things that inspire her designs. She uses the email and diary to schedule meetings in London and at her studio in New York, and stores models' phone numbers in the contacts software.For field service staff, job scheduling - where engineers get a list of tasks on their phone in the morning and updates during the day - is proving popular. Southern Water, for example, is using Nokia Communicators with a job-scheduling application on the Vodafone network.FDP Savills, an estate agency, uses smartphones on the Orange network for informal job scheduling. Staff with SPV E100 phones running the 2003 version of Windows Mobile can log in to the company's database, too.Richard Coleman, IT director at Savills, says: "There are all kinds of ways people lose time on the road. It might be something as simple as an appointment being cancelled without them knowing, or having to call for someone's contact information. We   wanted to let these people take the best of the desktop with them."Savills has a secure link between its phones and its Microsoft Exchange Server at the office, which makes safe access to email and diaries possible.Another use of smartphone technology is to bring the keying in of orders closer to the customer, which reduces errors and speeds up delivery of goods. It also enables businesses to charge customers for what they've ordered sooner.Newhall Publications has speeded up delivery of its women's magazine, Candis, from three weeks to five days by equipping more than 85 sales staff with O2 Xdas. Typically, they type in the customer's order when they are with them, where they can easily be verified. Under the old system, they filled in forms and posted them to head office, which returned them if the handwriting was illegible.Staffordshire police have done something similar, using Panasonic data-only smartphones to bring the reporting of crime closer to the crime scene. Officers visiting the victim of a burglary can key in the details on the spot, and transmit them to the police station over Orange's GPRS service.Paul Stonadge, data services executive at Vodafone, says: "The prime application for smartphones is email and personal information management, such as contacts and calendar, on a range of devices. Some companies want Microsoft-centric smartphones to go with their Microsoft office infrastructure. But there is also strong demand to integrate the use of email on the BlackBerry with company applications such as job scheduling or customer relationship management."At Mauser-Werke, part of Mauser-Group - a leading supplier of packaging for hazardous materials - a Nokia One Business Server is used in conjunction with Nokia 9210i Communicators to provide employees away on business with secure access to company emails, contacts and to-do lists. Functions are selected using a desktop-like interface, including downloading email attachments or opening embedded links to intranet or internet pages."Greater accessibility and enabling our employees to take care of business correspondence   while away from the office were our main motivations," explains Stefan M&#252;ller-Arends, managing director of Mauser-Werke in Germany. He says the system did not take long to implement, and training employees took just a few minutes. "When staff members are able to pick up emails with contracts while travelling, this gives them demonstrable advantages in their day-to-day work, which really pay off over time."However, smartphones still have limitations. For example, the more things you use your phone for, the faster the batteries die. With heavy use of non-voice services, you will be lucky to get 24 hours of battery life out of some devices.Security can also be a problem when confidential company data is downloaded on to a phone that can easily be stolen. However, it is possible to set things up so that company data stays on the company server, not on the phone, which is what Staffordshire police have done, according to IT director Phil Lovell.Access to GPRS can be a problem, too, so ideally a smartphone-based system also needs to be able to work - albeit more slowly - over standard GSM phone connections.Furthermore, some smartphones can be complex to use for data. Any company planning to equip its workforce may need to spend time on developing a friendly interface, or on training.Finally, GPRS and third generation (3G) mobile data tariffs are baffling, which makes it hard to predict typical usage levels, and therefore costs. It will probably make sense for most businesses to negotiate an affordable flat rate tariff, unless they know their usage will be very low.Finding a provider that can offer a mobile data tariff integrated with a Wi-Fi tariff, such as T-Mobile, may make sense if you plan to use devices with GPRS/3G and wireless Lan capabilities.Nevertheless, equipping a mobile workforce with smartphones rather than laptop computers or non-communicating personal organisers can make sense, because they are so heavily subsidised by the network operators. You can often get the benefits of a clever little computer for the cost of a top-of-the range phone.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so.Linkswww.symbian.com/phoneswww.nokia.comwww.blackberry.comwww.motorola.comwww.siemens.com
Digital camerasHard act to followVivitar has unveiled the first digital camera that stores images on a hard drive. Available in the US for $700, the DVR390H features a 20GB hard disk, a 3.6in LCD monitor and a 3.1 megapixel camera that attaches to the side of the unit. The device's monitor can be used by the owner to frame shots.In addition to its camera functionality, the unit can operate as a personal audio and video recorder and is compatible with MPeg4 and MP3 files. Users can also record video on to the hard drive directly from a television. There's no news yet on UK distribution.www.vivitar.co.ukInternetCard connectionFollowing in the footsteps of rival networks, O2 is to deliver a 3G/GPRS mobile internet card for notebook PCs. Set to retail for &#163;110, the O2 card will enable users to connect to the internet via 3G in around 20 major conurbations and GPRS in the rest of the country. Usage costs range from 30p to &#163;2 per megabyte, depending on which data tariff the customer chooses. The Connection Manager software that accompanies the card will also alert users if Wi-Fi access, via O2's partners BT Openzone and The Cloud, is available. The company currently offers unlimited usage of Wi-Fi hotspots from &#163;30 plus VAT per month.www.O2.co.ukPCsAction stationsItronix has unveiled the latest in its series of ultra-rugged notebook PCs designed for use in hostile working conditions. The GoBook III, below, features an 1.8GHz Intel Pentium M Processor 745 and a 12.1in touch-screen display encased in a magnesium housing that is apparently able to withstand environments such as rain, snow, wind, dust and fire.   Other features include up to 2GB of memory, an 80GB hard drive, a glow-in-the-dark keyboard and built-in 802.11b/g wireless facilities. The GoBook III, which can also be fitted with an integrated GPS system, goes on sale next month for &#163;2,547.www.itronix.comSoftwareWireless GPSNokia is to debut a GPS module that connects wirelessly to a phone, PDA or PC via Bluetooth to enable users to access a range of location-based pplications and services. The device, the Nokia Wireless GPS module, will ship with Wayfinder's Mobile Navigator software and is compatible with several of the company's Symbian-based smartphones. It goes on sale in January for around &#163;200.Nokia has also unveiled a revamped version of its Remote Camera security system. When the one megapixel camera detects movement, it takes an image and sends it via email or MMS to a mobile phone or PC. Unlike its predecessor, the new version can also be configured to send short video clips. It is due to go on sale in December for around &#163;300.3GIndie videosHoping to build on the success of digital music services such as iTunes, mobile operator 3 has linked up with Vidzone to deliver independent music   videos to users of its 3G handsets. The deal gives 3 customers the chance to watch videos from 15 of Britain's top indie labels, including acts such as Franz Ferdinand, The Libertines, Eric Prydz and Basement Jaxx. The new arrangement builds on 3's video jukebox service and its links with MTV, and costs either &#163;1.50 per download or &#163;10 per month for unlimited access.www.three.co.ukStat of the week:Networking businessesWi-Fi hotspots have been spreading of late, but perhaps it is businesses rather than consumers who should be targeted. According to a survey, more than half of American businesses already use or have definite plans to use wireless networking.
New formulaAMD is planning to compete with Intel's Centrino architecture with a 64-bit mobile processor for notebooks. The Mobile Athlon 64 is a 2GHz chip that can also run 32-bit applications, but is ready to take advantage of 64-bit applications when they appear. It lacks the tight integration with Wi-Fi of the Centrino, but allows manufacturers to add their own wireless cards. The chip also takes advantage of the Enhanced Virus Protection offered by the Windows XP SP2 upgrade to protect the chip's buffer memory. Acer will be the first PC supplier to use the chip in its Ferrari-badged 3400 notebook, available next month.www.amd.comGone phishingNext Generation Security Software is tackling phishing attacks in its latest white paper. Gunther Ollmann, the professional services director at NGS, says he is surprised at the naivety of businesses and their lack of preparation for combating these attacks. Phishing is a social engineering email scam aimed at tricking customers into revealing their electronic identities and log-on details. NGS claims that 90% of the web services it has assessed contain trivial flaws that could be abused in phishing attacks. One third of these errors could also be used to access confidential customer information from "protected" back-end databases. The white paper offers practical advice on protecting customers and systems.www.nextgenss.com/papers/NISR-WP-Phishing.pdfMismanagementCompanies are being talked into buying storage they may not need, according to research commissioned by Computer Solutions and Finance Group (CSF), an IT services company. Management of resources appears to be the problem, with 45% of the 100 IT directors questioned saying suppliers should do more to help optimise existing storage and 42% wanting assistance with auditing. CSF claims vendors are recommending expensive management suites when simpler techniques could be used. The company recommends a "do more with less" strategy such as transferring old data from expensive high-end storage devices into less-expensive mid-range systems to create more space for mission-critical data.www.csf.co.uk/articles/stop_buying_storageTax dodgeInland Revenue is using Softricity's SoftGrid to simplify the deployment of applications to its 70,000 employees. The department hopes to eliminate co-  existence conflicts by using SoftGrid's virtualisation platform to package new software as services. SoftGrid runs programs in individual environments, preventing them from unintentionally interacting with one another. Inland Revenue expects to save the time taken in regression testing a new application before it can be safely deployed. The implementation is also expected to offer cost savings by centralising the management and configuration of the software deployed on the servers and reducing support issues.www.softricity.com/products/newin3.aspPopeye powerSpinach may not give you superhuman strength but it could eventually give your laptop energy. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) is harnessing proteins the plant uses to capture the sun's energy to produce electrical current to recharge laptop or cell phone batteries. The photosynthetic proteins are extracted and preserved and stabilised in detergent peptides to keep them active for several weeks. By bombarding the mixture with laser light, a small electrical current can be generated. MIT scientists are now assessing the possibility of turning the single power cells into eco-friendly batteries to provide sufficient power to recharge traditional batteries.http://web.mit.edu/newsoffice/2004/spinach-0915.htmlSystem immuneMinisters "don't have a closed mind" on giving UK businesses exemption from anti-spamming laws, according to Mike O'Brien, the new e-commerce minister.The revelation, sure to spark debate among the vociferous lobby groups that campaign against unsolicited email, came at a Computing for Labour fringe meeting on the security of the internet held at the Labour Party conference in Brighton. O'Brien said that the information commissioner may be given extra powers, such as the ability to trace the source of rogue email communications and issue wrongdoers with cease and desist orders. "We're anxious to proceed by self-regulation rather than legislation," said O'Brien, adding that the UK needs to adopt "a multi-pronged approach", with cooperation from other countries.Russian pilotsMicrosoft says it will make Windows XP Starter Edition, a cheap but heavily restricted version of Windows, available in Russia next year as part of a year-long pilot programme. Russia will be the fourth country to get this version, after Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia, with one more to come. These versions are heavily localised with country-specific flags, images and screensavers, plus video help in local languages. Microsoft says the Starter Edition is aimed at first-time users, but most people see it as a response to widespread piracy in areas where Windows is much too expensive to be affordable, and where governments might well support Linux instead.
You invented the MP3 player?I came up with the idea of downloading music (and data and video) down telephone lines in 1979 when I was 23, and patented it. With James Campbell, who was 21, I developed a working prototype. We had orders worth &#163;60m from the recording industry for our solid-state digital recorder when we lost control of the patent. There was a coup attempt within the company and we couldn't raise enough money to pay the patent fees in time. So the patent was voided.Do you have an MP3 player?No. I like the iPod, but it feels a bit unfair to have to buy one. I could show you my   drawings from 1979-82 and there is an iPod - same size, shape. It feels like mine.What gadgets and technology do you use?I'm a techno nut. I am always fiddling with bits of wire. I use a BlackBerry as my phone so my email is permanently live in my pocket. Images bounce between me and my designer. What we do in a day would have taken weeks not so long ago. I have a Dual notebook and aDellcomputer for work. I spend a lot of time on the internet. I find it hard to imagine a world without instant access to information.Does the British Inventors Society rely on the internet?Very much so. We have a new website coming online just before this year'sBritish Invention Show). Inventors join online free and we have 4,000 members and nine affiliated inventors'   clubs around the country who can access the facilities, support and links via the site. Inventors have always worked in isolation with almost no support from government. BIS is bringing everyone together and it is starting to make a difference.What is your latest invention?Monicall (from Monitor Call) is a system for making a telephone call into a legally binding document. You dial a private telephone exchange, your conversation is digitally recorded and a copy encrypted and emailed to you. Three copies are stored in email format with a law firm, an accountant and Monicall. It is much cheaper than a lawyer and more convenient. Calls will cost 50p per minute and release of a verified copy about &#163;20. I think this will eventually be bigger than the MP3 player.Anything else up your sleeve?In the   past 10 days, I have come up with the antidote to everybody pinching copyrighted material off the internet. I can stop it. Only one person knows the technical details. This is not one for me to develop - it's one for a big firm.&#183;The British Invention Show, which Kramer founded, runs from October 21-24 at Alexandra Palace. Seewww.thebis.orgor call 0870 4328111.
"Google has quietly started testing a UK version of its shopping search engine,Froogle, the Internet star's latest expansion. The Mountain View, Calif.-based company began experimenting with its US comparative shopping service during Christmas 2002 and has timed its latest English-language Froogle site for the holidays as well. The site -- which is competing with UK rivals Yahoo Shopping, DealTime and Kelkoo -- lets people search by shopping category or by simply typing a product description into the search box. Google's spider technology scours merchant Web sites for relevant product data," reportsCNet.
Half Life 2 came a step nearer today as the info on retail packagesleaked out. The regular version will be on 6 CDs while the Collector's one has sensibly been released on DVD. Most interesting of all is the cheaper pricing when bought using the online distribution service, Steam. The Steam packages can be purchased shortly and all include the full version of Counter-Strike. No release date yet but expect to be reunited with Gordon Freeman before Christmas. Hopefully.
"Red Hat has acquired Netscape server-software products of AOL Time Warner, as part of the Linux vendor's "open-source architecture" strategy. The products, derived from the Netscape Enterprise Suite, include Netscape Directory Server and Netscape Certificate Management System. Red Hat plans to start marketing its modified versions within the next 6 to 12 months," reportsNewsFactor.
Richard Branson is the latest mogul to get into the online music business, and this week he launched Virgin Digital in the US. This offers two options: either you can buy songs one at time for the usual 99 cents a track, or subscribe to the Virgin Music Club for $7.99 a month. This provides unlimited access to the million tracks in Virgin Direct's library.Virgin Direct is just the latest in a long line of music download services such as Microsoft's MSN Music, Sony's Connect, Roxio's Napster 2, RealNetworks' Rhapsody, AOL's MusicNet, Apple's iTunes, and MusicMatch, which has just been bought by Yahoo. There are also various options based on OD2, which was bought this summer by Loudeye.In sum, there are an awful lot of services competing for the tiny minority of people who have been known to pay for at least one music download. This doesn't make economic sense unless they can convert many more free file sharers and CD rippers to digital downloading - and how likely is that?I suspect it is not very likely, in the short term, because the music download business is developing into a format war. Consumers hate those.Mass market consumers are soon going to discover, if they have not already, that many of the services use incompatible file formats and different digital rights management (DRM) copy protection. This means they may not easily be able to play the music they have paid for on the portable player they own. Most non-Sony   players for example, will not play Atrac files from Sony Connect, while Apple is trying to tie the iPod exclusively to its own music store.The services that use Microsoft's Windows Media Audio (WMA) format and Windows Media Player 10 - such as Virgin Direct, Napster, and MSN Music - are going to have to make this clear.Such format wars are common in the early stages of new businesses. However, consumers want standards that provide compatibility, because this fosters competition (which drives down prices), increases choice, and encourages long-term support. The fear of buying another Betamax encourages them to keep their money in their pockets.There is already, of course, a widely used standard in the digital music market: MP3. It is the file   format that most people use when ripping their own music, and the one most commonly shared on peer-to-peer services. It has the advantage that it does not include a proprietary DRM, and ripping a CD to a PC is no harder than backing up your expensive file downloads.MP3 is not supported by the majority of download services, but this strikes me as a good reason for avoiding download services, rather than abandoning MP3.In the long term, as hard drives get bigger and broadband gets faster, we can swap MP3 for, ideally, an open standard lossless file format that delivers better-than-CD quality. If, in the interim, the music industry is only offering high-priced, restricted, incompatible file formats with worse-than-CD quality, I'm going to sit this one out.Virgin Digitalwww.virgindigital.com
The massive NHS IT programme is even further behind schedule, and it's proving costly for BT:"NHS IT director general Richard Granger claims some setbacks are to be expected... [and] admits that problems with the 'data spine' at the heart of the programme have resulted in further fines for BT," reportsComputing magazine."BT was fined £300,000 - 30 per cent of its expected fee - in July for not meeting a target of 99.8% availability for the data spine that will act as a gateway to national systems such as ebookings and electronic patient records."
My youth is rushing back at light speed. I can hardly believe my luck! TheBBChas re-launched a version of theHitchiker's Guide to the Galaxytext-based adventure game for all and sundry to experience again in all its black-on-white glory. Now I can re-live those fabulously frustrating moments of being stuck in the hold with a cantankerous Vogon, a syntax error at every turn. "I don't know the word 'do'," says a logical machine. Oh glee!The game on the above link is for the BBC's re-creation, but if you'd like to play your way through the original, headhereto download it.There was something so wonderous about these early interactive entertainments, and sometimes I think that the onset of graphics ruined a really fun computing experience, where I was able to imagine the angry goblin in the underground dungeon shaking his fist and advancing at me menacingly before the lights went out. I can't remember the last time I cried at a contemporary computer game (not out of frustration, that is), but I do being really taken with some of these interactive stories.Where can I find others? Why are they simply so much better than, say,Jak II?
In case you missed this onMagic Box, legendary Japanese developer Irem (creator of R-Type, one of the best games ever made), has a new PS2 title coming out next spring namedBumpy Trot. Yes, that's right.Bumpy Trot. This is what Magic Box says about it:"...you play as a young boy who lost his memory, he controls a walking robot named Trot vehicle, which is widely used in a peculiar fantasy world for transportation. You play the life of this young boy, go out to meet various people, fight against thieves, playing musical instruments and fall in love with a girl."It's so enticing, but yet raises so many questions. How did the young boy come to suffer from amnesia? Where did he get the giant robot? How does he find time for love while fighting thievesandplaying musical instruments? What drives him in his fight against petty crime?We may never know the answers. Bumpy Trot is unlikely to score a European release. In this age of cynical crime romps, urban street racers and stealth battle stab-'em-ups, is there any room in the UK release schedules for a boy with no past and his faithful mechanical accomplice? Is there? I fear not.
Finally tired of rehashing olde arcade games, mobile developers have found another chapter of gaming history to plunder: the multi-event sports title. This popular eighties genre came about with Konami'sTrack &amp; FieldandHyper Sportscoin-ops, each featuring a range of sporting events that required the gamer to bash two buttons repeatedly to make their sprinter/long jumper/javelin thrower run faster. Later, 8bit home computer versions like Epyx's Summer Games and Ocean's Daley Thompson's Decathlon, added a bit more depth and variety to the gameplay basics and proved enormously popular - mostly because they offered compulsive turn-based multiplayer gaming at a time when such an option was rare.And so, due to the technical constraints of the mobile format, this simple yet enjoyable genre is back. Over the summer there was a rash of decent Olympic cash-ins including THQ'sEurosport Gamesand Morpheme'sJeremiah Manford Athletics. And this week we've received details on another two new contenders.Finnish mobile game developerMr Goodlivingnot only has the best name in the industry - it also has some of the best Track &amp; Field-style games. Having already released Summer Games, Shoot &amp; Splash and Power Games, the company recently revealed that Winter Games is in development. As with its predecessors, the title will feature four sporting events, each requiring a mixture of timing and accuracy from the player. The full line-up hasn't been confirmed but we know that the biathlon and ski-jump are in there. Expect to see this one in November.More offbeat, perhaps, is Big Brother: The Games, based on the infamous reality TV series. Developed byOverloaded, the mobile entertainment arm of media giantEndemol, this bizarre title features a series of events based around the concept of Big Brother tasks - you know, those things they get the inhabitants to do so they can earn more booze and thereby hopefully have sex with each other. I haven't been able to secure any gameplay specifics yet, but from the screenshots it looks like tasks will involve chasing chickens, throwing messages over the wall and jumping into the hot tub. Apparently, your aim is to build up enough points to escape from the Big Brother house, although perhaps there is a final subgame where you must sell the mundane details of your vacuous existence to Heat magazine. We just don't know. They're sending me the code later so I'll let you know.
It may be a relatively new technology but local councils believe Wi-Fi has huge potential to improve the delivery of traditional services and regenerate deprived urban areas.In a move designed to find the best ways for local authorities to roll out wireless broadband networks in cities, the government is backing a major new initiative by Lewisham council to introduce real-time wireless access across the borough.The council is working in partnership with BT Openzone to set up a public wireless broadband network, which it sees as a way of enabling local citizens to interact with its online services. The planned network will also enable council staff to access computer-based files without having to be in their offices. If the project is successful, it could act as a catalyst for the introduction of mobile working across the public sector."Wireless is a channel that gives people the most freedom in terms of how they work, where they work and when they work," says Lorraine Trenchard, programme manager of Connected Communities for Lewisham. "It takes away the shackles of council officers sitting at their desks from nine to five."The council's vision is that new wireless networks will provide efficient support for the likes of social workers, who will be able to carry out real-time assessments by remotely accessing files stored on back-office systems. And on a wider basis, officials feel the new network could play an important role in economic regeneration, by encouraging new IT businesses to be based in the area.Trenchard says the move to mobile   communications is so developed in Lewisham that Wi-Fi is now essential if the council is to meet the needs of local people and businesses."More people have mobile phones in Lewisham than BT landlines. There is a move away from doing things plugged in - the people out there are going a lot faster than we are and we need to meet their needs."Private mobile suppliers, who have been badgering councils to adopt wireless applications to meet e-government targets have, not surprisingly, welcomed news of the pilot. "It's a very good step forward. Citizens and businesses need to be able to connect easily to a council's services wherever they are," says Ruud Veltenaar, chairman of Parkmobile, which provides councils with mobile-based parking applications.As part of the first phase of the project, Lewisham is preparing to run a Wi-Fi network involving about 50 users. The plan is for staff to have   access to a virtual private network (VPN), which will enable them to check email, visit intranets and download relevant information from the council's IT systems when out of the office.Security issues have traditionally deterred councils from enthusiastically adopting Wi-Fi, but BT is confident that Lewisham's experience will dispel those concerns. "With any network service you have to think about security. It's no more of an   issue than it would be for a fixed line. You have to use the same precautions. You have to use VPNs appropriately," says Chris Bruce, general manager for BT Wireless Broadband.Although Lewisham is partnering with BT Openzone, the council wants to explore how the council's network can be accessed through other providers. Trenchard says: "What makes this worthwhile is being able to access your files when you're in Manchester. We know staff are out and about and we need to ensure they can access the network whoever the provider is. It's about working out the logistics of how we let people in when they are sitting in Starbucks."BT claims it is committed to helping councils by introducing wireless broadband roaming agreements. "We know as an industry we have to move to a situation where people don't have to worry if this is an Openzone hotspot or someone else's hotspot."The Lewisham Wi-Fi initiative is being sponsored by the national project for mobile working (known as Nomad) and, despite the excitement at being involved in a high-profile IT development project, the council knows the technology could provoke many challenging issues.One of the attractions of wireless networks for financial directors is that mobile working gives councils the opportunity to generate considerable savings by reducing and selling expensive traditional office space. But mobile working will require council staff to give up traditional practices and there is likely to be some internal resistance.Many councils will be watching Lewisham's experiment closely.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so.
Goody, a parking ticket. Now, there's a combination of words you don't often see. I'm genuinely pleased, though, because my lapse - the first in about 10 years - gives me a rare chance to put an e-government transaction to the test.Transactions are supposed to be the bread and butter of e-government. They are one step up from simply publishing information on the web and one step towards the holy grail of "transforming" services through IT.Transactions are practical tasks, like filing a tax return, booking a driving test, reporting a pothole in the street - or paying a parking fine. In just 15 months' time, under the 2005 e-government target, all   these chores are supposed to be e-enabled (a term that includes providing them over the phone, so long as the call-centre agent has the IT to make them happen).According to the Cabinet Office, we're about three quarters of the way there. We'll probably tick off most of the rest, though at least one transaction - obtaining permission to ship radioactive waste - won't be online until 2007. Probably just as well: it's the sort of thing you want to get right.Transactions are vital to the business case for e-government. When citizens serve themselves electronically, public agencies don't need so many paper-shufflers in the back-office. But that only works as long as enough people take it up. The trouble is that e-transacting with government isn't necessarily habit-forming.   Even an e-government nerd like me only does it a handful of times a year.I claim no benefits and an accountant does my tax return. Council tax goes by direct debit; TV licence likewise. My driving licence is good for another 21 years, my passport for another five. It's a great many years since I committed a crime and quite a few since I was the victim of one. So as a consumer critic of e-government, I'm a complete fraud - as much use as a teetotal wine critic.There's a serious point here. It's that officialdom treads lightly on settled, middle-class people who are the sort of "customers" that government expects to transact online. We'll go to the bother of registering and learning to use a supermarket or airline website, because we expect to do so   frequently. With government, we don't.This is bad news for encouraging the take-up of e-transactions, which is supposed to be the next phase of e-government policy. Anyway, how did your critic get on with his parking ticket? A mixed experience. The i-Pay function on the London borough of Islington's websitewww.islington.gov.ukwas easy enough to find. But 10 days after my ticket was printed, its details had not gone into the system. The e-form was confusing: does "please enter the date" mean today's, or the date on the ticket? And in what format should I write it? It needed a few attempts and a bit of anxiety before the emailed receipt came through.Next time will be easier. Except that I'm determined there won't be a next time, of course.
The new &#163;6bn-plus NHS computer system aims to put all patient records online. This will let any doctor treat any patient, as well as allowing people to look at their medical records on the web. One of the obvious concerns is security, and two-thirds of doctors are worried about confidentiality. Many express the fear that hackers will get access to individuals' medical histories.Now, it is difficult to say with any certainty that this won't happen. After all, managing access to medical records is a very complex problem and complexity is the enemy of security. Simply trying to work out who is allowed to see what in which patient's record is incredibly complicated. In fact, "who" is logging in is complicated in itself. When logging in, there is   a "role selection dialogue" (Mr Smith the consultant may be logging in as himself, for example, or as a Caldicott guardian for someone else) and goodness knows how many "roles" there are and what associated rights they have.This is not to pick on the NHS. It is just to note that big, complicated systems are notoriously difficult to protect. It's hard to imagine that someone, somewhere won't be able to get access to something they are not supposed to. But are doctors right to worry about hackers?Take a look at an industry that is already wholly computerised and online and spends considerable sums on IT security every day. Detective Chief Superintendent Ken Farrow, head of the economic crime unit at the City of London Police, has said that organised crime is infiltrating the UK banking industry   and that the level of insider fraud is significant. He points to the introduction of chip and Pin (which makes payment card fraud more difficult) and the use of "unvetted" temporary staff with access to computer systems as major factors. The losses to hacking are a fraction of those from rogue traders with inappropriate access to back-office computer systems and the like.Hackers may make the newspaper headlines, but it is insiders who are the biggest risk. The annual fraud surveys from organisations such as KPMG and Ernst &amp; Young consistently show that around three-quarters of frauds are perpetrated by insiders. It is easy to see why: staff (and particularly middle management) have access to computer systems as well as an understanding of the business processes they are   subverting. The people at the top may well understand the business processes, but they don't know enough about IT. The office junior may well be an IT whizzkid, but doesn't understand enough about accounts, sign-off and other business functions to convincingly fool audits and check-ups.Accidents uncover frauds more often than external auditors and have almost as good a record as internal auditors.So if - or perhaps when - the security of the NHS system is breached and some celebrity's medical record is splashed across the internet, we should take stock of who the likely perpetrator might be. It's a pound to a penny that it will be because they were rude to someone in a hospital, not because some master hackers have found their way into the NHS system.
OutRun 2Xbox, &#163;39.99 Sega&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Mention of OutRun is guaranteed to elicit misty-eyed reminiscences of misspent youth from thirty-something men. OutRun's enduring popularity is such that it can still be found in the arcades, so it is surprising it has taken so long to reach a console. Sega has done a great job, though.Naturally, a pixel-perfect facsimile of the OutRun 2 experience is included in OutRun 2 for the Xbox, but you will also find a Challenge mode, composed of a large number of diverse mini time-trials, which will keep you playing long after you have completed the arcade courses. It updates the original with new graphics and replaces the original's Ferrari Testarossa replaced with Ferrari's Dino, Daytona and F50. It also supports Xbox Live online play, which is bound to prove popular.OutRun 2 is, of course, proudly arcade-style, which means unrealistic but fun handling: brake and turn the wheel when driving the Dino 246GT, for example, and you will launch into a sustained tail-out skid. OutRun 2 is also untainted by political correctness - you drive with your girlfriend by your side, and can play the arcade game in "heart attack" mode, in which you please her by hanging the tail out or passing cars on demand. Crash, though, and she will wave her arms and berate you.There's also the legendary OutRun music - which could easily pass muster as the soundtrack for a porn film. The result is an utterly beguiling game worthy of its legendary name.Steve BoxerA Tale in the Desert IIPC (online only), Free download then $13.95 per month subscription (approximately &#163;8.00) eGenesis&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;When A Tale in the Desert came out last year it represented a breeze of innovation in a swamp of samey hack'n'slash online adventures. The premise was to transport players back in time to Ancient Egypt, where they would work together in a creative, non-combative environment following the seven disciplines of man.But instead of launching a simple expansion to the game, eGenesis has decided to open a new chapter in Egypt's history. Tale two comes with plenty of tweaks to the graphics and additional sound effects. This brings the already impressive landscape to life, especially when your feet are crunching on the sand as you run through the desert with cicada song in your ears.For those who have already played Tale One, the territory is familiar but there is new emphasis on events and competitions. The new game has much more of a "city and country" feel to it, with built-up areas and chariot stops in between, which are like BC bus stops that allow you to travel instantaneously around Egypt.Regular players might find being forced to start again frustrating, but the new events and engine tweaks mean there is plenty to see and do.Rhianna PratchettStar Wars Trilogy: Apprentice of the ForceGame Boy Advance, &#163;29.99 Ubi Soft&#42;&#42;Star Wars is everywhere. The films are out on DVD, while Battlefront is wowing online gamers. And then there is Star Wars Trilogy: Apprentice of the Force - a side-scrolling platform game from the old school.Leaps of faith - where the ground is hidden when jumping - and enemies who re-appear when you go back a screen, are two design elements that are - sadly - prominent, along with other travesties such as flashing blocks and locked door backtracking.But for those who feel the force of Star Wars, there is appeal. Played from Luke Skywalker's perspective, the game takes you through the set pieces from the first trilogy. Unfortunately, each setting offers samey gameplay - leaping from platforms and blasting or scything Stormtroopers.But what grates is the unfinished feel of the game. The plot uses still images from the film to drive things, but these are poor quality. The audio is inadequate, and the ending is too easily reached, suggesting even more that this was rushed out to coincide with the DVD release.Greg Howson
Sony has finally delivered its "iPod killer" to the UK. The NW-HD1 is a 20GB hard disk jukebox player, which, in several ways, is a superior product to its Apple rival.It is significantly smaller than the iPod, offers at least twice as much battery life and boasts the kind of performance Sony personal audio products are renowned for.However, the problem is that the device is only compatible with Sony-approved Atrac files, so to transfer any existing MP3 files, they must be converted to the new format. This takes ages - our unit took the best part of 24 hours to fill up. Sony will soon upgrade the software to allow MP3s to be ported directly to the player, but for now, it is a real hassle. Also, there is only compatibility with Sony's Connect music download service.The other key advantage of the iPod is that it is at least &#163;50 less than the &#163;280 NW-HD1. However, for some PC owners &#163;50 is a premium worth paying once Sony resolves the MP3 issue.www.sony.co.uk
Erasing dataI was intrigued to hear reports about organisations failing to erase data before recycling IT equipment. What level of security is required to make data unrecoverable?Joe LynchJack Schofield replies:Some data can be recovered from almost any drive, unless you smash it with a hammer and burn the remains. The real question is how much someone is willing to spend to retrieve it. If it is simply a failed or corrupt hard drive, prices start at around &#163;1,000. To erase files securely, you need to overwrite the disk sectors multiple times, to make data recovery prohibitively expensive. Many programs will do this, but I recommendEraserfor MS-DOS and Windows. It is easy to use, free (donations accepted), and is published under the GPL free software licence, so you can read the source code and check that it does exactly what it says. Set it up so you can select Erase after right-clicking on a file (ie as a shell extension), and you can specify the type and number of overwrites, including ones defined for the US Department of Defense.Be preparedDo I still need my Zone Labs firewall, SpyBot and Pop-up Stopper etc now I've installed Windows XP Service Pack 2?Kevin Bell, Steve Ballantyne, Adam Elgarand others.JS:SP2 installs with a simple firewall switched on, to protect users who would otherwise not install a firewall    at all. It is not intended to compete with third-party firewalls from Zone Labs, Sygate, Kerio etc. If you are happily using one of these, you can keep on using it. SP2 also adds a pop-up blocker to Internet Explorer, so you could uninstall your pop-up blocker. However, some stoppers offer other functions, and there's no reason why you should not continue to use, say, the Google Toolbar. I still consider SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy essential, and also recommend both Lavasoft's Ad-aware and Javacool's Spywareblaster. Many types of malware, including diallers, do not depend on security flaws but on deception or "social engineering" and some are bundled with file-sharing and other free software. SP2 does not provide protection against those.Speed up XPI put Windows XP on my old ThinkPad 600e and it works incredibly slowly. Is there a way of going back from NFTS to Fat32/Win 98?Susan EllisJS:Windows installations usually let you go back to the earlier operating system if you select the option to preserve files. However, DOS-based versions of Windows (3.x/95/98/Me) are incompatible with the New Technology File System often used by Windows NT/2000/XP. You cannot go back without reformatting the hard drive - destroying all your data - and reinstalling Windows 98 from scratch. Instead, try to speed up XP. Right-click the My Computer icon, select Properties, click the Advanced tab, go to the Performance section and click Settings.Choose the setting that says "Adjust for best performance" or use the Custom setting to remove all XP's power-hungry visual effects. A 600e usually has a 300MHz Mobile Pentium II and 64MB of memory - not really enough to run XP. You will need to add 128MB or preferably 256MB of memory, bringing it up to the maximum 288MB for &#163;72.83 fromCrucial.  A 600e running Windows 98 is only worth about &#163;200-&#163;225, but it's a nice   machine and is probably worth the upgrade.Moving DocsI have partitioned my hard drive under Windows XP. Unfortunately My Documents is residing on the half set aside for programs rather than data. Is it possible to move it?Brian LawJS:Right-click the My Documents icon on your desktop, select Properties, change the Target tab (eg to D:\My Documents) and click Move. For full instructions, see Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 310147 (search Google for Q310147).HotmailWhere is this Hotmail upgrade?Ian ChamberlainJS:It takes a while to upgrade 150m mailboxes and the people who are paying for a premium service are being upgraded first. I expect the American (.com) users will be upgraded next. My Yahoo (http://mail.yahoo. com) mailboxes were upgraded months ago.Backchat&#183;Last week I was recommending IrfanView again for image viewing. Richard Lumb recommendsImagewalker. He says: "It has all the typical features one needs - slideshows etc - but some excellent extra features, such as basic editing, re-sizing, file conversions, re-naming (very handy) and easy and efficient ways to manage folders."&#183;Some time ago, Jim McAllister asked for a way to auto-run a slide show of digital photographs from CD. He says: "Microsoft has made available a power toy which does the task well: perhaps someone at MS reads your column." The new PowerToys are atwww.microsoft.com/windowsxp.
Six years ago, when the government announced it was going to turn off the analogue television signal, it seemed to be a signpost for everything New Labour stood for. The dotcom bubble was blowing up to enormous proportions, Techno Tony Blair was riding the crest of a phenomenal electoral wave and Labour was cultivating the "cool Britannia" image. Switching off analogue TV, we were told, would show the world how Britain was a technologically progressive nation at the vanguard of digital broadcasting.In many ways, that image has remained. Britain has one of the most advanced digital terrestrial and satellite broadcast networks in the world, and plans to cut off analogue broadcasting have continued. But despite this, the government's ambition to capture the white heat of technology appears to have been doused by the tepid waters of caution. The initial and ambitious switch-off date pencilled in for 2006 now seems like wishful thinking.The government's date for analogue switch-off has since seen a succession of reappraisals. At first, the deadline moved to 2008. Then it changed to 2010, a date that culture secretary Tessa Jowell insisted would "remain attainable" even in May this year. In July, however, the outlook became less optimistic after media watchdog Ofcom lobbied for the "back stop" date to move to 2012."The important thing for us is that this is a sensibly managed process," says Richard Lindsay-Davies, public affairs director of Digital Television Group, an industry body. "It's a huge engineering project to change transmitters and get equipment into everyone's homes. We want it to be done in   as joined up a way as possible."While the government puts back its switchover timetable, other countries are pushing forward with their plans for digital terrestrial television (DTT). Working to a 2010 date, Germany last year switched off Berlin's analogue terrestrial signal. Under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission, the US is looking tentatively towards a 2009 switchover. And even China, with a population 20 times larger than the UK's, has launched a drive to get the entire Chinese population - some 380m households - on to digital television by 2015."Most of these dates are flaky," says a spokesman for Ofcom. "They may reflect 'ambitions' rather than real deliverable targets. This contrasts with our 2010 'ambition' and 2012, which feels like a much more real and deliverable timetable."In the US, for example, the 2009 target only means for the pay-TV platforms to go digital - it does not include a means of dealing with the last 10% who do not have these services. Hence, it is not really a full switch-off at all."To some extent, this is true. Germany's switchover is relatively easy since a huge proportion of German homes already use cable or satellite television, and the American and Chinese plans are over-ambitious. But such strong leadership still makes the British government's constant backtracking appear symbolic of wider indecision. The Blair administration is often accused of failing to make bold resolutions, and some feel it is hampering Britain's position as a leading technological innovator."While this indecision and delay continues, other countries that had previously looked at us with envy   have forged ahead with their own timetables," says Laurence Harrison, director of consumer electronics at industry group Intellect. "Some of them might be over the top, but at least they are backed up by positive government campaigns. We had that kind of forcefulness in the early days, but to some extent it has slipped away. The government needs to find it again."The problem is outlined starkly in a manifesto from Pace, a digital set-top box manufacturer: "Britain leads the world in the development of digital television. Yet we risk losing this global lead unless the government and the digital television industry act more decisively to speed up the switch from analogue to digital."In truth, while costly for industry, the lack of definition on switchover dates has had few tangible effects for consumers. Digital switchover is, however, a problem that has broader implications.Any slowing of the digital drive   could impede the adoption of other technological progressions. Television is seen as a key mover in the ultimate convergence of technology, eventually linking up with digital radio, broadband internet and other technologies.One fear is that a drawn-out switchover process would increase the digital divide. Currently, 53% of British homes receive digital television through a mixture of terrestrial, cable, satellite and even a small proportion of telephone services. This is remarkably close to the figure for home internet penetration, and some believe the correlation is no coincidence. Britain is breeding a generation of tech-aware consumers who have adopted a range of services - but with each step forward, they move further away from the minority who have yet to adopt.Still, it is far from being all bad news. A recent survey by market analyst Datamonitor forecast that 20m UK households will have switched to digital TV by the end of 2008. This is mainly on the back of the phenomenal success of Freeview, and will mean that Britain has the highest digital TV penetration in the world. The key to reducing strain at the point of switchover will be to reduce the numbers who need ferrying across the digital divide.So if Britain is leading the world, why have switchover plans remained so sketchy? Freeview's success has clearly indicated there is an   appetite for the change among the public. Manufacturers, as always, would love to encourage sales, and broadcasters are unhappy with the expensive prospect of simulcasting on both analogue and digital for a long period.Some believe the main problem is ultimately not technological, but political. While digital switchover may not be a crucial topic in the election, it could prove a point of contention come the subsequent campaign in 2009 or 2010. A pro-switchover government could stand accused of disenfranchising millions of voters who have refused to buy digital equipment."It's a politically explosive issue because the cost of converting second and third TV sets would be around &#163;3.5bn, says Dermot Nolan, a consultant at TBS. "A solution needs to be found that's electorally saleable."Privately, politicians are resigned to paying large sums to effect the final transition to digital TV. However, they will be hoping to recoup much of the costs from re-selling the space on the analogue spectrum - perhaps to high definition television or wireless data services - though these seem unlikely to raise as much as the inflated 3G network licences did in 2000.But the political costs of pushing refuseniks to digital television could be even greater. Switchover could become a serious campaigning issue for those unwilling to make the change, or for those in isolated areas. Large numbers of people are already concerned they will not be able to receive DTT in time for transition. Consumers are concerned they are not being told what is really happening, and many industry   insiders believe it is better to tackle this bull by the horns."This isn't really a political issue," says Lindsay-Davies. "It's about upgrading the infrastructure of the UK. It's like upgrading the road system. If it's mismanaged, it would not do anyone any favours. In some ways, I think government is just an observer of the process, but a timetable would push consumers towards switching - as long as they understand the reasons why. We have to explain the changes rather than say 'we're doing this to you'."Some critics are concerned that a government scared of promising jam tomorrow is only causing itself future problems by failing to define a strong position today."As far as industry is concerned, what we need is commitment and certainty," says Intellect's Harrison. "We firmly believe that government should take the lead on this and show firm leadership. They may feel it's politically sensitive, but they need to organise a single point of contact; there needs to be a minister who can take on the responsibility. Public awareness won't rise until there's a minister who can stand up and endorse that timetable."Strong political will would not only boost the switchover cause, but would also guarantee Britain's place at the heart of the digital revolution. Despite the progress being made now, that honour is by no means certain."Ofcom's call for the end of analogue could be described as very brave and subject to political conditions," says Nolan. "So far there has been a lot of discussion and some interesting ideas, but action is still a long way off."
Thought the impending Nintendo DS was simply a Game Boy with go-faster stripes? Think again - this baby could herald in a wireless revolution! Or something.Engadgetreports that the DS could be used as wireless navigational device. By doubling up as a repeater hub to link to other DS's nearby, gamers could form spontaneous networks without the need to be near a traditional access point. This is all speculation of course, but don't bet against Nintendo pulling something similar out of their Mario adorned bag.
