The smartphone and tablet edition of Minecraft is now much closer to its desktop and console versions, after developer Mojang launched one of the biggest updates in its history.The Minecraft: Pocket Edition 0.12 update adds some prominent features that had previously been missing from the mobile version including hunger; sneaking and sprinting; the game’s Nether zone; and tameable ocelots.Mobile gamers will also be able to play against people on PCs using the new Windows 10 version of Minecraft, and use physical controllers paired with their iOS device. The update has also launched for Windows Phone, with Android to follow.The update is a significant moment for Minecraft’s Pocket Edition, whichreached the milestone of 30m sales in January 2015, but has always lagged behind the versions for computers and consoles in its features.The game has been improving rapidly, though, in response to its increasingly large audience: many of whom have only ever played Minecraft on a mobile device.Related:Zombies, creepers and kids all flock to Minecraft’s block partyPrevious significant updates included 0.95 in July 2014 which added infinite worlds, caves and wolves, and 0.11 in June 2015 which added a skins feature for players to customise their characters.Mojang announced plans for the 0.12 update at its Minecon conferencein July, with the addition of The Nether getting the biggest cheer from the thousands of attendees.The next major improvement will be full use of the virtual redstone material to create circuits that transmit power, which Mojang promised would come in a Pocket Edition update by the end of 2015.The developer, which wasacquired by Microsoft for $2.5bn in 2014, is also planning to launch its Realms service – where players pay a monthly subscription to manage their own private Minecraft servers to play on with friends – for the Pocket Edition.Mojang is also working with developer Telltale Games on a new “narrative-driven adventure” calledMinecraft: Story Mode, which is expected to debut by the end of 2015.
It’s Wednesday, right?
First they came for your search, then they came for your phone, now they want your groceries. Google is getting into the fresh foods business. The company confirmed on Tuesday that Google Express, the company’s delivery service, will send fresh fruits and vegetables to customers in San Francisco and one other city (so far unnamed) later this year.The tech company also announced it will expand its next-day delivery service – which is already available in cities including Chicago, New York and San Francisco and works with partners like Barnes &amp; Noble, Target and ToysRUs – to areas in the midwest.“Today, we’re very excited to be further expanding our efforts – making it easy for over 25 million people in the midwest to get things they need from stores they love – delivered overnight,” said Brian Elliott, general manager of Google Express.The home-delivered groceries market in the US is dominated by established brick-and-mortar players like Whole Foods (with which Google Express will partner), as well as companies like FreshDirect that cater to high-cost-of-living regions. (FreshDirect serves New York City and its environs, and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.) With the new plan, overnight delivery will expand into the greater Chicago area, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin.The other major food delivery service with national ambitions is Amazon, which is currently battling FreshDirect for customers in New York with its Amazon Fresh service. A BI Intelligence report put the forecast for the delivery sector of the $700bn US market at $18bn by 2018.Google Express is unique among home-delivery market competitors by virtue of its partnerships. Rather than sell items out of its warehouses (which Google tried earlier this summer), the company works with Whole Foods in the case of its fresh goods, in addition to Costco, Fairway and many others when it comes to selling dry goods. The plan is currently to capitalize on the cachet of the existing brands Google has joined with – Elliott said the plan was “to connect people with their favorite stores”, and the site features logos from those stores – including Amazon competitor Barnes &amp; Noble.But the company’s entry into the grocery market hasn’t been without incident: when the Google Express warehouse and shipping workers opted to join the Teamsters in August, the newly unionized laborers cited lack of ventilation, low wages, poor benefits and a contract with Google subcontractor Adecco that limited the term of employment to a maximum of two years.Google notified Adecco earlier this summer that it was moving away from its warehousing system, a source said – the plan for Google Express at the moment is for the goods it delivers to be warehoused and supplied out of the existing physical stores with which it partners.
Samsung is to cut jobs and expenditure at its headquarters in anticipation of a slump in the smartphone market, according to a Korean financial newspaper.The company will make 10% of its support employees redundant and cut general expenditure by 50% in the next year,writes the Korea Economic Daily.The cuts focus on back-office staff in finance, communications and human resources, and are being made in advance of what the company fears may be a difficult year. In July 2015, itreported the seventh consecutive quarter in a rowof falling year-on-year profits, with disappointing sales of the company’s Galaxy S6 phone contributing to a meagre bottom line.Globally, the company’s market share fell to 24.2% in the first quarter of 2015, according to the analysts Gartner, leaving it still the largest single smartphone maker by unit sales but down from 30.4% the year before.The company has been struggling to hold its own against younger manufacturers from China such as Huawei and Xaiomi, which have been eating away at its market share from the low end, particularly among Chinese consumers, and are increasingly challenging Samsung’s flagship phones directly.The Korea Economic Daily reports that the company also intends to cut back on general expenditure by 50%. Those cuts follow 1.8trn won (£1bn) saved “in selling and administrative expenses in the first half of this year by not spending already-planned budget items”, the paper says.
Apple’s executive team will get up on stage in San Francisco on Wednesday and announce … something. The event, like all major Apple press conferences, has only been officially teased with an invitation bearing the phrase “Hey Siri”.But, also like all major Apple press conferences, the company’s been leakier than a colander carrying water, and so we all have a pretty good idea what’s about to happen.To help us separate the gossip from the rumours, the truth from the half-truths, the Apple Watches from the iWatches, we’re turning to you, our readers. The wisdom of the crowds can surely peek behind the brushed aluminium veil, right?We’ll post the results on Wednesday, shortly before Apple’s event.View Survey
The pop artist Sir Peter Blake will let his art be remixed by users of a new app inspired by the “dazzle art” painted on British ships during the first world war, in the hope of confusing German U-boats.Dazzle It was commissioned as part of the commemorations for the war’s centenary, and has been released as a free appfor Androidandfor iOSdevices.The app blends people’s own photos with dazzle-art designs created by Blake and other artists, then displays them on virtual boats – and even a rubber duck – which can then be viewed in the real world using its augmented-reality features.Blake’s contribution comes from his commission to create a new design, Everybody Razzle Dazzle,for the Mersey Ferry Snowdrop in Liverpool earlier in 2015, as part of a series of art commissions marking the centenary.Fellow artist Tobias Rehberger’s dazzle artwork for the HMS President ship, currently on show in London, is also one of the designs available within the app.Related:Mersey ferry gets the dazzle treatment from Sir Peter BlakeBlake said he hoped the app would help aspiring artists “discover more about the way in which early 20th century artists participated in the war effort”.The organisation that commissioned both the installations and the app, 14-18 Now, said it hoped the app would raise awareness of the material among people who will not visit London or Liverpool while the ships were on display.Earlier in the year, Blake described the process ofredesigning a Mersey ferry,the Snowdrop, including his fears about the potential response from Liverpudlians.“I was slightly nervous that there might be some diehards who’d think I’d messed it up, they preferred the old livery,” he told the Guardian . “But I was very respectful of it – I checked things like whether I was okay to change the funnel.”
The 2015-16 NFL season is very nearly upon us and it brings with it, Electronic Arts’ American football simulator Madden 16, which is arguably the closest most Brits will ever get to suiting up and taking to the field for some good old-fashioned gridiron.We are introduced to the latest iteration through EA’s prediction for Superbowl 50, which unsurprisingly has pegged this year’s AFC champions as the Pittsburgh Steelers and, somewhat more controversially, chosen the Arizona Cardinals as the NFC champions for 2015-16.Nevertheless, what is immediately noticeable is how slick the action looks and feels on the field. With so many AI-controlled players it is impossible to escape the odd huge pile-up of bodies preventing you making even a short gain on a running play; but, that said, there is a marked improvement on the fluidity of the action, on both running and passing downs. We are also delivered offence statistics through pop-up boxes before the ball is snapped, which is nice touch just to give the player instant feedback on how well (or badly) he or she is doing. Off the field, even the soundtrack delivers a lot of high-intensity music to get you in the mood when it comes to game time.In the opening tutorial we are immediately thrown into the action as the perennial gunslinger for the Steelers, Ben Roethilsberger, to learn the new throwing and catching pass mechanics EA has designed. When looking to throw the ball, you now have a wider variety of types of “body-relative” throws to choose from. The game has, thankfully, kept the tried and tested bullet pass and lob pass but introduced the double-tap touch pass to drop the ball in between defenders when throwing deep passes, the low pass to find wide receivers in tight spots and high jump throws.Related:Madden NFL 13 – reviewIn combination with the increased complexity of passing comes the introduction of new ways to receive the ball showcased by one of last year’s standout wide receivers, Antonio Brown. There is the RAC (run after catch), possession and aggressive catches that allow players to maximise the yards gained from a throw or just make sure they hold on for a first down. Whilst complex, these new passing and catching controls when mastered make throwing the ball incredibly dangerous. In Madden 15, throwing a deep ball would more often than not end up being intercepted but the emphasis has switched now from a conservative defensive-minded approach (not necessarily a huge amount of fun) to a risk/reward mindset. If you are prepared to throw up touch passes or high balls combined with aggressive catches, then the end zone will start to become a familiar place for you.When it comes to the gameplay modes themselves, EA has stuck with its hugely successful Ultimate Team design that sees players build up their perfect roster over time. The depth on offer here is huge. You can recreate classic NFL moments through challenges or face-off against other players’ teams online. Just don’t complain when you’re spending time grinding for coins to improve your side and you get thrashed by someone who has just spent hundreds of pounds buying player packs.You can also start your own NFL dynasty in the franchise mode where, again, the depth is incredible. Whether you want to play as individual player through an entire career or be a GM and control everything from ticket prices, the price of food in the stand and whether your team finally makes that move to LA, you can do it here. For the record, you can take a more sane approach and control your favourite team, improving their roster and if all goes right leading them to the coveted Lombardi trophy.Related:Project Cars review – a strikingly authentic simulationThe only disappointment in Madden 16 is the hyped new Draft Champions addition to the game, a mode designed to resemble fantasy football – but fans of that concept should perhaps not get their hopes up. The mode complements Ultimate Team by letting you choose part of the starting line-up of players before challenging other human competitors or the CPU with your customised side in order to earn rewards. However, the fantasy element is limited, allowing you to select only one out of three players per draft over a series of 15 rounds.Yes, it is nice being able to play online in an Ultimate Team setting where you aren’t completely outgunned but the draft process is arbitrary and that leaves the whole element feeling tacked on and a little pointless. The only saving grace is that you can play as elite players in a non-exhibition setting without spending a lot of money or grinding for hours.Otherwise, Madden 16 is an authentic, challenging simulation that explores key facets of the sport in new ways and adds much to the experience in the process.Electronic Arts; PS3/PS4 (version tested)/Xbox 360/Xbox One; £45; Pegi rating: £45
Apple has rebuffed a court order to hand over in real time texts sent using iMessage between two iPhones because its encryption system leaves the company unable to comply.The order was obtained by the US Department of Justice during an investigation over the summer involving guns and drugs,according to a report in the New York Times, and represents the first known direct face-off between the government and Apple over encryption.The two have been fighting a proxy war for almost a year now. The US government, led by the FBI, has been making increasingly strident calls for technology companies to stop providing ubiquitous encryption to customers, arguing that the tools harm the American people by making it harder to catch terrorists, paedophiles and other criminals.In September 2014, the director of the FBI, James Comey, specifically criticised Apple’s decision to enable “end-to-end” encryption in its then-new mobile operating system, iOS8, which is what prevents the company from reading its users’ messages.Comey said at the time: “I like and believe very much that we should have to obtain a warrant from an independent judge to be able to take the content of anyone’s closet or their smart phone. The notion that someone would market a closet that could never be opened – even if it involves a case involving a child kidnapper and a court order – to me does not make any sense.“Google is marketing their Android the same way: ‘Buy our phone and law-enforcement, even with legal process, can never get access to it,’ ” he added.But despite Comey’s attacks, Apple has continued to provide more security features to users. In October 2014, the company released the latest version of its desktop operating system, Mac OS X Yosemite,with an option to encrypt the computer’s entire hard drive on by default for the first time.And this summer, the company joined forces with its arch-rival Google to write to the Obama administration urging the US government to preserve strong encryption against pressure from law enforcement agencies.The letter argued that“strong encryption is the cornerstone of the modern information economy’s security”, and that the government should “fully support and not undermine efforts to create encryption standards [nor] in any way subvert, undermine, weaken or make vulnerable” commercial software.
It’s Tuesday! I’m giving a talk at the Pocket Gamer Connects conference in Helsinki in about half an hour.
Uber has raised $1.2bn for its expansion into China, according to an interview with its chief executive, Travis Kalanick, published by Sina, aChinese-language website.Related:Uber blocked on biggest Chinese messaging appReports wereconfirmed by TechCrunch.Uber later confirmed to the Guardian that the funding round is unfinished and that it expects additional investments in the coming days and weeks.UberChina is expected to be valued at $8bn, according to reports.The company already operates in 11 Chinese cities, but would like to see that number increase by 50 in a year. In a letter obtained by the Financial Times in June, Kalanick told investors that Uber’s Chinese riders were completing almost a million trips a day.“This kind of growth is remarkable and unprecedented. To put it frankly, China represents one of the largest untapped opportunities for Uber, potentially larger than the US,”he wrote.“Success in China, however, takes commitment over the long haul and a strong will, coupled with a unique understanding of the differences in China.”To accomplish this, Kalanick said, the company would build out local teams and partnerships.Under the heading “China Expansion”,one Uber careers web page advertises “launcher” jobs.“As part of an elite team of Launchers charged with expanding our presence in new markets across the globe, you will play a large, direct role in allowing us to realize that vision,” the page reads.“At base, this job entails being dropped into a city or country where Uber has zero brand and physical presence, quickly figuring out who and what make that city run, and then building a new business from scratch – in a matter of weeks – which sets Uber up for long-term success.”In the letter obtained by the FT, Kalanick wrote that starting on 22 June, UberChina would formally launch a fundraising process and would “welcome participation from our existing investor base”.Expansion into China has not been smooth for Uber. In May,police visited the company’s officesin Chengdu and Guangzhou. Uber said these were “routine” visits, but in Augustfive drivers were arrested in Hong Kongfor “illegal use of vehicles for hire”. They were later released on bail.
The news is, to put it mildly, pretty depressing recently – social media equally so. Twitter timelines are filled with the horrors of war and unspeakable tragedy, so it was a blessed relief that late on Sunday night a tweet which was a source of unadulterated joy started to go viral.Enter Keith Fraley, a 19-year-old second year student of software engineering atMichigan Techcollege, and his tweet about his roommate, Mark, a mechanical engineering student, who arrived home wasted and managed to design an entire plane – and woke up with no memory the next day.Keith’s tweet has since been retweeted more than 30,000 times and been favourited almost 60,000 times.so my roommate came back drunk last night and doesnt remember designing an entire fucking airplanepic.twitter.com/A8El9Jyrn6&mdash; keith (@spasepeople)September 6, 2015Keith and Mark – that’s not his real name, as he’s somewhat worried about his drinking exploits in the context of future employment – agreed to answer some questions about the fact that Michigan Tech students seem to have much more productive periods of being absolutely trashed than the rest of us, who are more usually found racing each other in shopping trolleys and hitting on our colleagues. We spoke to Keith, with input from Mark.What time did Mark come home, and what had he been drinking?Did he just bowl straight into the aircraft designing, or was there some lead up to this?It all started around 11.30pm. Mark burst into the room in a drunken sway, asking where his textbooks were and after greeting me he rushed back out of the room. From what the person who brought him up [to the shared accommodation] was saying, Mark had a ton of rum and vodka-mixed drinks.He then came stumbling back two minutes later to grab his giant whiteboard. I just laughed as I sat on the computer listening to his murmurs. Around 1.30am, he came back and he sat on the couch with a worn look on his face.He came stumbling back two minutes later to grab his giant whiteboardMy friend Cody and I both looked at Mark as he then began to spew information about his whiteboard designed craft and the calculations behind it. Cody and I were in tears from laughter because the aerospace mathematics he tried telling us about sounded like a slurred robot. I did no encouraging towards the creation of this, but I did encourage him to continue talking because it was hilarious.Keith Flaney and Mark, the designer of the plane.Photograph: Keith FlaneyWas anyone else lucky enough to witness this?The guys that Mark shared drinks with were with him for more of the night than I was. They explained to me that Mark began a tantrum and began creating his design. Alex, a friend of Mark’s, said that he began staring at the ground and said that he asked for pen and paper immediately. After he sketched some designs, he said that he needed to leave and grab his aerospace mathematics textbook and whiteboard.According to his drinking buddies, he was drawing frantically explaining his thoughts out loud and at the time he was very intoxicated. He was passing out on his whiteboard from time to time as well.Mark’s designs are spread across graph paper, a whiteboard, and a notepad – that’s some real attention to detail and dedication …Mark, although very intelligent towards math, also works towards industrial design and some minor graphic designing. It is no surprise to me that his work while intoxicated was still very visually appealing.So, would the aircraft fly? Does the design hold up in a sober setting?Well technically, it’s not an airplane like I claimed. It’s actually called anekranoplan, which is more like a very high speed aircraft that floats above the water (Mark is trying to dumb this down for me). Mark says that he imagines his design may work, and he looks forward to trying to recreate his work into a remote-control model with his colleagues …@spasepeoplethis is the greatest thing I&#39;ve seen on twitter all year&mdash; spookie jebbie⚛ (@debbiedontcare)September 6, 2015Has there ever been any kind of inebriated ekranoplan designing before? Or is it normally the more usual fare of traffic cones on heads and falling over garbage cans?Well normally, we might slap “DRUNK” stickers on our foreheads, but Mark has brought new light to those of us who are unproductive drinkers. Most would think his actions were a result of Adderall or some crazy LSD but his actions were just down to being blackout drunk.How does it feel for your tweet to have gone viral? It has now been retweeted almost 30,000 times and faved almost 50,000 times. Have your mentions been going crazy?It was funny to think the tweet up, I could see one of my tweets finally getting some spotlight from my friends , but I couldn’t have imagined it getting as much attention as it did. We were counting the notifications as it went from zero activity to 27,000 retweets and 50,000 favourites in around 12 hours.One person on Twitter said the tail prop would fail during steep climbs, due to low pressure behind the wingWhat kind of feedback have you had for the tweet? Are people just in hysterics, or have there been engineers out there actually commenting on the design?Almost all of the feedback we received was surprisingly positive, and many people joked saying that they wanted whatever Mark was having that night. A lot of people also commented saying “drunk goals”.One person did call Mark out on his design, saying that the tail prop would fail during steep climbs due to low pressure behind the wing, and Mark replied saying that his design was actually an ekranoplan and not an airplane – so it lead to humorous and constructive responses.@spasepeople@hacks4pancakesThat&#39;s both acceptable and makes the fact that he designed it while drunk funnier. Heh&mdash; ra6bit (@ra6bit)September 6, 2015Does he genuinely not remember designing the ekranoplan?It’s actually really funny because he didn’t draw the design on the actual graph paper [in addition to the whiteboard] until he woke up the next morning. He woke me up and he must have been intoxicated still because as I watched him, he realised what he was doing and was struck with confusion and anger.Next time, he plans on curing cancerHe doesn’t remember a thing – even the next morning at 9am. He then fell asleep in his chair and woke up about an hour later basically questioning his sanity because of the immense amount of work that was in front of him, with no memory of his motivation to do it.What does Mark plan on designing next time he is drunk?He plans on trying to cure cancer or to finalise his design plans for the craft in Siemens NX to be 3D printed later for prototyping.Finally, if you could both get drunk and design an aircraft with anyone in the world (dead or alive), who would it be?If we could both get drunk and design an aircraft, Mark explained that he would want it to be with the man who invented and designed the world’s first ekranoplan, Rostislav Alexeyev. I would probably just sit back and document the entire thing on Twitter.• You can follow Keith on Twitter:@spasepeople
Putting on music is often seen as an energising action to aid dancing, even jogging. But now one of the fastest-growing new album categories features music focused on the opposite goal: putting listeners to sleep.Spotify’s fastest-growing music category is the newly named “environmental/sleep/relaxative” – in the last week alone, 282 albums from the category were added to the music streaming service’s catalogue, many times more than other genres including hard rock, latin pop and dancehall.The figure comes from a new tool released by the company’s data team, which sorts new music releases by genre. NamedSorting Hatafter the headwear from the Harry Potter books, it isdescribed by Spotifyas an “experimental attempt at an algorithmic organisation of the week’s new releases”.The resulting data shows how much music is being added to Spotify’s catalogue each week, as well as the genre breakdown.For the week ending 4 September, for example, it tracks 6,735 new releases – a total that includes singles, EPs and albums. An album-only view reveals that 2,425 of those were albums and compilations.Related:Spotify has six years of my music data, but does it understand my tastes?This means that 11.6% of all new albums on Spotify that week fell into its sleep and relaxation category, with collections including White Noise for Baby Sleep, Zen Spa, Beach Sleep Sounds and Spiritual Guitar Chillout.Earlier in 2015,Spotify said that its users had created more than 2.8m sleep-themed playlistsof their own, with Ed Sheeran’s Thinking Out Loud the most popular track among those collections.Chief executive Daniel Ek may not be a fan of the genre – “Sleep is overrated!” hetweeted in July 2011 at 4.34am. But the glut of relaxation albums and user-generated playlists on his company’s service suggests that listeners have no shortage of options in this area.Sorting Hat is also a useful way for streamers to dig into some of Spotify’s other niche genres, from filthStep/brostep/catstep (seven new albums added last week) and Chilean rock (four) to Slovak hip-hop or electro dub (three apiece).
Hackers can easily trick self-driving cars into thinking that another car, a wall or a person is in front of them, potentially paralysing it or forcing it to take evasive action.Automated cars use laser ranging systems, known as lidar, to image the world around them and allow their computer systems to identify and track objects. But a tool similar to a laser pointer and costing less than $60 can be used to confuse lidar.The attack can be carried out from behind, in front or from the side of the car and without alerting the car’s passengers, according to a security researcher.Lidar systems mounted on Google’s self-driving test vehicle fleet.Photograph: Eric Risberg/APLidar, usually mounted on the car’s roof, uses spinning lasers in a similar manner to radar, detecting objects and building a 3D image of the world around the car.But by using a low-power laser hackers could trick the lidar into detecting echoes of fake objects, such as pedestrians, cyclists, other cars or walls, according to a paper by Jonathan Petit, a research then a fellow of University of Cork’s Computer Security Group.In the paper, to be presented at November’s Black Hat Europe security conference, Petit describes a system built with off-the-shelf components including a Raspberry Pi or Arduino computer that can effectively spoof the car at a range of up to 100m.The self-driving cars can be brought to a stop, tricked into taking evasive action or into turning in a certain direction by placing the spoofed objects in their paths.“I can spoof thousands of objects and basically carry out a denial-of-service attack on the tracking system so it’s not able to track real objects,” Petittold IEEE spectrum. “I don’t think any of the lidar manufacturers have thought about this or tried this.”Most self-driving cars rely on multiple sensors, but lidar has proven the most effective within test vehicles for a creating 360-degree detection grid around the car.Google, Lexus, Mercedes, Audi and other car manufacturers all user lidar on their prototype driverless cars.Recently, car automation systems, including those fitted to current vehicles as cruise control and emergency braking systems, have become the focus of hackers.A series of attacks have demonstrated serious weaknesses within their security, which could allow hackers to take over control of key systems including throttle, brakes and steering.Jeep owner Chrysler initiateda recall of carsfitted with the company’s Uconnect entertainment system, after researchers showed they couldtake control of the car via simple text messages.The recall wasrecently extended to another 7,810 vehiclesover safety fears.•Most cars are vulnerable to ‘hacking or privacy intrusions’ – report•Driverless cars could face threat from hackers trying to cause road chaos
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) has recalled a further 7,810 Jeeps affected by a widely reported bug that allows an attacker to wirelessly seize control of the vehicle.The recall affects the variants of the 2015 model of the FCA’s Jeep Renegade sports utility vehicle with a 6.5-inch touchscreen, more than half of which FCA says are still in dealer hands.In a statement, the automobile firm said: “the campaign – which involves radios that differ from those implicated in another, similar recall – is designed to protect connected vehicles from remote manipulation. If unauthorised, such interference constitutes a criminal act.“FCA US has already applied measures to prevent the type of vehicle manipulation demonstrated in a recent media report. These measures – which required no customer or dealer actions – block remote access to certain vehicle systems.“The company is unaware of any injuries related to software exploitation, nor is it aware of any related complaints, warranty claims or accidents – independent of the media demonstration.”Related:The Guardian view on car computer hacking: act now | EditorialThe company attempted to ameliorate concerns, saying “the software manipulation addressed by this recall required unique and extensive technical knowledge, prolonged physical access to a subject vehicle and extended periods of time to write code.“No defect has been found. FCA US is conducting this campaign out of an abundance of caution.”The latest recall, announced on the Friday before a three-day Labor Day weekend in America, is significantly smaller thanthe 1.4 million car recallfollowing the release of the security vulnerability.
It’s Monday!
Metal Gear is arguably the greatest action gaming series ever created – but it is also easily the most bewildering. What is the difference between Liquid, Naked, and Solid Snake? What is Foxdie? And why is the US president involved? These are just some of the questions lurking within Hideo Kojima’s expansive, convoluted and often contrived gaming classics.So if you’ve been attracted to the series by the deliriously positive reviews of Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain, but are worried about not understanding anythingthat’s going on, here’s what you need to know. We’ve also ranked all the main titles for lasting quality – behind the latest title, of course, which we consider to be the very best.Metal GearMetal Gear – the original game first seen on the old MSX computerYear:1987Format:MSX2 (now on PS2, PS3, 360, PS Vita as part of MGS3: Subsistence / HD)The one where :Special ops soldier Solid Snake infiltrates Outer Heaven on the trail of missing agent Gray Fox. Directed over the radio by his CO Big Boss, Snake discovers the existence of Metal Gear, a doomsday nuclear-equipped tank, and plans to take it out – but the enemy seems aware of his movements, and Big Boss starts acting funny. Eventually Snake offs the Metal Gear, and Big Boss reveals himself as the puppetmaster. The two face off, and after winning Snake flees the exploding compound. But after the credits, Big Boss vows he will meet Solid Snake again ...Best bit:When Big Boss, panicking at Snake’s success, tells the player to “TURN THE MSX OFF AT ONCE.”Weirdest bit :Metal Gear was “ported” to the NES but utterly butchered in the process, with many important aspects (like the Metal Gear) removed. Kojima publicly disdains this version.Still playable?Technology has moved so fast Metal Gear is more of an historical artefact than a great game, but in its time the achievement was enormous.Series ranking:9Metal Gear 2: Solid SnakeMetal Gear 2 – the snake bites back in one of the greatest games of the 8bit eraYear:1990Format:MSX2 (now on PS2, PS3, 360, PS Vita as part of MGS3: Subsistence / HD)The one where :An enormous refinement over Metal Gear, and the basis for many of Metal Gear Solid’s 3D mechanics, Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake sees the retired Foxhound agent return for one last job. Again. Supported by Roy Campbell, Solid Snake infiltrates Zanzibarland to rescue a biologist, but discovers there’s a new Metal Gear project cooking away. Snake duffs up Metal Gear D’s creator, destroys the mech, battles ex-comrade Gray Fox to the death, and then faces off against Big Boss. Again. In a rather grim twist, Snake burns Big Boss to death with an aerosol can and a lighter.Best bit:The wealth of new options Snake has for stealth, including robotic mice.The weirdest bit: There are children knocking about the fortress, and you can shoot them (which is penalised with loss of health) .Still playable?It was one of the best 8bit games ever made – but, unavoidably, of its era.Series ranking:8Metal Gear SolidMetal Gear Solid – the series updates to 3D for the PlayStation generationYear:1998Format:Playstation (also available on PC, PS3, PS Vita)The one where :Metal Gear moves into 3D. The detailed environments and polished presentation set a new standard for action games - then Kojima’s gift for creative set-pieces and toying with the player elevate things even further. Solid Snake stars again, this time facing down his brother Liquid Snake alongside a great rogues’ gallery including Revolver Ocelot, Psycho Mantis and Sniper Wolf. Snake infiltrates Shadow Moses in order to rescue two hostages but, after both die in his presence, begins to suspect he’s the vector for a bio-weapon called Foxdie.Another Metal Gear turns up, this time twinned with its guilt-ridden creator Otacon. The cyborg ninja slaughtering Liquid’s troops is revealed as Gray Fox, kept hideously alive by bio-mechanical engineering, who earns his redemption in getting crushed by Metal Gear Rex. Solid Snake duly takes out Rex, socks Liquid in his posh English jaw, escapes in a jeep, and then when Liquid makes a dramatic return – Foxdie hits him. Solid Snake survives and imagines a future free of this crazy stuff. Who wouldn’t?Best bit:When Revolver Ocelot has Snake trapped in his torture device and advises that you submit before death because “there are no continues, my friend”.Weirdest bit:Probably the fact that you can gawp at Meryl in her underwear while hiding behind the ceiling vent – then you have to punch her unconscious when Psycho Mantis takes over her mind and starts saying “make love to me Snake!”Still playable?MGS holds up surprisingly well. The stealth is fast-paced with clear mechanics, and Shadow Moses is still a detailed, vibrant world.Series ranking:4Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of LibertyMetal Gear Solid 2. “You haven’t seen me, right?”Year:2001Format:Playstation 2 (later PC, Xbox, Xbox 360, PS3, PS Vita)The one where :(Deep breath) Snake takes photographs to prove the existence of Metal Gear Ray, a new weapon, which is immediately stolen by the returning Revolver Ocelot – who now thinks he’s Liquid Snake. I know. Fast-forward two years and new character Raiden’s responding to a terrorist incident on an offshore rig called the Big Shell and, lo and behold, Solid Snake and Metal Gear Ray are right in the middle.MGS2 is a rug-puller, not least in the fact you play as Raiden, and a core part of its technique is to bombard the player with information so they’re not sure what is true. As the mission proceeds, Raiden’s world starts collapsing, his support team begin to behave erratically, and revelations pour out of everyone – but what to believe? Liquid Ocelot reveals the Big Shell was set up to train a soldier as good as Solid Snake (ie Raiden), a new Metal Gear called Arsenal crashes into downtown Manhattan, and Raiden is ordered to assassinate Solidus Snake. Solidus? Yep. The third brother of Solid and Liquid, Solidus is also the president of the US (!) but makes zero impression before being offed. This is honestly the simplest explanation of MGS2 you’ll find anywhere.Best bit :The revelation that Raiden is a rookie soldier who’s been trained through VR videogames to emulate his hero Solid Snake – making him not-unlike the target audience.Weirdest bit :Kojima realised that killing off Liquid Snake in MGS was a terrible idea – despite the character’s terrible accent. So Ocelot returns, with Liquid’s hand grafted onto his arm, and is “taken over” by Liquid’s personality. Dire.Still playable?MGS2 is an acquired taste, not least because it’s got far too much exposition. But the ideas are great, and the game underneath all the chin-stroking is even better.Series ranking:5Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake EaterMetal Gear Solid 3 – the best in the series before Phantom Pain, we believeYear:2004Format:PS2 (later Xbox 360, PS3, PS Vita, 3DS)The one where:After the negative reaction to MGS2’s internet philosophising, Kojima goes back to the series’ roots – and basically makes a Bond movie set at the height of the Cold War. Naked Snake, who is not Solid, is double-crossed by his mentor the Boss as she defects from west to east. The political shockwaves mean that Naked Snake soon has a new assignment – assassination. Fighting his way through Boss’s WW2 Cobra unit, as well as psycho Russkie Volgin, Snake and the Boss eventually face off in a field of white lilies. Naked Snake is haunted by the success of his mission, and is given the name Big Boss – the CO and antagonist of the original Metal Gear.Best bit:The End, a hundred-year old sniper, and a boss battle that can take hours as you battle mano-a-mano over a huge environment.Weirdest bit:The eerie boss battle against the Sorrow forces you to wade through the ghosts of all the enemies you’ve killed before that point.Still playable?MGS3 has aged better than any other entry, because the story is easy to follow and the amazing systems have the time they need to breathe.Series ranking:2Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots“Hmm, yes I suppose you’re right... wait, what?”Year:2008Format:PS3The one where:Kojima makes the game the fans say they want – Solid Snake’s back. And Meryl. And everyone else from every game. MGS4 is the series lowpoint, even if there’s still a great game in there somewhere, because it’s buried under a mass of convoluted and contrived fanservice.Solid Snake is, pointedly, now an old man – and war is in an era where “normal” soldiers are no longer required. Yet this hardy geriatric stealths his way through, settling various old scores before a return to MGS’s setting of Shadow Moses, where he and Liquid Ocelot pilot the Metal Gears from the first two games. Characters including Psycho Mantis, MGS3’s Eva and Meryl return in ways that only dull the impact of their original characters. After even more cutscenes, Solid and “Liquid” fight to the death in an admittedly great showdown. At the very end, Big Boss turns up again, says “I was never dead all that time after all”, then dies.Best bit:The “octocamo” suit at the centre of MGS4’s stealth, which lets Snake blend into surroundings like a chameleon, is both an incredible mechanic and gorgeous in action.Weirdest bit :After beating the main bosses, they turn into scantily-clad ladies who try to hug you to death – and can also be enticed into a photo mode.Still playable?If you skip all the cutscenes, MGS4 has a lot of great stuff – but redundant elements too, and a few duff sections. The years have not been kind.Ranking:7Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker“Kojima? Are you in there? Because nobody understands what’s going on.”Year:2010Format:Sony PSP (later PS3, 360, PS Vita)The one where :Big Boss is running his own mercenary group, helped by his chum Kaz Miller, and gets tempted into Costa Rica by CIA agent Hot Coldman – who has an audio recording of what appears to be the Boss. As Big Boss investigates and sets up his own private army, he begins uncovering the existence of an AI-controlled nuclear-capable Metal Gear – built because of Coldman’s belief that human unwillingness to launch a nuke is the flaw in deterrence theory.Big Boss shows Peace Walker what deterrence theory really means, whereupon the machine’s AI personality (based on the Boss) realises it shouldn’t be allowed to exist and drowns itself. Alongside this, Big Boss’s merc squad has been constructing Metal Gear Zeke as a defensive measure, which eventually gets nicked by the peace-loving Paz who threatens nuclear war. After sorting her out, Big Boss finally accepts his nickname and christens this new merc paradise Outer Heaven.Best bit :The introduction of the fulton surface-to-air recovery system, which lets you hook balloons to KO’d bad guys and turn them into Mother Base soldiers.Weirdest bit :You can use X-ray vision, never explained, to look at the underwear of female characters during cutscenes.Still playable?This is a truly epic PSP game with a lengthy main game supplemented by numerous objectives and challenges. Peace Walker’s a masterpiece but also built for its chosen platform – Sony’s PSP. It doesn’t transition perfectly to the big screen but in co-op, especially, it’s still fantastic.Series ranking:3Metal Gear Solid: Ground ZeroesMetal Gear Solid Ground Zeroes – the primer to Phantom Pain provides a compelling play spaceYear:2014Formats:PC, PS3, 360, PS4, Xbox OneThe one where :Chico and Paz, two supporting characters from Peace Walker, have been kidnapped and are being held in Camp Omega – a thinly-veiled version of Guantanamo Bay. Big Boss breaks in to get them out, but it’s all a set up. While he’s at Camp Omega, Mother Base is being razed to the ground by XOF, and Paz has been booby-trapped with bombs – she leaps out of the chopper before exploding, but the chopper loses control anyway and the only survivors are Miller and Big Boss.Best bit:Helping an informant escape by providing air support, and realising it was Mr Kojima all alongWeirdest bit:The idea of a bad guy called Skullface inserting two bombs into the body of a teenage girl is probably not Kojima’s greatest moment.Still playable?It’s a great starter. Ground Zeroes is more than anything a showcase for imagination, experimentation, and play for play’s sake, because there is simply so much to do in and around this environment.Series ranking:6Spinoffs, Remakes, and RevengeanceA quick look at the titles orbiting the main Metal Gear seriesMetal Gear 2: Snake’s RevengeYear:1990Format:NESThe one where:Konami wanted a Metal Gear sequel and gave the job to someone other than Hideo Kojima. Though much-derided by series fans, Snake’s Revenge is decent for the time.Still playable?One for Metal Gear boffins only.Metal Gear: Ghost BabelYear:2000Format:Game Boy ColorThe one where:Konami mishmashed together Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake and MGS to make a Game Boy Color game. This is one of the series’ secret gems, a non-canon but completely true-feeling Metal GearStill playable?Great, but hard to get hold of.Metal Gear Solid: The Twin SnakesYear:2004Format:GamecubeThe one where:Silicon Knights remade Metal Gear Solid for Nintendo’s Gamecube, introducing some of MGS2’s mechanics and rather unwisely recasting much of the voice talent.Still playable?The original MGS remains definitive.Metal Gear Solid: Portable Ops / Portable Ops+Year:2006/7Format:PSPThe one where:Big Boss is being targeted by Foxhound and has to build his own squad to respond, but the kidnapping mechanic is terrible – which rather taints the whole thing.Still playable?Obsessives only, and even then ...Metal Gear Acid / Acid 2Year:2004/5Format:PSPThe one where:it turns out you can make a half-decent card game out of the MGS principles, but you can really bog it up with cutscenes and chatter too.Still playable?The card strategy is great, but Acid 2 is a much better take on the formula.Metal Gear Rising: RevengeanceYear:2013Format:PC, PS3, 360The one where : MGS2’s Raiden returns as a cyborg ninja who’s had quite enough stealth, and now just slices through armies and enormous mechs at mach speed. A belting action game, the mental plot ends with Raiden ripping out the heart of a US senator.Still playable?Yes, it’s incredible.
My cat is pretty unflappable, given that she shares a house with four children. But when a three-wheeled robot trundles into the living room, even Lola can’t belt out of the cat-flap fast enough. Perhaps it’s the barking that spooked her.The robot is called Dash, and like its smaller, stationary friend Dot, it’s the work of technology startupWonder Workshop. It’s excellent at yapping cats off the sofa, but its real goal is teaching children to code.These are all new names. In 2013, Wonder Workshop was called Play-i while Dash and Dot were called Bo and Yana, whenthe company took $1.5m of pre-orders in a monthfor its pair of programmable robots.Related:'Great big poo balls!' What it's like making a Kano computer with your kidsNearly two years, $14.6m of venture-capital funding and tens of thousands of sales later, Wonder Workshop is pressing on with its vision for how its robots – sold together for $229.99, although Dash alone costs $169.99 – can get children into computer programming.“We wanted to build something accessible to a young child. Most robotics kits are geared to much older children, but we wanted to create something that right out of the box was appealing to five-year-olds all the way through to 10 and 11-year-olds,” says chief executive Vikas Gupta.Dash and Dot are spherical robots rather than humanoids, partly because of costs – Wonder Workshop wanted them to be as affordable as possible – and partly because it wanted to leave more to children’s imagination regarding how they’d be used.“We wanted to give it a form that children could imagine being anything in their own world: sometimes it could be a monster, or an animal, or a ghost. Whatever they imagine it to be,” he says. “Dash has wheels, but it doesn’t look like a truck or a car, so it’s not just perceived as something for boys.”My son struggles with concentration, but was entranced by programming Dash.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianThis being 2015, there are apps for all that: Dash and Dot are controlled byfour free apps for Android and iOS devices– Go, Path, Xylo and Blockly – which connect to the robots via Bluetooth.Go is the simplest app: children use it to control the bots’ lights, sounds and (in Dash’s case) movement, including recording their own audio. Path is the next step for Dash, getting children to draw an on-screen path with “nodes” for actions and sounds, which the robot then follows in the real world.Related:Are tablet computers harming our children's ability to read?My six-year-old was initially entranced by both apps, although he wasn’t so keen on Xylo, which gets Dash to play music by hitting a clip-on xylophone accessory (sold separately) following the notes set by the child on-screen.But the real meat comes with the fourth app, Blockly, which uses a customised version ofGoogle’s visual-programming tool of the same nameto teach children how to create code to make Dash drive, move his head, light up in various patterns, make sounds and respond to obstacles, motion and nearby voices or clapping.My son sometimes struggles with concentration, but as he worked through the puzzles teaching him the commands in turn – very early on he decided my role in the process would simply be to applaud his success – his focus didn’t waver.“When kids learn coding, you can focus a lot on screens, but we wanted to use their hands to manipulate things, and see them come to life. It brings concepts to life in physical form, which has a much bigger impact,” says Gupta, when I tell him.The Blockly app teaches children through a series of puzzles.Like other coding-for-kids startups, Wonder Workshop is keen to avoid suggesting that the reason to buy and use its products is purely to set your children off down a programming career path.“For kids, coding is a tool that gives you the ability to look at the world very differently,” says Gupta. “That ability will be a powerful aspect in whatever a child grows up to be. They don’t have to be a programmer or a computer scientist. They could be an architect, a doctor, anything.”His company is thinking about how its robots can grow with children’s abilities though: from five and six-year-olds using the simpler Go and Path apps to slightly older children digging in to Blockly – and, ultimately (so it hopes), early teenagers writing their own Android and iOS apps for the bots, using Objective C and Java.Related:BBC to give away 1m Micro:bit computers to schoolchildrenSomething that strikes me about Dash and Dot’s Blockly puzzles – as it has done for other apps and hardware in this area fromKanotoTynkerandScratch– is the crossover between programming and storytelling for children.Here, that’s shown in the puzzles: Dash running away from (imaginary) aliens, for example. Each puzzle is not just a programming task, but a miniature story. That’s something that carried over with my son into the sandbox mode where he was creating his own programs from scratch.He wasn’t trying to move the robot across the floor then shake its head and turn around: he was sending it into a jungle to fight a killer bear, or onto the stage to dance in the robot X Factor. A “building brick connectors” accessory to attach Lego creations has fuelled his creativity further.It is still early days for Wonder Workshop: like Kano, it has to grapple with the challenges of selling hardware to parents (and schools) around the world, while also continuing to develop new apps – and persuade other developers to make software for Dash and Dot too.The company is building a community around the robots, including a YouTube show for children called The Dash &amp; Dot Show, and publishing resources to help teachers use the devices in the classroom. “The community is just getting started for kids, teachers and parents to share what they’ve created,” says Gupta.His company has wider aims too: a commitment to donate $1 from the price of every purchase to a partnership with charity Pencils of Promise that builds schools in the developing world.“It takes about $25k to open a school, and for us, selling 25,000 robots is achievable and sustainable,” says Gupta. “And if we can get to 50,000 robots, that’s two schools and even better. And we have a good partner who is already doing the work of building and running those schools.”Back at home, even Lola is coming round to Dash and Dot’s charms, gradually. She may not be quite ready to bow to my son’s requests to play aliens or killer bears at a moment’s notice, but she certainly won’t be the last cat learning to live alongside these learning toys.
Disney Infinity 3.0: Star Wars starter pack(PS3, PS4, Wii U, Xbox 360, Xbox 360; Disney Interactive Studios; cert: 7)★★★★This year the Disney Infinity series of toys-to-life games has a trump card over the competition – Star Wars. The collectable figurines that unlock characters and adventures when placed on a console peripheral now have a galaxy of household names and craft available from the franchise.The starter pack includes adventures for the Episode I-III era with characters fromRebelsandClone Warsalso making an appearance. But further purchases are necessary to get the stuff everyone really wants: the classicEpisodes IV-VIor the upcomingThe Force Awakens.In gameplay terms, combat and piloting are enhanced with more melee moves and excellent lightsaber sword-play, while space exploration and pod-racing join up the different planet-based missions. The toys, however, lack the innovation ofSkylanders’ articulated vehicles but the attention to detail, improved combat and Star Wars fan service make this a strong addition to the Infinity series.ARSuper Mario Maker encourages creativity.Super Mario Maker(Wii U; Nintendo; cert:3, out Friday)★★★★★This might not be the first platformer to allow players to design their own levels, but it is unquestionably the most significant. Since 1985 the Super Mario Bros series has written the blueprints for the entire genre, defining the gold standard for movement, control and design and now, finally, gamers have the chance to see whether they can match Nintendo’s finest moments.Super Mario Maker is a comprehensive level editing tool-set that turns the Wii U GamePad into a perfect canvas to draw your own courses. Being Nintendo, that toolset is both elegant and intuitive. It rewards serious tinkering and allows wannabe designers to knock out playable courses in just minutes, or to labour for hours over intricate masterpieces.There are 64 pre-made concept levels included to encourage creativity and naturally everything can be shared online for what will no doubt turn into an endless Mario resource. Just like the games that inspired it, this package is bursting with personality, ideas and surprises and can make a homebrew Miyamoto out of anybody.RHMetal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain is the best in the series yet.Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain(PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PC; Konami; cert: 18)★★★★★The silver screen has long influenced the Metal Gear universe, unsurprisingly given that series creator Hideo Kojima is an avowed film fanatic. His games are distinctly cinematic andMetal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Painis no different. Like its predecessors it takes the form of a military thriller delivered as a stealth-oriented shooter.Yet this game is also much more than that. Borrowing from westerns, war films and even the narrative structuring of contemporary high-budget television, Kojima’s latest is a remarkable achievement. It is a vast creation that excels in providing dramatic tension and action, and surpasses the previous iterations in letting player choice rule supreme. Numerous hostile missions let you decide your approach, strategy and method, shaping the experience as it is played, and making for an empowering undertaking, complemented by tremendous visual and aural polish.This may be Kojima’s final contribution to the series; if so, he is bowing out with what could well be his magnum opus.WFDevil’s Third is a bad attempt to mix genres.Devil’s Third(Wii U; Nintendo; cert: 18, out now)★Developer Valhalla studios have ended up with a Frankenstein’s monster – clunky and severely dated, the game disappoints in every respect.The mixture of gameplay types is severely imbalanced from the off. Guns are less risky and more efficient than the dubious melee combat, which only allows players to attack one enemy at a time. Equally, an ineffective dodge and tiny regenerating health pool also make ranged combat more favourable but no less repetitive.Then, there is the game’s campy plot about global insurrection and military fetishism – predictably mediocre and never pushing the goofiness far enough, it ensures that what could have been a guilty pleasure is instead a dismal bore. The poor quality of the experience comes to a climax in awfully designed boss battles where one wrong move means instant death and it is never clear what exactly constitutes a wrong move.Devil’s Thirdhas clearly been stuck in development hell for some time and borrows heavily fromCall of Duty– but about five years too late. Avoid.RSUpdated and expanded, Gears of War is well worth a revisit.Gears of War: Ultimate Edition(Xbox 360, Xbox One, PC; Microsoft; cert: 18, out now)★★★★On its debut, almost a decade ago,Gears of Warwas significant for its contribution to the development of blockbuster gaming. The third-person sci-fi shooter’s focus on making the player find and fire from cover had a huge influence on game design that can still be felt today. Now that original release is back on a next-gen console, given a graphics update, expanded with the previously PC-exclusive content, and sporting an improved online multiplayer mode.The original, populated with somewhat relentlessly adrenalin-charged space marines, played infamous tribute to many of the “bro” subculture’s archetypes, and today that tone feels no less brash. Yet Gears’s machismo is but a front for a shooter surprisingly sensitive to its players’ needs. This is a fast game that never wants to leave you unsure of your goals, and keeps you in stride with the superbly paced action. The AI and gameplay’s age is now showing, but along with Gears’s modest primitiveness there is also a clarity of purpose sometimes absent in newer shooters. The result is distinct, engrossing and well worth revisiting nine years on.WF
The founder of Wikipedia, Jimmy Wales, has spoken out in defence of the online encyclopedia’s systems for detecting and dealing with abuse for the first time since an extortion scam was uncovered, which led to hundreds of Wikipedia editor accounts being blocked.Wales said the blocking of 381 Wikipedia editor accounts for “black hat” editing as part of an attempt to extort money from people and businesses was proof that the site’s systems for detecting and dealing with abuse were working.Wales said: “We’ve seen coordinated editing and attempts to do paid advocacy, but we’ve not seen it be so bluntly dishonest in trying to deceive the victims.”More than 200 Wikipedia articlescreated by deceptive accounts, known as sock puppets, were removedafter a network of deceptive accounts was found to be approaching businesses and individuals and demanding payment to create pages about them and then protect them from being negatively edited – while pretending to be senior Wikipedia editors.I wouldn’t want to go on the warpath against any consultancy helping people understand how to deal with WikipediaJimmy WalesWales said: “It was the result of an investigation into some suspicious behaviour uncovered by the community, which was followed up on to figure out what was going on. And we solved the problem by banning this cluster of accounts. For us, it’s a validation of how we do things: how it’s supposed to work.”He added that “it’s not great that things like this happen in the first place”, but said that an open platform like Wikipedia will inevitably attract “a few bad actors” trying to break its rules and, in this case, extort money.“Some of the reporting that was out there really made it seem like this was corruption within our community, which is not a very nuanced way of looking at it,” said Wales. “In fact, it’s wrong.”He said the blocked accounts may prove to be “just one or two” actual humans.“We had not seen this kind of behaviour of emailing people and pretending to be administrators at Wikipedia, and pretending to have power that they didn’t,” he added.“They weren’t just saying ‘Hi, I’m an admin.’ They were saying ‘Hi, I’m so-­and­-so who’s a well ­respected Wikipedia editor.’ We’re still looking into it, and at some point we will figure out who this was.”Tackling paid advocacy editing is an ongoing battle for Wikipedia. In 2013 it blocked more than 250 user accounts for taking payment to write articles on the site without disclosing their commercial motivations.Wales stressed that he sees the people who paid whomever was behind the Orangemoody network – named after the first detected account in the ring – as victims rather than perpetrators, especially when contacted deceptively.‘It’s about how do we build better software so that your best voices come to the front, and the people who aren’t there for constructive reasons are marginalised.’Photograph: Tom Bham/Alamy“They’re misled into thinking that this is the way you get a Wikipedia page. There are so many places online where you can pay to be a featured merchant or an enhanced listing that it sounds plausible: ‘Who do I have to pay to get a Wikipedia page?’ But it just doesn’t work that way,” he said.“But we strongly emphasise these people are the victims as well. If you’ve been marketed to under dishonest premises ... you can’t really be blamed.”Wales said the Wikimedia Foundation was exploring closer relations with some of the online sites where people market such services. He added that this did not mean a crackdown on all commercial activity around Wikipedia, citing the example of companies or individuals offering consultancy on how best to approach its community.“There are people who never edit the article itself, but will act as an advocate to go and talk to the Wikipedians who know the rules and references. That’s a legitimate service,” said Wales. “I wouldn’t want to go on the warpath against any kind of consultancy helping people understand how to properly deal with Wikipedia.”The Orangemoody investigation and wider debate about undisclosed paid advocacy is separate from, but similar in some ways to, a controversy in January 2015 over edits to articles relating toonline campaign Gamergate, which saw several editors banned from correcting that and related topics.“There are parallels. The main one is that if someone comes to Wikipedia … trying to promote a perspective [rather] than trying to create a neutral encyclopedia, they’re going to run into trouble,” said Wales.“The difference is a really subtle point in many cases: I have certain things that I believe and like, so I try not to edit in those areas. If I have strong views, I’m probably not going to be a good editor: it’s hard for me to write in a neutral way.”Another similarity, he said, “is off­site coordination: ‘We’re all going to go, all 50 of us, to vote on something and change Wikipedia by sheer numbers … we hate this female game developer so we’re going to get her page deleted’. And the community goes: ‘Sorry, we don’t really vote on things around here’ and the admins are free to ignore it. People get frustrated when they thought it was all about voting. But we’re writing an encyclopedia here; it’s not an open democratic experiment.”Anita Sarkeesian, one of the targets of the Gamergate campaign.Photograph: John LeeWales sees Wikipedia’s battles against paid advocacy and off­site coordination mirrored elsewhere on the web, from the online community Reddit to the comments sections of newspapers such as the Guardian’s.“I always say this about newspaper comments: I have a lot of opinion and ideas about how the whole process could be improved. What you see in most newspaper comments sections is a bunch of idiots yelling at each other. And you might think there’s nothing to be done about it, but look at Wikipedia: we manage to keep the idiots mostly at bay,” he said.“Really it’s about how do we build better software to give communities better control, so that your best voices come to the front, and the people who aren’t there for constructive reasons are marginalised and asked to leave.”Wales suggested that Reddit, which has seen a wave of unrest among its community after enforcing new rules about what is and isn’t acceptable on its site, has a tougher task ahead.“They have a fantastic community: loads of wonderful and amazing people. Then they have these pockets of vile, horrible people doing horrible things. And their initial stance was a radical free­ speech stance, but you realise that doesn’t really work if you want to create a great space for opinion,” he said.“Now they’re trying to deal with it, but they’ve got a really deep contradiction in their culture: many of the nice people like that it’s wide open, and they’re afraid that they’re only going to be able to say what the Redditors think is good!”For Wikipedia, announcing the Orangemoody blocks is intended to send out a different message about the site’s ability to protect the neutrality of its content.“We decided to be quite public with it to get the message out: If anybody emails you asking for money pretending to be Wikipedia, alarm bells should ring,” he said. “Everything about Wikipedia is free.”
As mobile phones and apps have become increasingly central to one’s college experience in the past few years, a new type of app has emerged: the anonymous kind.In 2013 the app Yik Yak was created. In 2015, it’s being used at more than 2,000 colleges and universities worldwide,according to its foundersTyler Droll and Brooks Buffington.The concept was simple. You open the app – easily distinguished by the picture of an animated yak and the turquoise background – and hundreds of statuses pop up from people within a 1.5-mile radius of you. You peruse them, upvote the ones you like, downvote the ones you don’t, and comment on one or two. Then, if you’re feeling creative you post a status of your own, or a “yak” as it’s known to the Yik Yak world. The wittier your post, the more upvotes you might receive and the more reputation points, or “yakarma” you earn. And all of this is done with no names.Following the creation of Yik Yak, a trend emerged: college students like to share their opinions but not have their names attached. This year, another app known as Whatsgoodly is picking up on the trend. The anonymous location-based polling app created in 2014 allows people to create questions with multiple-choice answers and view statistics on responses without any attribution.Students are also expressing interest in older anonymous apps like Whisper, where people in the same area anonymously share their thoughts and like and reply to others’ posts.David Ryan Polgar, a digital lifestyle expert, likes to call the shift from previous generations of apps and social media to anonymous apps the “keep the internet weird movement”.“For many people, major social media platforms are losing their sense of surprise,” he said. “Everyday people are curating their content as if they are running for political office. Well, most politicians are boring. We don’t want our news feed to be boring.”He believes that anonymous apps are “an add-on to one’s social life” rather than replacing other social media tools and apps that are already out there like Facebook and Twitter.“The rise of anonymous apps is most likely in part a reaction to the countless reputations the public has seen ruined by an ill-humored tweet or insensitive photo shared online,” he said. “Millennials in particular are being told about the dangers of what they post online, and the importance of shaping a positive digital footprint. Anonymous apps offer an enticing outlet with less danger.”Kristen Gardner, a sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh, agrees. She said college students worry about what they post online because of what “can be traced back to them”.“College students, on the one hand, are trying to act professional and trying to be adults, but they’re really experiencing a lot of drama and weird things that they want to talk about,” she said.Danielle Jacobson, a sophomore at Johns Hopkins University has found anonymous apps a great place to express herself and“to post stuff that’s not within your stereotype”. She normally refrains from posting silly or funny things on Facebook and has said friends are surprised when she shows them her humorous posts on Yik Yak.Adam Halper, co-founder and CEO of Whatsgoodly said the goal of the polling app is to “bring back the moderate voice” rather than those that are “willing to scream the loudest and silence everyone else”. He added that the app is meant to “give everyone an equal voice”.The apps also provide an easy way to tune into the mood on campus.Mariana Alfaro, a sophomore at Northwestern University, found the apps helpful when she first moved to Evanston, Illinois from San Salvador, El Salvador. As an international student, she said she “didn’t really get a lot about American campus culture” and the apps provided a resource to consult.“It was like a little bit of a guide without having to ask questions. It was like, this is what’s going on in greek life, this is what’s going on in this part of campus. This is what this means,” she said. “It did help me get in tune without having to ask obvious questions.”Despite their growing popularity, anonymous apps have also faced great criticism. Jacobson said she’s seen polls on Whatsgoodly that list women and ask “who’s the hottest girl here or who’s the most overrated girl?”.According tothe Daily Beast, questions on Whatsgoodly at the University of Pennsylvania have included: “Which Theta girl gives the best blowjobs?”, “Does the United States have a ‘rape culture’?”, and “Best cleaning ladies: foreign or not foreign?”And much in the way anonymous internet comments bring out many views that folks would never say with attribution, a similar strain of commentary has emerged on anonymous apps.“People definitely harass other people on there and it brings out the racism and sexism that you don’t realize everyone’s got brewing inside of them on campus and they’ll just say really offensive things,” Gardner said.Yik Yak hastried to minimize bullyingand targeting of specific individuals by partnering “with a company that specializes in identifying threatening or offensive content through natural language processing”. They have banned the use of names in questions and they allow students to upvote or downvote statuses depending on whether they like them or not. Jacobson said that if a status receives 5 down votes, it is removed from the main feed but that “Whatsgoodly still has stuff to work on in regards to that”.Halper admitted that Whatsgoodly was initially unprepared for the fast-escalating demands of monitoring the app. He added: “There were cases where there was cyberbullying that was able to slip through our cracks.” But they plan to outsource their monitoring “to a firm that specializes in scaleable content management” in the fall.Jacobson believes the apps will get over these growing pains: “I kind of think they get a bad reputation for obvious reasons, but I also think they can be pretty harmless because they’ve taken precautions”.Alfaro, on the other hand, deleted Yik Yak from her phone after she saw statuses that she “definitely didn’t like” and were “really rude”. She found that it “started to get to be a little too much”.
Martin Ford is the founder of a Silicon Valley software firm and the author ofThe Rise of the Robots: Technology and the Threat of Mass Unemployment. Geoff Colvin is senior editor at large atFortunemagazine and author ofHumans Are Underrated: What High Achievers Know That Brilliant Machines Never Will.Martin FordTo understand why today’s information technology could have a much more dramatic impact on employment than anything we’ve seen before, it’s best to begin by considering the nature of work performed by most of our population. The reality is that a very large fraction of our workforce is engaged in activities that are on some level routine, repetitive and predictable. This is not to say that most people have jobs that are rote-repetitive, but rather that most workers face the same types of challenge again and again and that most of their actions and decisions can be predicted, based on what they have done in the past.Recent advances in robotics, artificial intelligence – and, especially, machine learning – suggest that much of this predictable work will be susceptible to automation over the next decade or two. No one is arguing that all jobs will be automated or that individuals with exceptional talent or high levels of creativity will be threatened in the near future. However, for average workers engaged in more routine, predictable occupations, the impact could be quite dramatic.While there will doubtless be many calls for improving education and retraining opportunities, it is, I think, unrealistic to expect that the bulk of our workforce can somehow be trained to take on roles that are beyond the reach of technology. While progress will certainly create new opportunities for those with the proper capability and training, it seems very unlikely that there will be enough of these new positions to absorb all the workers displaced from more predictable work, even if most workers are able to re-educate themselves successfully.The Robear nursing robot is given a test runGeoff ColvinMartin, I’m with you completely on the awesome abilities of advancing technology and I agree that most people have no conception of what tomorrow’s technology will be able to do. It indeed seems possible that, for the first time since the dawn of the Industrial Revolution, technology will eliminate jobs faster than it creates new ones.But I’m not quite ready to bet on it. Two factors in particular demand consideration. One is that while it’s easy to identify the jobs that advancing technology will eliminate next, it has been practically impossible to imagine the new jobs that technology will create. So we overweight the reality of the disappearing jobs and underweight the reality of the new ones. Even after the worldwide web first made the internet accessible to everyone, no one predicted jobs for search engine optimisers, mobile app developers, social media managers and countless other jobs of today. We can be confident this pattern will continue. Of course, that doesn’t mean the new jobs will be numerous enough to counterbalance the disappearing ones, but it gives us reason to be humble in our predictions.The other factor is the way technology revalues skills. The overall number of jobs could hold up even in the face of advancing technology, but many of them may be very low-paying jobs for people who haven’t improved their skills. It’s also possible – my view – that skills of deep human interaction will become far more valuable and many people will be able to prosper by bringing those skills into the evolving economy. That would be a much more hopeful future.A great many traditional occupations that employ millions of workers are going to be highly susceptible to automationMartin FordMFGeoff is certainly correct that technology creates new types of jobs and also constantly changes the mix of skills required to perform those jobs. The question is whether progress will create enough new positions to absorb the victims of automation – and whether these new jobs will be accessible to people with average capability.Despite all the hype about entirely new types of work that would have been unimaginable to previous generations, the reality is that the vast majority of our workforce is employed in traditional occupations. The most common occupations in the US are salesperson, cashier, food and beverage server, office clerk and driver. Indeed, one recent analysis found that about 90% of the US workforce is employed in occupations that existed 100 years ago. The website designers, social media marketers, mobile app developers and all the rest constitute a very small fraction of total employment and in many cases they require highly specialised, technical skills.A great many of the traditional occupations that now employ millions of workers are going to be highly susceptible to automation over the next couple of decades. If those jobs begin to disappear and there are no new opportunities within the reach of those workers, the impact on both the fabric of society and the economy will be dramatic. Given the political challenges associated with developing a viable solution to such a disruption, I don’t think it’s too soon to begin a meaningful discussion about the risks we face and the types of policies we might employ in order to adapt our system to the new reality.GCTo be clear, I take seriously the possibility that technology may for the first time be reducing total employment rather than increasing it and the first two chapters of my new book are all about that. And I certainly agree that it’s not too early to talk about policies for a future in which that happens. It would be a world such as we have never inhabited. The immediate challenge for individuals is making sure they’re not losers as technology transforms the economy. I think far more of them will be able to do so than even the workers themselves may believe.Consider the idea that most of today’s jobs existed 100 years ago. Are they really the same? Some are – think of waiters, for example – but many clearly are not. For instance, the number of bank tellers in the US held steady from 1980 to 2010 despite the onslaught of automated teller machines. How could that be? MIT labour economistDavid Autorobserved in a recent article that it happened because tellers gave up “routine cash-handling tasks” and moved to “relationship banking… forging relationships with customers and introducing them to additional bank services”. They’re still called tellers in the official statistics, but their work has been entirely transformed.And note how. Instead of being human machines behind a counter, they’re now sitting at desks building relationships. The required skills are completely different, and they’re the skills of human interaction. For tellers and many others across the economy, these deeply human abilities are increasingly the high-value skills that will separate the economy’s winners from the losers.It's possible that skills of deep human interaction will become far more valuableGeoff ColvinMFI think Geoff is certainly correct that individuals can and should do everything possible to adapt to the changes brought on by technology. I fear that to a significant extent, however, this may turn out to be a zero-sum game: where one person succeeds and gets the job, someone else will be out of luck. Therefore, it’s important to realise that advice directed at individuals is quite different from a discussion about what we should do as a society.There are certainly policies that can help to some degree. We ought to ensure that effective education is accessible and affordable for those who will need to adapt to rapid change. In the US, for example, we have major problems with huge amounts of student debt, as well as for-profit schools that often prey on the most vulnerable.Technology does indeed transform the nature of jobs, but it often does so in unpredictable ways. The conventional view has been that progress results in the automation of lower-skill jobs while creating more opportunity for those with higher education levels (economists call this “skill-biased technical change” or SBTC). Recent evidence calls this idea into question, however. Most of the jobs being created are low wage, and technology often has a “de-skilling” effect. For example, cashiers used to have to enter each price manually, doing so with speed and accuracy was a skilled undertaking. Barcode scanners have changed the picture dramatically.Related:Artificial intelligence: how clever do we want our machines to be?I’m not sure that Geoff’s (and David Autor’s) observation that the number of bank tellers in the US held steady from 1980 to 2010 is really such a strong argument against the impact of automation. In 1980, the US population was 227 million. In 2010, it was 309 million. I suspect that those 80 million extra people likely did quite a lot of banking – and ATMs were handling it.GCActually, my observation that the number of bank tellers has held more or less steady (it actually increased by about 10%) is an argument for the impact of automation.The larger point, on which I think Martin and I would agree, is that there will be winners and losers as technology transforms the world of work. The public policy response should include helping today’s young people become winners. How? An advisory group of top British educators and CEOs last year recommended changes to secondary education in the UK. They concluded that “empathy and other interpersonal skills are as important as proficiency in English and mathematics in ensuring young people’s employment prospects”. The group urged that these skills be taught to all secondary students “but with the process of learning these starting much earlier in school life”. The competencies “should be embedded throughout the curriculum”. That is, everyone will need these skills.Could this turn out to be a zero-sum game, as Martin fears, with a loser for each winner? I fear it also. That has never happened before economy-wide, but today we’re in uncharted territory. We shouldn’t let the uncertainties stop us from trying to help as many people as possible become more valuable as the economy evolves.The Rise of the Robots: Technology and the Threat of Mass Unemploymentby Martin Ford is published by Oneworld (£18.99).Click hereto order a copy for £15.19. Humans Are Underrated by Geoff Colvin is published by Nicholas Brearley (18.00).Click hereto order a copy for £14.40
Price £45,320MPG 46.3Top speed 155mphIt’s Tour of Spain time and the Tour of Britain is round the corner, but one memory from July’s Tour de France sticks in my mind. As I drove up the A6 through Burgundy having spent weeks trailing the peloton through the Pyrenees and the Alps, I spotted a figure on a bridge. As I passed he started waving wildly at me. Had he spotted the race sticker on my windscreen or did he like the look of the BMW I was driving? Or both?The new535d M Touringis an imposing machine which we nicknamed the Big Mean Wagen. (The endless hours driving from stage starts to press rooms at the finish are a true spur to the creative mind.) The vast bonnet was intimidating enough to scare most other Tour traffic, and out back, the car’s rear load space had ample space for the “Killer”, a bike I take on Tour to explore France in the odd off-duty hour. This is an acid test I apply to estate cars at the race as most have back ends which look far more capacious than they are in reality.On top of the Col des Limouches, with the Rhone Valley and the Massif Central behind and the Vercors lying ahead.Photograph: William Fotheringham/ObserverThe BMW was a good place to spend hour after happy hour flogging French roads in pursuit of Chris Froome and company. Its advanced aerodynamics make it astonishingly silent – until you engage Sport mode at which point it emits a Clarkson-pleasing howl – and the headroom is plentiful even for a six-footer like me. The Tour’s top brass judge their cars by the size of the sunroof; the BMW’s would have been big enough to enable a whole family to enjoy the mountain breeze in their hair had we not chosen to close it and cower from the heat of one of the hottest French Julys on record.Impressively for a machine weighing nigh on two tons, there is no stodge or slop in the handling no matter how tight the hairpin or bizarre the camber. Somehow BMW has created a machine which feels totally in touch with the road. It is massively powerful and whizzes up mountains, but the fuel economy depends how you use that power. A single tank of diesel took me all the way from Le Havre to the Pyrenees in Comfort mode, but once into the mountains and using the Sport setting for the automatic gearbox, the fuel gauge headed west with startling rapidity as the Tour went east.The glamour of life on Tour: this traffic jam of fans and media vehicles coming down the mountain after the finish at La Toussuire took three hours to clear.Photograph: William Fotheringham/ObserverWith high-spec cars, much of the pleasure – or stress – comes from how the extras fit into the driving experience. Here the BMW took a bit of getting used to. It is disturbingly easy to engage neutral by mistake if you rest an idle hand on the joystick.Germany fell out of love with the Tour in the mid-2000s after the endless series of drugs scandals, but the romance was rekindled recently thanks to stars such as Marcel Kittel, Tony Martin and André Greipel.Lost in France: outside my favourite hotel in the Pyrenees, a rare oasis of calm in the maelstrom of driving and working.Photograph: William Fotheringham/ObserverIt’s fun finding a parallel for a Tour car among the race’s cyclists. For speed out of the blocks, sustained power and moody looks, this one was Greipel, the four-times stage-winning sprinter nicknamed the Gorilla of Rostock. For surprising zip up a mountain and sure-footedness down the other side, the bearded Simon Geschke, a surprise stage winner in the Alps. The Big Mean Wagen is a machine with multiple identities, consummate power and, like the Germans in France this year, a winning formula.Passenger’s eye view: gendarmes and fans close to the summit of the Col du Glandon, with the real hardcore lined up on top of the pass hours before the race was due to pass.Photograph: William Fotheringham/Observer
The lawyer investigating claims on behalf of a number of patients whose identities were mistakenly revealed last week by an HIV clinic has said that it could face hundreds of legal claims.The 56 Dean Street clinic in London’s Soho sent a newsletter last Tuesday to around 780 patients who were copied into the “To” section of the email, rather than anonymously via the “bcc” address bar. This meant that, instead of hiding the personal details of those on its recipient list, it included their full names and email addresses. A spokesman for the clinic acknowledged that the mistake was caused by human error. The Information Commissioner’s Office is making inquiries.The health secretary, Jeremy Hunt, warned that the error threatened to damage “the public’s trust in our ability to look after their personal data securely”. He said: “If we are going to win that trust, we need to strengthen the independent oversight of data security within the NHS to a level that we don’t have at the moment.”Now Sean Humber, head of the human rights team at law firm Leigh Day, who has been instructed by several of those affected, says that the insurers covering the clinic could be liable for compensation claims, with each costing many thousands of pounds.“This extremely unfortunate disclosure of sensitive medical information is clearly unlawful,” Humber said. “It is a breach of the duty of confidence owed by the clinic to each of its patients – almost certainly a breach of the Data Protection Act by the clinic – and would also seem to represent a breach of the patients’ human rights.”Humber, who has brought claims on behalf of many patients relating to the unauthorised disclosure of confidential medical information, said the clinic’s “number one priority” must now be to limit the wider disclosure of the released information. “It must also ensure that those affected receive the necessary support during this difficult time,” Humber said. “It is inevitable that following this breach the clinic will be faced with very many claims resulting from the disclosure of such sensitive information.”In an email apology sent soon after the newsletter’s distribution, Alan McOwan, Chelsea and Westminster hospital NHS foundation trust’s director for sexual health, described the data breach as completely unacceptable. McOwan wrote :“I’m writing to apologise to you. This morning at around 11.30am we sent you the latest edition of OptionE newsletter. This is normally sent to individuals on an individual basis, but unfortunately we sent out today’s email to a group of email addresses.”McOwan said that the email was recalled and deleted as soon as the error was uncovered. “We are urgently investigating how this has happened and I promise you that we will take steps to ensure it never happens again.”
A bank of monitors in the reception area of the Victorian office block that is the headquarters for London’s black-taxi drivers shows rolling videos ofcabs blocking streets in central Londonthis year and last in protest at the rise of rival car service Uber.It seems a trifle negative for a body representing drivers who pride themselves on getting people around the capital quickly, comfortably and safely.“We all thought long and hard about staging those demonstrations,” says Steve McNamara, general secretary of the Licensed Taxi Drivers’ Association. He adds that they were a last-ditch attempt to highlight the weakness of the industry’s regulator, Transport for London (TfL), in the face of increasingly stiff competition from Uber, the smartphone app for hailing minicabs.“There was always a danger that it could make us look negative, but faced with a regulator cowed by a $40bn company, and a chancellor happy to let UK taxpayers subsidise – through state benefits paid to Uber drivers earning less than the minimum wage – a US company that domiciled itself abroad to avoid UK tax, we had no choice.”McNamara, who has held a black cab licence for 30 years, is speaking as his members unveil a more positive way of fighting back against Uber, which denies his claims and says it is a net contributor to the London economy.London’s black-cab operators have been labelled luddites for their anti-Uber stance, and their protests have not always won widespread support. But now they are turning to the world of smartphone apps to help them respond competitively to Uber and others. Some black cabs have signed up with a rival app,Gett, and will offer discounts of up to 30% on the metered fare for journeys of six miles or more and those made in off-peak hours.“We’re going to give you a discount when we’re not busy,” says McNamara. “But our bread-and-butter business – 90% of our journeys are less than six miles – will not be discounted. If this scheme gets more people to choose the professional service offered by our members, it’s a win-win situation. More Londoners will take advantage of the best taxi service in the world, and cabbies will take home more money overall at the end of the day.”The competitive fightback was welcomed by Uber, which sees itself as the driver of competition in the taxi market. “This is great for consumers as it gives Londoners more choice,” said an Uber spokesperson, adding that its technology responded to real-time demand, allowing it to be 25-40% cheaper at normal times. Passengers taking black cabs with Gett will also be offered the option to fix the price at the beginning of a journey rather than rely, more traditionally, on the meter.The move from Gett, which has signed up about 7,000 black-cab drivers (there are about 25,000 in total), will help black cabs compete with Uber on price, at least on some journeys. Traditionally, taxi fares have been charged on a meter, based on time and mileage, according to a scale set by TfL.“Black cabs are the fastest and safest way to get around,” says Kim Monney, Gett’s head of marketing, “but there’s a perception that they are more expensive. With a fixed-fare option, we are making it cheaper at off-peak times.”Gett, which has raised $207m in venture funding, is an Israeli start-up backed by Russia-born billionaire Len Blavatnik. Itreplaced Hailo as the cabbies’ favourite app partnerafter the latter extended its booking service to private-hire vehicles, a move seen as a betrayal by many black-cab operators.McNamara, whose 11,000-plus members pay £12.80 a month for a package of support including legal protection, says the latest move with Gett is only part of its strategy for competing with Uber, and that the old grievances with the upstart remain.“All we have ever wanted is a level playing field,” he says. “Our fares are set, we’re told what vehicles we must drive and we’re forced to take wheelchairs. Uber pays no UK tax, and many of its drivers claim state benefits. We can’t compete with that. It may be cheap, but many of the drivers are earning less than the minimum wage.”McNamara claims that junior licence officers at TfL recently recommended the revocation of Uber’s licence – after aGuardianinvestigationraised questions about the robustness of its driver-approval procedures – but that their advice was ignored.“But I’m optimistic that common sense is beginning to prevail – that it’s becoming clear to many in authority that the current state of affairs can not continue,” he says. “We’ve been made to compete with a competitor that can do what it wants with no regulation.”McNamara thinks both TfL and the mayor of London are beginning to take complaints against Uber more seriously, as the growing number of Uber vehicles on the road add to congestion and affect air quality. He cites calls from mayor Boris Johnson earlier this year for a cap on minicab numbers.“As a result of some of the legal issues raised, we’re in a much stronger position,” he says. “There has been a massive increase in minicab drivers because of Uber, which has affected bus routes, caused congestion and triggered complaints over air quality.”Maybe in the end, Uber’s very success will prove to be a thorn in its side, as regulators and politicians such as Johnson react to the consequences of its barnstorming rise. In the meantime, the black cabbies are finally having to react to the inevitable price pressures Uber has introduced into their market.UBER’S RIVALSThere are at least four different app groups that have agreements with black cab drivers and assist them in competing with the likes of Uber. All the groups, with the exception of Hailo, restrict themselves to regulated Hackney carriages or black cabs.A fifth group, Maaxi, which is backed by the multimillionare investor Nat Rothschild, launched earlier this year but does not appear to have gained much support so far, according to taxi drivers.HailoAt one point Hailo was the black cabbies’ favourite app, with as many as 10-12,000 of the community supporting it. But last year Hailo provoked anger in the black cab community by extending its service to private hire vehicles. Its London office was vandalised and the word “scabs” was scrawled on its wall.Founded by three taxi drivers and three internet entrepreneurs in 2011, Hailo is available in 20 cities and has raised over $100m from investors, including Union Square Ventures, Accel Partners, Wellington Partners, Atomico Ventures and Sir Richard Branson.GettOperates a flat-pricing, no-surge model; Uber, by contrast, charges more when demand is greatest.Taxi TooTaxi Too was launched by a former advertising designer Michael Coulter in 2011 as London Taxi App. He invested £80,000 in the project and initially set it up at his home in Benfleet, Essex. But it closed down in December of that year, unable to keep pace with its growth due to limited funding.The business re-opened in June 2014 as Taxi Too after receiving further funds, around £100,000, from Steve Frankham of the design and engineering consultancy Frankham group and another investor. Has about 750 London black cab drivers on its books. Registration is free; the app takes 10% of fares at source.Coulter says: “We are strictly committed to the London black taxi trade and have no ambitions in the private hire area.”Cabb:appLoyalty-and-rewards-based model could see drivers owning as much as 49%of the group. It was founded by an investor in media and mobile technology, Derek Stewart, and a former black cab driver, Peter Schive. It has 8,200 drivers in 91 towns and cities in the UK and Ireland. Cab:app is self-funded by its two founders and has so far had no outside investment.This story was amended on 7 September to say that the founders of Cabb:app were an investor in media and mobile technology, and a black cab driver, rather than two bankers.
Every single time I’ve played Suburbia since its release in 2012, the same moment comes up. You’re weighing up some tile or other, wondering where or how to expand, when your eyes fall on your opponent’s suburb.“What on earth have you built?!” you ask, gazing at some new variety of miserabilist hellscape.A school tucked between a slaughterhouse and a cliff edge. A “commercial district” consisting of an office building, a stationary shop and a graveyard. Or stranger still – the last game I played saw my friend developing an idyll that ran very close to “secret cult”. To maximise the profit from his rare Crystal Caverns my friend had single-mindedly surrounded them with a druidic circle of affordable housing.Suburbia is a masterfully designed game. It’s easy to learn, impossible to master and endlessly surprising. But it’s these comedic undertones that make me love it.Let me outline the rules: Players in Suburbia are racing to have the most people in their suburb when the game ends, but this is a delicate balancing act. The board showing everyone’s population is covered in tiny red speedbumps, and passing one of these reduces your income and your suburb’s desirability. Grow too quickly and you’ll find yourself tangled up in red tape, with dwindling funds and a pathetic trickle of new residents. Grow too slowly and you’ll be unable to catch your friends when the game ends. It’s urban planning meets the immortal game ofchicken.How you achieve any of this is equally simple. Everybody start Suburbia with just three hexagonal tiles: One suburb, one park, and one factory. Loosely, yellow industrial tiles massively increase income, but decrease your suburb’s reputation (the rate at which you gain population) when next to green residential tiles. Parks cost money, but increase your reputation every time you put a home or office next to them. That kind of thing.But every single tile in Suburbia is different, and while an unfortunate placement of one will often make them as worthless as the cardstock they’re printed on, correct placement can bring incredible power. The Office of Bureaucracy lowers your reputation, but can be ludicrously profitable if you manage to amass all lots of other black, bleak Government tiles. A Wildlife Reserve will have people flocking to your suburb, just so long as you never build in that direction again.Six tiles are always available for all players to buy in a “conveyor belt”-style central shop. On your turn you can buy one of the tiles and socket it onto your growing suburb, but when you buy something the rest of the tiles in the shop all slide down both physically and in price, before you finally add a new tile is the empty space at the top.Once again you’re plotting risk vs. reward, constantly weighing up how much you’re willing to pay for a tile vs. the risk of another player buying it. About three or four times in any game of Suburbia, all players will be lost in thought, someone will silently purchase a tile they didn’t really want and another player will scream “NO!” as their plans for a utopia shatter like a china plate on the game’s endless concrete. Or perhaps they’ll elicit the more passive-aggressive “Just wondering, why did you buy that?” through clenched teeth.Ultimately, a game of Suburbia is long enough that everyone will have their fair share of successes and disasters, and it’s this arc that makes it such a wonderful puzzle to share.To begin with everybody assumes control of a blank slate, and it’s initially interesting to see the radically different directions (literally and metaphorically) you all grow in. Quickly, you’re all lamenting the unique problems that you’ve created, whether that’s a lack of money, space, a certain tile type and so on. In the game’s second act you’re alternately groaning at your friends’ ludicrous combos and giggling at their failings, before finally approaching the third act where everyone’s suburb starts sputtering and failing like an ancient car due to the pressure of your growing population. In the space of two hours you’ve had a dream, achieved some small part of it and burned it all down.Vitally, every game of Suburbia is different. There are so very many tiles in the game, from drive-thrus and casinos to homeowners associations and lakes and everything in between, and with this come a great many possible ways to build. I get excited to play Suburbia after two years not just because it’s fun, or because I can watch new friends marvel at its puzzle for the first time, but because I know it’ll still be new and exciting for me.I’d happily recommend this game to everyone. A harder choice is whether you want to invest in either of the game’s two expansions, both of which add variety and just a touch of complexity.Suburbia, Inc. is the first of these, adding a selection of new tiles (ah, the romance of the Indoor Mall, the illicit thrill of the Redistricting Office!) and some randomised mid-game milestones to strive for (for example, pressuring players to have three Industrial tiles early to receive a bonus to their income). The main draw, though, is the selection of new “Border” tiles that can be grafted onto one of the edges of your suburb. Suddenly you’re bordering a beach, a theme park, or perhaps a border where the appeal is an immediate financial kickback – accepting the terms and conditions for a nearby Radioactive Waste Site, for example.Purchased with a little foresight, these borders are the best tiles in the game. But the real cost isn’t their printed price, but a terrible regret for the rest of the game. They represent players hog-tying themselves, sealing off whole compass directions from further growth. In a game where you have no idea what’ll be up for purchase next, they represent an appealing gamble. Altogether, Suburbia, Inc. is a gentle upscaling of the original game’s puzzle – what to build, and where, and when?Suburbia’s second expansion, Suburbia 5 Star, is similarly invested in adding colour and complexity, though succeeds more at the former than the latter. Its massive collection of 50 new zany tiles, from a Haunted Asylum, to a Cornfield Maze, to a Bungee Bridge, all increase your suburb’s Star rating. Each turn the player with the most boring suburb loses exactly 1 resident, who promplty moves to the suburb with the highest star rating.Unlike borders and milestone goals of Suburbia, Inc., the star rating doesn’t augment the base game’s puzzle as much as it layers something else to think about on top of it - it’s decision-making which sometimes gets in the way of the game you were playing before. You end up thinking twice about that combo you’re putting together, because maybe it’s best to buy a star-rated tile instead. This is still entertaining decision-making, but it’s more awkward and unimpressive than I’ve come to expect from Suburbia. Though that is, perhaps, fitting for an expansion about roadside attractions.But never mind that. Suburbia 5 Star isn’t even in shops yet. For now, the only puzzle you should be worrying about is whether to buy Suburbia or not. And if you’ve gotten this far, the solution is probably “Yes.”
Having worked through classic Disney and Pixar content in the first Infinity game, followed by Marvel adventures last year, the third title in this “toys to life” series now brings out the biggest franchise in Disney’s war chest: Star Wars.As with its predecessors, the new instalment offers a range of play-sets – self-contained mini-games which can be accessed by putting the correct toy on the base. Twilight of the Republic is included in the Starter Pack and offers a Clone Wars era adventure set between Episodes II and III where a droid factory on Geonosis has been mysteriously activated.The Rise Against the Empire play-set can be purchased separately a month after launch (or straight away in the £99 Special Edition pack) and brings the AT-AT battles, trench runs and speeder-bike missions from Episodes IV-VI. An Episode VII: The Force Awakens play-set will also be available to purchase at a later date.Happily all the sets offer much more than a Star Wars skin on last year’s game. For a start Disney Infinity 3.0 is graphically superior. Avalanche Software’s engine has been enhanced through collaboration with other triple A developers: Studio Gobo continues its good work with Episode IV-VI content while Heavenly Sword creator Ninja Theory brings combat smarts to bear not only on its Episode I-III play-set but also throughout the game. Racing game specialist Sumo Digital completes the trio with enhanced handling for vehicles and its Toy Box Speed Way kart racer expansion.The Starter Pack (£45) is a little cheaper this year, although the toy-box mini games are now sold separately (£13.99). It provides the game disc, USB Disney Infinity base peripheral to read figurines into the game, the Twilight of the Republic play-set as well as two toy characters Ahsoka Tano and Anakin Skywalker to get you started.Those who have a pervious version can download or purchase the game (£25-£30) on its own. Deals at retail pair this with figures and play-sets to offer not only savings but a route to purchase for those not wanting to play the Star Wars Episode I-III content — either waiting for Episode IV-VI and VII or the other play-set content such as Inside Out.However the purchase is made, placing a Star Wars figurine on the USB Infinity Base and seeing it appear in iconic locations is spine tingling stuff for fans of the films. First encounters with enemy droids show off the enhanced combat. Ninja Theory may have seemed a strange choice, with its history of gory brawling games like Devil May Cry, but this expertise adds more weight and finessed controls to the fighting along with pixel perfect lightsaber duals — complete with the ability to rebound blaster fire back towards enemies.The on-foot combat is joined by new space based dog-fights, Podracing and light speed interplanetary travel to the likes of Geonosis, Tatooine, Coruscant and Naboo. This breaks up the more familiar fetch quests and brawling battles to add a sense of polish to the experience.Purchasing additional characters (£12.50-£14.99) expands the range of combatants as well as offering more lives should one of them die (they fall apart with no blood, by the way, so parents worried about bloody onscreen deaths can rest easy). Some care is warranted here, though, as characters from other Star Wars eras require the hidden “Cross-Over” coins to be collected before they can be used in the Starter Pack adventure.The toy-box game creator mode is free of these limitations, allowing players to combine any Disney Infinity character old and new. This year, a simple set of enhanced tools enable a wide range of home-made adventures to be created and shared online. Long after the several hours of the play-set adventure have been completed there is still plenty of entertainment to be had here.Beyond the Star Wars content, Disney Infinity 3.0 also has a set of Inside Out figurines and a related play-set adventure. There are also classic Disney characters for films old and new, including Mickey, Minnie, Mulan and Quorra from Tron as well as the much requested Olaf from Frozen. In the future we’ll also have characters from Good Dinosaur, Zootopia and a Marvel Battlegrounds play-set that promises four player co-op in the adventure mode for the first time.Then there are the two spin off toy-box games that can be purchased separately. Toy Box Takeover (£13.99) offers an action platformer around Syndrome using Merlin’s magic wand to take over the world. Toy Box Speed Way (£13.99), coming later in the year, applies Sumo Digital’s popular Sonic All Star Racing formula to Disney characters and works wonderfully well in split-screen mode.This adds up to a lot of content in the Starter Pack and a wide range of ways to expand upon this with additional purchases. However, the tiered release and timed exclusives tied to more expensive packs may frustrate families wanting to access Episodes IV-VI from day one. It all means that some research is required if parents are to purchase the right combination of products. Certainly, most families will want to avoid collectingallthese figurines and play-sets, which would set them back over £300 – and that’s before more products roll out later in the year.In terms of play-value, the toys feel less impressive this year compared to the articulated vehicles of genre rival Skylanders Superchargers and the build-able smart bricks of Lego Dimensions. Adult fans of Star Wars will happily swoon over the sculpted recreations of their iconic heroes but these static figures are more likely destined for the collector’s shelf than the toy chest.Disney Infinity 3.0 does much more than just rely on Star Wars to sell units, though. Enhancements to combat, toy-box tools and vehicle handling combine with the new space dog-fights, racing and more generous cross-over characters to deliver just what fans of the series have been asking for.It’s not cheap, and will undoubtedly result in ongoing spending as more content is released, but there is a lot of play value here for fans of the films as well as the younger audience.Disney Interactive; PC/PS3/PS4/Wii U/Xbox 360/Xbox One; £45; Pegi rating: 7+
They call it “ink blue”; I call it indigo. The DS5 has sharp, aggressive styling at the front, and it has separated itself from its Citroën branding, so that its identity is conveyed by a funny, squiggly swoosh on the rear. My father-in-law looked askance at this, as if it were a recalcitrant adult child trying to divorce its parent. But I thought it looked chic and modern: goodbye, boring colours and marques; hello, the colour of midnight and the world of the post-marque.Then I got in. The cabin is fine: in the Prestige version, which I had, you can electrically control your driver’s seat, but you can’t electrically control the firmness of the ride, or the way the poky gear shifts bring out the racer in you. Nor would you want to: that’s the entire point of buying it, because, at £30,000, this is neither the thriftiest nor the most responsible car in its compact-exec class. The parking camera was one of the best on the market (sounds like a small thing, but often they’re set to be incredibly melodramatic, sounding the alarm when you’re metres away from anything, so that you finish every journey in a state of mild panic).The controls were intuitive and the finish is high-spec and polished. It felt roomy in the front, though some pesky adults complained about headroom in the back, and boot space was ample. Visibility was terrible: the front struts interfered with my peripheral vision. I couldn’t tell whether I was approaching a tree, a pedestrian or the frame of my own car, which made my urban driving extremely timid and obviated the beefy engine entirely (this was a 150; there’s a 180, too). Maybe this was deliberate on the part of the designer, to introduce more caution to the whole driving culture: like Copenhagen crossings, in which the pavement and the road are deliberately ambiguated to make people slow down. My sister says it’s like using children as bollards.There’s also an inexplicable horizontal strut across the back, which I didn’t mind in town, but interfered with rear visibility and was maddening on a motorway. There’s an argument that you adjust to anything over time, but an adjustment that takes longer than a week is a mistake.Once you lighten up and stop worrying about seeing all the other cars, you will notice how much fun there is to be had in the upper gears. Zero to 62mph isn’t, at over 10 seconds, particularly impressive, but there’s lots of range in fourth and fifth gears (nothing in sixth, but fair enough), and overtaking is a pleasure.Indeed, there’s plenty to like about it: it has stamina but it’s also nippy, it’s smooth and soundless, but with a rough, diesel-y edge. Maybe it’s a bit niche, but there will be people in this car’s bracket who spend their lives trying to look niche.Citroën DS5: in numbersPrice£31,160Acceleration0-62mph in 10.9 secondsTop speed127mphCO2 emissions105gCombined cycle68.9mpgCool factor7/10Eco factor8/10
“Siri, give us a hint,” said Apple’sinvitation to its media event next Wednesday. But few needed a hint to know that the chief executive, Tim Cook, will unveil new phones and iPhone software, plus a greatly improved Apple TV set-top box controlled via Siri, Apple’s voice-activated system.Related:Will Apple reveal the iPhone 6S on 9 September? Siri drops hintsNor did experts need a hint to know that the new phones will look almost identical to last year’s larger-screenediPhone 6and6 Plus, and probably be called the 6S and 6S Plus. Apple works in two-year ‘ticktock’ cycles, and last year’s bigger screens were the more dramatic tick.Supply chain leaks suggest the latest models might have a feature called Force Touch – already used in some Mac computers and on its watch – that allows the device to sense and respond to the degree of pressure from a touching finger.But what Siri can’t answer is how does Apple do it? How does the world’s most valuable company get people to keep on buying, and will the bandwagon ever stop rolling?Unlike rivals such as Samsung, Sony, HTC and LG, Apple is consistently able not only to persuade loyal existing owners to buy new models but also attract those who previously used rival designs. In the second quarter of the year, while its biggest rivals saw year-on-year falls in handset sales, with disappointing performances from their flagship models, Apple experienced a 35% jump.And although average smartphone prices are dropping, Apple’s remain the most expensive. While the rest of the industry is seeing decelerating growth –expected by market intelligence firm IDCto be 10% this year, down from 27.5% in 2014 – Apple has grown faster for three successive quarters.Most expect that growth to continue through the rest of the year. Ben Wood, mobile analyst for research company CCS Insight, said: “Apple has the world at its feet. Even with only incremental, evolutionary improvements to the camera, processor and screen, it will be enough – the Apple machine keeps rolling on.”Related:Apple's ‘force touch’ and 'taptic engine' explainedWood is not convinced Force Touch will be included – though Chinese rival Huawei this week beat Apple to the punch, showing a new phone with the same technology that was able to weigh an orange by its pressure on the screen. “We can’t be sure it will make an appearance,” said Wood. “The rumour mill gets completely out of hand. This time last year, people were saying the new iPhone would have crystal sapphire displays; that didn’t happen. A radical redesign like Force Touch isn’t necessary.” Huawei offered super scratch-resistant sapphire screens last year, too, but soon discontinued them.Some think the newer iPhones will not drive anything like the same growth as bigger screens did last year. John Butler, a senior analyst for Bloomberg Intelligence, said this week: “Apple will face tough sales comparisons in the next year, given the strength of the last upgrade cycle”. He thinks that is “a challenge that may prove too difficult to overcome.”Apple vice president Phil Schiller introducing the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in September 2014.Photograph: XINHUA/SIPA/REXIDC even suggested iPhone sales would be marginally lower next year. It would be the first time there has been a year-on-year drop.Related:Chinese economy concerns wipe $40bn off value of AppleWith the iPhone generating 60% of Apple’s revenues, and perhaps more of its profits, that could seriously harm the $620bn (£410bn) Californian company. The possibility of economic slowdown in China also weighs heavily: it is one of Apple’s fastest-growing markets. Cook was prompted to email a reassuring outlook to the American TV business analyst, Jim Cramer, when the Chinese and US stock markets went into meltdown last month.However, Carolina Milanesi, chief of research at Kantar ComTech, the consumer information company, thinks the future looks far less bleak. The key point is that Apple will drop the price of last year’s bigger-screened phones, encouraging those who have not upgraded to them to do so.In the past 12 months, 32% of US iPhone owners upgraded; that was higher than in 2013-14 when it was just 22%, suggesting the larger-screened iPhone 6 was more attractive than its smaller cousins, theiPhone 5Sand5C.In China, larger screens mean accelerating sales, and there remain plenty of iPhone users in the US and China who have yet to buy. And that is before you count the users defecting from rival brands, who made up nearly a quarter of iPhone sales in Europe in the past three months, according to Kantar data.Related:Nokia: the rise and fall of a mobile phone giantWood likens Apple’s popularity to what he calls “Nokia myopia”. He said: “In the 1990s people would walk into the phone shop and ask for a Nokia because it fitted into their lives, they knew what they were getting. That’s kind of what Apple has achieved.”Mention of Nokia might make some at Apple shiver, for theFinnish giant’s fall from graceas the world’s largest mobile phone maker was as sudden as it was complete – driven by the introduction of the iPhone and then multiple smartphones powered by Google’s Android software.The parallel might not strike too much fear into the hearts of Apple executives. Smartphone software now envelops its users much more completely. “Apple adds layers and layers to keep people in there; it used to be music, then apps, now it’s health apps, and most recently there’s [streaming service]Apple Music. We’re even seeing evidence that people who leave for Android tend to come back.”Related:Apple admits it has 'homework to do' to improve Apple MusicApple has said it will offer Apple Music on Android – though the motive there, as with the iPod years ago, may be to create a “halo effect” to attract Android users to switch to the iPhone.“I really see the iPhone as the Hotel California of smartphones,” said Wood. “Once you’re in, it is very difficult to leave.”Apple TVBesides new phones, Apple is expected to significantly upgrade its Apple TV set-top box, which has barely changed since it went on sale in March 2012. The key difference in the new one, expected to cost about $149, will be voice-activated searching (using Siri) and control across multiple sources of content such as Netflix and iTunes, plus the App Store allied to a motion-sensitive controller, rather like Nintendo’s Wii.The Netflix app icon showing on an Apple TV.Photograph: Dan Goodman/APThe changes look timely, if not overdue. Apple TV is outsold by challengers including Amazon and Google,according to market research firm Parks Associates. Amazon’s Fire TV set-top box already has a voice-controlled interface, and Google’s Chromecast plug-in stick can be used to ‘cast’ content directly from a computer or phone to the TV. But there is plenty of room for growth, as only 20% of US households with broadband have a streaming device, the report found.The refreshed Apple TV could also add the capability to play games and other apps. With gaming already a huge pursuit on smartphones, the prospect of it on a TV is exciting to iPhone developers, who for years have been wishing for a new Apple platform for apps.Dave Verwer, an independent developer of iPhone and iPad software, said: “Having the App Store on a TV-sized device is not just about consuming media. It’s about it being a games console, education platform, video conferencing system and so much more. As an app developer, that’s a very exciting opportunity.”If the new model is as small as the existing one, it could be attached to the back of displays, Verwer noted. “That pushes it firmly into business and retail usage as well.”
Along with Blackstreet’sNo Diggityand Boyz II Men’sEnd of the Road, it was one of the defining R&amp;B jams of the 90s. Now, 18 years after its release, Next’sToo Closehas provided the source material for one of the best vines on the internet.A good vine is funny. A great vine is hilarious, but also, crucially, exposes a fundamental truth of our times. This is what Nicholas Fraser has hit on in his immensely popular (16 million loops and counting)vine, which we’ll call Why You Always Lyin’.Why You Always Lyin’ consists of Fraser, one Converse-shod foot propped on an outside toilet (?), shirt unbuttoned, singing along to Next’s Too Close, but replacing the lyrics: “baby when we’re grinding / I get so excited” with “why the fuck you lying? / why you always lying?” All the while, Fraser wears a grin so wide that the corners of his mouth line up with the bottoms of his earlobes, which is the expression that one should always wear when calling someone out.The reason Fraser’s Why You Always Lyin’ vine has become so popular is because it’s pretty much what most of us spend a good portion of our lives wondering. When a mate cancels because of a “cold”. When your boss tells you there’s no budget for a pay rise. When someone says they’ve run out of cigarettes at a party. When a police officer tells you it is illegal to film them (it isn’t, folks).We will mumble ok, or give a withering look, but what we really want to say in all of these scenarios is: “why the fuck you lyin’?” Or perhaps, sing it, with one foot on a toilet, to the tune of Next’s Too Close. And that’s why we love Fraser, for making this collective dream a reality. And for creating a perfect, shareable quick reaction on the internet to dubious opinions and claims.&quot;Why You Always Lying&quot; is the Best video of 2015.@_DowngoesFraser. thank you.&mdash; Quinta B. (@quintabrunson)September 3, 2015The original, longer version by Fraser wasposted to Instagram, and was in response to people fake bragging about buying a bunch of products. But it’s the vine that has truly taken off. Mash-ups on Vine and Instagram have proliferated, with one of the best (more than nine thousand retweets)adding the music to Kanye West’s VMAs dance. MusiciansP.Diddy and Chris Brown(euw) have reposted Why You Always Lyin’ to their own Instagrams, and the clip is spreading across numerous platforms. Fraser has also jokinglyput the toilet in the vine up for sale(“bidding starts at $14 million”).Some of the most popular Why You Lying variationsWe’re also fans of the “mmmm oh my god” bridge, sung so soulfully and with such feeling that it has spawned a hashtag all of its own. Fraser was already on the rise as a social media personality, with more than 36 million vine loops overall, and 41 thousand followers on Instagram, but Why You Always Lyin’ has now entered mainstream internet discourse.The 21-year-old college student, who lives in Queens, New York, has said that he dreamt up the vine when singing along to Too Close in his mum’s car when driving to meet a date. He also toldComplexthat he actually says “oh my god” like that in general.In fact, Fraser seems to be a pretty great personality IRL (in real life) as well as on Vine. Asked why, exactly, he has a toilet in his backyard, he said: “You know, certain questions you can’t answer because there’s really no answer.” Fair.He has also said he doesn’t want to be known as the “Why You Lyin’ guy”, because nobody wants to be known as a one hit wonder. He does admit he didn’t think the vine would prove so popular:“I thought it would get 100 likes, and what’s 100 likes nowadays? It’s worth like, what, two hot dog buns? It’s not worth anything.”Obviously, a few people have proclaimed to not like the Fraser vine at all, but, well, we know what to say to those people.• Follow Nicholas Fraser on social media at:@_DowngoesFraserandinstagram.com/downgoes.fraser
Smartwatches are still a technology niche loved by a few early adopters, but considered ugly, expensive and pointless by the majority of people.Earlyeditions from SamsungandPebblewere considered chunky and ugly even by many technology enthusiasts, but designs improved a little with Google’s first wave ofAndroid Wear watches, with the roundMotorola Moto 360 being a highlight.Compared to traditional watches, which smartwatches are attempting to replace, the chunky profiles and lack of premium fit and finish of last years’ models made them a significant downgrade in personal style.For something worn on you wrist, what it looks like (and thus what it says about you) is more important than most technology enthusiasts appreciate.Apple launched its smartwatch in April. It met with mixed reviews, but its industrial design – the look and feel, manufacturing and finish – was a cut above the competition.Now the rest of the market is catching up, as Motorola, Huawei and Samsung all launch smartwatches with design and style front and centre.Motorola Moto 360Motorola’s new Moto 360 with standard watch strap fittings.Photograph: MotorolaMotorola has launched not one, but three new Moto 360 smartwatches. They have round screens, come in two sizes and a Sport variant ditches metal for silicone.Ian Fogg, director of mobile analysis at IHS Technologysaid: “The new Moto 360 smartwatch offers female and sport-focused models to increase appeal, plus user changeable watch straps and extensive ‘mass customisation’ options similar to the company’s Moto X smartphones.”The round screen still has the flat tyre shape with a piece at the bottom housing the watch’s sensors, which was criticised in last year’s model. But having two different sizes will appeal to more users, while the all-metal and screen design is certainly attractive.Huawei WatchThe Huawei Watch ranges from €300 and up, and is the Chinese smartphone manufacturer’s premium wearable.Photograph: Gregor Fischer/EPAHuawei’s Watch also has a premium look and feel to it that is more reminiscent of a man’s metal watch, and a €300 and up price tag to match. It, like all the new Android Wear watches, can connect to both Android smartphones and Apple’s iPhone.It’s large circular display is more pixel dense than its rivals, so will appear sharper, while its fit and finish is approaching traditional watchmaker standards.Samsung Gear S2Samsung Gear S2 smartwatch, a significant upgrade in design over last year’s Gear S.Photograph: Martyn Landi/PAApple’s chief rival Samsung has also improved its smartwatch considerably. Gone is the chunky curved oblong that resembled a prisoner ankle bracelet and instead Samsung has produced its first round smartwatch, with a premium design and innovation in the form of a rotating bezel.Ben Wood, head of research at CCS Insight said: “The Gear S2 is a breath of fresh air compared to Samsung’s previous smartwatches. It follows the trend set by the Moto 360 for a circular display, and at a glance it looks much more like a traditional watch than the geek-ware that has characterised most other smartwatches to date.”Rotating bezel on Samsung Gear S2. Scrolling through apps and widgets.pic.twitter.com/V5O7h5LxoX&mdash; Ben Wood (@benwood)September 3, 2015After having tried out the watch at its launch at the IFA trade show in Berlin, Wood described the rotating bezel as “really addictive” and found it “reminiscent of how consumers used to idly fiddle with flip and slider phones back in the day”.Samsung has also ditched its requirement of connecting the Gear S2 to a Samsung-branded smartphone. Despite running Samsung’s Tizen operating system, it will work with any Android smartphone.NowAndroid Wear works with the iPhone, the Apple Watch has some direct competition.While the case for using a smartwatch has yet to be proven, for most consumers, at least now the design of the devices is approaching something closer to that of watches worn as jewellery.•Pebble boss: ‘one day, people will not be able to live without their smartwatch’•Swatch CEO: Apple Watch is ‘interesting toy’ that can’t last more than 24 hour
The hottest thing on the internet this week, you’d have been hard pressed to have missed the video of a trolley-full of screeching duck toys.Short, but sweet, it went viral almost immediately sparking parodies and pastiches. So what’s the story behind it?We spoke to the man behind the meme for the first episode of Updog,a new Guardian podcast about fun things on the internet.Updog Episode I: Duck WAAAAAGHS: A New MemeIf you haven’t seen it yet, here it is, in all its glory:Source: Kevin Innes/ViralHogSince it was uploaded by 22-year-old Kevin Innes, it has racked up more than 5 million YouTube views and on Vine it’s getting thousands and thousands of loops.Inevitably, the remixes came. First, the Adele version:Source: stop jake/VineThen the version combining the duck army withanother meme of someone making fun of a police officer’s shoes:Source: KARAOKLEE/VineThen the Taylor Swift edition:Source Nick Name/YouTubeThen there was the superb “Fall of the duck army”, showing two people kicking the screeching duck toy around what looks like a storage room:Source: Estupivideces/YouTubeAll hail the duck army, our new internet overlords.But when we tracked down he screaming avian online, where curious readers can grab their own for just $15 (though it won’t ship internationally, fellow Europeans), we discovered a horrifying truth – it’s not a duck at all.It’s a Pelican!For the full story, Innes’s explanation and more on the duck army, listen to Updog (and follow us on Twitter at @updogcast).Long live the duck army. (Or should that be pelican?!)Want more screaming ducks and other memes?Follow us on Twitter @Updogcast.You can find all the Tech Weekly podcasts here.
Stop the search: the greatest Briton in history has been found – sitting astride a makeshift helicopter comprised of 54 drone rotors dressed like one of Monty Python’s Gumbies.YouTuber gasturbine101 built the world’s first pentacontakaitetracopter (that’s a vehicle with 54 blades), and flew it almost three meters above the ground, alarming his cameraman in the process.The craft weighs 148kg, can lift a further 164kg and can fly for 10 minutes, according to its inventor. He admits it’s not the safest craft in the world, but says that 54 “18 inch propellers at 5000 rpm, though hazardous, are still much less so than six five-foot ones”. And he’s added the plastic dome for his own protection – since the propellers are “inline with my head”. “It also doubles as a rain shelter,” he added.
With its “direct answers” service, search engine Google aims to cut down on the amount of time users spend seeking information by algorithmically answering common queries.Unfortunately, sometimes it goes wrong:uhhhhh hey google you might wanna check your algorithmpic.twitter.com/vc0KSKK9LZ&mdash; Josh Fruhlinger (@jfruh)September 4, 2015A search for “who runs Hollywood” automatically brings up the answer “Jews”, with a link to a news story from July 2014 on the New Observer, a website “designed to present current affairs without the spin of the controlled media”. The site runs articles about the “nonwhite invasion of Europe” and the “third world flood”, as well as reporting antisemitic conspiracy theories.Worse, as seen at the top of this article, the answer is also presented as an auto-complete on mobile devices, saving users the trouble of even hitting the search button.Unlike some embarrassing Google search results, the info-box does not appear to be the result of a “Googlebomb”, where a number of sites make a concerted effort to alter the results for a particular term. Instead, it looks like it arose organically due to the nature of articles written about groups “running Hollywood”.Even outside the infobox, of the ten articles on the first page of the Google search results for the query, five say “Jews” run Hollywood, one says “the illuminati” runs it, and one says “gay Jews” do.It’s not the first time the direct answers have prominently displayed embarrassingly incorrect results. Until May this year, a search for “what happened to the dinosaurs”pulled in information from a creationist websitearguing that “dinosaurs are used more than almost anything else to indoctrinate children and adults in the idea of millions of years of earth history”. Oddly, the search now pulls in the same information, but links to a website criticising the oversight.Google told the Guardian that the direct answer was being removed as quickly as possible, and explained that the site had been linked to by many others, giving it perceived “authority” under the company’s page-rank algorithm. A spokesperson added: “We assure you that the views expressed by such sites are not in any way endorsed by Google.”
Major video game developers around the world are set to collaborate on a compilation of new games for the charity, War Child.The teams behind blockbusting titles such as Halo 5, Alien: Isolation and the Football Manager series, will each be given six days to produce a game based around themes provided by the charity, which seeks to help children in conflict-affected countries, including Syria. The resulting compilation, titled HELP: Real War is Not a Game, will be available via digital download early in 2016.The initiative is set to mark 20 years since the charity’s famous Help album, which saw artists such as Oasis, Manic Street Preachers and Paul Weller record an album of covers in just 24 hours. The resulting record, and a series of follow-ups, have raised over £1.5m to help children affected by war.“War Child’s work revolves around a simple premise ... no child has started a war, so no child should be affected by one,” said Miles Jacobson, founder of the global games jam committee and studio director at Sports Interactive, creator of the Football Manager simulation series. “Whether it’s providing child-friendly spaces for Syrian refugee children in Jordan and Iraq, creating child helplines in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Afghanistan, or the work they do in so many other countries – they make the world a better place for children forced to live with war.”“Game jams”, competitions in which small teams of developers are given a limited amount of time to create games based around a specific theme, have become increasingly popular over the past five years. This year’s Global Game Jam saw over 30,000 participants registered in 78 countries, who went on to create over 5,000 games. Usually they are entered by students and small teams, but War Child is recruiting some of the world’s major developers, reflecting the star-studded line up of the Help albums.Studios currently committed to contribute include 343 Industries (Halo 5), Creative Assembly (Alien: Isolation and the Total War series), Bossa Studios (Surgeon Simulator) and Team 17 (the Worms series). Between them, the studios have sold over 100m titles.“The idea came about over a drink, as these things tend to do,” says Jacobson, who was involved with the original Help album while working for Blur’s record label Food in the 90s. “I was with a couple of people from War Child discussing what we could do music-wise for the 20thanniversary, and looking at the revenues of the last few albums I threw in the idea of doing a games project instead, and it just went from there.“We hope that post announcement more studios will get involved – I want more than 20.”According to Jacobson, the studios will be given a selection of themes to base their games around, but that the entries will not necessarily be overtly political or educational. “No child has ever started a war. No child should be affected by war. That is an example of one of the briefs that will be given to the studios, and one of the things that War Child are trying to get across,” he said. “But the games don’t have to have a message – they are an entertainment medium. Whilst a message would be great, and raising awareness of War Child and their work are essential, so is making the games fun for those that are going to spend money on them.”Video games have become an important method of raising awareness over the last decade with charities such as Greenpeace and Save the Children creating or commissioning their own titles, often available free online, in order to highlight elements of their work to a digitally aware audience. The UK games industry charity GamesAid has raised over £1m for a variety of smaller charities helping disadvantaged and disabled children and young people.“It doesn’t just have to be the subject matter for games to make a different in raising awareness,” said Jacobson. “As a medium, video games have amazing engagement, so these things can be done more organically, which makes it even more powerful.”HELP: Real War is Not a Game will be released through the digital store Steam and other download platforms in late March 2016.
It’s Thursday. I don’t know what happened yesterday.
Dyson, the privately owned British engineering group famous for its vacuum cleaners and bladeless fans, has announced record-breaking profits of £367m, up 13% on the year, despite spending £3m a week on research and development.Max Conze, the company’s German-born chief executive, said Dyson’s ownership structure had helped it keep its investment in new technology at high levels. “We’re playing a long game for the future. One needs to have some appetite for risk,” said Conze.“James took a punt on the bagless vacuum cleaner about 18 years ago, without a team, without a hell of a lot of money. You’re better off being in a family-driven setup, where the family is the guardian of that technology and engineering focus.”Conze points this year to the success of cordless vacuum cleaners, for which sales were up 68% in 2014, as testament to the success of the Dyson ownership model – the entire company is owned by founder Sir James Dyson and his family.Cordless vacuum cleaners, which can be used for just 20 minutes before needing a recharge, now outsell traditional machines by three to one in Japan and by four to one in China.The other product category to shine in 2014 was environmental control, where the Dyson Humidifier became the top-selling humidifier in Japan by value.Geographically, Conze said the group took the number one spot in Germany in terms of sales and maintained its position as market leader in Japan. It doubled the size of its China business, despite the country’s economic slowdown. “I see China as being one of our largest markets,” he said. “The recent stock market movements haven’t affected consumer attitudes yet.”During the year, Dyson acquired Jake Dyson Lighting, a business started by James Dyson’s son, which specialises in trendy LED lamps starting at £400. The acquisition puts Dyson Jr in pole position to succeed his father. “James is very excited to see what Jake is doing,” said Conze. “Jake and his team have lots of ideas about how to disrupt the lighting sector.”Dyson said its profits, although up 13%, were held back by a strong pound. Turnover was up 10% at £1.38bn and investment in research and development rose £80m to £113m.Conze said the company wanted more skilled foreign graduates, educated at British universities, to be allowed to stay in the UK. “Some of the brightest minds in the world have been educated at the best universities in the world in the UK. We need to keep the smart kids here,” he said. “There are 300 engineering positions open. We constantly need more engineers.”The company’s charitable trust, the James Dyson Foundation, donated £20m to Imperial College London and the University of Cambridge in 2014.This article was amended on 4 September
Since its debut in thefirst trailer for Episode VII, cute little BB-8 - which looks an upturned bowl balancing on a football - has become theunofficial droid mascotofStar Wars: The Force Awakens.Unlike the much-loved robotic pal from the original trilogy, R2-D2, BB-8 is a droid with intelligence that you can actually buy – albeit in a tennis ball sized-version.The cute little robot seen in trailers is a rolling ball with a floating head, which played right into the hands of Sphero, who already had a rolling robot in the shape of the eponymous Sphero. All they had to do was figure out how to attach the head.Standing about 10cm tall with a head stuck on with magnets, BB-8 has everything you would expect from a collectors figure. A detail-rich paint job and enough sounds and quirks are able to convince you, with a touch of the suspension of disbelief, that he is more than just an expensive chunk of plastic.Just like Sphero, BB-8 charges via induction in a Star Wars-branded cradle, is controlled via Bluetooth from an iPhone or Android smartphone and has a modicum of intelligence to sense its environment through bump mapping, similar torobot vacuums from iRobotand others.Sphero and Disney is hoping BB-8 becomes more than just a robotic ball with a magnetic head.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSphero’s involvement within Star Wars was a happy accident of being part of Disney’s startup accelerator, according to Rob Maigret, chief creative officer of Sphero: “BB-8 came about whenBob Iger, chief executive of Disney and mentor of Sphero, saw Sphero just as the company was gearing up torelease Ollie. He showed Sphero’s foundersIan Bernsteinand Adam Wilson a still from the movie of BB-8 and said, can you make this real?”Within a day Bernstein and Wilson had a working prototype, and production went from there. Sphero’s talent then had a hand in making the life-sized BB-8, which took to the stage at 2015’s Star Wars Celebration.Sadly the full sized BB-8 is beyond reach – “the moulds alone cost $20,000”, according to Maigret, but the pint-sized version at least captures the spirit of the film’s prop.BB-8 will run for an hour between charges, taking three hours to reach full capacity, and can travel up to 30m from the user at speeds of up to 5mph. His head stares in the direction of travel, moving automatically and pops off when it crashes into a wall – which it will, frequently, even through it’s relatively easy to control using a virtual joystick on the smartphone screen.The smartphone controller app is filled with Star Wars noises, sights and sounds, and uses augmented reality to show BB-8 projecting holograms onto your floor. You can even record yourself using your smartphone camera and shoehorn your face into the classic “help me Obi Wan, you’re my only hope” – just forget that’s meant to be R2-D2.BB-8 sits sleeping in his inductive charging dock, which is powered by microUSB.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianBB-8 has a couple of tricks up his sleeve. Shout “it’s a trap” into the phone and the little robot will run for the hills, while he’s able to display emotions using lights within it and a shake or two of the head. Whether you’ll understand what he’s saying without a protocol droid standing by remains to be seen.Right now BB-8 doesn’t do a lot, at least compared to Sphero or the company’s racing and skating robot Ollie. But it will provide buyers with tidbits from the film ahead of its release in December, and then reveal more features and personality after the film’s release.Its vignettes, for instance, feature a few classic Star Wars movies and noises, but will expand, while users will also be able to programme their own. BB-8 isn’t, however, including in Sphero’s educational programmes such as Spark, but that may change in the future.“BB-8 is a little computer in and of himself. Our dream is eventually to do away with the smartphone and allow you to talk to robots directly. For now you can buy your own little bit of Star Wars,” said Maigret.BB-8 costs £129.99 and will be available direct from Disney and from major UK stores such as Firebox, PC World, Harrods and Amazon.•Sphero Ollie review: the remote control car reimagined•Robotic ball Sphero points to a new era in computer games
Apple has “a bit of homework to be done” to improve its Apple Music streaming service, the company’s international iTunes boss has said.Apple Music launched in June as a rival to Spotify and while it has been praised for its curated playlists it has been criticised over its user interface and bugs affecting people’s existing iTunes libraries.“There’s a lot of work going into making the product better. Our focus is on editorial and playlists, and obviously we have teams all around the world working on that, but we’re also adding features and cleaning up certain things,” Oliver Schusser, vice president, iTunes International, told the Guardian.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'“Apple Music Connect is growing big-time with more and more artists connecting to their fans, but we still have a bit of homework to be done for the rest of the year.”Asked about criticisms of Apple Music’s usability – which has seen users complaining ofcorrupted librariesandunintuitive interfaces– Schusser said: “The product is always our priority, and we are getting a lot of feedback. Remember, this was a very big launch in 110 markets instantly, so we get a ton of feedback. We’re obviously trying to make it better every day.” he said.Schusser confirmed that Apple Music will launch for Android devices and Sonos-connected hi-fis “in the fall”, adding that “we still have some work to do there, but that’s coming”.Apple said, in early August, thatit had signed up 11 million people for Apple Music’s three-month free trial, which started on 30 June. At the end of September, the earliest adopters will be deciding whether to start paying at least $9.99 a month for the service.Apple is launching a new advertising campaign to promote Apple Music and attract more trial members, with the company’s annual September music festival in London – renamed the Apple Music Festival – also playing a key role.Ten gigs with headliners including One Direction, Pharrell Williams and the Chemical Brothers will be broadcast live on Beats 1, Apple Music’s radio station, as well as having video streamed to iOS devices, iTunes and Apple TV.Apple Music has won praise for its curation, but criticism for its interface.Schusser hopes the festival and ads will attract people who are new to streaming music. “Streaming still needs a lot of education in the market,” he said.“We have more of a worldwide view: the UK is a little more educated than other markets, but nothing like the places where streaming is already the number one way to consume music.”Industry observers have been picking over the 11m figure, with the claim by one analyst that48% of those people had already stopped using Apple Musiccontradicted by Apple, which said the true figure was only 21%. Schusser declined to speculate on the progress so far.“Our focus is more on the product than anything else: we spend most of our energy on that,” he said. “That’s more our priority than checking every hour the amount of people who have signed up. We have more of a long-term perspective on this.”Music labels and artists, too, are trying to gauge what Apple Music and streaming more generally means for their income.Apple employee Dr Dre’s recentCompton: A Soundtrackalbum has become a focus in that debate, having beenstreamed 25m times in its first week, but also selling nearly 500k iTunes downloads in that time.“If you follow the industry and look at the numbers, the download business has been really, really healthy. iTunes is a big part of our business, still, and will continue to be, so we focus just as much time and energy on maintaining that, editorially and working on features,” said Schusser.“That [Compton] is a really good example of how streaming and downloads can be successful side-by-side. What we’ve proven is that when there’s great content, customers will buy as well as listen.”Related:Spotify has six years of my music data, but does it understand my tastes?A a growing battleground between Apple, Spotify, Google Play and other streaming services – and one Apple Music has won plaudits for – is playlists compiled to help listeners discover new music.Independent research from music industry site Record of the Day in March revealed that51% of tracks on Spotify’s most prominent playlists came from indie labels, as opposed to just 6% of the most-played tracks on Radio 1 in 2014.However, indie labels fear that as playlists grow in prominence, their major rivals will put pressure on the streaming services to tilt the balance back towards their artists. Schusser said Apple is determined to ensure indies get a fair crack of the whip on Apple Music, however.“We like independent artists as well as major-label artists. Small as well as big artists,” he said. “If you listen to Beats 1 and do the maths in terms of major-label artists versus independent artists, it’s the place you discover new music fromanylabel.”
I switched from Microsoft Office to OpenOffice a few years ago. Apart from the cost, I was frustrated in getting macros to do what I wanted. When I found out about the LibreOffice development, I decided to ignore it. Now I am told that LibreOffice is better.I have invested a lot of time in becoming familiar with OpenOffice Basic. Should I switch to Libre or is it time to go back to Microsoft? I like Windows 10 and have a Windows phone.IanLibreOffice is a forked version of OpenOffice. The two suites are still very close, and LibreOffice includes OpenOffice Basic. However, I expect them to diverge, because Apache OpenOffice will not be able to keep up with the speed of LibreOffice’s development. There’s no great hurry, and OpenOffice still has many fans, but I think it’s better to switch to Libre sooner rather than later.There are three reasons why I think LibreOffice will win. First, LibreOffice has many more programmers and far more community support. Second, LibreOffice’s choice of open source licences gives it an advantage. Third, LibreOffice has a better marketing strategy. This includes faster development, better distribution, a slicker website, and a greater focus on meeting customers’ needs.The OpenOffice storyOpenOffice was born when Sun Microsystems bought a failed German program, Star Office, and made it open source. Much of the programming was done by Sun staff, and open source contributors were obliged to give Sun rights to use their code in its commercial version of Star Office. As a result, it never developed much of a community. Dissatisfaction with Sun’s stewardship eventually prompted most of the open-source developers – along with backers such as Novell, Red Hat, and Canonical – to defect, and they forked the code to create LibreOffice.Sun Microsystems was also failing, and it was taken over by Oracle, the database software company. After LibreOffice came out, Oracle released one version of Oracle Open Office before deciding that the projectwasn’t worth the effort. It laid off the programmers and gave the code and trademarks to the Apache Software Foundation, under Apache’s liberal open source license.At that point, a handful of IBM employees were doing the majority of OpenOffice programming. IBM needed the code for its own office program, Lotus Symphony, which was another OpenOffice fork. But then IBM pulled out as well, giving its Symphony code to Apache.Apache looks determined to continue the development of Apache OpenOffice, but without Sun, Oracle or IBM programmers, and without the sort of community support that powers LibreOffice, it’s hard to see the point. Indeed, Christian Schaller, a software engineering manager at Red Hat, recently wroteAn Open Letter to Apache Foundation and Apache OpenOfficeteam to suggest that they “re-direct people who go to the openoffice.org website to the LibreOffice website instead.”Licence mattersLibreOffice is being developed under two “copyleft” licences: GNU’s LGPLv3 and the Mozilla Public License (MPLv2). “Copyleft” licences try to ensure that the code contributed by open source programmers can only be re-used on the same terms. However, OpenOffice has changed from a “copyleft” (GPL) licence to a permissive Apache license, which means anybody can use the code for commercial purposes. Not everybody wants to write free code for somebody else’s benefit.The difference in licences puts Apache OpenOffice at a disadvantage. It means that LibreOffice can take code from Apache OpenOffice (that’s the point of permissive licences) but Apache OpenOffice can’t take code from LibreOffice (that’s the point of “copyleft” license)s.Indeed, Apache has had to replace OpenOffice code that was copyleft-only, but when it introduced a big new sidebar, LibreOffice was able to incorporate it immediately. (In fact, both versions got it from the same source: IBM’s Symphony.)Since LibreOffice seems to have many more active programmers, and since Apache’s programmers are inevitably contributing to LibreOffice, I don’t see how Apache OpenOffice can keep up.LO’s superior strategyLibreOffice is now the default office suite in the majority of Linux distributions, and it’s aiming to release two versions a year, to match Ubuntu. Apache OpenOffice has no release schedule, but will release new versions when they are ready. This should mean that LibreOffice develops faster and attracts more users, which will attract more programmers.LibreOffice also seems to have more of a customer focus: just compare the two websites. LibreOffice is trying to look slick and professional, and to attract users by providing a more polished product. Both organisations have obviously had to spent a lot of time trying to make OpenOffice’s code smaller, less buggy and less crashy. But the LibreOffice programmers have added features, improved compatibility with Microsoft and Apple file formats, and introduced Windows-specific improvements such as the ability to work with Microsoft’s Active Directory.This is a striking contrast with the ethic that infused the old OpenOffice.org, which was controlled by Sun and IBM. Both saw Microsoft as a mortal enemy, and their main marketing proposition was that, regardless of how bad the product was, it wasn’t Microsoft. In my view, making a serious effort to meet users’ needs is better than any amount of pseudo-religious frothing.What about Microsoft Office?Whether you should go back to Microsoft Office is another matter. It offers many advantages in being both more powerful and easier to use. It also has more applications (there are no open-source equivalents to OneNote and Outlook, for example), and is compatible with the vast majority of the world’s documents. But if you have found that OpenOffice meets your needs, these must not be very important to you.However, both OpenOffice and LibreOffice are modelled after Microsoft Office 1997-2003, when it was still a standalone office suite. Today, Office 365 is an ecosystem that includes online versions, a terabyte of online storage, and touch-oriented apps for Windows, Windows Phone, Google Android, and Apple iPads and iPhones. OpenOffice and LibreOffice simply don’t have the programmers, the cloud infrastructure or the money to compete.Again, you’re the only person who can decide whether you would find these features useful. If you’re very mobile and want to read/edit files on several different types of devices, they would be. If you do everything on a desktop PC, they probably won’t be. Most people are between these two extremes.Unfortunately, I can’t help you with OpenOffice Basic programming. It obviously resembles VBA (Microsoft’s Visual Basic for Applications) without being directly compatible, but I’ve never programmed in either. It might be worth having another look at VBA, but if you can’t get it to do what you want, there’s no point in switching back to Microsoft Office.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Long-distance love has paid off for the designers of a travel jacket that has now attracted a record $9m from would-be buyers on crowdfunding site Kickstarter.Hiral Sanghavi, designer of the BauBax jacket, conceived the jacket as a means of solving the dilemma of long-distance traveling while carrying a Best Buy’s worth of electronic equipment. He had originally hoped to raise $20,000.Two weeks into the campaign in July, the jacket became themost funded clothingitem in crowdfunding history after raising $1.25m, surpassing the “10-year Hoodie”, whichraised $1.05m on Kickstarter in 2013. Last week, the jacket surpassed $6.4m and became the sixth-most funded Kickstarter of all time.On Thursday when funding closed 44,949 people had pledged a total of $9,192,055 to get the jacket into production.While the BauBax jacket was put in Kickstarter’s “product design” category, and not its “fashion” category, a Kickstarter spokesperson said the jacket is its most funded apparel project.Hiral Sanghavi, co-founder of BauBax, a Chicago startup that focuses on developing creative lifestyle products and manufactures the jacket, travels weekly from Chicago, where he is finishing his master’s at the Kellogg School of Management, to San Francisco to see his wife, Yoganshi Shah.“These are often eight-hour or longer flights with layovers,” Sanghavi said. “We set out to solve all of the problems travelers encounter by designing travel jackets, blazers, bombers and hoodies/sweatshirts with everything a traveler wants and needs.”Sanghavi calls the BauBax jacket the “Swiss army knife of travel jackets”. With a built-in inflatable neck pillow, eye mask, gloves and about a dozen other pockets built specifically to carry things like an iPad or a drink, the jacket was created to “appeal to everyone who travels”, Sanghavi said.Sanghavi credited his wife Shah, who is the chief design officer at BauBax, with the design of the jacket and said the special features originated because he was always leaving behind his travel pillow on flights.“So she thought, ‘We have to develop a stylish jacket that has a travel pillow built in’,” Sanghavi said. Then they added an eye mask, a cup-holder, built-in gloves and various designated pockets to carry passports, technology, wallets and earphones.Sanghavi said he had expected the campaign to raise at least $1m, but is “humbled and thrilled” to see the amount of donations that have poured in. Perhaps he should have added another extra large pocket for all the money.
Bored at work today? Need to boost your trivia knowledge now that all the kids are back in school? Try Googling “fun facts” or “I’m feeling curious”.Google’s latest trick aims to entertain and amaze, if random facts push your buttons. A new dynamic box appears below a search for “fun fact”, “fun facts” or “I’m feeling curious” showing tidbits like “Do crocodiles cry?”, which apparently some reptiles do.Crocodile tears.Photograph: ScreengrabThe more curious can keep hitting the button labelled “ask another question” to generate seemingly endless random facts.For instance, did you know it’s called the silver screen because it used to be silver?The movie screen.Photograph: ScreengrabOr that the apple came from central Asia?Asian Apples.Photograph: ScreengrabHow many steps in a mile? Google tells us it’s 2,000 (though it’s about 1,600 for me).How about 10,000 miles?Photograph: ScreengrabAnd, no, Sputnik 1 isn’t still up there in orbit, although what Sputnik’s got to do with Tony Banks I’ll neverSputnik 1 is no more, and hasn’t been for 57-odd years.Photograph: ScreengrabThe fact box only seems to appear for queries in English, although perhaps we have yet to hit on the correct French phrase for “I’m feeling curious” as “je suis curieux sentiment” just gave me a standard search – and the Swedish translation “jag är nyfiken” brought up the famous-for-its-nudity art house filmI Am Curious (Yellow).Each curio is pulled directly from other sites, just like Google does with other elements of its built-in encyclopaedia called Knowledge Graph or with new snippets.The validity of the trivia remains to be seen, but Google provides a link to the site whence it came so you can at least check it out. Probably safe to trust National Geographic on crocodiles, but remember88.2%of statistics are made up.•Yes, androids do dream of electric sheep
Here’s a fact to make the internet generation feel old: online auction site eBay is approaching its 20th birthday. In a few short days, the place for selling off your old clothes ora coffee cup once used by Jeremy Corbynis officially old enough to be considered an adult in Japan or vote in Bahrain, if it were a person, which it is not.To celebrate twenty years of wheeling, dealing, and things you bought accidentally after bidding for them when slightly drunk, we want to hear about all your eBay triumphs and disasters.My own eBay tales are pretty dull. I once bought a job-lot of Wimpy badges -apparently still a popular seller’s item- and I’ve been lucky enough to pick up a few second hand bicycles, which have been exactly as described and lovingly handed on by cycling enthusiasts. I had to go to darkest Surrey to pick up a second hand Dawes Galaxy, from a lovely gentleman who had cycled it across Spain and seemed loath to let go of it. My colleague’s friend excitedly ordered some vintage tins for her wedding day preparation - they arrived after the wedding.And were for dolls’ houses.We’re sure you can do much, much better than this. We want to see your images of your brilliant / terrible items, and for you to tell us the stories behind them. We’ll stick the best / worst tales together in an article to celebrate this important online anniversary.You can share your pictures and stories by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ button on this article, or on the sentence you’re currently reading. You can also use theGuardianWitness smartphone appor theGuardian appand search for ‘GuardianWitness assignments’ – and if you add it to the homepage – you can keep up with all our assignments.GuardianWitnessis the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others.
Google is facing a lawsuit over allegations that its Waze traffic app stole part of its database from a competing app called PhantomAlert.Acquired in 2013, Waze offers turn-by-turn driving directions, but it differs from Google’s own Maps app in its tight integration of crowd-sourced information for map and traffic data. Waze users can update the app in real-time to mark jams, speed cameras and road works, as well as add more detail to the map itself.But the lawsuit from rival app PhantomAlert alleges that some of Waze’s database was lifted wholesale in 2010. PhantomAlert cites as evidence the presence of non-existent points of interest in Waze’s database, which it says could only have come from its own data.The complaint states: “Among other methods, PhantomAlert determined that Waze had copied its Points of Interest database by observing the presence of fictitious Points of Interest in the Waze application, which PhantomAlert had seeded into its own database for the purpose of detecting copying.“On information and belief, Waze copied the PhantomAlert database on multiple occasions after late 2012, re-incorporated the copied data into the Waze application, and continued to display the Points of Interest data to the users of the Waze application.”PhantomAlert’s evidence is a modern version of “trap streets” or “paper towns” – fictitious locations put into maps by cartographers to guard against copying. In older editions of London’s A-Z street map, for example, a walkway named “Bartlett Place” exists; any map using that name, rather than the actual name, Broadway Walk, must have gathered its data by illegally copying the atlas.Some mapmakers avoid trap streets, in an effort to maintain the accuracy of their information. Instead, they rely on stylistic features such as the style of their icons, or the width of roads, to identify rip-off merchants. In 2001,the AA was forced to pay £20m to the UK’s Ordnance Surveyafter a team of experts identified “fingerprints” that proved that their maps were the source of the AA’s information.PhantomAlert’s lawyer, Karl Kronenberger, said that the information was used to justify Waze’s sale to Google. “Waze needed to grow its database to increase its value and become more attractive to potential acquirers,” he said in a statement. “Our complaint alleges that Waze stole PhantomAlert’s database when Waze could not get it legally, and then sold itself to Google for over $1bn.”The lawsuit seeks monetary damages as well as an injunction requiring Google to “cease operating the Waze website and application”.
Samsung has launched a new hub for smarthome devices, which it hopes will kickstart the evolution of the internet of things (IoT).Its Hub will securely unite sensors and accessories from a range of manufacturers using the SmartThings open system.The device and service will be available from 10 September, andfollows Samsung’s acquisition of the IoT company SmartThings in April last year.The internet of things is the idea of creating a home where everything is connected to the internet, creating “swarm intelligence” from individually dumb devices. Bins, toasters, washing machines and lights will be able to talk to each other for automatic, more efficient control and monitoring.Lights could talk to the heating system or door to know when you’re home. A fridge could detect when the milk is empty and order another pint, or the security camera could turn on all the lights if it detects an intruder.The Hub will work with a range of SmartThings-branded devices as well as other products from Samsung and accessories from Bose, Philips, Honeywell, Yale, LIFX, Aeon and others.Samsung’s president of UK and Ireland Andy Griffiths said: “We believe a connected home will provide users [with] more information, more piece of mind and more control in their lives – but privacy is fundamental.“The whole thing is encrypted end-to-end – think bank-level security – while we have continuous security checks and third-party auditing. Only you will have access to any data stored in the cloud.”Samsung will sell a starter pack costing £199 with the Hub, a door closer sensor, a motion sensor, a presence sensor and a power outlet switch for turning something else on and off. A range of other SmartThings devices including a moisture sensor, a camera and a sleep monitor will also be available for around £30 each, with more in the pipeline for next year.But the Hub will also talk to a range of other devices from other manufacturers and will be open to other companies to link into.“We have a different philosophy for our IoT vision, not hidden behind a walled garden, but open and interoperable with many devices,” said Griffiths.The SmartThings app controls devices such as lights and appliances, and views the live stream from the camera.Photograph: SamsungThe whole system will be controlled by a SmartThings app, which will be available for Android, iOS and Windows Phone, making it one of the systems with the most cross-platform support.The Korean company is also attempting to foster a community of developers who are free to create new apps and new integrations with products beyond the original launch platform.Samsung has alsopledged to make 100% of its devices, from TVs and sound systems to washing machines and fridges, internet connected within five years, which will all integrate into the SmartThings Hub.Samsung isn’t alone in attempting to secure a foothold in the burgeoning IoT space. Applelaunched its HomeKit system last yearand is expected to push it heavily this year with its new iPhone and iPad software iOS 9.Google also launched its own IoT platform based on Android,called Project Brillo, over the summer to complement itsNest group of products, while many others have built apps and devices that connect to control certain aspects but cannot integrate with other devices.“We’re entering a whole IoT era, starting this year, and it will increasingly become the norm in the next three to five years. What we’re doing is appealing to the early adopters,” said Griffiths.•Watch out Siri: Amazon turns page on future of voice assistants with Alexa•Google adds home security camera to Nest range
When Hideo Kojima was a young boy, his parents introduced a daily ritual. Each evening, the family would sit down to watch a movie together. Kojima wasn’t allowed to go to bed till the film had finished, even if it contained sex scenes. His experience was, he has said, the “opposite” of how it is for most children. Those kids had to finish their cauliflower. Kojima had to finish his Coppola.This childhood ritual seeded in Kojima a deep love of cinema, which can be seen running throughout the Metal Gear series of military-themed video games that he’s directed over the last three decades. These expansive games of khaki-coloured hide-and-seek are routinely interrupted by an overabundance of exposition-laden cutscenes, something that has led some to suggest that their creator is just a frustrated film director. Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain puts an end to all that talk. This is sumptuous, deluxe, groundbreaking game making, and proof positive that Hideo Kojima is a master of the medium.The year is 1984 and you are Big Boss, the leader of a private military contractor, primarily working in Afghanistan and Zaire, taking on freelance assignments to, for example, rescue prisoners of war from the Russians, or blow up strategic military assets. You work without moral judgement. “The world calls for wet-work,” says one of your company’s co-founders, early in the game. “And we answer. No greater good. No just cause.”Big Boss is a crack, lone wolf soldier who carries a Mary Poppins-esque bottomless bag full of tools and toys, and who is supported by an increasingly competent support team back home.Metal Gear’s familiar rhythms of commando-crawling through the tall grass, ducking behind walls, luring guards with careful taps and whistles, and popping off tranquiliser darts are all present. Veterans of last year’s Ground Zeroes amuse-bouche will also recognise the pleasingly clutter-free screen and the now essential Reflex Mode, which triggers a few seconds of slow motion the instant you’re spotted by a guard, offering a moment’s grace in which you can attempt to incapacitate your captor. Less familiar is the vast playpen in which you operate, traversed either on foot, by horse or other means, and filled with things to do.Unlike so many other open-world games, this field is not littered with meaningless trinkets and treasures (although, if you do find a diamond in the rough, it will contribute to your company’s purse). Rather, everything you find and harvest, every piece of information you cajole out of a guard at knifepoint, every single weapon and vehicle you commandeer works toward a unified goal: success.Big Boss can acquire a range of buddy characters through the game – one of them being a faithful canine companionAlthough it might not seem like it from first appearances, atMetal Gear Solid V’s heart lays a business sim. You are the on-the-ground chief executive, building a workforce who carry out research and, later, missions on your behalf from your base, an oilrig stationed in the Seychelles. The systems are rich and intricate, and combine to form a complex yet smooth metaphorical engine, one that drives you into and through the game with even more force than its pitch-perfect sneaking and combat. Almost every enemy soldier you encounter can be stunned or put to sleep with a tranquiliser dart. Then, they can be parachuted back to the base, where they become the latest recruit in your private army (even if some have to spend a few days in the brig, waiting to be convinced first).Once recruited, each soldier can be deployed in one of a number of research teams, either providing you with intel on the field, helping to develop new weapons and items, or providing medical support on the base (later, you are even able to scan soldiers to judge their various expertise, or lack thereof, helping you to become a more discerning recruiter in the field). A soldier with a unique skill, such as the ability to understand a foreign language, will revolutionise your company, allowing you to, for example, interrogate Russian or Pashto speakers, where before you could not understand their words. The more men and women you recruit, the quicker your interactive vocabulary expands, adding a new decoy, type of camouflage, upgrade to your helicopter or piece of hardware with which to take out a tank (there are hundreds of these weapons and items to develop). Then, when you fill each department’s staff quota, you can expand the base itself, to create yet more room.The base is not a metaphor, or something rendered only in menus. It’s a real place, to which you are able to return after each sortie. You can wander its clanking walkways and listen to the slop and groan of the sea below. Your men will salute when you draw near, and returning home from Afghanistan every now and again improves staff morale, helping them to get things done quicker. Almost everything you encounter in the field can be parachuted back to base, from medicinal plants to enemy gun turrets, vehicles and, eventually, even giant crates. In this way you become a hunter-gatherer, collecting materials for your family back home (Ocelot, the base’s manager, repeatedly urges you to stop by regularly, lest the men begin to “miss you”).Later in the game you even develop a zoo on the base, a series of platforms, rendered in exquisite details, which house an aviary, vegetable patches and pens for the animals you send back home (paid for by an animal welfare NGO that wants to take the creatures out of harm’s way). In this way, the base becomes a physical representation of your achievements and story – and also something of a home.Your oil rig base is more than a visual options menu – it’s a place of work for your growing army. And eventually it’s also a zooPhantom Pain is an unabashed survey of combat in the field. As well as the Hollywood-esque dives for cover, the slow-motion headshots or the ludicrous Enemy At The Gates-style sniper face-offs, there are serious side-missions in which, for example, you must sap a field of mines to protect the locals, or, much later, scenes in which you fight against child soldiers (characters that, hitherto in the series, have only been talked about, never encountered during play).The primary story, then, is told via your choices, and the ways in which the game records them, as much as via the meandering cinematic cutscenes for which the series is well known. These formally plotted theatrical segments do feature, especially in the game’s high production and overbearing opening hour: a Michael Bay-esque escape from a besieged Greek hospital.From here, however, Kojima and his team show unexpected restraint. Metal Gear Solid’s winding, arcane story is, perhaps for the first time, tamed by Kojima, who has always struggled to fit his overabundance of ideas into the game’s structure. Most of the historical details are now relegated to the game’s cassette tapes, which can be played in the background, whenever you wish during sorties. By sidelining the backstory and exposition (which is expertly delivered by the game’s voice actors, who include Kiefer Sutherland and Troy Baker), Metal Gear becomes a far more lithe and streamlined production.The game is a masterpiece of structure, too. Formal missions are chosen from a selection of non-linear options from your helicopter command centre, which then drops you off at a location you specify. Once you arrive, you’re free to toddle off to complete some supplementary freelance mission, or to simply collect resources.You can opt to freely roam the game’s primary locations, but occasionally you’ll reach an area that triggers the start of another main mission. The structure is loose and accommodating, but also filled with objectives – both essential and extra curricular – rewarding you according to how much you’re willing (or able) to put in.The systems both large and small combine to offer unrivalled flexibility. You can choose the time at which you land in the field (and, therefore, the quality of the light). You can choose how you distract guards from an ever-expanding range of options. You might elect to take out a tank by leaving your horse loitering in the road, so the vehicle has to stop and honk its horn, providing you with a few seconds in which to place a C4 charge on its tracks. Or you might simply develop a rocket launcher, and line up a shot from a nearby rocky outcrop.There is so much to do here, in so many different ways, but unlike in, say, Assassins Creed, where that doubled-edged adjective “sprawling” so often equates to “wearying” and “tiresome”, here every cog and wheel is interlocked. Every action refills your store of patience and determination to press on.Kojima’s humour remains present throughout. In one series of side-missions, you must search for long lost recruits from an earlier iteration of your base, who have been wandering the desert the past few years, remaining true to the cause. Track one of these men down, and he will flee from you. You must find a way to convince him that you are his boss, at which point the tearful reunion takes place.It is, at times, a tonal confusion, the result of mixing serious points about the military-political complex with supernatural characters who can leap buildings. But here the brand of magical realism that Kojima has been trying to land for years finally finds its feet.Smart, funny, serious, mystical – this is lavish, luxury game-making. Small wonder its publisher, Konami, appears to have panicked at how long and how expensive the game was to make, reportedly cutting Kojima and his studio off from future projects as a result.There are, surely, only a handful of financial backers in the world who would be willing or able to finance such an ambitious project, and to such a preposterous degree of finesse. Konami’s gamble is our gain. Metal Gear Solid V is a game-changing triumph. It is comfortably the best stealth game yet made. But that accolade sells the game short. This is the final evolution of a video game director’s singular vision, one first painted in the crude pixels of the 1980s and now fully realised, fully resplendent.NOTE: Metal Gear Solid V contains micro-transactions in its latter stages, which, while not affecting the main game, may have an impact on long-term engagement. These could not be tested prior to release nor immediately following release due to on-going server maintenance.Konami; PC/PS3/PS4 /Xbox 360/Xbox One(version tested); £40; Pegi rating: 18
Virtual assistants powered by artificial intelligence are a staple of popular culture, from HAL 9000 in the Space Odyssey series toSamantha in 2013 film Her.But these assistants are no longer science fiction. There’s Apple’s Siri, Microsoft’s Cortana, Google Now and the recently-unveiledFacebook M. Plus, there’s Slackbot, the “assistant, notepad and programmable bot” whose potential is one reason workplace communications startupSlack is valued at $2.8bn by investors.Slack started as an internal tool for Tiny Speck, the games company launched by Stewart Butterfield, who’d previously co-founded photo-sharing service Flickr before selling it to Yahoo.Tiny Speck’s first game, Glitch,wasn’t a hit, but the internet messaging software used by its developers had potential.One pivot and $340m of funding later, Slack is the talk of the technology industry, with more than 1.25 million daily active users of its apps and website using them to message their colleagues, as well as its resident chatbot.Slackbot is first encountered when it helps you fill out your profile on Slack, with basic uses including the ability to store any messages you send it (the “notepad” in the description above) and to be programmed with a range of automatic responses to lightly troll colleagues.Slackbot and similar chatbots’ future potential, though, lies in the ability for developers to programme it to perform more useful tasks.The New York Times hascreated its own Slackbot called Blossomthat recommends which stories are worth posting to Facebook when asked, following a previous experimental Electionbot thatposted election results in a relevant Slack channelfor journalists.In the future, Slack’s ability to hook into a range of other online services could see such bots become valued colleagues: pinging messages back and forth to book work trips, research relevant topics; run recruitment campaigns and much more.“Slackbot is nothing: we’re right at the beginning of this. Over the next several decades, new applications of computing technology in people’s lives will increase productivity as dramatically as computers did in the 1960s and 70s. And it will be about making us more efficient rather than taking our jobs,” says Butterfield.Talking about the future of AI assistants at work involves first looking back, with Butterfield pointing to the advances in productivity in the early years of computers making their way into the workplace.“Using computers to do accounting versus people doing double-entry was huge, because it was something that computers do very well – doing mathematics and logic operations very quickly – which humans don’t do so well. We saw huge increases in productivity,” he says.Related:Why Slack is worth $1bn: it's trying to change how we work“But then we hit that period of the 90s to the early 2000s, when the easy gains were already taken advantage of. And so we saw more questionable applications: Rather than an executive dictating a letter to a pro typist who could type at 120 words-per-minute, we’d get the CEO fussing around with Microsoft Word taking an hour to format a single paragraph right.”Butterfield, his investors and a number of his tech-industry peers hope we’re on the verge of another big leap forward in productivity, fuelled this time by inventive machine-learning technology and personable, programmable bots.Is that a promise about them not taking our jobs? “I am sceptical about machine intelligence’s ability to replace what humans do. You do see phone systems that increasingly replace people who work in call centres, and as they get better at voice recognition and speech-to-text, they will be able to handle customer support requests, but it will be mostly simple things,” says Butterfield.He thinks that the importance of human interaction will often prevail, citing the example of experiments to replace staff at fast-food outlets with kiosks and software.“The menu is pretty short and there’s not a lot of complexity, so machines should be able to do it, but what they found is that people don’t really like that compared to ordering from a human,” he says. “Face-to-face interaction makes that process a lot better, so there’s still a lot of times when people are going to be required to talk to other people.”Slack chief executive Stewart Butterfield.Instead, his vision of what Slackbot and similar assistants will do for people is partly about administrative tasks: asking everyone on a team what they’re working on every morning, and then distributing that information, as one example. Or making sense of the (he estimates) 80% of our work emails that come from machines rather than humans.“A company like us gets 60k to 80k messages a day: every time someone tweets at us, customer support tickets, when the mobile app crashes or a new bug is filed, when someone makes a purchase… and that is all filed into Slack and becomes searchable,” he says. “We are going to see more and more of that.”Butterfield sees Slackbot as playing a useful role in this, in contrast to what he sees as some of the more-hyped competition in the world of bots: in arecent Wall Street Journal interviewhe described Apple’s Siri as “fucking idiotic ... nearly useless” for example.Don’t take this as an argument for Slack as an email killer, as some overexcited press coverage has. In fact, one of its recent announcements focused onhelping people bring their emails into their company’s Slack channels. Butterfield freely admits to spending five hours a day on email, albeit only for people outside his company.“Email is the lowest common denominator of communication, and we’ll continue to have it for decades. But many teams who use Slack either reduce or eliminate their internal use of email. I would never think of emailing somebody else within the company,” he says.This is what Slack is pitching as its “big benefit”: the ability for companies to reduce internal emails in favour of messaging within Slack, gradually building up a corporate archive that is searchable and – ultimately – made even more useful through Slackbot and machine-learning.“Slack messages are typically addressed to channels rather than individuals. This idea that a message could be addressed to a channel that exists before you get there and after you leave is the fundamental difference to email,” says Butterfield.It’s a corporate or organisational memory, which is a concept that another highly-valued work-focused tech firm – Evernote – has made a key part of its pitch to businesses too.“Your co-workers have all this information, but the company has forgotten what it knows. It knows it’s there, but not how to get it,”Evernote’s then-chief executive, Phil Libin, told the Guardianin 2012.The difference is that while Evernote talks about notes and collaboration in a “digital workspace”, Slack is focused on messaging. And it is “messaging”: don’t call it chat within earshot of Butterfield.“We’re forbidden from saying chat internally. It makes it sound trivial. No important conversations are ‘chats’ unless you’re getting fired: that’s the only time your boss will invite you for a ‘chat’ that’s important,” he says.“We are also forbidden from using the word ‘collaboration’. There’s a 30-year history of broken promises around computers’ ability to help you collaborate ...”Related:Evernote boss talks zombie emails, Apple Watch and sci-fi collaborationIt’s hard not to read that as a criticism of Microsoft in particular: the company that has dominated workplace technology for the last 30 years, but which is seeing new competitors to its software emerging from all angles, chipping away at the idea of the do-everything behemoth.How does Slack avoid becoming the next Microsoft in a negative sense, adding so many features that it becomes unwieldy, and open to similar attacks from smaller, nimbler startups?“We still want to become the behemoth, but in a different way: we can only do a very small number of things well. Microsoft used to do everything: people would buy most of their software from the company, and it all worked together,” says Butterfield.“Now, for every product category that Microsoft once dominated, there are a dozen good competitors. Businesses often end up buying from three or four dozen vendors, and the software is cheaper, more powerful and easier to deploy and manage. Across the board everything is better. Except that none of this software works together.”Butterfield hopes that messaging is the logical place for “this to all come together”, meaning his company can focus, not on trying to do everything like old-school Microsoft, but on integrating with all these different services and (with the help of Slackbot) making them better.“If we make them just a little bit better, we can provide a huge amount of value to our customers, and people will love us and want to use us forever,” he says. “But let’s see where we are in 30 years’ time …”
Yahoo’s chief executive, Marissa Mayer, has been criticized after announcing she is taking as little as two weeks of maternity leave and will be “working throughout” when she gives birth to identical twins later this year – with some upset that her break will be so brief, and others that she even has to talk about it at all.Related:Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer pregnant with twin girlsThe tech company’s leader has been at the centre of discussion about working mothers ever since she was hired to turn around struggling Yahoo in 2012. Pregnant at the time, Mayer quickly announced she would be taking only a little time off. The announcement was followed soon after by a company edict banning working from home.Mayer this week revealedvia Tumblr(owned by Yahoo) that she and her husband are to give their son a set of sisters. “Since my pregnancy has been healthy and uncomplicated and since this is a unique time in Yahoo’s transformation, I plan to approach the pregnancy and delivery as I did with my son three years ago, taking limited time away and working throughout,” she announced this week, with alinkon Twitter.When she had her son in September 2012, she took two weeks of paid maternity leave, a fraction of what the company allowed.Eight months later and three months afterbanning telecommuting, Mayerannounced more generous maternity benefitsat Yahoo.The company doubled maternity leave and now offers new mothers 16 weeks of paid time off. Fathers are offered eight weeks of paid paternity leave. Both parents can take eight weeks in the case of adoption, fostering or surrogacy.Mayer added that she had shared the news with Yahoo’s board of directors and her executive team and “they are incredibly supportive and happy for me”. Yahoo’s stock pricedippedfollowing her announcement.There is speculation as to whether another famous technology chief – Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook – will take his company allowance of paternity leave.His recentannouncementthat his wife is expecting their first child was devoid of any details about time off.Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan are expecting a baby girl. Parental leave arrangements are undisclosed.Photograph: Andrew Gombert/EPABut his and Mayer’s latest news comes at a time when the whole issue of parental leave and work-life balance is a subject of intense debate and a number of companies, most noticeably in the US technology sector, have announced they are extending paid and unpaid leave for mothers and fathers.“Mayer’s announcement is disappointing,” said Anne Weisberg, senior vice-president of the Families and Work Institute in New York. “She’s a role model and I think she should take whatever Yahoo’s parental leave is – the mark of a great leader is that they have a strong team and don’t need to be there all the time themselves. And she’s having twins – just physically that’s a big deal.”Weisberg pointed out that how corporate leaders handle the issue of parental leave is “hugely symbolic” for their own employees and, in the case of a female boss, women everywhere.“She must know it’s not just a personal choice. I gave her a pass when she just arrived at Yahoo and then took little maternity leave, but now she does not have to prove herself as a CEO; the company is no longer in transition – but now people will read from this that if you want to be a leader you cannot do what your company even allows you to do, you’ve got to be there all the time and it’s work above everything else,” said Weisberg.She said the institute will soon issue research findings that show men and women equally value a decent life outside of work.“I think that now it takes more courage for leaders to point out that it’s not ‘either, or’ when it comes to commitments to parenthood and work. It’s possible for men and women to excel at both,” said Weisberg.Kristen Rowe-Finkbeiner, executive director of advocacy group MomsRising, asked why Mayer should even have to discuss her plans or have them debated.“When was the last time a male CEO was asked about how he would handle a new baby and his work? Men aren’t asked if taking a shorter time off will hurt the child. They don’t feel the need to justify themselves and explain their decisions,” she said.Her group is busy campaigning for more parental leave, and Rowe-Finkbeiner lamented America’s lack of federally mandated paid maternity leave.“We are theonly developed countrywithout it and that has to change,” she said.She also pointed out that Mayer has more resources for childcare than most mothers in America after her maternity leave is over.Technology companies appear to be leading the way with better parental leave policies than most. Microsoft, Accenture, Facebook and Netflix have all recently announcednew policieson paid leave that are generous by US corporate standards.But Brad Harrington, executive director at the Boston College Center for Work &amp; Family, said Mayer’s choices should not be questioned.“It’s her prerogative as chief executive. The good thing about being a CEO is that you get to issue edicts and let people know you are in charge. If you’re going to be gender neutral, then her behaviour is not that different from most male CEOs, who take a week or maybe two of paternity leave.”He said he interpreted the style of her statement on Monday as a desire to send a strong signal that she is “just as tough, just as determined, just as focused” as any other CEO and that people should not make assumptions about what women want to do.“And let’s not forget, only 4% of CEOs in the Fortune 1000 company rankings are women,” he said.
The health secretary, Jeremy Hunt, has ordered an inquiry into how the NHS handles confidential medical information after the “completely unacceptable” breach of the privacy of hundreds of HIV patients.The 56 Dean Street clinic in London apologised on Wednesday after sending a newsletter on Tuesday which disclosed the names and email addresses of about 780 recipients. The newsletter is intended for people using its HIV and other sexual health services, and gives details of treatments and support.Hunt said the Care Quality Commission would conduct what he called a thorough and independent review of the effectiveness of existing data security measures in the NHS and recommend changes. It will also look into how the NHS can beef up its security against cyber-attacks and reduce the risk of staff inadvertently disclosing sensitive information.Hunt said the inquiry was vital to ensure patients could be confident that the health service will properly safeguard details of their health and treatment records. “The truth is that we will throw this all away if we lose the public’s trust in our ability to look after their personal data securely,” he told delegates at NHS England’s annual conference in Manchester.“Nothing matters more to us than our own health, but we must also understand that for NHS patients nothing matters more to them than confidence that the NHS will look after their own personal medical data with the highest standards of security.“The truth is the NHS have not won the public’s trust in our ability to do this as today’s completely unacceptable data breach at the Dean Street surgery demonstrates.”The clinic, which is run by the Chelsea and Westminster NHS trust, apologised shortly after sending the email and on Wednesday pledged to investigate how the breach had occurred.Britain’s data protection watchdog is also likely to launch an investigation into the privacy breach, thought to be one of the biggest of its kind.The newsletter was sent to about 780 patients who had signed up to the clinic’s Option E service, which allows people to book appointments and receive test results by email. Instead of hiding the personal details of those on its recipient list, it included their full names and email addresses.The Option E email newsletter that was sent to 780 recipients this week.One HIV patient whose details were exposed by the email said the NHS had “no way of controlling who sees this information now and, in the wrong hands, this list could be dynamite”.He told the Guardian: “I have been a patient at 56 Dean Street since moving to London five years ago and I have always trusted them with my information. Option E is a service set up for patients who are stable and on long-term HIV treatment. It is designed to make life easier, so your results etc are sent via email.“I find it impossible to believe that in this day and age this can happen. I was able to scroll down the list and identify the names of a number of people who I knew, some of whom I was unaware of their status.”Rob Sherrard, an HIV patient who has attended 56 Dean Street for two and a half years, said it would be “tragic if this incident overshadowed all the amazing work they do” at the clinic.“The level of care [and] service I’ve received has been second to none,” Sherrard said. “I’ve always been treated like an individual and every member of staff I’ve dealt with has at some point gone the extra mile for me. It’s human error and could have happened to anyone. I hope the individual responsible will be forgiven.”Another of the clinic’s patients told the Guardian he was shocked by the breach and worried that the list of all those affected might end up on the internet. “I have always been extremely careful about who I share my HIV-positive status with as there is still a lot of stigma and ignorance about the subject. I haven’t told my family and a lot of my very close friends still don’t know and now strangers and possibly people who I may have met on a casual basis might be able to find out that I am positive,” said the man, a 31-year-old event manager.“I am a bit paranoid that somehow the list might be shared or end up published on the internet somewhere. I know that is a bit unlikely but it still terrifies me. I am worried that if there is legal action [for breach of privacy] my anonymity will be further compromised as well.“It’s causing me a great deal of stress. I don’t know how something like this can happen in a sexual health and HIV clinic. Of all the health services, you would think that one that deals with these sensitive matters would have the most security when it comes to confidentiality.”Elliot Herman, 38, from London, said the email contained the names of friends who had never disclosed their HIV status to him before. “It’s not difficult to put those names into Facebook and bring up their profiles and personal details,” he said. “If my details were on that list I would feel angry and disappointed at the clinic for having such a shit system that this can happen.”How 56 Dean Street clinic recalled the original emailWithin hours of the breach, the clinic set up a helpline and sent patients an email apology from Dr Alan McOwan, Chelsea and Westminster hospital NHS trust’s director for sexual health.It said: “I’m writing to apologise to you. This morning at around 11.30am we sent you the latest edition of Option E newsletter. This is normally sent to individuals on an individual basis, but unfortunately we sent out today’s email to a group of email addresses. We apologise for this error.“We recalled/deleted the email as soon as we realised what had happened. If it is still in your inbox please delete it immediately. Clearly this is completely unacceptable. We are urgently investigating how this has happened and I promise you that we will take steps to ensure it never happens again. We will send you the outcome of the investigation.”A 56 Dean Street spokesman said the breach was down to a “human mistake” and that the employee responsible was distraught. The clinic later said that not all the recipients of the email were necessarily HIV-positive.The information commissioner’s office (ICO) said it was aware of the incident and was making inquiries. The privacy watchdog can levy fines of up to £500,000 for significant data breaches.We are aware of the incident regarding the 56 Dean Street clinic and are making enquiries&mdash; ICO (@ICOnews)September 2, 2015Herman, who was not on the email list but whose friends’ HIV status was exposed, has complained about the breach to the NHS patient advice and liaison service.“This is serious breach of data protection. There are several names I recognise from the list, and while I am of course being discreet, I am not sure I trust every other person on the list to do the same,” he wrote in the complaint.“I feel bad making this complaint, because I have a great deal of respect and admiration for the excellent service provided by the clinic and my own doctor, Alan McOwan, who has always provided superb clinical care. I have never had cause to complain in the past. However, I feel this is important enough to bring to official attention.”56 Dean Street, based in Soho, central London, bills itself as Europe’s busiest sexual health, contraception and HIV care clinic. In 2011 the clinic set the world record for the most HIV tests performed in one location, at G-A-Y bar in Soho on World Aids Day.Last year it claimed to be the first clinic in the world to have an on-site Infinity machine, allowing it to give HIV test results within six hours.The clinic has set up a helpline for patients affected by the breach on 020 3315 9555 or 020 3315 9594.Were your details exposed on the 56 Dean Street email? If so, you can contact us via the form below. We will not publish your personal details if you don’t want us to.
Hacked extramarital dating site Ashley Madison has hit back at claims that the company filled its website with fake female profiles, saying that almost 3m messages were sent by women in the last week alone.The company was responding to claims that it had been actively misleading customers over the number of real female users of its dating service, which bears the tagline: “Life is short. Have an affair.”Following an enormous hacking attack in July, the attackers released the full database of Ashley Madison users on a darknet website in mid-August. Analysis of that database initially suggested that almost all the female profiles on the site were not made by real women, withAnnalee Newitz, a reporter for Gizmodo, writing that there were “at most, about 12,000 of these profiles” that seemed to belong to women who were active on the site.That claim was heavily criticised, both by Ashley Madison and users of the site. If true, it would have suggested that there was one woman for every 2,700 men – a statistic which is at odds with the many men who claim to have met real women on the site without much difficulty.The company also criticised Gizmodo’s reporting, saying that Newitz “made incorrect assumptions about the meaning of fields contained in the leaked data”.It said: “[Newitz] concluded that the number of active female members on Ashley Madison could be calculated based on those assumptions. That conclusion was wrong.”Newitz later retracted the initial claim, admitting that the number of real female users was far higher. But she also reported new evidence found from the dump, which suggested “that Ashley Madison created more than 70,000 female bots to send male users millions of fake messages, hoping to create the illusion of a vast play land of available women”.The bots, Newitz writes, would send users messages designed to entice a response, and then make use of one of the unusual features of Ashley Madison – that men have to pay to read messages, and pay to send them – to encourage the (overwhelmingly male) recipients to buy credits from the site to engage in further conversation.She writes: “Ashley Madison aspired to be a global network of people breaking the bonds of monogamy in the name of YOLO. Instead, it was mostly a collection straight men talking to extremely busy bots who bombarded them with messages asking for money.”Ashley Madison has not responded to the latest allegations. In an earlier statement, it said: “The company continues its day-to-day operations even as it deals with the theft of its private data by criminal hackers. Despite having our business and customers attacked, we are growing. This past week alone, hundreds of thousands of new users signed up for the Ashley Madison platform – including 87,596 women.”
Computers: they make everything so easy these days. They check our spelling for us and help with maths, and now machines have added painting to the list of things they are better than us at.Researchers in Germany have found that an algorithm can accurately copy the painting style of artists as disparate as Pablo Picasso and Vincent Van Gogh – and in just 60 minutes.In a paper entitled, A Neural Algorithm of Artistic Style, and submitted to the Nature Communications journal, researchers showed that a complicated mathematical algorithm (the exact nature of which has not been disclosed) can easily transform a foundation image into the style of a famous artist.The Eiffel tower gets the Van Gogh treatment. Credit: kaishengtai/GitHubThe algorithm forms a “convolutional neural network” (CNN) which, in lay terms, uses object recognition to recreate the foundation image (which can be anything) in the style of a piece of specific art.The art created by the computer in famous styles.Photograph: kaishengtai/GitHubLead author of the paper, University of Tuebingen PhD studentLeon Gatys, said:“The key finding … is that the representations of content [the foundation image] and style [of specific artworks] in the convolutional neural network are separable.“That is, we can manipulate both representations independently to produce new, perceptually meaningful images.”The other authors of the paper were Alexander S. Ecker and Matthias Bethge. The paper can be foundhere(PDF).•Yes, androids do dream of electric sheep
