A flat receptionHyundai will launch a new 4x4 vehicle, the Santa Fe, later in the year. Normally on occasions like this, the manufacturer will take motoring journalists to an appropriate location to test out the new model; a luxury convertible might be launched in the Cte d'Azur for example. So in which country are Hyundai going to launch the Santa Fe? Somewhere with wild mountain roads and steep inclines to test out the its ruggedness - Wales perhaps? Bhutan? Erm no... the Santa Fe is to be launched in Holland.Quote of the week"You know what matters most? Product. You could build the most modern factory in the world, have government backing up to your ears, and employ a sales team with teeth so white they could bring down airliners, but it wouldn't make a jot of difference if you were making the Rover 25."Jeremy Clarkson, Top Gear magazineSubarubydoo!This year's JD Power/Top Gear survey into customer satisfaction has Subarus filling the top two spots and another in the top ten. The survey takes into account performance, fuel economy, customer care, dealer charges, mechanical problems, electrical problems, and body and interior problems. The top ten goes like this:  Subaru Legacy, Subaru Impreza, Skoda Felicia, Toyota Starlet, Jaguar XJ Saloon, Honda Shuttle, Toyota Corolla, Subaru Forester, Toyota Picnic, Volvo S70. And the bottom ten (worst last): Rover 800, Alfa Romeo 156, Peugeot 106, Peugeot 306, Fiat Bravo, Ford Escort, Ford Explorer, Rover Mini, Vauxhall Frontera, Vauxhall Sintra.
Small cars are not always as green as you think. Take, for instance, a 1.4 litre Vauxhall Corsa: it'll do no more to the gallon than the bigger Vauxhall Astra 1.4, even though the Astra will carry more passengers in greater comfort. And if you buy a 1.6 litre Astra, it'll not only be quicker, it'll drink a bit less fuel.But with the A2, Audi have come up with a totally new approach, spending five years looking at what makes a small car worth getting into. Choosing an engine that sips like a shy teetotaller will get you only so far down the road to economy. A more fundamental remedy   is to shed the workload. Steel might be strong and abundant, but the price of its strength is its weight.The alternative lies in a chance discovery by a Provence peasant. Toiling away with a spade in a field at Les Baux, he noticed that the rock contained something that looked handy for wrapping around an oven-ready chicken. Okay, that's a gross approximation, but Bauxite rock is where the aluminium story starts. Aluminium soon became steel's foil - and car makers have grown increasingly interested in it. It's 43% lighter than steel and can be stretched so that you only need   make it thick where the thickness is really necessary.Having played around with the substance for the frame of the AL2 concept, it was just a short move for Audi to produce what you see here: a car that weighs just 895kg. With a handicap like that, either choice of engine (petrol or diesel turbo, both 1.4) has a flying start. The petrol car's average is 46.3mpg, while the diesel offers an aggregate 67.3. And an aluminium car will never rust.The A2 is a head-on challenge to the Merc A-class. When it gets here in September (the diesel will come next January) it will cost from around &#163;13,500 - a premium   price for anyone who's not afraid of displaying willingness to invest in advanced technology.Keen to show off the idea, Audi plans to build 60,000-70,000 A2s in year one and says the project is profit-making, even though many maintain that such claims are PR bravado. Whatever the truth, there's no doubt that you'll be paying an R&amp;D premium.However, this is no rip off. The A2 is a fine showcase for zero-year styling - something like an Audi TT that is halfway through a mangle. Check the wiperless rear   window, the gawky angular door glass and peak-a-boo glimpses of brushed aluminium buried in the trim. For anyone still scarred by the Metro, it's proof that small is sexy.Some limits, however, call into question its ability to blood the Merc A-class's nose. The third seat   in the back will be an optional extra while, up front, the gearstick is a little close to the passenger seat and could lead to accidental groping. Storage is adequate and the dash is skinned in a pleasant, grippy surface that prevents phone slippage on most corners. In the back, deep footwells are made possible by delving into the sandwich floor construction, thus allowing lanky adults to ride unconfined. It's roomy, but no A-class killer.The posh looks are complemented by a polished drive. It's smooth, refined and (apart from wind noise around the single front wiper),    hushed. The petrol version falls flat a little in third and is no lunger, but the diesel is a tremendously thrilling alternative. It has so much torque in any gear, at any time, that you'd be barmy to buy September's petrol option, and should wait for the new year for the TDI. The diesel does make a bit of a racket because Audi's quest for low weight led them to omit the same degree of soundproofing (so saving a fiver on build costs). But after the chorus of groans from media guinea pigs, they say they will be coughing up the cash and muffling the thing. When that's done the diesel option's charm, practicality and class-leading fuel economy will make it a small wonder.Audi A21.4 petrol/TDIFor:futuristic, stylish, swankyAgainst:Only four seatsTop speed:107mphAcceleration:0-62mph in 12 secs (diesel 12.3)Engine:1.4 petrol or turbodiesel, both 75bhpOn the stereo:No heavy metalIn the holdall:Organic sandwiches, wrapped in foil
You can hear the jingle already: "You too can join the internet revolution! You can become Britain's next e-millionaire!" From today, there will be trails all over Channel 4 for a national competition and gameshow, The E-Millionaire Show, which aims to bring the new economy to the masses, right there into your front room.The websitewww.emillionaireshow.com(it only went up this morning), spells it out in simple terms for those who are still bamboozled by the new-fangled economy. "Have you got a fantastic idea for a website?" says the blurb. "Well, we've got &#163;2m to invest. We want you to tell us about it ...  just click on the button below".It's an e-dream alright. But don't bother if you've got a business plan, or if you've so much as crossed the threshold of a First Tuesday meeting - The E-Millionaire Show is not for the likes of you. It is for your granny, who has long harboured a scheme to launch an international family photo swap-shop over the internet, or your little brother, who has been beavering away on that interactive skateboard in his bedroom, or your postman, who dreams of digitally delivering parcels from the comfort of his armchair.The old joke about the digital revolution used to be that it never happened. Now you can't get in a lift without meeting a teenage paper millionaire, dot.com fever is plastered all over the walls of the tube and BBC2 has commissioned a drama about a group of yetties - young, entrepreneurial and net-based flatmates - from the team behind This Life.The E-Millionaire show will be Who Wants to be a Millionaire? with digital knobs on. "We're basically conducting a massive talent scout - it's a star search of the internet world," says Henrietta Conrad, co-executive producer and co-director with Sebastian Scott of Princess Productions. Scott and Conrad are known for turning mass-market solutions out of fringe culture: first the Big Breakfast (Scott at Planet 24), then Light Lunch with Mel and Sue and most recently, dotcomedy, which has received indifferent reviews."There's a huge amount of creativity that we can tap into that will thrive in the new economy," says Conrad. "We are trying to create the people's e-millionaire." Scott allegedly came up with the idea because everywhere he went he was regaled with people's ideas for dot.com start-ups."First Tuesday &#91;the networking   event on the first Tuesday of every month&#93; is fantastic but we don't want white, middle-class, well-educated people. We want to find a granny in Huddersfield who's got an idea but not the first clue how to go about it," says Conrad.Princess are expecting tens of thousands of applications to be processed through the website next week. Only 15   of those will be chosen, and will end up having to pitch their brilliant ideas to the British public on a live gameshow hosted by "the incomparable" Jon Snow in May.As in a gladiatorial knock-out, only five will go through to the final. The winner will get &#163;1m and the runners-up will get to share the rest of the cash, which has been provided by a consor tium of venture capitalists. If the business is a success, neither Princess nor Channel 4 will profit. The entrepreneur keeps a shareholding of (33%), with one member of the audience to win a 1% stake. The rest of us can always buy shares.But then - and this is the hitch - a year down the line the entrepreneur has to face the wrath or approbation   of the public, as the documentary is broadcast and voters and shareholders will get to see how their little ship has fared in the tempestuous seas of e-commerce. According to David Lloyd, Four's head of news, current affairs and business programmes, Channel 4 has been looking for a mass-market internet solution for months: "We've lived in the new economy for a while and television hasn't yet delivered a programme that will engage a large audience - and yet out there it's all buzzing ... you can't overestimate the way in which the new economy will convert business, particularly business-to-business relationships," says Lloyd. "I was looking around for a way of bringing a sense of event to the area. Princess came up with a way of detonating the subject."This is something I as a viewer can learn about, I can relate to the competitive ups and downs, think the thought processes of venture capitalists, and then there is a lot of interactivity in terms of electing the finalists," says Lloyd. The E-Millionaire Show is about as interactive as TV and commerce can get without fitting set-top boxes with smart credit cards in all homes across the UK.Conrad hopes the series of shows, strung out over a seven-day period and shown at peak time, will also be educational. "We take people through the whole revolution, the risks and pitfalls involved. In the last few weeks we have seen that it's not that easy to be a success, you have to have a fundamentally sound idea and plan."If The E-Millionaire Show is a hit, Channel 4 will have done what no television programme has yet managed to do - make the internet revolution comprehensible, let alone tangible. Panorama's recent attempt to 'go inside' the new economy was derided by anyone who was within it. It focused on the sensational cyber-crimes of "ramping" and "bashing" and gave a warped overall picture of the biggest economic change to hit Britain since the industrial revolution.So it is only fair that everyone in Britain gets a slice of the action. Revolutions are for everyone and they will be televised. Lloyd has great faith in the show's success. "Make no mistake, this is a very bold move. If it works it will locate Channel 4 where it wants to be - right in the swing of the new economy. Others have yet to make a stir in this area and it's right that Channel 4 does - sometimes it takes one programme to change the landscape."
Forget Chris Tarrant and phone-a-friend. With a new game show boasting the biggest guaranteed cash giveaway on British television, Channel 4 today lays down the challenge to the publicity seekers of the internet generation: who wants to be an e-millionaire?The show invites members of the public who have never been involved with internet ventures to pitch an idea for a dot.com business. The winner will get &#163;1m to invest, while another &#163;1m will be shared among four runners-up.A group of venture capitalists are providing the cash for the E-Millionaire Show. Adverts will run on Channel 4, and a website (www.emillionaireshow.com) went on stream this morning.The show's producers are expecting thousands of applications this week. These will be whittled down to 15, who will have to pitch their ideas on a series of live game shows broadcast at peak time over a week in May and hosted by the newscaster Jon Snow. Five will go through to the final round.Henrietta Conrad, the show's co-executive producer, said: "We're basically conducting a massive talent scout."We want to find a granny in Huddersfield who's got an idea but not the first clue how to go about it."If the chosen business is a   success, neither Princess Productions, the company making the show, nor Channel 4 will make a profit. The entrepreneur retains the largest stake in the company (33%), and a member of the audience wins a 1% shareholding. Viewers will be able to invest too.The catch is that the winning business must agree to be trailed by a documentary crew, and the results will be broadcast to the nation a year later.While ITV's Who Wants to be a Millionaire? has a maximum prize of &#163;1m, there is no guarantee that any of the contestants will win. So far, the show's top giveaway has been &#163;500,000.
If the internet was once seen as a window through which the bright light of free speech would shine, it has now become clear that a dark legal curtain is descending.Since a leading British website hosting service backed out of a libel action, paying the litigant's costs and damages, there has been a flurry of legal threats and website closures. A radical gay magazine's website, an anti-censorship site and a site that highlighted alleged miscarriages of justice have all fallen victim.There are real fears that, given the effectiveness of a simple threat of court action, anyone with access to a decent lawyer can censor anything they find uncomfortable - whatever the truth of the   claim. The application to the web of Britain's much-criticised libel laws has raised uncomfortable questions which the government is being called upon to answer.Outcast, the "queer current affairs magazine" whose website was taken down after a libel suit threat from the more mainstream gay Pink Paper, is leading the call. David Price, a lawyer who acted for Scallywag magazine in its fight against legal action brought by the former prime minster John Major, is taking the Outcast case to the European court of human rights in an attempt to bring clarity to internet regulation.Mr Price believes that the "chill factor" of Britain's libel laws must be challenged. It was not acceptable that a litigant could force the closure of a website by threatening legal action. There ought to be an onus to prove that statements complained about were false, or were maliciously posted."An internet service provider should only be liable if it knows that what it is publishing is defamatory and false, or is recklessly indifferent," he said.A number of ISPs, including Netbenefit, which was host to   Outcast's website, believe that the internet in Britain should be granted "common carrier immunity". The principle, adopted in the US, is that ISPs are treated like telecommunications companies. For example, if someone makes a slanderous statement on the telephone, the slander victim cannot sue the phone network.The Internet Services Providers' Association is drawing up guidelines for its members. While it does not appear to go as far as advocating the common carrier principle, it is calling on the government for an urgent review of the law."ISPs are caught between a rock and a hard place," said the association's secretary general, Nicholas Lansman. If they stuck to their guns and failed to remove a defamatory allegation - even if they believed it to be true, an absolute defence in libel law - they faced a costly legal action. If they closed a website they could be sued by its owner for breach of contract or loss of business. "What we need is a clear picture of where ISPs stand."In the same way that telephone companies did not monitor all phone calls carried on their networks, ISPs could not   be expected to police the postings on websites they hosted, Mr Lansman argued. "A small ISP might have 200 websites. If each website has 20 or 30 pages, you are talking about 6,000 pages to trawl through."As the threat of legal action is raised, websites are taking their business elsewhere. Outcast has switched to a host in the US.The government must not allow business to drain out of Britain because of unnecessary legal constraints that could easily be altered, Mr Lansman said.Chris Morris, editor of Outcast, denied that his magazine's European legal action could lead to a flood of scandalous allegations being made on the web with impunity. "There always needs to be a balance between rights and responsibilities," he said. "Journalists and editors must be held accountable. But as things stand ISPs as commercial organisations are censoring anything mildly controversial, just because they think they might get sued."He accused ministers of failing to grasp the nettle. "This is such a hot potato, and nobody is taking it seriously."
Mark Goodier, the Radio 1 presenter, is to sacrifice stock in an internet company worth a potential &#163;7m to keep his job hosting the UK Top 40 chart show.The BBC have asked Mr Goodier to relinquish his 2% stake inWorldpop.com, a fledgling internet music firm chaired by former Radio 1 DJ Peter Powell, which yesterday became the first sponsor of the chart.The company, which was recently valued at &#163;50m by the US investment bank Merrill Lynch, could command a valuation of &#163;400m if it floats on the stock market later this year as planned. Mr Goodier's firm, Wise Buddha, is likely to get &#163;1m for a stake that could have been worth &#163;8m on flotation.The BBC said Mr Goodier was giving up his holding as corporation guidelines prevented employees from having a financial interest in programmes with which they had an involvement.The BBC, which is set to sign next week a new three-year contract to broadcast   the charts, said this would not be affected by the sponsorship deal.BBC guidelines allow Worldpop credits on both the Top 40 radio show, and the Top of the Pops television programme.Although the BBC name-checks sponsored events like the Martell Grand National and Carling Premier League this will be the first weekly programme to include sponsor credits."There will be no jingles featuring Worldpop's name," the BBC spokesman said. "No programme on the BBC's public service is sponsored or will be sponsored as a result of the deal."However, in an ever more competitive world, it was inevitable that the music industry would seek to secure a sponsor for this national weekly event."Current number one Craig David  helped launchthe Worldpop sponsorship. The chart show is Radio 1's most popular programme, with a Sunday audience of nearly 3.5m.The chart is commissioned by the British Phonographic Industry, representing producers, and Bard, the retail association. The BPI said that the BBC could have lost the chart if it had refused to use Worldpop's name.Worldpop.com will pay &#163;4m to sponsor the chart for three years, Mr Powell said. The company, which has backing from 3i and Amadeus Capital Partners, hopes to turn the UK Top 40 into a global brand.
Can you really say what you want online? Across the world, the internet is suddenly facing a onslaught from individuals and organisations fighting back against online material which, they think, is illegal. More and more are trying to prove the internet is not above the law.For long enough, "netizens" have bragged the internet simply cannot be gagged. One wit, quoted in Wired magazine in 1995, compared the internet's attitude to censorship to its in-built capacity to cope with damage caused by nuclear strikes. "The internet interprets censorship as damage, and routes around it," he said.But already this month there have been three major attempts to clamp down on what can be published online. The right to completely free speech online has never come under greater attack - not just in the US, but in Europe as well.The most recent challenge was launched yesterday in a San Francisco court, where Daniel Curzon Brown, a professor of English, is pursuing a lawsuit against the operators of a website. The site in question,teacherreview.com, contains vehement criticism of the professor posted by his students. He says the attacks are "evil" and that he is now "depressed and afraid" because of them.But it is not just in the US where online freedom of speech is being challenged. Europe is also seeing a rash of court cases where material published online is being challenged under national law.The Paris-based International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism (LICRA) is taking internet portalYahoo!to court over Nazi memorabilia being sold on one of the websites it hosts.Although Yahoo! is not directly responsible for the content, LICRA demanded on Tuesday that Yahoo! take steps to prevent the sales in France, where it is illegal to exhibit or sell objects with racist themes. A hearing has been set for May 15.Meanwhile, in the UK, internet service providers are still worrying over the repercussions of Dr Lawrence Godfrey's successful action againstDemon Internet, which means that in the UK internet service providers can be held liable as publishers for the information stored on their servers, including newsgroup postings and web pages created by subscribers.Can the internet ride out this onslaught? For now, it can: controversial websites will flee the more heavily regulated countries for servers located abroad, run under more lenient regimes. But the real problems could come if run-of-the-mill e-commerce and information sites decide the risks of being sued are too high in the US or UK, and decide to move elsewhere.For the UK, the situation could be further complicated by the regulation of investigative powers bill now going through parliament, which would hand the security services sweeping new powers to intercept encrypted communications.All this could persuade entrepreneurs and service providers to move their servers to less heavily regulated countries, saving themselves the worry of lawsuits over content they do not control.And, once again, the internet will have neatly routed round the problem - and dealt a hefty blow to the e-economies of the countries they have abandoned.
Usability expert Jakob Nielsen has a precise way to measure how the web has made companies take good design seriously: money.When Guardian Online interviewed him in December, he was charging companies $10,000 a day to tell them what was wrong with their web sites. Now, he charges $20,000 a day.The explanation for this exponential rise in interest is simple. If e-commerce is to work, web sites have to be easy to use. That's a common-sense message, but the path to online selling is littered with abandoned virtual shopping trolleys.And Nielsen has a warning for   those who still scorn his lean, mean approach to web design. He has formulated his own version of Moore's Law, the theory first articulated by the founder of Intel, which says the power of computers doubles every 18 months."Nielsen's law says user bandwidth goes up 50% a year," he explains. "By this reckoning, it will be at least five years before a standard web page responds at less than a second, which is what most people find pleasant to use."Web design is big business. Dot.coms are realising that to turn browsers into shoppers, they have to make the customers' progress from front page to checkout as painless as possible.But what are the big secrets? Earlier this month, Online sat down with four of the world's foremost net design gurus, who had gathered in London for the Design For Usability conference.Their CVs are impressive.   Jakob Nielsen is behind the Alertbox website which reviews web design. He worked at Bell Research Labs and Sun Microsystems and co-founded the Nielsen Norman group.His consultancy partner is Don Norman (seewww.jnd.org), the ex-Apple usability expert who wrote the book The Design of Everyday Things.Professor Ben Shneiderman, is head of the University of Maryland's Human-Computer Interaction Laboratory and was one of the earliest pro ponents of hypertext linking. Brenda Laurel specialises in the cultural contexts in which websites are used, and helped Purple Moon produce a range of computer games for girls.Online:Usability matters?Ben:I'm banging on the desk saying it's time to get angry about the quality of user interfaces. As people become more dependent on this technology, their expectations have risen and I do not think the manufacturers have met that challenge.Jakob:Our field is now   attracting so much attention. But there is still a need to communicate to people that it is not their fault when things are difficult.Ben:In practical environments, it is still a struggle to get companies to address this respectfully.Brenda:When you work with web design companies in San Francisco, you end up with a bunch of twenty-somethings who have their own cultural peculiarities, including obscurity for its own sake. You give those guys a website for a banking institution and they screw it up, because they are designing for themselves.Ben:You'll find the same thing anywhere: Silicon Valley, London.Jakob:It is their job to create interesting websites and they get all too enthusiastic about that, as opposed to just the plain and simple thing that the customer wants to do. Customers only want to be in this website for one minute, not 20.Brenda:I often get calls from people saying: "I need to be first to market, I launch in three weeks, is this site usable?" That is the rule, not the exception. And what do I say to them? I say: "Write me a cheque; I won't be taking stock."Don:I agree. If I'm frustrated &#91;on a website&#93;, I go to a competitor. Then it's much easier to make the usability argument   because companies really are sensitive to it. United Airlines, Schwab, a whole bunch of companies, you can see them improve week by week.Ben:United was my "bad guy" example for years. They had this globe of the world with eight obscure buttons that went nowhere. Now there are 65 or 70 links on that front page.Brenda:Except you still can't get refunds online.Don:Well, that's a different issue. But it's a very important one, because to get a website to work, you also have to get the backend of the company to work right. That is where we have to work hard, because what we're really arguing for is the end experience the user has. But people often think what we're doing is merely making the screen easy to read.Online:But it's not the only factor?Don:Jakob strongly criticises websites that are not lean and mean. That's very laudable but not necessarily appropriate for all websites. I say usability is always secondary. You go to get something done; you want the usability simply not to get in the way.Brenda:Audiences are diverse and we need to understand their lives and their cultural context. So if I were doing a site around personal finance, for example, for women I might   want to organise it around life issues like aging parents or children, whereas it is more likely that a man is going to be an aficionado of investment as a mastery issue, as a game.Ben:Men are more risktaking and women risk-averse in those kinds of situations?Brenda:Sure. That doesn't mean the whole site is going to be that way, because it could have exactly the same functionality, but coming at it through a different set of concerns and processes.Don:I suspect I might often prefer the female website. The point is that I don't appreciate it being labelled male or female.Ben:Let me give you an example of how subtle these differences are. The &#91;US&#93; National Cancer Institute has a site where at the top you choose doctor or patient and learn about all these various cancers.The patient descriptions are very thorough, they're serious stuff; and the doctor side has reference to the literature, particular medications, dosages and so on. That sounds like a good differentiation, but what happens is that after the more knowledgeable patients have read their page, they want to see what's on the doctor's page. And the doctor wants to see what their patients are getting.So the new redesign starts with the cancer descriptions.   Then you choose patient or health professional, but you can easily go and see both. Let the user choose. Make it easy for the users to get what they want. Don't make images and mystical machines that magically figure out how users are going to behave and what they should have. Give users control. Controllable, predictable, comprehensible, that's my mantra.Online:Are talking webpages and voice recognition the answer?Jakob:It's the Star Trek fallacy. Voice is a great user interface to show on a TV show. However, in the real world, voice has a lot of downsides as a user interface because it is, by definition, not visible.Ben:Exactly. Why use something that is slower and more error-prone than a visual interface? Let's not undermine the great efforts that have gone into this technology. It works remarkably well. It's just not very useful.The airforce has spent 30 years and several billion dollars trying to make voice interaction work so why doesn't it work? Because when you're pulling 6Gs and you say "Fire" and it says "please repeat", you're not gonna use this thing ever again. Literally.Jakob:That is the cute answer. What is the real answer?Ben:The deep answer is that the cognitive load of voice interfaces is greater than hand/eye co-ordination. Speaking requires your short-term memory, whereas hand/eye co-ordination is parallel processed in other parts of your brain.Jakob:We have to design from the reality not from what makes the best demos. Three-dimensional fly-throughs on the internet also make really good demos. But the more three-dimensional it is, the more you get lost. The general point being that any technology like 3D or voice is neither completely useless nor the solution to all our interface problems.
Sorry, this page is unavailable.
Back when the CD-rom was being heralded as the saviour of the digital universe, someone presented me with a copy of US television chef Julia Child's multimedia cookbook, Home Cooking With Master Chefs.By any standard, this was a spectacular piece of culinary engineering, with video tutorials from such notable chefs as Patrick Clark and Jacques Pepin, touting the latest tips on attaining the perfect lobster thermidor or chocolate souffle as well as, in one case, a handy S&amp;M approach to trussing a chicken that might have troubled Houdini.All this was complemented by Child's curiously inspiring grandmotherly warble: "The art of cooking is indeed a noble hobby," she gurgled every time the disc slipped into the player.Now that the information CD-rom has largely been consigned to the dustbin of history, it is the duty of the web to take over where Child left off. For the average, budding net-epicure, the ideal place to start would beSoar,  the Searchable Online Archive of Recipes, which boasts a staggering 67,087 different dishes from which to choose.Though the site is nothing much to look at, and the basic courier font recipes look as if they have been hand-typed on a faulty Smith-Corona, there is a mind-boggling range   including Australian, Burmese, Chinese, Tibetan, Czech, Venezuelan and Eskimo.The descriptions of the ingredients and preparation, all supplied by users of this "recipe ring", are lovingly detailed. "I'm in the process of making it even as I type," gushes the creator of Doro Wat, an Ethiopian stew, "and it's real good so far."There is even a humorous section on Extraterrestrial and Bizarre Menus that manages to be vaguely humorous. "Cut elephant into bite-size pieces," says the recipe for elephant stew. "Cook over kerosene fire at 450 degrees for about four weeks, or until golden brown. Serves 3,800."Soar's more upmarket cousin iswww.allrecipes.com, a tasteful, slick and well-designed site with some wonderful bells and whistles such as a "my recipe box", where users can store their favourites as well as a "recipe exchange" notice-board where you can post requests for particular menus.The recipes themselves are an infinity away from Soar's crude list format, with a button for switching between American imperial and metric measurements and a facility for printing full A4 pages or on kitchen-friendly cue cards.The site also caters for those needing special diets. It includes 227 recipes for vegetarians (highlights include smoky eggplant and yoghurt salad and cornucopia chilli) 137 for vegans (who can really   pig out on bramblewood blackberry pie and bittersweet banana pudding) as well as sections for gluten free, sugar free and even diabetic dietary requirements.There is also a whole set of linked sub-sites catering for special occasions and needs:www.christmasrecipe.com,www.thanksgivingrecipe.com,www.souprecipe.comand many more.Of the other culinary megasites, the most notable is the superbly designedwww.e-cuisines.comwhich includes an extremely accurate facility to calculate the calories in any meal. TV and radio cookBetty Crockeroffers a revolutionary "what's on hand" section: punch in the meagre ingredients of your cupboard and the site will match these to a suitable dish (one egg and a pint of milk produced an astonishing 24 choices) as well as RealAudio streaming editions of Betty's radio programme.The Cook's Thesaurus atwww.switcheroo.comis an ingenious idea that allows you to find viable substitutes for   missing ingredients.Lovers of Asian food should try a natty little new-age site calledwww.asiarecipe.com(currently under reconstruction) which proclaims "Think Peace" from every page and offers choices from regions as diverse as Laos, Mongolia and Turkmenistan. Just plain lovers can plump for the Santesson collection of Aphrodisiac dishes atwww.santesson.com/recept/aphrlist.htwith offerings such as fennel soup, "amorous" pesto and the inevitable candied violets.Finally, those who like cooking without effort can go for the cheap and cheerfulwww.everydaycook.comwhich includes a glossary for the total beginner. "To boil," runs one definition, "heating liquid, which causes a constant production of bubbles that rise and break the surface."Despite the diversity on offer, though, I'm still not quite sure that these glorified online cookbooks quite match up to the multimedia possibilities of Julia and her good old CD-rom. Bandwidth limitations simply don't allow for online tutorials and vital illustrated tips that can really transform a meal.While waiting for this to be remedied, you could do worse than pick up one of the last copies of Home Cooking With Master Chefs fromwww.cdromshop.com. Head straight for the horseradish-crusted grouper with mashed potatoes. Your dinner parties may never be quite the same again.
The auction of radio spectrum for the next generation of mobile phones - which by last night had raised a staggering &#163;18bn for the Treasury - might look like the 21st century's equivalent of the philosopher's stone. But it is more interesting than turning base metals into gold. It is creating vast wealth from nothing at all - because the space occupied by the frequencies that companies are bidding for doesn't exist until it starts being used. It is not only the biggest privatisation and the biggest online auction, making the US company eBay look like a corner shop. It is quite possibly the biggest example of "value added" ever recorded. The eventual proceeds could be well over &#163;20bn. And the proceeds all belong to us.Forget the physics, just look at the arithmetic. The auction is being held for spectrum to be used by the so-called third generation (3G) phones - and other mobile devices - that will have the capacity to transmit good quality moving pictures and be permanently connected to the internet. This market is expected to be worth $200bn within a few years and could become the biggest consumer market ever.That's why the biggest players - like Vodafone and BT - are betting their shirts and more. They may not be able to afford to bid such crazy prices, but they also can't afford not to - that would leave the crown jewels with the companies' deadly competitors. The biggest and most expensive of the five licences on offer reached over &#163;4.5bn yesterday when Vodafone posted its latest bid. The auction will carry on, through a sequence of faxed bids to the Radiocommunications Agency's HQ in London's Docklands, until no further bids are received.This is serious money. Gordon Brown's budget made a provision of less than &#163;3bn for the proceeds. So &#163;15bn of the revenue so far accrued - 50% of which has to be paid over immediately - is pure windfall profit for the taxpayer. This compares with the peak yield from North Sea oil of &#163;11.5bn in 1985/86. The extra earnings are equivalent to a 7p reduction in income tax for a year or a huge infrastructural refurbishment, including new hospitals all over the country and a spanking refurbishment for London's creaking underground system.It could all end in tears, as a similar auction in the US did last year when winners defaulted on their payments, forcing a rerun which only pulled in 10% of the $4bn bid the first time round. Even if bidders in the UK's auction don't default, the huge amount spent on bids could undermine the government's long-term aim of having mass, affordable access to the internet. Mobile devices are vying with interactive television to be the main deliverer of the internet to virtually everyone - but the prices Vodafone and BT will have to charge to recoup their investment may put mobile telephony out of reach of the ordinary citizen. This is the   same government, remember, that is so keen on mass access to the web that it is pressurising the telephone companies to provide free, unmetered access (apart from a monthly charge). It is not easy to see how successful bidders, having paid &#163;4bn to &#163;5bn for a licence and another &#163;2bn to &#163;3bn in construction costs, will be able to offer cheap access to consumers and good profits to shareholders.Except that this is all about game theory. The people who dreamed up the mechanism of the auction and the participants are all up to their eyes in it. The outcome of the auction depends not only on what you as a bidder might do, but also on the actions of other players who will be making their own calculations about what you are planning.BT could, for instance, be deliberately bidding up licence B in order to make Vodafone pay an unreasonably high amount, before switching to one of the cheaper licences in the hope that it will be more competitive as a result. Vodafone may think it has a vested interest in having expensive licences, in the hope that some of the the other companies a few years hence will overstretch themselves. This would leave Vodafone, already the word's biggest mobile operator, to clean up as others drop out of the market.At last night's prices Vodafone was paying the equivalent of around &#163;200 for every adult in the country. If 25% of them sign up to Vodafone this works out at &#163;800 per customer, even before the company builds the infrastructure and the phones.Yet even this looks cheap against the $12,400 (&#163;7,850) that Vodafone paid to capture each new customer when it bid $183bn for the German telephony company Mannesman in February. That was a paper bid in the sense that it was using the very high value of its own shares to make the bid rather than paying cash, as it will have to in this bid.B T and Vodafone are in any case almost compelled to go right to the line in this auction because of the consequences they will face if they don't. If Britain's biggest wireless operator (Vodafone) or the country's biggest fixed-line operator fail to get a third generation licence in their domestic markets, the effect on their share prices could be so catastrophic as to make the prices they are paying for the licences seem very small beer.The $65,000 question - or rather the &#163;18bn one - is what to do with the boodle. Unfortunately, Gordon Brown's hands are glued into his pockets. He is already sitting on a budget surplus of up to $15bn, which he can't easily spend without igniting City fears about economic overheating and forcing the Bank of England to put Britain's already high interest rates up to even higher levels.Spending on hospitals and railways doesn't have as big an inflationary impact as cutting taxes (which would be spent on consumer items rather than   capital goods) but it would still upset the City, even if it spent in areas of high unemployment where the inflationary risks were lowest.But we can dream. The money involved is so huge - and the timescale of decisionmaking so long - that it would be worth the slight inflationary risk in order to breathe life into Britain's crumbling railways, schools, hospitals and sports facilities. Maybe the question of distribution should itself be decided by a different kind of online auction in which members of the public stake their preferences, on a specially created website, as to how the money should be spent.The most symmetrical solution would be for the proceeds of this digital auction to be used to provide as many people as possible with an incentive to get   speedy and affordable access to the internet by subsidising the take-up of digital television and the next generation of mobile phones. This would have big knock-on effects on the rest of the economy. It would improve education and accelerate the use of the new technologies thereby enabling Britain to take a lead in the burgeoning area of mobile commerce in the same way that the US did with e-commerce.At the very least, this would avoid the worst scenario likely to emerge from the current orgy of bidding for mobile phone licences - that by making high speed access to the internet too expensive for ordinary people it will widen, not narrow, the digital divide that Tony Blair is so concerned about.
The company many like to paint as the internet's David finally got its slingshot working again last week.Netscape, once synonymous with the web and the internet boom, unveiled its latest web browser a day after Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson delivered his damning findings of law against the internet's Goliath - Microsoft.The new software, Netscape 6, got a mixed welcome: while its speed and small download size won praise, it was criticised for being buggy - although this was only a "preview" release ahead of the final version to be launched in the second half of this year. However, Steve Case, AOL's chief executive, proudly announced that the old Netscape magic was back.The greater significance was that this was Netscape's first major release in almost two years, during which time the company's market share was overtaken by Microsoft's Internet Explorer, and Netscape was subsumed into AOL. Microsoft's conduct towards Netscape was at the centre of the case against the Redmond  company.Officially, Netscape denies the timing of the release had anything to do with the court findings being published but was always intended to coincide with a large trade show in Los Angeles. Its defence is supported by the problems in managing the "open-source" collaboration between voluntary programmers who wrote a large portion of the new browser.But as a former Netscape executive said last week to the Wall Street Journal: "It wouldn't help AOL to come out with a revolutionary new browser right as the trial is considering how the Netscape browser is being defeated by Microsoft's anti-competitive practices."Jim Hammerly, vice president of AOL's Netscape Browser division, says the court case did have some bearing on the new launch,   but only in terms of the practicalities of getting the product to consumers, rather than courtroom tactics."One of the reasons Netscape has been quiet for a long time is because we had been prohibited from participating with many of our partners in distribution," he says, referring to contracts which bound PC makers to using both Microsoft's Windows and the company's Internet Explorer. "Over the last few months we have announced major new partnerships with manufacturers to embed Netscape 6 on new machines. So that will give consumers the choice of which browser to use. We see ourselves re-emerging in that market."But can the company really compete against Microsoft, even when it is hamstrung by its ongoing legal battle? Hammerly says that Netscape has no targets for attempting to claw back market share in the desktop PC arena. Instead, the emerging new markets of internet devices such as TV set-top boxes and internet-enabled mobile devices will provide the greatest opportunities for Netscape - and AOL."Looking forward, there is the new class of internet appliances for the home and busi ness. Many of these devices are Linux based, and Netscape 6 has 100% performance on that operating system, as it does on Windows and Macintosh."We have a lot of partners who are porting this technology to additional platforms and many of these smaller devices, and wireless devices, are major growth areas."But while it has been proved that Netscape was crunched by the might of Microsoft, this is no longer the David versus Goliath battle that net old timers - and Microsoft's many enemies - like to pretend.Netscape's parent company, AOL, sees its browser agreement with Microsoft expire later this year, shortly after the final version of Netscape 6 is due to ship. AOL is being coy about its relationship with Microsoft, saying only that it would like to maintain its prominent position on the out-of-the-box Windows screen, given in return for making Internet Explorer the exclusive AOL browser.But Microsoft's once iron rule over its desktop may wane after the US courts findings against it, and AOL has been busy forming its own partnerships with large PC makers like Gateway which could make it less dependent on its Redmond rival. At the very least, should it decide to, AOL could then put Netscape on the desktops of its 16 million users worldwide, almost overnight. That kind of power makes this battle very much Goliath versus Goliath.
British carbuyers' anger at being charged more than their European neighbours was graphically illustrated yesterday when a website that helps customers to import cars from the continent said it has taken &#163;7m of orders in the past two weeks.Totalise Eurekar, a Leeds-based division of internet service providerTotalise, offers savings of up to 40% on UK prices. It said it had taken more than 400 orders since the end of March."The interest in our offer has been phenomenal and with all the publicity on the issue of car prices we are attracting more and more customers," said Peter Gregory, the chief executive. "The average UK dealer sells two cars every day. On that basis we will have sold more than a year's quota in just four weeks."Mr Gregory expected Totalise to sell more than &#163;100m of cars before the year end.The figures were released two days after the competition commission said motorists were being overcharged by an average &#163;1,100 for each new car. The trade and industry secretary, Stephen Byers, has pledged new measures to stimulate competition and bring down prices.Totalise acts as an intermediary scouring recognised European dealers for the best prices. It handles VAT and administrative issues on behalf of the consumer and delivers to the customer's door. Green Flag motoring assistance inspects each car before it has been delivered.Totalise's success contrasts with that of Vauxhall. The manufacturer offered special versions of its models for sale over the net for &#163;1,000 less than usual, yet sold only 250 cars despite a high-profile advertising campaign.
Stephen Burbidge is the kind of man betting companies adore. He loves gambling and spends up to &#163;50 a week spicing up his enjoyment of horse racing and football. He's also a solicitor with an income much higher than many of his fellow punters.Ironically, the main reason betting companies are so fond of Stephen is that he hasn't been near a betting shop in ages. He places all his bets online.Over the next 10 years the betting companies believe that people like Stephen will revolutionise the way the industry is perceived in this country. They predict that a combination of the internet, mobile phones and interactive TV will deliver a golden age where placing a bet will seem as harmless and every day as doing the Lottery.The main vehicle for this revolution - the internet - is perfect for betting. Just like the hugely successful online share transactions, it relies solely on the delivery of time-critical information thereby avoiding the dreaded "white van man syndrome" of hanging about waiting for goods to be delivered.It is also quick and easy   and, most important, bypasses the betting shop - a place where many online punters wouldn't be seen dead .Today there is a host of sites all eagerly pitching for punters' money. They are all keen to grab a slice of an industry that the financial analysts Datamonitor predicts will be worth more than &#163;2bn by the end of 2002.It is not just the nature of betting that's changing: the punters are different too. Internet betting sites are attracting a new breed of punter light years away from the flat cap and whippet-owning image of the betting shop gambler. One betting company reported that in its shops only 1% of bets were placed on sports traditionally popular with ABC1s such as cricket, golf and Formula One. These are the sports that are proving very popular with the online punters. The web sitewww.bluesq.comis eager to target these new punters. It is very simple to use and largely free of the jargon that pervades traditional sites such aswww.totalbet.com."Betting should be fun," argues Ed Pownall of Bluesq "and our site is all about the average person having a little flutter." To prove his point, Pownall mentions the site's    special bets section. Punters can place bets on Coronation Street storylines, political events and the lives of celebrities. Pownall says that the site has very attractive odds on David Ginola copying David Beckham's skinhead hairstyle by the end of the year. Also targeting the new punters iswww.firststake.comwhose June launch will coincide with the start of football's Euro 2000 tournament.Firststake.com director Simon Grieve says the site will target "sports fans - the kind of people who only make the occasional bet and very rarely make it to the bookies". He adds that "if those people start placing bets on a regular basis we'll see a massive growth in the industry".The site's unique approach is that it will have a very high level of sporting content. Users will be able to check out the latest sporting news before placing their bets. Firststake is also hoping its   no-nonsense approach will appeal to the growing number of women who are interested in sport. Both firms are confident that one of the ways that the new breed of punters will check out their websites is through their TVs.By the end of this year consumers will be bombarded with boxes enabling internet access via their home set. However, the technology that is really exciting the betting companies is interactive TV.Over the next few years the companies are hoping to muscle in on live sporting broadcasts and offer interactive betting. This may mean their odds for the result of a Premiership football match flashing up on screen in the run-up to a big televised game. Eventually punters may be offered instant odds on events within the game itself - like a Beckham free-kick hitting the back of the net.The clear leader in the field is Ladbrokes which has ties with two cable TV companies CWC and Telewest and interactive TV specialist, Two Way TV. It has also signed a deal to provide a betting service for Sky Digital's Open service."The key when dealing with TV viewers is to make the bets easy to understand," explains Ladbrokes' head of e-commerce John O'Reilly. "There's no point in using betting jargon. You need to say press this button and we'll give you &#163;5 for your &#163;1 bet if United win 2-0. It has to be that simple".Betting companies aren't only banking on interactive TV. Almost all the major websites see internet mobile phone betting as pivotal to their business plans."Wap &#91;wireless application protocol&#93; phones will enable users to study the form and place bets wherever they are - even on the bus" says David Annat, MD of PA Sporting Life, part owners ofwww.totalbet.comHe adds that the site will be the first to provide a Wap service next month.Internet betting ought to be a dead cert, but there are a few major hurdles that the websites will have to clear before they start making big money. One of the main reasons on-line betting has become so popular is the websites' tax policy. Typically, UK residents pay out a whopping 9% tax on their winnings on bets made via shops.However, most of the betting sites are swallowing that extra 9% and offering   punters tax-free betting. It is a move that they argue has been forced upon them by offshore betting companies that don't have to pay tax to the British government.In order to compete, many leading UK based betting companies now run two sites in tandem - the official UK based site and a dot.com site targeted at European and Far Eastern punters. The dot.com has a permanent commitment to tax-free betting and is located outside the UK. British residents can place bets with either site.Betting companies have been lobbying the government for over a year to reduce the amount of tax it takes, and several have threatened to depart for an offshore tax haven if the government does not comply. In last month's budget, instead of the much hoped for reduction in betting tax, Gordon Brown merely offered consultation.The betting companies are   split as to what is likely to happen next. Graham Sharpe of William Hill says he would "rather offer tips on the 2.30 at Kempton than try and guess what the government is going to do".However, David Annat of Totalbet has a more pessimistic view: "I think the government will do nothing and keep the tax at its present rate. They know that if companies go offshore they will sacrifice access to UK advertising and they won't be able to participate in interactive TV betting."I think it's a shame because inevitably the co.uk wesbites will have to levy tax and this will make them uncompetitive compared with offshore sites. The irony is that as the Americans are virtually legally prevented from betting online, this is one sphere where the UK could lead the world."The first big hurdle for many of the companies was last weekend and what several had called the first e-National.By Monday almost all the major websites were saying that on Saturday they were simply not able to cope with the demand. By 1pm placing an online bet was virtually impossible. Annat ofwww.totalbet.comadmitted that the site had struggled to cope with the two million page views it had experienced across three days. Other sites such aswww.bluesq.com, which staged a large advertising campaign in the days before the race, also conceded that bets had been lost. It claimed 45,000 bets in the run up to the race and registered 7,000 new punters.Yet in spite of those missing bets and annoying punters such as Burbidge who had snapped up Papillon at its optimum price of 33-1, it had been a good day."It is not about money taken," claims Graham Sharpe of William Hill. "It's about increasing awareness of online betting and registering new customers." In that case Papillon wasn't the only winner last Saturday.The real loser in this online gold rush could be our flat-cap wearing, whippet-owning stereotype betting shop gambler. Still, withwww.bluesq.comoffering 500-1 that all betting shops will be closed within the next 10 years, he could always hedge his bets.
How long have you been around the internet?I started with the internet when I was at college in 1991 and the web in the summer of '94.Do you envisage problems ahead with regulating the net?I think it's going to be extraordinarily difficult to police and even harder to tax. You can't really avoid the fact that society requires taxation and, however much we don't like that, it's going to need some taxation.What is Stand all about?Stand started out with a group of people who were interested in cryptography - and the government's misguided attempts in the early days to insist that everybody kept a centralised version of their "backdoor key" to all their communications. The other side, from which I came, was more about the use of the net to empower democracy and democratic action.Why is Stand so against the regulation of investigatory powers bill (RIP)?It is going to be very bad for e-commerce and, potentially, civil liberties. We generally think it's a case of misunderstandings, more knee-jerk than malicious... different departments in government fighting each other for different priorities. I can imagine some fairly heavy conversations going on now between the Home Office and the DTI.Is the Irish government's example of allowing self-censorship of the net the way to go?I think it's a misconception to link the net censoring itself - which is one sort of organic lifeform - with the best way to catch criminals. The best way to catch criminals is to understand the medium they use. With this potential new law in the UK criminals are going to want to use cryptography because they know that if they get caught doing something really bad, they can always refuse to give you their key and they've got a maximum of two years. Whereas your law abiding citizens are actually going to be discouraged from using it in case they forget their password. The Irish have kind of got it, as have the Americans... over here we just haven't.Are you excited by new developments like Wap?I work with a big European broadband player and the web is just another platform - albeit the biggest at the moment. When you start looking at doing stuff on TV and Wap platforms you realise how radical this internet business actually is. I wouldn't like to guess a time-scale but there will come a day where there will be many devices and many platforms with content pushed to each as appropriate.Any favourite places on the net?I don't do newsgroups anymore. I thinkUp My Streetis fantastic - the guys who created that must be pretty amazing. I loveNeed To Know. On the e-commerce side I loveEasyJet. The way you can find stuff so quickly is a model for other sites. Less well-known isHaddockwhich has four or five links everyday to weird and wonderful things.&#149; Stand can be found atwww.stand.org.uk
One of Britain's oldest and most distinguished public galleries is to offer access to thousands of previously unseen masterpieces, thanks to a unique expansion. The IT gallery at London's National Portrait Gallery (NPG), opening in May, will use a network of Apple Macintoshes to let visitors browse through its archives.Portrait Explorer will allow users to visit some of the 10,000 portraits held in the gallery's primary collection, as well as sections of the 250,000 portraits and photographs held in its other archives. Only a small number are ever put on display.Based in the mezzanine of a new &#163;16m wing, the new gallery is designed to "be a very relaxing area, not an academic space," according to David Saywell, the NPG's IT manager."We want to give the public access to all of our collections," he adds. "We have on display here only about a thousand portraits: something like 30 or 40% of the paintings we've got. But everybody coming to this space will be able to access all of the works in our primary collection."And as we catalogue our reference collections - we've got a huge photographic collection of anything between 160,000 and 200,000 photographs and an archive collection of caricatures, cigarette cards, etc - those will be included as well."The touchscreen system has been developed by Cognitive Applications in Brighton, based on 11 Apple Mac G4 450MHz computers and an Apple G4 server."The NPG is unique in our experience of galleries, because it gets so involved in commissioning new works," says Alex Morrison, managing director of Cognitive. "This gives it access to all sorts of interesting secondary material, sketches, interviews with   sitters and artists etc, which the Portrait Explorer provides, for the first time, a place to display."Portrait Explorer's touchscreen system allows a browser to zoom in on the most subtle of aspects of a painting; sitter expressions, the smallest details of clothes and jewellery, and the artist's technique, thanks to the high resolution at which the portraits have been scanned.It provides hotlinks to descriptions of painting techniques and lets users point at figures within a painting and read more about them. It even lets visitors plan a own tour based on the most interesting portraits they find.An animation sequence shows how an "anamorphic" portrait of Edward VI was painted and how its visual distortions can be corrected. There is also a virtual reconstruction of the 18th century room in which the gallery's collection of Kit Kat Club paintings originally hung; a time lapse sequence revealing, through a miniature portrait of Charles I and 17 original mica overlays, the story of the king's imprisonment and execution; and simulated page turning with an album of Victorian photographs by Lewis Carroll.Several contemporary artists and photographers have also been filmed and interviewed for the new project.The IT Gallery is the centrepiece of a larger plan to enhance public access to the gallery's collections. This will include the parallel development of the gallery's website and its first electronic publication on CD-rom and DVD-rom.Many features from the IT gallery will be adapted for both projects, while others will be developed just for the website, such as distance learning and other learning tools for schools and colleges.
OFF digitalNet access and email via an ONdigital box? I think not.I've just spent a frustrating couple of hours setting up one of their set-top boxes, only to discover that, here in Wirral, I can get only the BBC digital service (a mere six channels). I can't even get those I'm currently getting via the analogue service.Their technical bod tells me that there is no hope of this improving in the foreseeable future. Call me picky, but perhaps they should concentrate on providing better coverage before tacking on extra whistles and bells?Ron Gravesron.graves@talk21.comGet realRe Jim McClellan's article (April 6): it is all very well putting a megastore online with a catalogue to browse; this sells well-known items and brands quite well.However, it often relies on traditional shops to do the displaying and demonstrating. This is fine if you live or work in, say, London - pop into Virgin/Tower/HMV, find that obscurity, then go online to find the best price.But what if you don't have nice megastores to wander round in your lunch hour? And God help you if you are a classical or jazz fan.There is a real difference between "shopping" and "buying things" - the net is OK at the latter, but pretty hopeless at the former. There should be a way to do this sort of "real" shopping online.Nigel Tantnigeltant@hotmail.comSimple pleaI find the discussion about different forms of web access (web TVs, Wap phones, GSM-enabled personal digital assistants) to be fascinating but perhaps not the main issue. If the web is to survive it must become more uni form. There are still too many conflicting standards of file formats and transfer protocols.I would suggest that all existing formats should be supported but a default protocol that all platforms can use needs to be defined for every type of file transmissible over the net.This way the disadvantages to Wap and web TV users may be reduced. I would also like to see a little less emphasis on graphics.Flashing title bars and baroque framing may look good but even my 56Kb/s Winmodem struggles to download some sites.Chris Emerychrisdemery@chrisdemery.fsnet.co.ukOne at a timeChris Price (April 6) seems so sold on the alleged benefits and wonders of internet-capable television that it has quite abolished his common sense."ONdigital... &#91;makes&#93; it possible to send email at the same time as watching your favourite TV programmes."  But why would anyone want to do both at the same time? Surely, if people are watching their favourite programmes, they will want to watch those programmes, not fiddle with a keyboard?Joseph Nicholasjosephn@globalnet.co.ukHidden trendI was interested in learning more about the product called The Contact Messenger by Trend, as reported by Leon Forde (April 6). After extensively searching the web and using Switzerland's own search engines, I was unable to find any company or product of that name. I was wondering if indeed I had been "taken", by a late April fool joke?Adrian Leggadrianlegg@eircom.netOnline replies: It wasn't an April fool... honest. Visitwww.lovefinder-europe.com/index1_e.htmLyrics lostI'm looking for a comprehensive online database of music lyrics where keying in one remembered line will trigger a search for full details of a song. Does it exist?Martin Webbermwebber@cpa.org.uk
Wap's light fantasticNow for the deluge. Ericsson's new R320 internet phone is the latest of what will soon be a flood of new phones using wireless application protocol (Wap) enabling us to get news and entertainment from the world wide web while on the move. It is part of the Swedish company's attempt to wrest world leadership from its Finnish rival Nokia ,whose 7110 model released earlier this year has set the pace for mobile telephony.Two features of the R320 immediately impress - its large screen (for a mobile ) and its startling lightness. It weighed in on the kitchen scales at only 100g and almost floats in the shirt pocket. Its weight compares with 125g for the rival, Nokia 7110 and 130g for Mitsubishi's Trium running BT Genie's pre-paid tariff (also released this week).Ericsson's R320 doesn't have the slickness of Nokia's rollerball menu control but its four directional cursors are a reasonable way of navigating the available services including text messaging, voice mail, the infra red port (good), call diverting, share prices, games   and, of course, the Wap applications.It is a timely reminder that the killer applications of Wap (or its broadband successors) are still in the future. It is good to be able to get the latest news from the BBC and the football results or entertainment. But after doing it for a while and suffering the costly time wasting of failing to get instant connection - because of reception difficulties or whatever - you begin to appreciate the benefits, in terms of cost and time, of having a newspaper or magazine in front of you which doesn't disappear when reception fails.I tried hard to buy a CD-rom on the train between Paddington and Penzance but the seller (boxman.com) kept rejecting the suffix to my telephone number. However, Ericssson says that the 1.1 version of the Wap browser doesn't support secure payments, anyway, so we will have to wait until version 1.2 later this year.The Trium has a speedy two-click access to the internet with lots of services, including the BBC and the Guardian news services. It is a very solid   phone but the smaller type faces make the screen more difficult to read than the Ericsson.If you want to sample the attractions of Wap phones then, so far, they don't come much better than the Ericsson - especially if you are prepared to trade the longer battery life of the Nokia 7110 for the lightness of the R320. But Wap technology (limited to 9,600 data bits per second at the moment) gives you only a taste of what is to come when broadband interactivity offers permanent online access to the internet and two-way video transmission.It's really a question of whether you can't resist the hors d'oeuvre - or whether you have the willpower to wait for the main course.  The Mitsubishi Trium BT Cellnet phone costs &#163;99.99 with pay &amp; go tariff of &#163;10 a month.  The price of the Ericsson R320 will be announced near its release date next month.  (VK)Colourful touchMotorola is hoping to add a splash of colour to the mobile market with the launch its V.2288 Wap phone. This model is the first from Motorola to offer a series of interchangeable covers.The buyer can choose from a host of ultra-bright shades   including Electric Lime, Azure and Canary. For the moments between voice calls, users can either explore the Wap internet sites or listen to music via the phone's built in FM radio.The phone features dual band coverage (so it can be used in Europe), boasts a talk-time of up to 210 minutes and standby time of 130 hours.  It will go on sale in June priced at around &#163;100.Thanks for the memoryToshiba has announced the imminent Japanese launch of the first product to use the high-security, high storage SD (secure digital) memory card. The MEA110AS is a mobile audio player that's compatible with both MP3 and its rival format AAC (which is to be launched later this year).The player sports a removable postage-stamp sized SD card that can store up to 64MB of music. It also features a slot for a second SD card that doubles the player's listening time.Toshiba, along with SD's co-creators Panasonic and SanDisk, has been heavily hyping SD for almost a year. The trio claims that the card will become the industry standard for use in internet music players, mobile phones, digital still cameras, digital video cameras, PDAs and other products.So far more than 70 companies have signed up to join the SD Association this year. A 128MB SD is promised by the end of 2000, while the trio predicts that a 1 Gigabyte card is only two years away.  The MEA110AS is expected to go on sale in the UK later this year.  (AN)Pup squeakPoo-Chi, an "interactive puppy", sold out in Japan when it was launched on April 1, with queues of buyers snapping up 100,000 in three hours.  The new robopet, which has been developed by Tiger Electronics and Sega Toys, is small enough to sit on the palm of your hand and has an animated head, ears, legs and mouth.Although it's not as sophisticated as Sony's robot puppy Aibo, Poo-Chi senses light, sound and touch, and communicates and interacts with other Poo-Chi pals.  Hasbro Inc's Tiger Electronics will launch Poo-Chi in the US later this month at an estimated retail price of $30. There is no date yet for a launch in Britain.Tiger - the company behind the Furby electronic toy - has also launched a Tech Pets section on its website atwww.tigertoys.com.For you and MEMicrosoft is due to release the third test (beta) release of its next version of Windows this week: Windows Millennium Edition or ME. This is the first version of Windows to be designed for home users, so the emphasis is on things like a fast start-up time, digital media capabilities, and a self-repairing feature called System Restore. ME includes the Internet Explorer 5.5 web browser and Windows Media 7 player, both of which have just been released separately. ME is expected to be sent to manufacturing on June 6, reaching customers from one to two months later.Digital VCRIt looks like a standard VHS video recorder, but it will record for up to 21 hours in long-play mode. The new HM-DR10000 digital VCR, uses D-VHS digital tape. The inventor and manufacturer, JVC, says it will record just about anything, including analogue signals (ordinary Pal TV broadcasts), and digital signals from a DV camcorder.The HM-DR10000 converts signals into MPEG2 format files as used by DVD players, and a D-VHS tape can store up to 44.4GB of information - probably enough to hold 10 DVDs.  (JS)
Forty years ago, Alfred Hitchcock squirted some chocolate sauce into a bathtub to create blood for Psycho's classic monochrome shower scene. This month, effects expert Jon Thum finishes eight weeks of laborious effects work on one shot for John Woo's Mission: Impossible 2. "It's still problem solving," he says, "trying to make something look good on screen and trying to work out the best way of doing it."It's nearly two weeks since the 38-year-old from London won the Oscar for his visual effects on The Matrix and he's sitting in the lobby of the Computer Film Company's cavernous central London building pondering the progress of his profession."Some of that old stuff still works really well," says Thum. "It's still better to pour salt out of bags to look like waterfalls than computer generate it."In 1992 he started working at various Soho post-production houses, mainly producing commercials, pop videos and material for broadcast. In 1996 he moved to Australia to work as a film compositor on the sci-fi thriller Dark City. When The Matrix came to be shot in Sydney he landed a job as digital effects supervisor, "the frontman for that film, if you like."A year ago he returned to London to work with the respected Computer Film Company. CFC was formed in 1984 and has been pushing at digital effects boundaries ever since. It has a huge portfolio of breathtak ing, how-did-they-do-that? shots. It helped the Guinness horses gallop through surf, made the Headless Horseman headless in Sleepy Hollow and created luminous plankton for The Beach.As well as using industry standard commercial equipment such as SGIs (the Unix-based image processing hardware) and Cineon (a package that creates a final picture out of several elements) it has developed its own. CFC has an in-house team of hardware and software developers. "They're quite a pioneering company in the sense that they wrote software quite early on when there wasn't any software around," says Thum. "And it's important to have programmers around, even though you've got the commercial stuff."Its new venture is DigitalLab, a process which enables filmmakers to have greater control over the   look of their product. Usually, the overall colour of a film is determined in the laboratory developing process. DigitalLab converts the film into digital data, so that filmmakers can experiment with different grades of colour until the right one is found.Some of the signature effects shots on The Matrix took months to complete, and this is not unusual as technology becomes more advanced.To make this long process easier, CFC tends to get involved with a film at a very early stage. During production, CFC may have an on-set general effects person to advise directors on ways to shoot scenes that will create the best results later on. Once completed, the shots are sent to London for CFC to work its magic.Effects tend to be created by three separate groups: compositors - who place images such as a dinosaur or a MiG jet over a background plate such as a city street: 3D artists who model and light computer generated characters or props plus painters, who put the final touches to a scene. All of the work is done on computer.Effects come in various guises. There are "invisible" effects - even on period pieces such as The End of The Affair: grading, retouching,   colouring, and removal of undesirables, such as lighting rigs. Then there are special effects - the wild excesses of the mega-budget blockbusters. "Most of the work is in the detail, which is laborious," Thum reveals. "So you might get the shots looking good quickly but to finish it might take a couple of weeks."One of his favourite effects was on Eyes Wide Shut. To get the film past American censors, it was necessary to cover up certain unsavoury body parts with less graphic computer generated bodies. This caused a lot of difficulties for CFC: "When they shot the scenes, they didn't know they would do anything digital to them, so there was no tracking data or anything like that. There were huge camera moves through lots of different   rooms and they had very grainy footage as well. So it was a learning process working out what makes something look human. Although they didn't have to move too much, they had to have a bit of movement to make them transfer weight from one foot to the other and make them look as if they weren't just dummies."So will actors be replaced by computer generated Monroes or Jimmy Stewarts? Thum argues that the effects industry won't overtake filmmaking, but complement it, for example with digital storyboards: "I think entire films will be mapped out in a computer before they're even shot."To best effectThe BeachTo create the flawless beach portrayed in the film CFC's digital effects magic had to supplement the set in Thailand. The location for filming - which in the novel is a lagoon entirely enclosed by cliffs - was enclosed on only three sides. CFC created this missing cliff section digitally, using a composite of several different 35mm rock stills. In all, CFC completed 150 shots; some were large scale, "obvious" effects, others "invisible" effects, such as removing rigs or creating weather effects.Sleepy HollowCFC completed 120 effects shots on Sleepy Hollow, even removing the head of the film's central character, the Headless Horseman. An actor played the horseman wearing a blue hood, which was digitally removed. The actor's head and neck movements distorted some of the collar and coat. CFC painstakingly created a 3D collar for him. To make this collar move exactly with the horseman's body CFC designed a skeleton which, when animated, would move the collar in the right way.
Big Brother wimps outIn a brave but foolhardy stand against online cheats, Verant Interactive announced that it was to begin vetting all players of massively multiplayer role playing game (RPG) EverQuest for hacking tools.   Anyone who failed or refused the test, conducted by automated inspection routine, would be banned from the game. But the EverQuest community rose up as one, wailing "Big Brother!", "My precious civil liberties!" and "My precious hacking tools!" Verant has retreated.Force feedNo sign of a slowdown from the Star Wars games factory: the past few days has seen the launch of a demo for real-time strategy title Force Commander, and a website showing off screenshots of the upcomingObi-Wan, an Episode 1-themed first-person shooter along the lines of Dark Forces. There's also a possibility of some Empire-versus-Rebellion action on PlayStation 2. "LucasArts is aggressively looking at all next-generation consoles," says the company's development representative. Why? What have they done to you?Call for bucksMicrosoft's own massive multiplayer, Asheron's Call, goes live in the UK tomorrow. The fantasy RPG, which has thousands of addicts in the US, comes with one month's free subscription as standard. After that, you'd better get yourself down the bureau de change, because the monthly rate to carry on playing is, apparently, $9.95. Seewww.microsoft.com/uk/games/asherons.Quake clearedId Software, the company responsible for Quake, has been cleared in a US court of producing games likely to corrupt young people. The   case was brought by parents of students murdered by Michael Carneal, who went on a rampage at Heath high school in Paducah in 1997. The judge ruled that software developers could not predict what people would do after playing their games, and that games are not subject to product liability law.So it's business as usual for id, whose John Carmack was only too happy to provide some tidbits on the forthcoming Quake IV. "The next game will have a new rendering engine, but much of the other system architecture will remain the same," he said, unexcitingly.  Hm. Maybe id's winning the case wasn't such a good thing after all.Rune readingNorse 3D action title Rune, due out on the PC later this year, will also be making an appearance on a next-generation games console, according to a spokesman for developer Human Head. A formal announcement - along with information on the specific platform chosen - is expected at the E3 exhibition in Los Angeles next month.Dead lossThe Dreamcast sequel to Acclaim's Dead or Alive, scheduled to hit stores just two weeks from now, may be delayed for another four months.
If web-based digital entertainment to date has  generally consisted of little more than dancing hamsters or  slapping a Spice Girl, all is set to change with  Freeserve's move to bring custom-made net drama to a  browser near you.'Online Caroline', which appeared yesterday  for the first time on the UK ISP's  homepage, takes you into the world of a 27-year-old  female travel writer. A simulated webcam creates  the illusion of live footage from Caroline's flat, where the  action kicks off with the heroine bouncing in and out  of shot pouring vodka down the neck of a prostrate  acquaintance.Meanwhile, you're offered a few titbits of information on boyfriends and  belongings in classic personal homepage style, and  invited to select her outfit for next time.The next instalment is played out not here but in your  inbox, where you suddenly find yourself as the  confidant of Caroline, who, for all her Lara Croft  promise on camera, is more Bridget  Jones on paper. She wants your advice and your  company for a virtual dinner. Next time you log back  on, the story continues.Small touches - such as your choice of meal from the menu  being served - give it all a personalised feel. And  while producer Tom Harvey is careful not to overstate  what he terms "the myth of interactive narrative", he  promises that "you are taken through it in a way  that's tailored to you".It's something of a new direction for an ISP to play  host to exclusive entertainment, let alone invest in  innovation, and yet Freeserve has bought a stake in  production company XPT and owns rights to three  forthcoming ventures.John Pluthero, Freeserve CEO, is  bullishly enthusiastic. "For the first time, something  has taken a traditional notion of entertainment -  drama - and reinvented it for the online  infrastructure." It is also, he claims, a first-class drama in its own right.Creator XPT has the credentials: comprised of ex-BBC  man Harvey and interactive Bafta-winning duo Rob Bevan  and Tim Wright, it has a track record of producing  quality material specifically with the net in mind.Harvey says: "So much of what has previously been  branded as web interactive entertainment has been no  more than TV reversioning. This time, the form is so  much part of the story."Ultimately the effect, he  says, is "more like a book than a film - a lot of it  happens in your head for you to piece together".Equally, XPT has proved that innovation on the web  doesn't mean being tied to the latest in  software. Indeed, the company has a deliberate policy of  retaining the simplest applications - no plug-ins  required - the simulated webcam being nothing more than  a Java applet that should run at full speed on the  most clunky of modems.While it's a commendable novelty, playing out over  some twenty-odd visits, Online Caroline must ultimately   stand or fall on its entertainment value.So just  how good is it? I've yet to complete the experience,  but it's probably worth sticking around for the first  couple of visits until the action unfolds, even if  you're averse to the inherently irritating environment  of a personal homepage and chatty emails.Without  spoiling it by giving too much away, there are twists,  darkly comic touches and, once you're into Caroline's  virtual world, minor delights such as IT3C.com's  gift-giving service. It's no EastEnders,  but should compare favourably with the average  email jokes doing the rounds. There's nothing else quite  like it out there at the moment.Freeserve is certainly hoping it's stumbled upon a cult in  the making. Pluthero, keenly aware of the importance  of building up a portal's community, hopes Caroline will provide a key   talking point on the  site's chat rooms as users compare experiences.  Further spin-offs are in the pipeline.Before that though, Caroline will have to hope that  not too many users curtail what she calls their  'online relationship' too soon. In a clear case of art  improving on life, you can lose this girlfriend by  simply pressing a 'Dump Me' button on the bottom of  the screen. Now, there's an idea for an online   service.www.onlinecaroline.com
Book battleE-books have been the subject of both derision and intense interest since they were introduced, and the recent success of the Stephen King e-story, available only online, made a much broader audience aware of this novel format. However, King's book went out through existing online booksellers rather than publishers that specialise in e-books, complained one e-book publisher,Fatbrain.com, inSalon.com. The piece sparked a response from Tim O'Reilly of O'Reilly Publishing, who takes a look atThe Coming Ecology Of E-Book Publishing.Art and eatsI'll have an American Hot and a Damien Hirst to take away, please: punters can make bids until April 30 for original art by the 10 regional finalists in the PizzaExpress Contemporary Artist of the Year Competition atwww.pizzaexpress.co.uk. Judges included art buff George Melly and London Evening Standard art editor Annabel Freyburg. You can have your own say by voting at the site for the overall Contemporary Artist of the Year.CybernewsFor tech business heads trying to keep up with the new, new thing, the US business magazine Fortune has a daily online column from Silicon Valley called Valley Talk, atwww.fortune.com/fortune/technology/dailyIf that's not enough tech with your morning coffee, you can also check out the special report on the trend towards "clicks and mortar", or have a look at the list of America's least and most-admired companies,www.fortune.com/fortune/mostadmired.  Yep, Microsoft is still up there, at number two - of most admired companies, of course.Clip offAnd while we're talking about Microsoft, only one thing is more annoying than the ever-changing "standard" toolbars in Word, and the ever-more-confusing icons: the dreaded Talking Paperclip. But someone else has put it so much more succinctly atwww.ftrain.com/art/badword.gif.Zero heroJust one more Microsoft item. Why wouldn't you summon a superhero using Microsoft Outlook? You could rest assured that the mighty Action Item, professional superhero, will swoop in to save, or at least prioritise, the day. He's always ready to respond to an Outlook meeting request, then add value to any meeting - even a sidebar meeting. You'll find him atwww.sentient.com/~pcm2/ action_item.html.No jokeThe needy women of Afghanistan; the Good Times virus; the requests for postcards to be sent to a child dying of cancer. Everyone has received such hoax emails at some point.www.hoaxkill.comaims to keep well-intentioned but unwary people from forwarding tedious chain letters, false campaign letters, and fake virus warnings to even more victims. Anyone received the one yet for the free mobile phone that you   get for forwarding the chain email to eight of your friends, then emailing the mobile phone manufacturer?.Mr LonelyForget pathetic chat-up lines, guys. Now you just need to create a bare-bones web page with a pathetic appeal for a girl friend, and the world will link to your site. Flavour of the week is the Lonely Asian Male, who could become the new "I kiss you!" Mahir at:www.geocities.com/lonely451_2000/me.html.New and notedBBC Radio 1's Steve Lamacq hosts an independent UK MP3 chart from this week atwww.clickmusic.co.uk;www.shout99.comis a news and information website for IT and engineering contractors. The lord chancellor's department has a new community legal information and advice service atwww.justask.org.uk.Six of the bestMapping sitesNational Geographic mapswww.nationalgeographic.com/resources/ngo/mapsInvisible worldshttp://mappa.mundi.net/mapsNasa's solar systemhttp://maps.jpl.nasa.govAll kinds of mapswww.map.comAntique mapswww.davidrumsey.comBritish Ordnance Surveywww.ordsvy.gov.uk/home/index.html
Angel from the realms of goryMessiahPC &#163;39.99  Shiny Entertainment/ Interplay *****&#149;  Power on, CD in. Install. Readme. Intro. Cursors for movement, mouse-click to fire. Yawn. Enter to use, D to crouch. Jump, flap wings once and fly into shoulder blades to possess. Escape for game menu... Hang on: fly into shoulder blades to possess?What's happening? Something ain't right on earth and God is seriously upset. He sends down Bob, a cherub, who wears a nappy, has wings about as useful as a chicken's and the constitution of a slug (he's also infuriatingly mortal).Fortunately, Bob has one essential trick: he can take over any body he wishes - if he isn't spotted and splatted first.While in possession of a body, Bob can do anything that person could normally do: use weapons, operate machinery, take considerably more damage before dying. But if his behaviour deviates noticeably from what is expected,   the trigger-happy humans will get suspicious.This twist makes for gameplay unlike anything else. There's action aplenty if you want it - just walk into a restricted area, or pick a fight with an armed policeman. But there's also a strong puzzle-solving element: how, for example, do you escape from a high-security technical facility? Well, you can enter the body of a cop and blast your way out; possess a scientist and thus obtain security clearance; fly out in angelic form using the high-powered fans in the engine room; or jump into a rat and sneak out through the sewers.There are distant echoes of other games: the sense of humour is very Duke Nukem and it looks quite a lot like Half-Life. But the gameplay makes Messiah stand out. Sure, there are one or two graphical hiccups, and the difficulty curve seems a lot steeper than in your average action game, but most of that is precisely because this is not your average action game. All other developers and their money-grubbing, more-of-the-same marketing overlords should be stand in a corner with a dunce's hat.  (AB)It's the ace of bass fishingBeatmania(Playstation) Sega Bass Fishing (Dreamcast) Beatmania (Konami) SBF (Sega)	&#163;49.99 Both games	***&#149;  Historically, gaming peripherals have been designed to adhere to the obvious. So we've seen plenty of light guns, steering wheels and flight controllers but precious little in the way of innovation. Beatmania and Sega Bass Fishing are attempting something a little different.Beatmania, described as a DJ   simulator, is best experienced using its keyboard/turntable controller (sold separately). In a similar vein to Parappa the Rapper, the player must match onscreen prompts with the corresponding key press while keeping in time with the tune.Sounds simple, but nimble digits are a necessity and though the musical styles lean towards dance, it matters little. Beatmania is totally unforgiving, visually unstimulating yet curiously addictive.The mix of joy and relief when you finally master the current track is reward in itself. But on the day the music dies - or at least when your calloused fingers can take no more - a spot of fishing is recommended.  Sega Bass Fishing is a surprisingly engrossing fishing sim, but it's success is based   firmly on the use of its fishing rod controller (again, sold separately).Setting out on the beautifully drawn lake you simply set the bait, cast away and prepare for some strenuous reeling. The built-in vibration adds to the palpable excitement of landing a catch and if you're keen on fishing or at   least fancy waving some plastic around the telly, this comes recommended.Both Beatmania and Sega Bass Fishing are quirky and enjoyable. Just remember to play both with the correct peripheral, as mixing a record or landing a fish is not quite the same with a plain joypad.  (GH)Let's take another run at the ridgeRidge Racer 64Nintendo 64	&#163;44.99 Nintendo	****&#149;  Boy racers start here. This N64 game gives a terrific sense of speed while still providing better graphics than the old Sony PlayStation games, Ridge Racer and Ridge Racer Revolution.If you've played those, or the original Namco arcade machines, there's little new.   However, this belated conversion - not by Namco but by Nintendo of America - is still very playable and enjoyable.The limited capacity of N64 cartridges means there   are limitations, particularly the music, the repetitive commentary, and the sound effects. But while the techno sound track will disappoint PlayStation owners, it's pretty good by N64 standards.Nonetheless, Nintendo has managed to pack in a new form of powerslide, which it calls drifting, for high-speed cornering. (The original techniques are still supported.) There are also two- and four-player modes. The "back from the pub" crowd will be ecstatic.The main drawback with Ridge Racer has always been the shortage of tracks, and this is still true. There are only three basic tracks, each of which is extended for higher   levels, and also available in reversed (mirror image) form. Throw in a couple of extras and you get up to 20, but with not the variety that implies.There's less of a car shortage, since you can easily add to the original four by winning new ones in one-on-one races. Progress is less a matter of mastering harder tracks than working your way through a series of faster cars. Forget about tweaking extra performance out of them. The emphasis is on arcade-style action, rather than realism.Well, who wants realism when you can bounce your cars off walls, ram opponents from behind, and still win?  (JS)
Britain has a very healthy computer games sector: as Jack Schofield recently pointed out, exports of leisure software exceed those of television programmes or films. Now there may be a number of different reasons why Britain has more game development studios than the rest of Europe put together, but the best one that I've heard is that it's down to the legacy of the Sinclair Spectrum.In the early 1980s, American teenagers were taking delivery of Apples and IBM PCs, stuffed full of memory, with colour monitors and full-sized keyboards attached. I can well remember the excitement of buying a hard disk drive for my Apple IIe in California back in the mid-1980s.Meanwhile, their counterparts on this side of the Atlantic were just getting their hands on the Sinclair spectrum. It had a keyboard that you could hardly type on, cassette tapes for storage, a limited display (it was your TV) and a little memory. Not the best possible environment for games development, you might think.The machine, however, tapped into an incredible dynamic. By giving hundreds of thousands of inquisitive teenagers a machine that they could finally program themselves, no matter how difficult and how frustrating that programming was, the Spectrum unleashed a wave of creativity.The limited computing environment meant that creativity and ingenuity were channelled into the games themselves and not solely into the presentation. The result was an entire generation skilled at executing novel and creative concepts in resource constrained environments. The beginning of a whole new creative industry was a device with a keyboard that it's difficult to type on, little memory, limited processing power and a display you wouldn't want to look at for any length of time: sounds like a Wap phone to me.To read the press recently, you'd think that Wap (the wireless application protocol) was a cure for cancer. It's going to transform our lives in incredible ways: we'll be able read the CNN news headlines while waiting for a train at Waterloo, for example.Wap is certainly an important technology. Gartner Group predicts that 95% of all phones sold in 2004 will be Wap-enabled. Forrester forecasts that at the end of 2003, when European mobile phone penetration will be around 59% overall, internet-enabled mobile phones (which may or may not be Wap phones) will have a 45% penetration. Yet the current Wap frenzy suggests that some organisations are allowing their marketing departments to float free from their technological moorings.As I heard someone comment a short while ago, marketing departments are crazy about Wap because they don't understand it. It's the first step on the road to a mobile future: it doesn't pretend to be the "internet on your mobile phone". The technology platform of both the handsets and the networks isn't really capable of supporting the functionality required to meet that goal.Even though (in time) the arrival of high bandwidth networks (eg, GPRS) will alleviate some of the problems, the form factor (and use of) handsets makes the idea of web browsing walking down   the street with a Wap phone pretty unattractive.It might be heretical to say so, but Wap has its limitations. Yet it must be a key element of organisational strategies towards mobile communications, not because it is the end game but because it provides an immediate entry to the world of mobile partnerships, business models, regulation and so on.The real significance of Wap, however, may be that it will tap into the same dynamic as the Spectrum. Given that just one of the UK mobile operators (BT Cellnet) is planning to put some half a million handsets into the market over the summer, the user pool is set to grow quickly. We will soon be in a situation where a large number of innovative people (with time their hands), who think differently and bring a new approach, will move into an environment that had previously been closed to them.It may not be as open as the computer games environment was, but there are clear opportunities.If the Spectrum analogy has anything to it, it means that a new value chain will rapidly come into existence. Wap development studios will be springing up all over the place and vying for the attention of a small number of major "publishers" that dominate the delivery channels (ie, the mobile operators and major Wap portals such as, perhaps, banks).Who knows? Perhaps a decade from now Britain will have a third of the world market for software development for mobile services and there will be a couple of hundred mobile software development shops up and down the country. They will be staffed by people who can still remember the day when they got their first pre-paid Wap phone, connected to some boring news feed site, then hung up and thought to themselves: "I can do better than that."
Two thousand American kids are training the next generation of talking toys, the first of which could be out by Christmas. The toys will be based on   a small speaker-independent speech recognition system that can recognise and respond to 50 words or phrases (this will rise next year to to 500 phrases). Toys with built-in internet access could follow."Things like Furby are not very interactive compared with what we're working on," says Richard Lee, the chief operating officer of Human Interface Worldwide, a small startup based in Seoul, Korea.   "Our strategy is to make toys really interactive. We haven't been to any toy fairs yet, but when we do, we're confident our product will blow away everything that is out in the marketplace."When a child says "I love you," the toy can say "You're my best friend," while the response to "Goodnight" could be "Goodnight, sweet dreams" or whatever. The same question could prompt different responses at different times: it all depends on the scriptwriter, and the programming."Smart toys" are believed to have about 5% of a global toy market worth $65bn in 1998, including computer and video games. The potential market for toys with speech recognition is much larger than the $3.25bn that implies. Speech recognition could be added to a wide range of dolls, soft toys and action figures, as well as toy telephones, juke boxes, clocks, voice-controlled video game controllers and other devices.Many toy sales are driven by characters ranging from Mickey Mouse to South Park, and Lee says that HI Worldwide has signed a "memorandum of understanding with a major US motion picture and TV company" to co-develop toys. The company is also developing "talking Fifa World Cup mascots" for the event in Korea and Japan in 2002.HI will not make or sell toys. Its strategy is to license characters and use them to   develop toys for manufacturers such as Hasbro and Mattel. Examples could include Stuart Little, the talking mouse from Sony's hit movie of the same name, and Nintendo's Pikachu from Pok&eacute;mon."All the characters have their own movies and their own TV series and their own characters and voices, so we'd want Stuart Little or Pikachu or Big Bird to respond in their own voices," says Lee.The first toys will hold about 60 minutes of voice output. This will increase as flash memory chips get bigger and cheaper.HI is using speech recognition technology from a Belgian company, Lernout &amp; Hauspie, and was set up in December when it signed an exclusive license to use L&amp;H's technology in toys. It hasn't produced anything yet, but it is developing a speech recognition and voice output system.This will be implemented using a digital signal processing (DSP) chip, will fit on a 6cm x 4cm circuit board, and should be ready in June. Later the system will be shrunk to a quarter of the size by using a custom Asic (application specific integrated circuit) chip.Early next year, HI plans to have prototypes using L&amp;H's   ASR1800 software to recognise 500 phrases. This version will also support Wap, (wireless application protocol) to access a cutdown version of the web. Smart toys would then be able to work with the internet."In principle, you could talk to the toy and the toy could retrieve data wirelessly from the internet and tell it to you," says Lee. "That way you're not dependent on what's in the memory. A child could ask the toy 'Who's the president of the United States?', the toy could find out using real-time internet access and say 'Bill Clinton, didn't you know that?' The toy can help educate them."The first systems will use English. HI will also offer French, German, Japanese and Korean. Chinese (Cantonese and Mandarin), Spanish and Portuguese will follow.The speech circuitry is still too big for many toys, but Lee proposes putting it in accessories. "If we can't put it in a Barbie doll we can certainly put it in Barbie's Corvette or Ken's horse, or GI Joe's back-pack or whatever."HI's modules will be relatively expensive - around $20-$40, depending on volume - but Lee isn't worried about that. Smart toys could sell for five times as much as dumb ones, so the character owners, toy manufacturers and retailers will all benefit. "They have nothing to lose by promoting us: we're giving them the opportunity to make more money," says Lee.But it may be bad news for parents.
A Paris-based anti-racism group is to take internet portal Yahoo! to court over the auction of Nazi memorabilia on its website.The International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism (Licra), which called in February for a boycott of Yahoo! sites for the same reason, said it was seeking an injunction in a Paris court to force the California-based company to stop the sales in France."Licra demands that Yahoo! take the necessary measures to prevent the exhibition and sale on its sites of Nazi objects throughout the national territory," the group said in a statement."This sale of symbols of the greatest ever crime against humanity trivialises Nazism in the extreme," the group added."In the United States &#91;these auctions&#93; might not be illegal, but as soon as you cross the French border, it's absolutely illegal," said Marc Knobel, a researcher for Licra.A spokesman for Yahoo! said the company does not comment on pending lawsuits.Judicial sources said a hearing was set for May 15. Licra said it would ask the judge to order Yahoo! to pay a daily fine of 100,000 euros ($95,880) until it complies with the injunction.The Yahoo.com auction site puts hundreds of Nazi, neo-Nazi and Ku Klux Klan objects up for auction each day, including films, swastikas, uniforms, daggers, photographs and medals.There are no such Nazi items for sale onYahoo!'s French website, but Licra did not say how access toYahoo.com, the company's global US-based website, could be blocked in France only.Yahoo! came under fire in February from another anti-racism group, the Anti-Defamation League, which accused the company of hosting dozens of sites that promoted messages from racist hate groups including neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan.Guardian Unlimited is not responsible for the content of external links
A libel case with major implications for what can be published on the internet is due to go to trial in San Francisco today. At stake is how far scurrilous websites should be protected from the libel laws.The precedent-setting test case involves an English professor, Daniel Curzon Brown, who teaches at the City College in San Francisco. Since 1997, a website has operated which allowed students at the college to post anonymous reviews of their teachers. The reviews include a "bottom 10" of the teachers who have received the most negative reviews. Prof Brown ranks fifth on that list.Most of the 1,700 teaching staff at the college have learned to ignore the rude comments, or avoid the website itself. But Prof Brown, who is gay and a published author, has been the subject of some particularly vicious, anonymous attacks and has decided that he can no longer allow them to be posted with impunity.The professor is described on the site as "homomanic, racist and mentally ill", all of which he vehemently denies. He has described the attacks as "evil" and says he does not understand how anyone can justify them.As a result, he has brought a lawsuit against the operator of the website, Ryan Lathouwers, which is due to start today at the city's superior court.Prof Brown, who has been teaching at the college for 20 years, said that the attacks had made him "depressed and afraid" and says that it is time to challenge the idea that the internet is "holy" and somehow above the law.Mr Lathouwers, whose website contains a disclaimer about the views expressed, is fighting the case and has the support of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), which is anxious to uphold the first amendment's protection of free speech and fearful of what a libel victory might bring to the internet industry.A spokeswoman for the ACLU, which has had to defend the views of racist groups on similar first amendment grounds, says that free speech means "that sometimes feelings get hurt".Its position is that the value of preserving free speech outweighs hurt feelings.The college itself is unwilling to try to have the site closed, also on first amendment grounds.The case has many parallels with that of Demon Internet in the UK, which recently agreed to pay &#163;15,000 in damages to a physicist who claimed he had been defamed by two anonymous postings on the net. The case appeared to establish that internet providers in the UK are subject to the same libel laws as other media.In the US, where the libel laws are much less powerful than in the UK, the internet receives protection under the 1996 Communications Decency Act, which essentially allows the internet service provider immunity from the libel laws.Victory for Prof Brown would send providers scurrying to their sites, some of which contain graphic and unsubstantiated libels.The action has provoked further action on the website (teacherreview.com) with former students of Prof Brown weighing in on both sides of the argument.One anonymous contributor attacks both Prof Brown and the attacker who called him "homomanic" saying: "his &#91;Brown's&#93; being a horrible instructor has nothing to do with his personal life".
OnDigitalis offering customers who attempt to end their pay television contracts three months' service including premium channels at just &#163;1 a month.The pay-TV operator, which is jointly owned by ITV companiesGranadaandCarlton, has designed the offer to head off losses among the first waves of customers reaching the end of their 12 month contracts. This is a critical time for OnDigital, which launched in November 1998, as it attempts to build subscriber numbers toward the forecast 1m by the end of the year.The company yesterday announced that it had increased its subscriber base by 22% in the first quarter to 673,000 homes. A spokesman said the offer was one of several being tied out to test their efficacy in keeping hold of customers.Granada is understood to hold the 1m mark as the trigger point for a stock market flotation of the business. Carlton has already employed investment bankMorgan Stanleyto prepare an outline of options for the company moving forward.Stuart Prebble, OnDigital's chief executive, said the business was going from strength to strength. "We are right on course to achieve our target of 1m customers by the end of this year and 2m by the end of 2002."OnDigital has launched two sports channels and is likely to appear among the bidders for Premier league broadcasting rights. Mr Prebble said talks had been held with NTL and ITV companies about joint bids.Earlier this month, OnDigital launched its email service via the TV and plans to have full Internet access later this year.
The arcane business of derivatives took a step into the future yesterday when six of the world's biggest dealers announced plans to set up an electronic system for trading.The system, to be known as SwapsWire, will allow interest rate derivatives to be traded by computers, eventually eradicating the current method of doing business over the telephone.Interest rate derivatives, among the most complicated in the financial world, are used by major corporations to protect themselves against major movements in interest rates.SwapsWire is being set up by the six biggest players in the interest rate derivatives market:Chase Manhattan,Citigroup,Deutsche Bank,JP Morgan,Morgan Stanley Dean WitterandWarburg Dillon Read. It is named for one of the leading derivative products, known as a swap.The new system, which will be jointly-owned by the six institutions, is not intended to act as an exchange in setting prices at which the trades are done. But it is intended to allow the majors to communicate with each other. Eventually, members may pay access or fees per trade.The average outstanding value of swaps worldwide was estimated at $52 trillion in 1999, up from $37 trillion the year before, a 41 percent increase.To support this growing volume of business, each of the big banks involved employs hundreds of staff. For example, one of the SwapsWire founders, JP Morgan, employs 300 in the back office of its derivatives operation in London.The SwapsWire system is expected to be tested towards the end of this year and be more widely available in the early part of next. The six founders say they intend to encourage their rivals to participate in the network.
The government's third generation mobile phone auction reached another milestone yesterday as the total bids topped &#163;16bn, driven byVodafoneandBT Cellnet's battle to win the prized licence B.Licence B - one of five on offer - offers the broadest spectrum available to the four existing mobile operators.Yesterday Vodafone bid &#163;4.24bn for the licence, which pushed its shares down 17.25p to 338.25p as investors became concerned about the cost to the company.In addition to the payment for the licence, the five winners will need to spend at least &#163;2bn each building networks for the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System on which third generation phones will operate.Stephen Pentland, a partner at Spectrum Strategy Consultants, said that the winners might open up their networks to new retailers offering mobile services as part of a bundled package to their customers.He said this could be vital because the winners would need to generate revenues quickly to cover the potential &#163;6bn-plus cost of the licence and network to operators such as Vodafone or BT."Just as credit cards are no longer marketed just by retail banks - even Yahoo! now offers a credit card to its portal users - so too it is possible that mobile communications services will no longer be the exclusive domain of telecoms operators," he said.The second highest bid came from NTL Mobile, backed by France Telecom, which offered &#163;3.25bn for licence A. This licence, which is reserved for a new entrant, has become a battleground for Telefonica of Spain, TIW of Canada and WorldCom of the Netherlands.Telefonica, which has waived its bidding rights twice and has only one more chance to abstain before it has to drop out of the race, offered &#163;2.84bn for licence D.One2One bid &#163;2.85bn for licence C while Orange offered &#163;2.86bn for licence E.Round 111 of the auction resumes today, with eight bidders still in contention. The number of contenders is expected to drop before the end of the week as prices rise further.Some analysts have said the total value of the bids may go as high as &#163;22bn.
Howard Slater was once a professor of microbiology. Now he is boss of Frog Tours in London.What the hell's that?It's a Frog Tours bus - an amphibious vehicle that travels around London and then goes into the Thames. It's based on the DUKW landing craft, designed and developed to facilitate European landings in the second world war.Where did you get the idea from?While I was on holiday in Boston in the US I saw something similar. My daughters pushed me to try it out and it was huge fun - so I decided to replicate it in London.Where do they go?We run adventure tours called Around London in 80 Minutes, which take in all the tourist attractions including Buckingham Palace, Piccadilly Circus and Hyde Park continuing into the Thames and going past the Houses of Parliament.Do you think tourists really want their bus to drive into the river?Absolutely; they're overwhelmed by it.How many are there?Three running currently with a view to adding two a month. I've taken on option to buy a total of 32, each one coming into service once a renovation and re-service has been completed.Do they have names?Mistress Quickly, Beatrice and Titania.Have you ever driven one?Yes, but not on the road as I don't have the appropriate licence. You need a PSV (Passenger Service Vehicle) licence and a boatsman's licence from the Port of London. It's the most regulated method of transport.Who has travelled on it so far?Fare-paying tourists of all sorts of nationalities. The personalities that helped to launch it were Stirling Moss and Jenson Button. We asked them because they represent the old and the new - as the Frog does.What do passers by think?People continually stop and stare with mouths dropped open. The older folk mouth "duck" because they know how the vehicle was originally used. On one occasion, football fans at Trafalgar Square sang We Love Mr Froggie and then Yellow Submarine at it. If we travel down The Mall, more people look at the Frog than at the Palace.Is there anything you don't like about it?No. It's deeply endearing and adds a new dimension to London. It has a major historical role and is given a new lease of life.What do you normally drive?A dark blue BMW 323&#149; Frog tours: 020 7928 3132
There are about 18 major passenger vehicle manufacturers on the planet, although the number will soon drop. Between them they have about 50 brands or what, in more innocent stringback-glove-and foaming-pint days, used to be called marques. As the industry consolidates into almighty conglomerates, the most urgent creative task is to understand what these brands mean. How did they acquire their value? How can this value be exploited and extended? If you haven't got it, how can you get it?Today anybody with machine tools and access to cheap labour can make a car. If someone gave me the money I could start tomorrow. This is why the smarter automobile makers are already contemplating a future when they subcontract dirty manufacturing, leaving themselves with the most precious commodities and vital disciplines of the information age: design, marketing and distribution. At the same time, for many individuals the car has ceased to be a viable means of transport: legislation and congestion mock the spirit of democratic mobility that inspired the first makers of automobiles. Equally, technical distinctions are thinning and today there are very few positively bad cars on sale.Competitive advantage used to come from the simple ability to manufacture, now it comes from something infinitely more subtle and mysterious: image. Unlike a production line, which is predictable, the image a car possesses is volatile, transient and difficult to control. Here we are in intellectual territory, surroundings that until now have been alien to the motor industry. Manufacturers may have total control over the design and content of the cars they sell, but they cannot control their afterlife. It's the same with paintings that acquire meanings which the artist may never have intended.Although advertising can help build a brand image, it doesn't always work. Some things are beyond the   opinion research, brainstorming, and cost-per-thousand figures that dominate this pseudo-science. It is really more snake oil and sorcery. Despite what the agency might say, you can't help who buy the cars. Maserati, for example, always attracted the wrong sort of people: men who wear those woven shoes and have a disinclination to do up their shirt buttons. Now Maserati is owned by Ferrari, but these old impressions stick: it's a truism of marketing that image endures long after the reality that brought it about. Even BMW has its problems. In the 80s there were discussions about buying-in used cars to prevent them falling into the wrong hands. Certainly, BMW does a marvellous job of fetishising cupidity, but recent embarrassments with British investments have led to an unfamiliar image crisis. It will be some time before wholesome estate agents stride into wine bars and flash their 3-series key fobs. To add to a basket of positive associations, largely justified by a tradition of refined design and superb engineering, BMW now has to tackle less welcome associations including arrogance, indecisiveness, ruthlessness and a certain reluctance to be straightforward. Still, there are some who say that an air of menace is a significant part of the BMW brand proposition.General Motors invented brand strategy in the 50s when that wizard of kitsch, Harley Earl, defined car design as giving the customer a "visual receipt" for his money. But a brilliant strategy that clearly defined Chevrolet, Oldsmobile, Buick, Pontiac and Cadillac so that every nuance of US taste was not just catered to, but anticipated, has gone   astray. Now General Motors has the unfortunate reputation of owning five brands that even Americans won't buy. The Chevrolet Vega and Chevette were recently described by the New York Times as among the worst cars ever made. It always used to be described as social suicide to be seen driving a Chevy off the Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard ferry.Some of this rubs off on Vauxhall, General Motors' local product. Many people would rather walk than use one. As a brand it represents an almost fathomless black hole. Far better be in a Skoda than a Vauxhall. With roots deep in the European engineering tradition, Skoda never deserved its comedic reputation: the cars were in themselves fine. Their only problem was that the Czech factory was crippled by under investment and as late as the 80s they were still producing a car that was no more technically advanced than the 1936 Volkswagen. And of course corrupt Comecon supply chains meant Skoda had shabby materials and irregular ancillaries. But they were cheap and where brands are concerned cheap doesn't necessarily mean good. Skodas were bought by low income individuals and this set up a resonant chain that said "I am poor" and as a result of that robbed downstream Skoda owners of sexual allure and social prestige to a disturbing degree.Then Volkswagen bought Skoda to have a brand for Eastern Europe and things got better. Except the advertising, which was as dismaying as the jokes. As a careless shortcut to credibility, explicit associations made people scratch their heads and wonder why buy a Czech Volkswagen when you could buy a German one? That problem has now been solved by some fine cars, although Skoda does still have its difficulties with names. Felicia sounded like a sexual practice with your teeth misisng.. Now there is Fabia, but it is a car that can be bought without a keen sense of irony. Fallon McElligott's latest television ads attempt to change our view of the brand. The current one has a British dignitary enthusiastically touring the factory in the Czech Republic before asking if they also   make "those funny little Skoda cars" as well. It is cleverly conceived and beautifully executed, and although the Skoda brand still has a mountain to climb, it is well up the lower slopes.Machines have life and they tend to betray the preoccupations and beliefs of the people who make them. Skoda is now making well-designed cars so its brand will continue to increase in value. Those people are really committed. Maserati, on the other hand, was not: the Maserati brothers never actually wanted to make road cars, they were only interested in racing. And this is why Vauxhall has the allure of a dead cat : there is nothing to believe in.Again, nobody's heart was in Rover: the whole misadventure was   like Goldsmith's line about toiling pleasure sickening into pain. This is why BMW will be fine: everybody knows they are fanatical about the product. Jaguar is exemplary too. It just gets better and better. Jaguar's image is so strong it can even survive close association with John Prescott.But the biggest brand problem of all? It is Rolls-Royce and Bentley. Instead of rock solid associations of aristocratic privilege, luxury and graciousness, images of scrap metal dealers float into view. Anyway, things can only get better: Dirk van Braeckl, the designer who did so much to improve Skoda, has gone to work in Crewe. The way things are now, Rolls-Royce can only benefit from association with Skoda.Cars that ended up with the wrong imageCitro&euml;n 2CVDesigned in 1935 by Andr&eacute; Citro&euml;n as a replacement for the French peasant's horse and cart, the ungainly 2CV has been adopted by sandal-wearing teachers and liberals across the UK. No gite-loving Francophile would be content without one.FerrariOnce an aristocrat's plaything Enzo's work of art is now the quintessential flash footballer's run-about. In fact the players' car park   at Old Trafford easily passes for a Ferrari showroom.Ford MondeoTony Blair's Mondeo man stereotype had the marketing men crying into their espressos. The car is now indelibly associated with the middle-England mediocrity of estate agents, school runs, and 2.4 children.VW CamperHijacked by tie-dyed hippies and bronzed Californian surf bums, the   1960s saw the VW Camper transformed from family recreation vehicle to mobile den of iniquity.Ford Escort XR3iConceived in 1982 at the height of Thatcherism, this beast was soon snapped up by boy racers and equipped with fluffy dice and matching his'n'hers name stickers in the window. As soon as the sun set in Essex, every one way system became an unofficial XR3i racetrack.
Last weekend Rover launched a media blitz to persuade us to buy their new cars, and in such desperate circumstances they have to appeal to buyers' baser instincts with cut-price offers.The deals certainly do look tempting. First there are price cuts, with &#163;1,000 "cashback" on a Rover 25, &#163;1,500 on a 45 and &#163;2,000 off the big Rover 75. On top of that there's two years' 0% finance with a 40% deposit, plus three years' free servicing. And because of the uncertainty about the future, Rover also claim that they'll ensure the serviceability of all their cars for at least 10 years. So is buying a new Rover still too much of a gamble, no matter how good the price may seem?Mark Norman is editor of the influential CAP Monitor trade-price guide, and he's confident that we should take Rover at their word. "All future values hinge on parts supply and availability of service points, and I don't expect problems with either. When the Rover sell-off was announced, there was a strong suspicion that Rover's residuals would collapse, but they didn't. In fact the cars have performed well so far, and even for future residuals we've only marked Rover down slightly."I won't bore you with the figures, but Norman confirms that he expects new Rover residual values to decline from middling to slightly below the market average, while most older Rovers won't be affected significantly. That's very important of course, because the price you get for a car when you sell it is just as important as what you pay now - since depreciation is the key motoring cost. So with some informed reassurance that your new Rover won't collapse in value, should you now take Rover up on its generous offer?In a way, their own press advertisement provides the most likely answer to this question, since they use some worked examples of financing a new Rover through a personal contract purchase (PCP) package. Choose a relatively inexpensive car, like the &#163;9,395 Rover 25 1.4 i, and under Rover's new deal you put down &#163;499 and then pay just over &#163;150 a month to drive the car for three years. At the end you can pay another &#163;3,961 to buy the car outright, although if Rover's residual values are in the dog-house by   then, you can simply walk away.That deal looks like decent value, because running a new car for just over &#163;150 a month isn't bad, especially with servicing thrown in. But move up to the Rover 75 and things start to look less attractive. If you fancy the 75 1.8i Classic you're going to have slap down &#163;999 as a deposit, and then pay over &#163;250 a month to drive the car for three years. And in the current market, I wouldn't bet that a three-year-old Rover 75 will beat Rover's guaranteed value of &#163;8,984.64, suggesting that you'd be unlikely to get much cash back to put towards your next deposit. (Although even if the car's final value is much less than Rover predict, you wouldn't be a total loser, because any over-estimate by them will actually reduce your monthly payments.)It's also worth bearing in mind that car supermarkets are offering some staggeringly cheap deals on new Rovers at the moment, largely because there are plenty of unsold cars about. For instance Derby-based Motorpoint (01332 347357) is offering new Rover 75 1.8 Club SEs for just &#163;14,999 and Rover 25 1.4 iS at &#163;8,499 - savings of &#163;4,881 and &#163;3,496 respectively.In the end I'd only buy a new Rover if I really liked the car anyway, and the smaller, cheaper 25s do look like the range's best-buys. But what about the award-winning Rover 75? Sadly Rover's image problems are almost certain to hit the range-topping 75 harder than the workaday 25s, so despite their various incentives, it's hard to see the 75 as an ideal private buyer's car. But as the Rover spokesman commented, with what must have been a distinctly wan smile, with a likely maximum of 100,000 75s ever being produced, this model may eventually become a collectors item.
The  bouncing bubble of technology share prices has fallen most visibly and most obviously flat forLastminute.com. The high-profile tickets-to-hotel reservations online business run by Brent Hoberman and Martha Lane Fox, last week dipped to below half its 380p flotation price.In the wake of 'charcoal Tuesday', when technology stocks in the US and UK took a dive after the Microsoft ruling, both Hoberman and Lane Fox were phlegmatic about their disappearing wealth and sliding share price.'It hasn't altered our belief that there is a fantastic growth story here and that sales have been growing almost exactly in inverse proportion to the drop in share price,' says Lane Fox. What anyone who read the prospectus carefully would know is that Lastminute has a tiny turnover for a company pitching for a &#163;400 million valuation - less than &#163;500,000 last year. Profits are non-existent and not projected, but most worryingly the company has no ownership of either its suppliers or customers.And despite the blinding conviction and confidence of both founders, coupled with an articulate grasp of new economic terms, the ultimate success of Lastminute is still an outside bet. The brand is strong but the site and offering still has flaws. Did Lane Fox think that the actual proposition or the offering of the company live up to the strength of the brand which, remarkably, has only spent &#163;6 million in advertising?'No,' she says carefully, but then hastily adds: 'That's not doing a Gerald Ratner, I think that we have a fantastic offering, but we are only really an inch along the road to fulfilling our ultimate vision.' The company has been rebuilding its website over the past six months in an attempt to make the Lastminute bookings services more enticing.The float was not only marred by a sudden cooling towards technology stocks, but by a litany of unfortunate circumstances surrounding the offer. With massive demand for shares, applicants were limited to 36 each, which they could not trade in until a week after the company debuted on the stock market. Some who did not get the number they applied for complained that their refund cheques bounced. This was attributed to a glitch in repayment systems beyond Lastminute's control.Perhaps the most controversial episode involved the decision by advisers Morgan Stanley to up the pricing of the flotation when it became clear how high the demand had become. Did the founders think that in retrospect it had been a mistake to raise that price from 190p to 380p? 'Of course not, how could it possibly have been a mistake?' says Lane Fox, 'We got &#163;125 million in cash into the company which will enable us to grow as quickly as possible.'But do the pair feel no responsibility for the shareholders or that their brand has been tarnished? 'I don't think the brand has suffered as a result,' says Hoberman. Of the shareholders, he adds: 'Of course we feel responsible, we have many shareholders working for us in the company, but the best way of taking care of the shareholders is to harness the growth potential of the market and fulfil our potential. What the flotation gave us is the ability to do that. We now have probably more time than most of the other Internet IPOs in this country to deliver.'The only worry about the episode, he says, 'is that it will be harder for other start-ups to get IPOs. We are evangelists for the sector and it would be wrong for this to affect funding for others.'He is quick to correct any impression that Morgan Stanley were at fault. 'None of that criticism came from us. We   felt that at the time we got the best possible advice.'But given the market's over-excitement and then apparent disappointment, had the pre-publicity been a good or a bad thing?'On balance it has to have been a good thing,' says Hoberman, although Lane Fox, by way of age and gender, bore the brunt of the attention. 'In the two and half years it has taken us to set up this company, the hardest thing for me has been the last three weeks where I've been overwhelmed - the press have rung all sorts of people, friends, my old headmistress.' For the first time Lane Fox, still only 27, looks grim.
Virgin is poised to take on high-profile online brands Lastminute.com and QXL with the launch of a major new Internet service.The company is creating an online auction site to sell spare flights on Virgin planes, holidays and products such as mobile phones. The site will allow users to buy and sell collectibles and memorabilia, similar to the service by online auctioneer eBay. An announcement is expected in the next couple of months.The move marks a shift in emphasis for the troubled Virgin group, which is turning its focus to the Internet    and away from divisions which have failed to perform. Last week Virgin announced it was to stop selling its branded clothing in the UK and that Virgin Express, its low-cost airline, made a loss last year. The V2 record label and Our Price stores have also required multimillion-  pound injections.Developing Virgin's powerful consumer brand on the Internet - using some of the &#163;400 million the company made from the sale of its 49 per cent stake in its airline - makes sense.As Virgin Net is one of the most popular Internet ser vices in the UK, the company's online expansion plans represent a new challenge for companies like Lastminute and QXL. Lastminute sells late holidays and gifts, while QXL specialises in auctioning bulk orders of goods and services.Last week Lastminute's   share price continued to depress investors. QXL, meanwhile, surged 128 per cent on Thursday alone as a wealth of analysts expressed faith in the stock and the company's ability to consolidate the fragmented online auction market.The Virgin site is being   built by US technology firm FairMarket, which also built the auction service for FiredUp.com, the online firm owned by News Corp.The system monitors users' instructions so that it can offer a more personalised service. 'It learns what they buy, it gives Virgin the ability to market to its customers,' said Lou Shipley, president of FairMarket.'Over time, we would expect to get all of their products from phones to excess plane seats on the site. They'll start with one set of auction products and then they'll expand the range from there.'Link-up with London Electricity to sell energy over the InternetVirginis finalising a deal with French-owned London Electricity to sell energy over the Internet.  The joint venture, which is majority-owned by Virgin, will see London selling electricity and gas across the United Kingdom under the Virgin Energy brand. The final details about exact equity stakes are still being hammered out, but an announcement should come some time within the next two weeks.Virgin has talked to a number of utilities about launching   its energy brand, and London Electricity is thought to have pipped Eastern Energy, owned by the American giant TXU, and Scottish &amp; Southern Energy to the finishing post. The site is due to be launched in the summer, with Virgin aiming to add other services, including telecoms, at a later stage.Virgin is entering the utilities market as other players such as npower, the former National power, Centrica and Scottish Power expand their web-based operations.
"I have nothing to say about this. I hold only a tiny stake in Microsoft these days. We faced charges of being a monopoly and acting anti-competitively in the past and came through it. I'm sure the business will fend off these new accusations. Now if you'll excuse me I have a company to run.'With that William Jefferson Gates III, chief executive officer of Bio-Tech Inc, the world's largest biotechnology company, jumped into his wired-up state-of-the-art motor launch and headed across Seattle's Lake Washington to a mooring offshore from his billion dollar home/office complex.Welcome to the future, 10 years from now. It is a world where Microsoft has become far more powerful: where its   software has migrated from the computer on your office desk to your hi-fi, to your digital television, to your intelligent fridge, to your palmtop personal organiser and, of course, to the mobile phone built into your tie clip. And, yes, in this scenario, Microsoft, even without Bill Gates, is again on the receiving end of the largest anti-trust trial in history, this time charged with trying to dominate the Internet in an anti-competitive manner.In this scenario, Gates resigned from the company in 2002. His shock exit, following a boardroom coup, came only a few months after Microsoft agreed to open up its Windows source code to competitors, unbundle its Internet Explorer browser software and pay a hefty, undisclosed fine (rumoured to be about $70 billion) following a successful appeal against a Supreme Court judgment that it should be broken up into several different businesses.Microsoft, bloodied but unbowed, returned to its core competence: developing software. This vision had been spelt out in the previous century when Gates announced he was to step down as Microsoft boss to become chief software architect, changing the company's focus from an applications and operating system manufacturer to a firm which could teach the World Wide Web to sing in perfect harmony.At the time of his resignation in 1999, Gates said: 'I'm returning to what I love most   - focusing on technologies for the future.' The plan, which Microsoft was to realise only following the ousting of Gates, saw the company reassert its dominance in the software market.Gates, incandescent at his betrayal, subsequently sold almost all of his 21 per cent stake in the business through a series of private placings and used the money to fund his other great passion - biotechnology - quickly building the sector's biggest firm.Despite the acrimonious departure, Microsoft was to thank Gates for sowing the seeds which grew into the Microsoft of 2010. Previously its formula for success had been simple: dominant PC operating systems led to dominant applications which led to the chance to dominate emerging markets. But once this loop was broken, Microsoft knew it needed a new game plan. The Internet brought new competitors, new distribution methods and, most importantly, new opportunities.The radical transformation began in the year 2000, so ... back to the present.Few people have yet heard of Distributed interNet Architecture (DNA) and even fewer people know how it will work, but it is clear that Gates and Microsoft see it as crucial to the company's longevity. The software writing involved in DNA may be complicated but the idea is simple: Microsoft wants to create and impose its own standards and protocols on the Internet.As the way we access and use the Net changes, ensuring a common set of standards will be crucial. Companies and individuals want seamless communication links: after all, who ever got excited about disjointed communication?Currently the standards which are used to allow cooperating computers to share resources across networks are called TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol).Software experts argue that Microsoft's DNA plan amounts to the introduction of its own set of protocols   which will allow new generations of intelligent devices to talk to each other. 'If the Department of Justice is worried about the browser situation, this is Rockefeller and John Pierpoint Morgan rolled into one with turbo-charged stripes,' said one technology expert.The fact that Microsoft is now limbering up for the fight to impose its own standards on the Internet should not really be a surprise. As the eminent technology journalist, Charles H Ferguson, writes in  High St@kes, No Prisoners , his book about the Internet wars: 'Microsoft   competes by establishing industry standards, and relatedly by commoditising the business of others. It develops products by licensing, acquiring, or copying the innovations of others and commercialising them in the form of high-volume industry standard platforms.'This view explains why Microsoft has been so interested in taking stakes in, or linking up with, companies whose activities span the digital spectrum. In Europe for instance, Microsoft has stakes in cable operators NTL and Telewest; it also has an alliance with NDS, the com pany (80 per cent owned by News Corp) which is developing code to power the next generation of interactive television services. Microsoft is also in partnership with DX3, which specialises in encrypting music for transmission over the Net.Chuck in its alliance with Ericsson for the development of next-generation mobile phone operating systems, not to mention numerous deals involving networks such as BT Cellnet, and handheld device manufacturers such as Casio, and it is clear that whichever platform you choose, there's a little bit of   Microsoft lurking inside - except for video games consoles, a market dominated by Sony, manufacturer of the PlayStation. This explains why Microsoft is busy building its own games console complete with Internet access provider, called the X-Box.Microsoft's critics may shudder at the implications of a wired world where the methods of procedure are devised and controlled by the software giant just as, for 20 years, the PC market has been forced to play according to the Seattle company's rules. However, the company itself sees its role in a more evangelical light. 'We're moving to a world where we believe people will be connected to the Internet through many devices. So for Microsoft the opportunity is to create a platform which spans these devices,' said Shaun Orpen, its director of customer marketing.Some argue that it is precisely because of these increasingly diversified forms of technology and the plethora of companies who champion them, that fears about an all-powerful Microsoft are misplaced. 'They will be a strong player, but they won't necessarily be the dominant one. Before Microsoft was lucky - most of its competitors were inept. They won't make the same mistake this time,' said Michael Gartenberg, a US Vice President with IT consultants Gartner Group.The signs are that some of   these future competitors will come from within: Microsoft's big hitters are leaving because of a mixture of avarice and apathy towards their employer. Steve Chang, founder and head of Trend Micro, one of the world's largest online security companies and a partner of Microsoft, said: 'The tragedy for Microsoft is that all its top executives are leaving. They've been working there almost 15 years. They're going into dot.com companies. Without great people you can't have a great company.'It seems a bizarre thought. The greatest threat to Microsoft may not be the US legal system but desertion by the foot soldiers who helped the company achieve its monopoly.Either a break-up or a brain drain would cause its monopoly to crumble, albeit at different speeds, because the company would lose the physical and critical mass which secured its omnipotence in the first place. And, of course, without sustaining that sort of size and clout, Microsoft's dreams of creating the next generation of Internet protocols can never be realised.Microsoft knows where it wants to go today and it knows where it wants to be in a decade. Whether it can arrive is down to the Department of Justice and the loyalty - or otherwise - of its own employees.&#149; Additional reporting by Dan Milmo
Rarely do the rest of us look at City traders with any sense of fellow-feeling. But the teeth-grinding fury, the bitter humour, the frustration and self-contempt which they felt during the computer crash which paralysed the London Stock Market last week was such a moment. Most of us who live with computers know exactly how they felt. As the chairman of Winterflood Securities put it: 'This is the IT world for you. You drop your calculator and the battery falls out and suddenly you haven't got a brain.'If you were of a paranoid turn, you'd note that the London computers shut themselves down shortly after high-technology stocks on US markets had started to plunge. Was there some kind of digital self-preservation going on - IT systems looking after their own? But no, this is normal. Crashes, glitches, failures of all kinds are the part of the digital present that is omnipresent. What about the economic inefficiency and human frustration that computers also bring?I have seen three laptops die so far. One simply had a nervous breakdown, went catatonic and has never woken up again. It has half a bad novel inside it so I've never quite brought myself to throw it out. Another fell victim to my brutal, if fast, keyboard technique, developed on East German typewriters 20 years back. Eventually, the keys pinged off. A third caught a virus and went mad. Friends have got it sort-of working again, but it is now determinedly eccentric, unreliable and blinks at me in a dazed fashion when I try to turn it on. (Which makes me, I suddenly notice, sound a bit like Ted Hughes. First time that's happened.)More generally, I have had money accidentally removed from bank accounts, seen work disappear, wasted afternoons in offices when computers have crashed, spent hours trying to book holidays online before realising that what I actually needed was to talk to a human being, and vanished into the   black hole of computer telephony stabbing 'the star button' miserably in the vain hope of finding a friendly ear. And from what I can gather, these experiences are normal. Expanded generally, they suggest that IT can lead to worse business judgments as well as faster ones and lose sales as well as gain them.This question of computer inefficiency is not, in the end, the important one. This is still an infant Henry Ford-era industry when you can have any laptop you want as long as it's black, possesses far more computing power than you need and falls apart easily. Better designed, more reliable and even prettier machines are coming along all the time.But thinking about the cumbersome and inefficient aspects of IT is a useful way into the bigger questions about it. Neil Postman, a New York professor, suggests that, with any new technology you should ask: 'What is the problem to which this is a solution?' To which any student of public affairs would want to add: and to whom does this solution give wealth and power, and who loses? After the stock exchange crash, another huge round of local bank closures, caused primarily by new technology, and the devastating judgment against Microsoft, followed by the slide in IT stocks, all these questions seem particularly potent.The original Postman question could be answered by saying that the problems of slowness in business and the power of the old political and media &eacute;lite are problems to which the Internet age offers solutions. It puts consumers in touch with suppliers and it makes available unimaginable amounts of information to everyone who can afford a computer - or soon, a new-generation mobile phone. It speeds up and it opens up. E-mailing solves the problem of long, burbly phone calls. And, if you believe the prediction that a third or more of Britain's commuters will become teleworkers, urban congestion and car pollution are other obvious problems it helps solve.These are real benefits. They are one reason why, despite the gleeful prophets of cyber-doom, the soaring dot-com shares, then their fall to more realistic valuations, is not a disaster or a re-run of the Dutch tulip mania. Whatever happens to Martha Lane Fox (who seems to me to be behaving with admirable coolness) and her company, the idea behind it will work. That, in itself, is a store of   value in comparison with other investment fevers, like the tulip bubble of the seventeenth century. Tulips look nice. You can paint them. If in very dire straits, you might try to eat them. But they are not a transforming technology.When you come on to the 'who gains, who loses?' category of questions, however, it gets harder. For - another Postman point - technology also limits our options and undoes previous ways of living and working. Imagine, for instance, the parallel Britain of 2000 in which television had never happened - a country of ubiquitous and lavish cinemas, telephone news services, thicker newspapers; a place where piano playing, singing and sheet-music sales were central to daily life, not marginal. To say that we prefer it our way is too easy: the technology changed us all.So, today, with the Internet economy, the paths untaken are all around us. We are opting for a huge social shift in which more and more (banking, shopping, entertainment, working) is done not face to face but by cables looping past our front doors. The draw-bridging of everyday life, an ultimate privatisation of the community, could not have happened without tiny lines engraved on silicon.Who does it benefit? People who are useful 'information workers' already, who are plugged in, whose credit ratings are good. If the Government was prepared to push this, it could also be the most powerful force in regional policy for generations, as the lower living costs and higher labour-pool persuade companies to site call centres outside the south-east. (Have you noticed how often the voice at the end of the line is Scouse, Geordie, Scottish or Irish?)There will be many new jobs, of course, and cultural reasons will ensure they are at home, not only in Bangalore: if the e-economy was a net job destroyer, the US would today have mass unemployment. But so far, they are less secure and less unionised.The bleak news   is for lower-middle-class, home-owning, service-sector workers. Even before last week's bank closures, some 150,000 banking employees are said to have lost their jobs in the past decade. Thanks to computer telephony, only a small minority will be needed for the switch to online. Similarly, though online shopping ought to provide a bonanza time for delivery companies, including the Post Office, it may hit a host of specialist high street retailers.The final big loser/winner issue is about politics and power. The old model, in which authority was held by governments and passed down by a media &eacute;lite, with privileged access not only to people but information, is clearly under threat. Now, you can find out for yourself - read that unedited speech, e-mail the department, download the facts, ignore the priorities and choices made by newspaper or programme editors. Many people won't want to bother. They will prefer to trust an organisation or brand to do it for them. But equally, more and more will simply bypass the old media - which means they may bypass old assumptions too. The political effects are hard to gauge, but they may include rawer, sometimes nastier, populist arguments. The power, glamour and authority of business, roaming the Net, will similarly increase. Conclusion? This period of delicate liberal censorship and rule by a progressive media &eacute;lite may be less secure than it looks.As between the technophobes, who prophesy social collapse and have been grimly pleased by the bad news of the past week, and the bland optimists of e-topia, for whom future life will consist of perfectly-informed, free individuals sipping coffee and checking their investments by palm-pilot, most of us will find a muddy middle way.Out of nervousness, ignorance, awe or sloth, British politicians have mostly kept away from the social consequences of the Internet, seeing it as something too big, too new for them to do more than applaud as a clever toy. They are entirely wrong, as the Microsoft ruling and some of the Budget fall-out shows. It is not a private issue. This is the generator of the new economy, the new shaper of society; therefore it is also the proper subject of political argument. That there has been so little so far makes us look like a country of peasants when the first flintlock arrives.
A senior executive at T-Online International, Deutsche Telekom's net service provider, yesterday defended its decision to set a lower price range for the company's flotation.In the wake of the battering suffered by technology stocks in Europe and the US recently,T-Onlineis pricing the sale of a 10% stake at between 26 and 32 euros a share, compared with initial market expectations of 35 to 50 euros.At the top of the indicated price range T-Online would be valued at just over 30bn euros.Yesterday Wolfgang Keuntje, chairman of the managing board, said it would be for investors to determine whether the price was high or low."We believe &#91;the range&#93; is fair," he said. The flotation was not aimed at wringing the last euro from the offer for sale but to provide T-Online with a public listing which would give it "the currency to make acquisitions".Mr Keuntje said the industry was in a "consolidation phase" and argued that that would   provide more opportunities for acquisitions than at a time when valuations were higher.T-Online claims to be Europe's biggest ISP with some 4.7m customers in Germany and, despite the recent shake-out among hi-tech markets, there are indications that the issue is likely to prove popular.According to a recent survey in B&#246;rse Online magazine, one in five Germans is planning to buy T-Online shares.Interest in the sector climbed again yesterday when freenet.de - Germany's third largest ISP - said that France Telecom might buy a stake.The French company - arch-rival of Deutsche Telekom since the collapse of their alliance when the German group sought to acquire Telecom Italia - is France's biggest ISP through its Wanadoo subsidiary. Last month it bought 28.5% of freenet.de's parent company, Mobilcom.The buy, underlining the increasingly international nature of competition in Europe, benefited as freenet.de's shares climbed by almost a fifth in value yesterday.
More than 60% of companies have seen serious security breaches through internet connections, according to a Department of Trade and Industry survey to be published next week.The findings based on 1,000 interviews show widespread negligence when it comes to net security. The breaches have cost up to &#163;100,000 yet most companies changed nothing after detecting leaks.Patricia Hewitt, the e-commerce minister, last night issued "a wake-up notice" to British business. She said the government's ambition was to make the UK the safest place to do business online.Many small businesses were taking "too many risks" and needed to be more aware of the problems, which were not confined to hackers but included fire and theft.Information security was about safeguarding a business's money, image, reputation and potential. "The consequences of security incidents can be disastrous, but they are avoidable."According to the survey, 30%   of organisations do not recognise that their business information is an asset worth protecting.Almost three-quarters of companies suffering a breach they regarded as serious did not have a contingency plan to deal with it. More than half of those organisations did not believe they could have done anything to prevent the breach.Some 82% of businesses with external electronic links do not use any form of "e-protection" and 59% with a website do not use effective security measures. Of those companies that have critical or sensitive information, 63% had suffered a breach that was considered serious.One in three companies is already buying or selling over the net, or intends to start in the near future. But only 37% of organisations interviewed have undertaken a risk assessment whereby a systematic approach is taken to assess the security risks they face. Worse still, the survey showed that one in six companies did not think about security when buying or selling over the net.Only one in seven organisations has a formal information   management security policy in place. Ms Hewitt backed the report, saying that the presence of such a policy is one of the most important issues in resolving security breaches.An important point, say authors of the report, is that companies did not consider the risks of not being paid, and therefore the credit-worthiness of their customers.Bob Grace of Nokia internet communications, which helped to carry out the survey, said: "As an industry we need to raise awareness without causing panic. We need to remove the fear of doing business in a wired world."&#149; E-commerce is making faster inroads in Germany than in France, largely due to a lower rate of internet use among the French, whose Minitel system provides competition, a study released yesterday showed.The study, conducted Ipsos for French online retailer Rouge & Blanc, showed 25% of German internet users had shopped online while the rate among the French was 20%. Only 23% of French respondents go online, against 42% in Germany.
Web pioneer Netscape today unveiled the latest version of its famous  internet browser, claiming its new software represents a "major advance in  browsing".Netscape 6 is the first big upgrade in almost two years for the program  which was once the first choice web browser for 90% of internet users. That  was before the "browser wars" between Netscape and Microsoft in the late  1990s in which Netscape was beaten into a distant second place. Microsoft's  Internet Explorer now has 70% of the browser market.The new product takes on added significance after this week's ruling in the  US that Microsoft was guilty of abusing its monopoly power to crush  Netscape, which it once regarded as a major threat to its business. Netscape  is now owned byAmerica Online (AOL).Despite the Microsoft ruling, there is some scepticism about the impact  Netscape 6 will have. As the software is free the company will not make any direct financial gain by signing up users. One analyst observed that users  "don't care" which browser they use, while another added:  "Its not really a contest any more. The browser wars are over."Netscape has seen this scepticism brewing and knew that it would have to  offer good reasons to entice new users to go  through the rigmarole of downloading, installing and learning a new browser.The initial reaction to the new program, introduced to Britain in London  today, suggests they may have managed that. Netscape 6 is a complete rewrite  of the browser which helped spark the internet revolution. It has a number  of new features and runs noticeably faster, but still manages to be around  half the size of its bulky predecessor.It also boasts impeccable geek credentials: the new software is the result  of the protracted Mozilla open-source project, a voluntary network of  independent programmers who came together to keep Netscape browser  development alive while the company struggled against Microsoft's onslaught.Given Netscape's scrapes with Microsoft, it should be no surprise that the  new software is designed to be more independent of the software giant's  Windows operating system. The new software is available immediately to run on Windows,  Macintosh and Linux computers.AOL has also put Netscape 6 at the centre of its AOL Anywhere plans, which  aim to let users use AOL and the web not just on home computers but on  televisions, mobile phones and handheld computers.Once again, that brings Netscape into direct competition with Microsoft,  which is developing its own mobile browser in conjunction with mobile phone  company Ericsson.By 2005 there will be more mobile internet browsers than people surfing via  their desktop PC, which suggests that, even if the desktop browser war  is over, there's plenty left to fight for in the mobile market."The Netscape magic is back," claimed AOL chief executive Steve Case. And it could be about to ignite the browser wars all over  again.New features in Netscape 6&#149; My Sidebar: a second window, to the left of the screen, which can be  customised to carry constantly updated information such as news, share prices,  sports results and auction news.eBay.co.ukandLastminute.comare already  offering a Sidebar service.&#149; Faster surfing: certain types of page, especially complex pages made up  using tables, now appear much more quickly.&#149; Integrated AOL Instant Messenger and an "intelligent" email module which  collects and files the names and email addresses of everyone who emails you.&#149; New version of Sun's Java programming language, plus Net2Phone software  for internet telephony, and Gist-in-Time, offering automatic translation  of foreign language web pages.&#149; Smaller download files - from 5MB for the browser only to 7MB for the full  program.Useful linksSpecial report: the future of MicrosoftNetscapeMicrosofteBayLastminute.comReviews"Netscape 6 ain't soup yet, but it's off to a good start."C-Net"Netscape 6 is not the home run the company needs in its increasingly uphill battle against Microsoft Internet Explorer."Zdnet
Dot.com mania has provided a fillip to the earnings performance of Granada, the media and hotels group, with the internet driving an overall growth of 12% in advertising revenues for the three months to March 31.In a trading statement the company said that advertising revenues had risen from a 9% increase in the December quarter to more than 12% in the March period.Granada is predicting that the trend will continue upwards and expects a jump of 17% in ITV advertising revenues in April.The group said advertising revenues from internet and technology companies increased from &#163;5m during the December quarter to over &#163;8m by the end of March.Industry expectations are that total dot.com spending on advertising will exceed some &#163;200m this year.Granada's media division reported a 10% rise in sales for the six months to March, with its operations benefiting from higher programme sales and better subscriber numbers   from its 50%-owned pay television service, ONdigital.Charles Allen, Granada's chief executive, said: "We have had a very good first half-year performance, with excellent results from our media division and strong progress in hospitality. With good second-half prospects in both this leaves us in very good shape for the year as a whole."Analysts are forecasting Granada to report a pre-tax profit of &#163;869m in 2000. The company's shares yesterday fell 12p to 620p.Mr Allen said programme sales had increased 13% in the half-year to March and predicted this growth would be more than 20% over the next six months.Strong sales have been from programmes such as Lost for Words, The Royle Family and Longitude. Granada also produces the longest running TV soap, Coronation Street.ONdigital, which Granada's jointly owns with Carlton Communications, revealed that its subscriber numbers rose to 552,000 in December, 18 months since it began operating. Subscriber numbers are expected to reach 1m by the   year's end and Granada said that its share of the investment from ONdigital in the first half was &#163;82m.Analysts have estimated that if ONdigital were spun off in a public offering Granada's 50% shareholding would be worth about &#163;1bn.There is also the question of the value of Granada's stake in internet search engine AskJeeves UK, which would deliver the company significant value if it were ever sold via a flotation.The cloud that hangs over Granada's share price, however, is the uncertainty over whether the government will allow it to bid for Carlton Communications or United News &amp; Media. The latter have proposed a merger to consolidate ITV ownership in the UK.Granada said revenues per available room for its Meridien hotel chain grew by 8%, with total sales up by 9%. The rise was underpinned by the expansion of the Meridien brand, with another 12 hotels opened in the past six months, taking the chain total to 121.
One of Europe's largest insurance groups, Zurich Financial Services, yesterday pledged a radical overhaul of its business strategy - focused on a $1bn (&#163;627m) expansion of its e-commerce business over the next three years.The group, which spans from Eagle Star and Allied Dunbar in Britain to Farmers in the United States, said it was looking to reach 100m   customers - almost three times as many as it has at present - through the expansion of the internet operation. Zurich is also looking to increase the number of products it sells to individual customers from an average of 1.8 now to four.The move will mean substantial reshaping as Zurich opens up its web sites to other companies' products, beginning with fund management."The opportunities offered by the internet will enable   Zurich to develop entirely new business models involving the formation of a network of partnerships and alliances. We will separate marketing from production, re-shape our processes and cut costs," chairman and chief executive Rolf H&uuml;ppi said yesterday.The group plans to extend the geographical coverage of its online banking operations and to expand them to include internet brokerage services. Clients would be offered customised web pages with de tails of their policies, investments, bank statements as well as related news and direct broker access.At present 47% of transactions at the group's US investment manager Scudder Kemper are carried out over the internet. In Britain, 11% of Eagle Star's business is carried out electronically.Sandy Leitch, chief executive of Zurich's operations in Britain, Ireland and South Africa, said the group was learning from its internet ex perience in the US, which was probably two or three years ahead. "We are taking that experience and applying it in the UK. We are not having to relearn everything. This is the advantage of being a global player."Allied Dunbar allows customers to track their mortgage application via the web while Eagle Star offers home and motor insurance online. "We now have something like 50 online initiatives in e-commerce in the UK," Mr Leitch   said. The scale of Zurich's planned investment is expected to increase the pressure on other financial services providers. With $1bn to spend, Zurich's e-commerce operation is thought to be equal to the combined spending of Britain's three largest insurers.Zurich acknowledged that in the short run, the scale of its spending on developing e-commerce initiatives could have an impact on profits.The investment programme might "cause profit growth in   the short term to be less than it would have been otherwise," said Mr H&uuml;ppi but added that "we will maintain our ambitious targets."The expenditure was needed to enable Zurich to remain at the top of the industry. "It is an aggressive step forward."The new e-strategy came alongside full-year figures from the group which showed pre-tax operating income rising by 21.5% to $5.34bn while net income was up by 15.9% to a record $3.26bn.
The American founders ofFlutter.combelieve they have pioneered an ingenious concept that avoids the pitfalls of cutthroat retailing on the net. Josh Hannah, Vince Monical and Mark Peters are not trying to sell anything, but they plan to make pots of money from lots of punters placing small bets against each other on their site.Flutter.com will not be for hardcore gamblers. There is a limit of &#163;100, bets are likely to be around &#163;5 and &#163;10, and can be made only between two people. Flutter.com is keen to emphasise that it is not in the online gaming business, an area occupied by the likes of Littlewoods, Freeserve and Sports Internet. This American trio offers something else - the fun and games of individuals betting against each other. The idea came from Mr Hannah and Mr Monical who used to bet with each other, when they worked as consultants at Bain &amp; Company, one of the world's leading consultancies."When we worked together   in Silicon Valley, we'd love to bet with each other. It was very personal, I'd wind Josh up, and end up taking a lot of his money. Then we'd make bets by email and from there it was a natural jump to the internet," said Monical. Scheduled for a late April launch, Flutter.com seeks to recreate that spirit of dare and spontaneity, spiced with a financial frisson, but on a scale only the internet can make possible.Two friends or acquaintances can make a bet in the office or in the pub. Flutter.com takes that idea further. You can go to the site, pick a field of your choice, say football, and place a bet on who will win a game, how many goals will be scored and so on. Participants are encouraged to banter, engage in one-upmanship and put their money where their mouth is. Politics, pop music, movies are some of the areas in which people can take on each other in bets that have already been set up on the site by Flutter.com's editorial team. Eventually people will be able to post their own bets."We want to create areas that people feel passionate about, get a discussion going between Arsenal fans and Chelsea fans with their vast amount of knowledge," said Hannah in the company's Clerkenwell office. "The limit on the size of the bets is to keep the focus on entertainment. It's a lot more fun taking money off a person while engaging in social chit chat."Flutter.com is not a sweepstakes site, where people put money into a pot and stand to win the lot. It aims to attract casual punters - the flutterers in pubs and offices and the 34% of the population who bet once a year on a few key national events, such as the Grand National. This is the company's target audience rather than the 3% of the population who bet regularly   at a bookmaker. Ironically, Flutter.com is next door to a William Hill betting shop."We are the first company of its kind. There are no others attacking this space," said Hannah. "This is something very new in entertainment, we are creating a virtual marketplace."Britain was the ideal location for Flutter.com although it meant leaving the charms of San Francisco. The US posed too many regulatory hurdles with each state having its own gaming laws and some states prohibiting gambling altogether, even on Flutter.com's modest scale. The UK, Mr Hannah said, had the best regulatory framework and was far ahead of America in its rules and regulations.Flutter.com was not worried about the high internet access costs because it was clear that these would fall - and companies such as AltaVista, BT and NTL have been rushing out offers of unlimited access for a modest upfront fee.The company will make money by taking 5% from each bet, 2.5% from either end. The site holds the money and   makes sure it ends up with the winning party, acting like the bartender who is entrusted with the money. The model for Flutter.com is eBay, the auction site that makes money from thousands of transactions between buyers and sellers on no items too inexpensive and culling a small percentage from each one.Flutter.com has won the endorsement of investors such as Bernard Arnault, the French head of LVMH, the world's biggest luxury goods empire. Last October, his Europ@web venture fund invested $5.2m in Flutter.com in the first round of financing and the second round is already oversubscribed."This is probably one of the most compelling opportunities we've come across," says Alex Nigg, of Europ@web. "It is truly innovative, unlike so many me-too plays on the net. It fundamentally changes betting. People are not betting against an institution like Ladbrokes or William Hill, but against each other, Flutter.com restores social activity and entertainment to wagers."Nick Denton, co-founder   of the First Tuesday networking group, believes Flutter.com will make Lastminute.com, Britain's most high-profile net startup, look like "a first generation venture". Mr Denton particularly likes the fact that Flutter.com in effect sits on a stash of cash by holding people's bets. There is a certain elegant simplicity about the concept behind Flutter.com and one of its biggest advantages is that it avoids the overcrowded net retail sector, where profit margins are razor-thin as everybody is trying to sell something cheaper than anyone else.Hannah and Monical have grand designs for Flutter.com. "We have a shot at being one of the cornerstones of the new internet economy of the UK," said Hannah. "Over time, we will take it international and expand into other products."But these high ambitions will be realised only if Flutter. com wins its bet that Britain's punters will flock to the site.
MP3 rubbishFrances Lowe, talking about MP3 music in Feedback (March 30), said: "Free access to music is not a model for ensuring our music creators continue to produce good quality music in the future."Complete rubbish. People have been making music for millennia. Only in the last few centuries has music become a business, and the record industry seems to have made music into a passive instead of a participatory pastime.  MP3s allow budding artists to release their work to the public without having to sign their rights away to a publisher.She also said: "Not many legal mp3s are available." Complete rubbish.Undoubtedly, the number of legal mp3s of artists promoted by the record industry is small, but thousands of unsigned artists make their music freely available on the internet. Just tryhttp://main.aminet.net/aminetbin/find?.mpg.   Making money out of MP3s on the internet probably won't happen, due to the ease with which MP3s can be copied.  But for the same reasons it is ideal as a medium for artists to make their work available to the largest possible public.Claude Heiland-Allenclaude.heiland-allen@lincoln.oxford.ac.ukLooks countFurther to Jack Schofield's story on Microsoft's plan to enter the handheld market (again): while it may have a killer operating system there's one thing that I feel may scupper Microsoft's plans.Compaq, Casio and Hewlett-Packard are joining Microsoft in the development of this product. Now, call me simple but I've never seen a good-looking product from any of these companies.Compaq's machines are (in   my subjective opinion) pig ugly and Windows isn't the most elegant-looking operating system. None of the players seem to have a background in making appliances that look great.Contrast this with the Palm lot which includes Visor and Nokia and, according to one report I read, even Apple. All are companies that have a history of making consumer products that people just want to have. If Nokia goes ahead, that's Finland sewn up for Palm.You may not think style matters - and it probably doesn't to a lot of people, they're happy to have a grey box running Windows in their living room so they're not style conscious - but my gut feeling is that the Palm's target market is slightly more discerning.Andrew Benschopa_benschop@postmaster.co.ukPC thinkingSome of your correspondents are very optimistic about using their televisions to receive text email attachments.  Even if everyone reverts to RTF format, how do I print out a long document? You can't read it comfortably on a TV screen. Let's face it, for full use of email you still need a PC or Mac.Warren Newmanwarren.newman@lbl.co.ukBT's meBT's website is full of pride about its roll-out of ADSL and tells me that my exchange is now "ADSL-enabled".But it won't say if I can have an ADSL line now, or answer my query about whether, if I do, they will provide a full ISP service, ie host my domain name and offer web space. So no change there.More importantly, even the big mail order suppliers of PCs don't seem to want to know.Asked when they will be supplying PCs with ASDL modems produces responses like, "Ah, there's probably been a specification published...", or even "There's no demand", the first being feeble and the second fatuous.What, if anything at all, is going on?Tony Brookstony@sacha.com
Calling cardIt's the perfect toy for loveless internet hermits and gadget-obsessed schoolkids. The Contact Messager works like a battery operated love letter circulating around a classroom - it immediately senses when another Contact Messager comes within 75 metres, and the field is open for unsolicited messaging.It was launched in Switzerland last December and has been wowing teenagers and German-speaking singles groups ever since. It works best where there is a high concentration of the gizmos in a small area   - such as classrooms, singles nights or music festivals. And because the owner's sex and age are programmed into it, the Messager can be used to contact everyone in range or - more interestingly - particular groups of people. "You can choose to receive messages only from girls aged 14-16," says Remo Rodondi, manager of Trend Technology, who developed the device. For a teenage boy, the possibilities are endless.Although the product has sold more than 10,000 units in its native Switzerland, it has yet to find a distributor for the UK. Any takers?  (LF)Wire cutterWhen will all this convergence madness cease? First of all the TV pinches your PC's modem. Now, if Sony has its way, your hi-fi system will soon be making off with its cables.The electronics company has just unveiled a new CD/Mini Disc based system called LISSA that's the first of its kind to use an i-LINK (or IEEE1394 as the techies know it) cable. Just one   i-LINK cable runs between the system's three components, and as it is bi-directional it enables the parts to "talk to each other". The cable can also be hooked up to a PC to provide additional features such as advanced MiniDisc editing facilities. The system goes on sale in the UK in August priced at around &#163;1,000 (speakers are extra). Sony hopes to use i.LINK cables to connect other home entertainment products in the near future.The company has also been giving more details about its &#163;300 NW-MS7 Memory Stick Walk man that's due on sale in the UK later this month. It has confirmed that OpenMG Jukebox, the software supplied with the Walkman, will be the first to use the ATRAC3 codec. The Walkman's accompanying Memory Stick has a storage capacity of 64MB which delivers approximately an hour's worth of music at its optimum download speed.Thin phoneAfter Nokia and Motorola, Ericsson is set to become the third company to release a wap phone. Its R320 will be available via Vodaphone and BT Cellnet networks at the end of the month priced at around &#163;200.Despite being thinner and lighter than its rivals, the R320 phone features a large screen capable of displaying up to five lines of information. It offers instant access to a variety of WAP/Internet sites including BBC News, CNN, Reuters and Excite. Other facilities include a calendar function, a vibrate alert and an infrared port. Ericsson claims its   Lithium Polymer battery is capable of providing seven hours talk time and 118 hours standby time.Dry runSamsung is hoping to make a big splash with its latest MP3 player. The pendant style Vivace, which goes on sale in August, is the first waterproof model. The company believes it'll even survive a dip in your local swimming pool.Due later in the year is a hi-fi system, the NC-CP70, that features both an MP3 encoder and a dockable personal MP3 player.The company has also confirmed that it intends be first to the UK market with a DVD video recorder. Its DVR-2000 recorder uses the DVD-RAM format to store up to 4.7gb or two hours of DVD quality video on one disc. It has been pencilled in for an August launch priced at &#163;1,000.Also new from Samsung is a budget digital still camera, the &#163;229 SDC-80, which is available in four funky translucent colours.  (AN)
How long have you been involved with the internet?I suppose the first time I got involved was back in 1986 through what was thenJANET, the higher education network. It was a rather different world 14 years ago!How would you define "ethical hacking"?Essentially there are really two sorts of ethical hacking. The first is conducting penetration tests of systems. The other is analysing in detail systems or software that you own for security flaws.How secure is the internet?In general, it's actually relatively secure. I used to work a lot with the nuclear industry and it's the same sort of fear, uncertainty and doubt. Because people don't understand it, they become frightened of it, whereas most people seem perfectly happy to pass their credit card information out over the phone. The realistic risk is not that a transaction is going to be sniffed out of the blue, rather that someone is going to break in and steal a huge data-base of credit card details.What are the best security measures that people can implement?The best security measure people can take is to use their brains; actually think about what they're going to do and how they're going to do it. Security is very complicated and it's moving all the time, especially with the new Data Protection Act - it's no longer just a financial issue. You now have a hard, legal responsibility to keep data protected. Security is also about appropriate security - I know the man that runswww.royal.gov.ukand that has got to be incredibly secure even though it's an information only site. They're a target - similar to theFBI) andWhitehousesites in the US.Any favourite places on the net?On the security side my favourite site has to bePacket StormandSecurity Focusis very good too. On the recreational side I likeUser FriendlyandDilbert,BBC News, especially if I'm working abroad, andFlash.How do you see the net evolving?I think that there are a number of things that are going to have to happen. The internet has to become commercially reliable. Particularly in the UK, broadband net access is going to have to become cheaper - my websites are hosted in California because it costs me less to have a large amount of corporate web-space out there than it does for my home internet access. I think the current stock valuations for dot.com companies are ridiculous and over the years we're going to realise that the internet is just another means of advertising and selling. And we need to make sure that access to the net and technology is available to everyone who wants it so that no one is left behind. Everyone should have the opportunity to participate.
Be careful what you wish for: you may get it. The people who, 10 or 15 years ago, used to phone up their Telecom Gold or Prestel or CompuServe mailboxes twice a week hoping they'd find a letter or two are now creaking under the strain of handling 75 to 150 emails a day.How do we find time? Wrong question. How would we find time to make all the phone calls and print out and post all the letters that we'd have to write if we didn't have email? How would we send each other website addresses, images and music files or PowerPoint presentations or spreadsheets? There's no future in retyping things, or printing them out and scanning them in.Email also avoids most of the problems of filing. You can just shove everything into a free text database on your hard drive - I useAskSam- and let the computer retrieve it if you ever need it again.To send and receive email, of course, you need an address and email software. These come in three main varieties: proprietary, POP3, and web-based email.Proprietary email services were dominant before internet use exploded, and some have survived, such asAmerica Online (AOL). Proprietary email services usually come with the software you need to use them.Post Office Protocol 3 is the standard on the internet, and almost every internet service provider (ISP) provides   POP3-compatible mailboxes. You can collect and read POP3 mail with many different mail programs, such as Eudora and Pine (Program for Internet News &amp; Email). Today, the most obvious choice is Microsoft's Outlook Express 5, because it works, it's free, and unlike some rivals, can collect email from several different POP3 accounts.I mainly use Ameol (A Most Excellent Off-Line mail reader). This is the standard for theCix conferencing system, but can be used with other services. There's a similar program calledVirtual Access, which also works with Cix and is even more versatile.Both programs do "threaded mail", which means that replies - and replies to replies - can be shown linked to original messages in branching tree-like structures, instead of (say) in date order. Threaded mail is wonderful. Having used it since 1988, I couldn't downgrade to a standard email package.However, since the world wide web became a major force, there's been a tendency to do as much as possible using a web browser. There are now dozens of free web-based email services, though the early leader, Microsoft's Hotmail, is still the most popular.The beauty of web-based mail is that you can log on from anywhere you can get to a browser - at work, at an internet cafe, at a friend's house. But it is slow and if you're typing email while   online (logged on to the web site) it could also be very expensive.However, Outlook Express can now collect mail from Hotmail too. On version 5, go to Tools on the taskbar, and under New accounts, you will find the option to set up a new Hotmail account. Following the instructions will open an account that you can use on the web or which will open automatically whenever you collect your mail from your own internet service provider.Borrow the settings for this to set up a collection service for your existing Hotmail account. Outlook Express can also be used to collect email from some other web-based services, too - or at least from Yahoo! - but only if they are served up as POP3 mail.Setting up a POP3 mailbox is not hard, but you have to know the addresses for incoming (POP) and outgoing (SMTP or Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) mail. Usually these are pop.mail.yahoo.com and smtp.mail.yahoo.com or something equally obvious: it's often quicker to guess than to look them up.But you aren't limited to one service. I have so many   email addresses that I've lost track, but I'm a regular user of AOL, BT Internet, Cix, CompuServe, Freeserve, Hotmail, Yahoo, and the Guardian's email system. They all have different uses. For example, I almost always give a Hotmail address online, so that gets the most "spam" or junk mail.The spam is, with luck, automatically diverted into Hotmail's "bulk mail" folder where it can be deleted without being downloaded, read or even looked at.I also use a Hotmail address to receive email attachments (which I hate) while a Yahoo address collects messages from web search services such asSpyOnIt. You could set up a box to receive newsletters, letters from mailing lists, or any other mail you don't want clogging up your serious mail service.It's not a problem when email ends up in the wrong box: you can forward it to the right one. Sometimes you can even get a rules-based software robot or "agent" to do it automatically, which is how I handle email sent to the Guardian.When you've got multiple mailboxes at different locations, accept you're an email junkie and buy a notebook computer to collect email wherever there's a phone socket, and deal with a lot of it on buses, trains and planes.Just make sure your ISP isn't going to claim your mailbox is "full" and start bouncing (rejecting) messages after 10 or 20 megabytes, or you'll have to take your notebook on holiday as well...
After a series of false starts, which saw several "net-top boxes" arrive then disappear again, the armchair internet revolution is finally underway.  Instead of spending hundreds of pounds on a PC and struggling with relatively complex software, we are - at long last - being tempted into high street stores to buy infra-red keyboards, net-top boxes and internet TVs for sending email and even surfing the internet from the comfort of our living room sofas.Figures produced by research company Ovum and the UK's leading set-top box manufacturer Pace indicate that the TV will overtake the PC as the most popular means of accessing "walled-garden" services (ie selective internet) as well as the world wide web by 2003. By 2005, their research shows, 90   million homes worldwide will use their TV sets for interactive services (including internet access) compared with 60 million homes using the PC. These findings are backed by the Henley Centre, which predicts that digital   television will become the dominant channel for online transactions by 2008.  Already, e-commerce via television is proving a success. Games retailer Gameplay has dropped the ".com" from its name because is no longer relevant: it sells more via interactive TV than the web.Of course, cynics might say, we've heard all this before, at least from broadcasters and consumer electronics manufacturers. And they'd be right. Previous attempts to provide internet access via the TV such as NetStation and WebTV (which trialled a service briefly in the UK) have all failed. Poor quality graphics, expensive set-top boxes and high monthly subscription fees have all been cited as reasons for the failure.  However, this time there are several reasons why it might be different. The latest generation of "net-top" boxes and internet TVs are cheap, don't require a monthly   subscription and provide much better quality graphics from internet pages than   previous attempts.At the same time, awareness of the internet is higher than ever before and more and more web-sites are being re-designed for the TV set.  Now available on the   market is a range of internet TVs from the mass-market brand Bush. Included in the line-up are several models - 14 inch, 21 inch and 28 inch screen sizes - with prices starting from just 200.   Once connected to a standard telephone line these can be used by sofa surfers to access virtually all existing internet sites as well as send and receive email free of charge.   A large TV remote control that doubles as a Qwerty keyboard is provided to navigate and send email or, alternatively, a full size infra-red   keyboard can be bought for around 30.According to Daniel   Harris, chief executive of Alba, which owns the Bush brand, the internet TV is designed to appeal to the 85% of homes which don't have internet access via a PC. "Most people can't be bothered to set up a computer," he reckons. "The internet TV is especially great for kids who love to get mail and email.  "Many TV programmes now have email addresses so the kids can send a message without having to go over to their PC."  Of course, the internet TV is far from the perfect solution for surfers. Though HTML and Javascript web pages can both be viewed on the TV screen, frames are not supported. Pages are displayed about as quickly as they are on a PC, but quality isn't quite as good.Andy Trott, director of technology and strategic development at Pace - the company that helped develop Bush internet TVs - admits there are limitations as the TV set has a much lower   resolution than the PC screen. "We've managed to minimise problems with new anti-flicker techniques and also taken graphics about as far   as they can go on today's TV sets."   Nevertheless, Mr Trott believes that many of the TV set's limitations will be overcome as content providers adapt for the TV set, just as they are starting to adapt for Wap-enabled mobile phones.  For the UK's 3.5 million digital TV homes, interactive services on the TV screen are becoming a reality.Since Open launched its platform on digital satellite last autumn, 550,000 have registered for its free email service with approximately 100,000 homes signing up each month. In the pre-Christmas period, Open estimates that 8 million visits were made to its "site" with peak sales exceeding 1m per week.   Another company that is also eventually hoping to cash in on the internet via the TV revolution is digital terrestrial broadcaster ONdigital. It has ear-marked 4.5m for an ad spend to promote its ONmail service which launched last weekend.As with the Open platform, ONmail allows several people in the house to set-up their own free email account and send or receive emails using an infra-red keyboard or   the special TV remote   control.   The big difference is that ONdigital uses translucent graphics over the top of the TV picture making it possible to send email at the same time as watching your favourite TV programmes. ONdigital plans to launch a full internet service later this year, though customers will need to purchase an additional small device containing a modem and software to sit on top of their set-top box.  Inevitably, what we're seeing is a convergence of traditional internet and   traditional TV.Although this will probably start with TV   viewers sending emails to broadcasters and other users, it will almost certainly lead to web links within programmes and, eventually, to interactive advertising.   On March 27, history was made when Britain's first interactive advert was screened on Sky. Viewers watching a commercial for Stir it Up from Chicken Tonight could - if they so wished - click on an icon that took them through to   the Creative Kitchen service, and on Open where they could order a money-off voucher or a recipe book.While interactive advertising may prove to be the killer application for sit at home shopaholics there's no doubt that high speed internet access is causing the biggest stir in the digital broadcast world.   Here, high speed broadband ADSL (Assymetric Digital Subscriber Line) and digital cable networks are set to make their mark where lower bandwidth networks, such as ONdigital and SkyDigital, can only sit on the sidelines and watch.   Launched in the Hull region in January, Kingston Interactive's Television's ADSL network is currently the most advanced TV internet proposition. Available in 500 homes in the Hull area, it combines Video On Demand (VOD) and conventional television services with full 256Kb/s internet access and costs from 14.99 per month.Other high-speed ADSL and digital cable services are also gradually becoming available. These include Home Choice in the London area which uses ADSL for high speed internet access via the PC and Cable and Wireless and Telewest which both provide walled-garden services to TV customers using broadband cable.   In addition, Telewest has just announced its broadband "Blue Yonder" service which enables its south east cable customers to access the internet using a PC and cable modem at speeds up to 512Kbs - in other words eight times the speed of ISDN.   The only drawback is the price. At 50 per month it's not exactly cheap.The interactive TV guinea pigsBy  Martin WainwrightPaul Hudson's company makes a crafty little gizmo called a "changer", which allows an assembly line in the bottling industry to adjust to different shapes for filling, capping or labelling.It may have been the similar flexibility of interactive TV that led him to ring Kingston Communications, the former municipal telephone company in his home city of Hull, to try out its ground-breaking system back in November.Four months on, Paul, 42, and his family are largely delighted with Kingston Interactive TV (KITV), which crams impressive amounts of data down a domestic phone line."It's really the number of things you can do at the same time without anything crashing," he says, punching a video order code on to his TV remote, while his teenage daughter Kirsty uses the phone upstairs - same line, different function, no interference - to talk to a friend.Mr Hudson had high hopes of the scheme when it was launched in the autumn. He had grown up with the city's unique and often innovatory telephone system, with its deliberately different white kiosks and a standard charge (now 5.5p) for a local call, even if it went on all day. Dating back to Kingston's foundation in 1904, this prin ciple has been updated by similar, standard payment internet provision; the Hudsons can spend an entire month on the internet, day and night for a flat rate of &#163;15."We've not been disappointed, though installation took longer than planned and we had a few hiccoughs at first," says Paul. "Like with anything new, there were a few teething problems and Kingston were down at our house a bit more often than we'd expected."Once fitted, KITV is a modest affair in terms of space with only a set-top box (actually hidden under the Hudson's TV cabinet) and what Paul calls "some sort of clever   box" tucked away on a wall where the phone line comes in, dividing ADSL cabling between the TV and the phones.The system offers the full 60 channels of satellite TV, email and internet on the TV screen with a remote keyboard, local services ("That's what's on at the Odeon tonight," says Paul, tapping a   couple more buttons), shopping and - the Hudsons' favourite - a video hire shop in their living room."You can call up any video you want from a huge catalogue," says Paul, checking the pin number of a tape he wants to watch later in the day. "The beauty is, for a standard &#163;1.50 charge, you download it for 24 hours and you don't have to watch it then and there. You choose any time you want, pause it and replay it, just as if you were hiring it."The family isn't into emailing much, yet, but they gobble up the internet, which has made them friends across the world, helps Kirsty with   her college assignments and found the family this year's holiday in Florida. They all tour their chosen hotel occasionally, watching a webcam film of it inside and out, before Paul flicks over to a chatline to talk to a new acquaintance in Australia."We met on the internet and he asked me to send some videos of Keeping Up Appearances," he says. "He sends me David Bowie tapes."Kirsty, 17, who is studying sports science at Hull College, is an interactive TV convert too, mostly using the system to watch MTV and Sky, as well as seeking internet teen sites. She says: "The great thing is being able to choose whatever you want when you want it - and not having to go to the video shop."KITV's general shopping channel is the big disappointment; at the moment it's got only one outlet and that's a home and car insurance company.KITV provides neat remote keyboards, allowing the Hudsons to write emails from their sofa in the way that an ordinary remote adjusts volume or switches between channels. Each device adds a little to the cost, which Mr Hudson is comparing with the notional cost of Sky, video and a conventional internet system.But the bills are virtual. Their prompt interest in the scheme won the family a year's free use of the complete system in return for acting as "consultant" guinea pigs, willing to fill in market research forms and trial new variations. If they were paying, says Kingston, the monthly bill would range from &#163;9.99 for the simplest BBC/ITV access to &#163;34 for all 60 satellite channels, including Sky's premium services, topped up with variable extras like video hire, commission on shopping and the &#163;15 internet charge.What's on offerAnalogue box/Internet TV Companies:Bush, Web2UPros:Cheap (about &#163;100 for set-top box, from &#163;200 for internet TV). Offer full internet access and free email.Cons:Quite slow when accessing some web pages, images not as good as on PC.Digital terrestrial boxCompanies:ONdigitalPros:Set-top box is free to subscribers. Can watch TV and send free email at the same time.Cons:Will require additional device to receive full internet services when launched later this year.Digital satellite boxCompanies:SkyDigital/OpenPros:Great for sending free emails and home shoppingCons:Limited number of "on-line" companies to buy   products from. Doesn't offer full internet access.Digital cable boxCompanies:Cable and Wireless, TelewestPros:Very fast. Can access services via the TV and send/receive free email. Telewest also provides cable modem service to PC users.Cons:Only "walled garden" service on the TV screen. Still limited availability.ADSL boxCompanies:Kingston Interactive Television, Home Choice.Pros:Fast internet access via the TV (Kingston) or PC (Home Choice). Wide range of Video On Demand services too.Cons:Not many telephone exchanges have been adapted for ADSL services which makes availability very limited at present.
When net gurus talk about selling music online, they often go on about how everything will change very soon, about how the net will make music less of a product we own and more a service we subscribe to. In a wireless world of permanent, mobile connections, we'll be downloading music as and when we need it, rather than accumulating prized collections of discs, they say.Unfortunately, many people in online music get so caught up in pondering this scenario, they stop thinking about the kind of service they offer right now.  In theory, music products are well suited to the net. People don't need to hold them to make a purchase decision. They're easy to send through the post. And it's easy online to give people access to a huge range of products.  However, buying music online can be frustrating. I've bought scores of books online and only experienced one minor problem (a slight delay in one book arriving).In   contrast, of around five music purchases online I have   experienced problems with three. Two orders went missing (presumed stolen) and one order arrived incomplete and had to be cancelled.  That kind of thing happens. The real problem is that it's often something of a trial finding what you want to buy. I still find a big record shop easier and quicker. It's not that site search engines don't work properly. It's more that online music retail sites often don't give you enough information about products.For example, last year I tried to buy an Aretha Franklin compilation online. I wanted something that had most of the well-known tracks and I wasn't too bothered about her more recent efforts. The music sites I tried served up scores of Aretha albums, but most of the entries didn't feature either track details or reviews. I gave up and went to a megastore instead.  Music retailers often get so involved in live webcasts and band interviews, they don't make sure that track listings are available for all the items they're selling. They often list different versions of the same CD or track, but don't tell you how the versions differ, so you often turn up a list of products, all with the same title, but at different prices, for no apparent reason.They don't tell you about the producers and re-mixers who worked on a particular album (particularly important if you're interested in dance music). They don't let you cross-reference that information so you can find other albums re-mixed or produced by a particular artist. Though many music sites now do give product availability information, often, if you want to buy anything out of the way, you may wait two weeks or more for your purchase to arrive.  Judith Catton ofAmazon UKsays that my concerns aren't really reflected by other users (although the net is supposed to be   perfect for specialist   consumers, it's seems I'm just too specialist)."Feedback so far is that the store is providing an in-depth place for all music lovers to come and find, discover and buy new music, complete collections and rediscover old favourites," she says.   In the five months since it entered the music market online, continues Catton, Amazon has become the leading net shop in the area and now boasts more than a million customers.   Of course, this may have nothing to do with Amazon's skills at selling music online and may be due to it being able to transfer over some of the huge customer base it has built up via its excellent books site.Certainly, when I've been trying to buy dance compilations on Amazon, I've come across albums with incomplete or incorrect track listings (and detailed and accurate track listings are the crucial piece of purchase information required). "Track listings come from catalogue information that we are supplied with," says Catton. "We are constantly working on improving this information and are keen to hear where there are mistakes so we can correct them and inform our suppliers.""We do realise that people want more information," says Steve Bennett, founder ofJungle.com. "But it's taking us a little longer to gather it than you might expect. In the book industry everyone is using the standard ISBN number. That makes it easy. The music industry doesn't have that. To be quite honest, it's crap - it's one of the most disorganised industries I've ever worked with."That said, the music business has so much more product. Books have one author, usually, and come in two versions. Music products come in multiple formats, versions and mixes, with lots of guest artists and producers.  "Because of the incredible amount of music out there, there's no single definitive source of information," says Rob Markus, vice president of business development at the European music retailerBoxman, who now also controls the big music retailerYalplay.  "We're all stuck in the process of building databases, refining them and improving them.No one has got it right yet in Europe. In America, they're closer, but America is a lot easier because you have one language and one set of suppliers. In Europe, you have different products in every country. You might have the same Janet Jackson album in slightly different versions in different European countries. It's something we're working on. But it is a hell of a task."  Other problems are caused by the way record companies do business. For example, the book trade operates on sale or return. Online booksellers can order in product without risk and have it in their warehouse ready to go out. In contrast, while record companies might have a huge number of products on their back list, they only have a small number available in their warehouses for immediate dispatch. That's why you often have to wait several weeks for non-mainstream orders.Markus says that, in relative terms, the online market for music is still quite small, so it's hard to come to any real conclusions about what people want online and how much information and content they need. Boxman is still trying things out to see what works. "We're tracking user habits," says Markus. "We've found that people don't use the short sound clips of tracks we provide as much as the industry hype suggested they might."  People like to see what the CD cover looks like. But the music industry is not that helpful when it comes to supplying images to online music retailers, says Markus.Record companies often don't deliver artwork early enough for online music retailers. "We'd like music information well in advance of release dates, as with books," comments Amazon's Judith Catton.  In the future, music retail online may be all about downloads, about multimedia bells and whistles, for the moment, it's more about the pragmatic business of managing basic information.   According to Boxman's Rob Markus: "the people who get the database right will be the winners."
Soda pop artYou weren't planning to get any work done for the rest of the week, were you? In the best traditions of Saturday evening sports reports, look away now if you don't want to know the score. The Soda Constructor is a clever little page which allows you to construct your own 2-D models from springs, then play around with the laws of physics to do terrible - sometimes comic - things to your creations.   Programmed in Java, it's perhaps the most compelling thing ever to be created in the language. The page says it all: "Warning Constructor can seriously damage your productivity! It seems that some of you have been playing with constructor for hours. We regret that soda can accept no liablity for loss of earnings incurred while building constructor creatures.  You have been warned.www.soda.co.uk/soda/constructor.Easter riderIt wasn't anything you drank. If you're in London, and were convinced that you saw a biker wearing a pink bunny outfit whizzing past recently, you did see it. It really did exist. The outfits, a refreshing change to traditional leather biker chic are the latest wheeze to promote an e-tailer - this time, Whittard of Chelsea, who is delivering posh easter eggs. Go to its site, place an order before 1pm (you'll need to spend at least 20) and a fur-clad biker will - wait for it - eggspress it to your door that day, claims Whittard. Those of us who live outside London won't have too long to wait before the e-revolution brings us similar delights - after London's bunnies on bikes will come Santas on Scooters, in Glasgow, Edinburgh, Leeds, Manchester and London.http://Whittard.com.Museum pieceThe Science Museum has launched a website which sets out to give you a 3-D glimpse of its new 50mWellcome Wing. You'll need a couple of plug-ins to experience the site in its full, intended multi-media glory, complete with fly-throughs of the wing's four floors and exhibitions. They include Digitopolis - an introduction to the digital revolution - and others on biomedicine, future science and current issues. The web wizardry is all very pretty, but murder on a slower connection. And the scanty amount of information means its more of an appetiser than a full educational meal. You might have to wait until the full opening, on June 30.Set to scoreIf you're a football fan, your eyeballs are in demand. Don't worry, they're not going to be torn out, at least for the moment, although a few of the websites competing for your favour are looking increasingly desperate in this crowded market.Goalnetwork.comis boasting that it has Italian star Roberto Baggio and former England international David Platt as shareholders, and is claiming to be more international in outlook in others - look forward to more reaction from Indonesia, perhaps, next time David Beckham changes his hairstyle.  Then there's new arrivalzoofootball.com, which promises to be the "world's most opinionated football website". It'll have to be, to stand out in what is already a very crowded market, but at least it looks more lively than some.  (NM)Showing flareWe've been promised a spectacular in the sky when the Iridium satellites - carriers for the failed mobile telephone network - are allowed to fall to earth and burn up.   But you don't have to wait to be stunned by them. They already provide a spectacular little show around sunset when they can catch the light and suddenly appear in the sky as a glow brighter than all the surrounding stars then fade after a few seconds.   To find out where and when to look for these bright lights in the sky, and to avoid making a fool of yourself by phoning the police to say you've definitely seen a UFO, log in toheavens-above.com. It's a first rate astronomy sight which keeps track of satellites, space shuttles and the Iridium flares, as they are known.   You can type in your location and it will tell you exactly where and when to look in the sky to catch these "stars" before they fall. .Is this the end?There'll be an even more awesome astronomical spectacular next month. On May 5 Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn and the Sun plus our moon will line up in a grand alignment creating major stress on planet Earth.  This could cause a few earthquakes, polar ice cap movement, sea levels rising 100 - 300 feet or more, huge tidal waves, high winds 500 to 2,000 mph, earthquakes so massive that Richter 13 or more could be possible, both coasts of USA under water, magnetic shift and much more.   Well, that's if you believe the dire warning  posted on theSurvival Center website. Astronomers take a more sanguine view. Truman Collins, for one, has worked out that the tidal forces exerted on Earth from the five planets on the other side of the Sun are vastly smaller than those normally exerted by the Moon or the Sun. Visit/www.teleport.com/~tcollins/conjunct.shtmlfor the voice of reason and links to other sites of sanity. (JS)New and notedTake a virtual trip down the A13 London to Southend road - and see some art - atwww.a13artscape.org.uk... Interactive soap sets out to promote mental well-being among the young atwww.at-ease.nsf.org.uk...FirstLaw.co.ukclaims to be the first UK law firm, run by lawyers, regulated by the Law Society, on the 'net. (NM)
