"A coalition of major recording companies Friday sued the operators of LimeWire for alleged copyright infringement, claiming that the firm encourages users of the popular online file-sharing software to trade music without permission, an industry organization said," according to theLA Times.How long before Google is sued for piracy as well?This week, "Google has agreed to pay the Associated Press for use of its news stories and pictures, according to a statement released by the two companies," reportsCNet, and AFP has a case in progress. The nude photo site Perfect 10 got an injunction on the grounds thatGoogle image search probably infringes copyright law "by creating and displaying thumbnail copies of its photographs."Google'sbook-scanningefforts are also under attack.All in all, there are quite a fewcopyright tusslesand there will probably be many more.Of course, any case that can be won against Google can presumably be won against Yahoo, Microsoft and other search engines, too.So where will it end? I can't see any practicable means whereby every search engine could pay for everything in its index. I also can't see that the Web will be anything like as useful if there are no search engines....
The latest series of Apple Mac ads have given a tremendous boost to the spoofing crowd because they are very easy to make (usually two guys against a white background) and, no matter how stupid the content, the spoofs are almost invariably better written, more honest and a lot funnier than Apple's originals. There's a good collection athttp://www.macspoofs.com/category/spoofs-get-a-mac/The latest,Activists attack Apple with a Mac Spoof, is a bit different. The site says:We think this is the first spoof of its kind: an activist group turning the "Get a Mac" ad campagin against Apple to advocate for human rights. Will be interesting to see if these become more common - I think this one is fairly effective (regardless of whether it's true or not).Comment: It shouldn't need saying, but Apple just uses the same contract manufacturers as many other computer companies. However, in its lovable old hippy way, Apple markets itself as having higher standards....
Now you can read the past week's posts on one page by clickinghere. Highlights include:JavaScript opens doors to browser-based attacksBlair discovers California, has lunch with top tech businessmenFont houses merge: what will their babies look like?Microsoft launches Windows Live Spaces blogging system
I'm a 1086 kind of a guy; 2006 leaves me cold. So the National Archives decision to put the Domesday Book online is something of a mixed blessing. Good to have the info, but how on earth does this bloody internet thing work?The great snapshot of 11th-century England (and bits of Wales) took just a year to compile; at times I feared accessing the site would take as long.But with the help of a Guardian technocrat, we cracked it in a couple of hours. Part of the problem is that every page you download has to be paid for by credit card - at &pound;3.50 a pop. The Domesday Book was designed to screw the public - and, nine centuries on, we're still being screwed.The mighty tome, which made its online debut yesterday, gives details of property holdings in 13,500 places. William I, fearing a Danish invasion, wanted a complete record of who owned what so he could claim his feudal dues.Considering it was compiled so quickly, it is remarkably detailed. "Not even an ox, nor a cow, nor a swine was there left, that was not set down in [its] writ," says the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle with wonder.So what do we find? Well, we don't find Newport in south Wales (my birthplace) or Clerkenwell in London (my workplace) because the former didn't exist and the latter was not catalogued for reasons that scholars still can't agree on. Was London too big, too diverse, or so rich that its resources had to be kept secret? Whatever the reason, London and Winchester, then the country's capital, are omitted from Domesday. We do find a reference to Kingston upon Thames (aka Chingestone/Chingestun/Chingestune), which is where I live, and I dutifully parted with &pound;3.50 for what I assume will be a definitive guide to every pig and priory in this significant medieval town. So I'm disappointed when the page details only the holdings of the Church of Chertsey, which includes land in Kingston, alongside large chunks of the rest of Surrey."Eadric holds of the abbey itself half a hide which the abbey held for 2 years before the death of King Edward," says the entry. "3 men held it of the king himself previously, but they could not withdraw without the king's prexcept, because they were beadles in Kingston upon Thames. Then, as now, it was assessed at half a hide. There is land for 3 oxen. There are 7 oxen, with one bordar, and 2 acres of meadow. TRE it was worth 7s; now 8s." Domesday was written in what is described as "Latin shorthand", and this is going to take some untangling.A hide, Adrian Ailes, a Domesday specialist at the National Archives, tells me, is about 120 acres, though as with most measurements c 1086 it wasn't cut and dried. TRE means in the time of King Edward; a bordar is a peasant whose status is somewhere between villan and slave.I protest that I'd been hoping for a page on the whole of Kingston. "The Domesday Book is arranged by landowner," Ailes explains. "For Kingston you'll need to look at about five pages ... With a bit of digging you can get a comprehensive picture, but it is going to cost you more money."With Ailes' help, I find the main reference, detailing the holdings of the king, who more or less owned Kingston. "The king holds in demesne Kingston upon Thames. It was [part] of King Edward's farm ... There is land for 32 ploughs. In demesne are 2 ploughs; and 86 villans and 14 bordars with 25 ploughs. There is a church, and 2 slaves, and 5 mills rendering 20s, and 2 fisheries rendering 10s, and a third fishery very good but without rent. There are 40 acres of meadow [and] woodland for 6 pigs. TRE and afterwards, as now, worth 30l."No nightclubs or burger bars- sounds delightful.The picture (and the bill) is starting to build. Walter FitzOther, whose interests are detailed in another entry, holds "1 man of the soke of Kingston upon Thames, to whom he has committed the charge of the king's wild mares, but we know not on what terms. This man holds two hides, but he has no right to the land itself ... There is 1 plough in demesne, with 3 slaves, and 1 fishery rendering 125 eels, and 1 acre of meadow."Another tenner and I should really start to get a feel for late 11th century Kingston. History doesn't come cheap.
XBox Live updateOnline gaming, traditionally thepreserve of the geeky and souped-up PC-owning, wastamed, sanitised and dragged into the mainstream ofconsole gamers by Microsoft with Xbox Live.Since thelaunch of Xbox 360, Live has become a place where youcannot only play against similarly equipped foesworldwide, but also download old school arcade games,short movies and music, and chat with friends. Without alarge number of 360-owning friends, the communityaspects are fairly irrelevant, but the steady supply ofno-fee content including game demos, film trailers andvarious artwork to spruce up your Xbox interface is awelcome extension of the gaming environment and anexperience unavailable to PS2, or GameCube owners, ifthey actually still remember where their consoles are.Theunresolved issue for Microsoft is that the flow of newcontent often feels virtually stagnant. NG
Field CommanderPSP, Ubisoft, &pound;30Field Commander gives you control of a miniature army, navy and air force in a series of turn-based battles taking place on mixed terrain and sometimes shrouded in an impenetrable fog of war. Each commanding officer has a distinct personality and each army has a special skill that can be unleashed once you've sustained or dealt enough damage. If all of this sounds familiar, that's because it is: Field Commander is a peculiarly faithful rip-off of fellow military strategy-'em-up, the illustrious Advance Wars. Field Commander substitutes realistic for cartoony, features nowhere near the number of units, diversity of challenge or depth of subtlety, but it is available for PSP, a games console almost totally devoid of decent software. So, PSP owners, if all those PS2 hand-me-downs are boring you rigid, you could do a lot worse than this.Nick GillettPrey XBOX 360PC, 2K Games, XBox 360 &pound;50; PC &pound;35You're reluctant hero Tommy, a Cherokee tired of his dead-end existence on the reservation and frustrated by his girlfriend who wants to stay there. Then you're both sucked up into a vast, orbiting alien abattoir for humans and, presto, it's a customary one-man battle for the survival of the species. The brilliantly realised first hour of the game, complete with stunning visuals, is complemented by some neat gravity puzzles that see you walking on walls and ceilings. Despite the innovations, the meat and potatoes - blowing away fleshy, part-robotic cyber-organisms with big guns - feels as if you've already bought the T-shirt. Still, it's one of the stars of the 2006 summer games drought.Nick Gillett
MondayE3 RIPMore SadnessTuesdayPrey a decade agoE3 confirmationGames industry reports on difficult first quarterE3: The EulogyE3: other perspectivesWednesdayForget LA, try Texas!WoW - the machinima contestLife for Xbox murdererDefon funThursdayAin't she purty?PS3 backlash continuesAtari delayAnother day, another E3 replacementFridayWhat would you want from public service gaming?Myspace gamesSymphony goes LivePS3 and Wii chatter
Just in case you don't have the time or inclination to surf the web looking for the latest PS3 and Wii speculation, here's 'what's going down'. I quite enjoyedthislist of cancelled PS3 games, put together by Technophilia.org. A few of them I hadn't heard of and a couple are multi-platform titles that may never have been intended for the platform. In the introduction the writer solemnly asks, "why are developers avoiding the PS3?" I'm not sure a selection of six binned titles really warrants such a query, but it's a fun little piece with some determined research behind it.Game World Network has atiny storyfrom the EA summer showcase event. Referring to the company's development commitment to Wii, Xbox30 and PS3, Jeff Brown, corporate communications VP, is quoted as saying, "This is not a business plan, but there are a lot of people at EA who are walking around whispering: 40 / 40 / 20 per cent".Away from the Sony baiting, Ubisoft has just announced seven titles due to be ready for the Wii launch. Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WW II is a dogfight sim promising to make good use of that unique controller. Then there's a Wii outing for groundbreaking FPS, Far Cry: "use the Wii Remote to drive, shoot, slash, jump and climb your way through a rebel-infested tropical hell," says the press release. Monster 4X4 World Circuit is monster truck racing and stunting, GT Pro Series is GT car racing. Open Season is an animated movie tie-in. The two biggies are probably Red Steel, the interesting looking shooter, and Rayman Raving Rabbids, a comeback for Michel Ancel's limb-free platform hero.Finally, Gamasutra has amini-articlebased around an unattributed quote from 'Activision execs'. "We are starting to port elements from the 360 to the PlayStation 3, and also from current-gen platforms into Nintendo Wii," they said, hinting that Wii has more in common with current-gen systems than it's super-powered contemporaries. Okay, but we sort of all knew that.So that's it. Frankly, the Tokyo Game Show can't come quickly enough.
Business Week's cover features "Digg.com's Kevin Rose" who "leads a new brat pack of young entrepreneurs," according to the story,Valley Boys. Sign of the times: there's also acover story podcast.Why Digg? The story says:It is now the 24th-most popular Web site in the U.S., nipping at the The New York Times' (No. 19) and easily beating Fox News (No. 62), according to industry tracker Alexa.com. More than 1 million people flock to Digg daily, reading, submitting, or "digging" some 4,000 stories.But Rose is not the only one profiting from trendy bottom-up ideas and Boom 2.0. Business Week says:Who are some of the new geek elite? Besides Rose, there's his pal and Wall Street transplant Joshua Schachter, who recently sold Del.icio.us, a Web site to exchange favorite links, to Yahoo for an estimated $31 million; gaming whiz kid Dennis Fong, a.k.a. Thresh, co-founder of gaming company Xfire, which sold to Viacom Inc in April for $102 million; Mark Zuckerberg, who started the social networking site Facebook in college; and Jeremy Stoppelman and Russel Simmons, co-founders of Yelp.com, a consumer review site. The elder statesmen of the group are Hot or Not founder James Hong and his best friend, Max Levchin, who sold his company PayPal to eBay Inc for $1.5 billion at 26 and is now engrossed in Slide.com, a startup that delivers images to computers in a slick slide show format.Digg is emblematic of the ethos of Web 2.0, new consumer and media sites revolving around social networking and do-it-yourself services. Others include YouTube, which serves up some 100 million requested videos a day, rivaling the audience of NBC. Then there's Facebook, where the college crowd practically lives. The average gamer on Xfire spends an astounding 91 hours a month on the site -- it's like a part-time job. As a result, superhigh valuations are again coming out of the Valley. In a world in which Facebook turns down $600 million deals, the $580 million that Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. (NWS ) shelled out for MySpace.com in July, 2005, is widely considered to be a steal.Update: Funny response from Jason Calacanis:Kevin Rose: The Users shouldn't be paid... but I'll take $60M*Meanwhile.,Jason Fried at 37SignalsandScott Rosenberg at SalonandTechdirtand others point out that the $60m is, erm, notional. The story says "So far, Digg is breaking even on an estimated $3 million annually in revenues," so Rose hasn't actually made anything much.On the bright side, at least Business Week didn't call him "the next Bill Gates"!.
Xbox Live Arcade on the Xbox360 is polished, easy to use and generally damn fine. HD updates of arcade classics and popular casual games - all with the inclusion of the geniusGamer Pointssystem - mean Arcade is a great way to get a quick fix when there isn't enough time for Oblivion of Battlefield. Heck, Arcade - and we're looking at you Zuma and Geometry Wars - kept us going in those dark post launch months before Ghost Recon arrived.But up until recently Arcade had been fairly under-populated, with new releases decidedly thin on the ground. This has changed in recent weeks with Galaga, Frogger and others, but as initially amusing as these games are, the nostalgic buzz wears off. This is whythe newsthatCastlevania: Symphony of the Nightis coming to Arcade is good indeed. Generally ignored when released on the original PlayStation - mainly for not being 3D - the game built up a cult following attracted by the sheer quality of the platform/adventuring action. Oh, and the music wasn't bad either. That such a recent game can appear on Live shows a pointer to where the service could be heading - retro has shot from 78-98 and could go even later. Sony and Nintendo have similar plans to exploit the retro/casual download market but for now just look forward to playing one of the finest games of the 90s on your 360.
Get chatting - it's almost the weekend!
In the casual-games-for-fun-and-profit category isthis database gemof all of the banner games onMySpace.Oh come on, it's Friday.
A few months ago, we discussedalternative distribution modelsfor computer games, in light of the spiralling costs for commercial games to come to market. One of the elements that was proposed was to use public funding for development, perhaps to allow the commercial games sector to wallow in its brand-name mire while the innovators have a security blanket which allows them to create interactivity that's new, different and a little bit reckless.So if this was to happen, what kind of gaming products would you want to see come out? Agovernment-sponsored FPS? A public servicenewsgame? Or something completely different? Would we tackle issues like community, democracy and freedom of speech, or would wecollect gold coins,plan citiesandsing karaoke?David Rejeski's original manifesto ishere.
999 requirement would kill free call servicesThe requirement for VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) services (Lifting the veil on internet voices, July 27) to provide 999 services would kill any free VoIP service, unless the government offers to cover the costs. If they want to trace VoIP why not instant messages? If they want to log and trace IM, then what about email ...openrightsgroup.orgSecurity is all well and good but this has a distinct whiff of KGB/Big Brother about it. I wonder if it will be enough to distract people from the magic word of the VoIP revolution's unique selling point - free calls.publickthoughts.blogspot.comWith all this talk of policing the net, net neutrality and internet regulatation and so on, is there no room for privacy? Or is it the fact that the internet can still provide an element of privacy that scares governments? Big Brother might be watching, but he can't see everything just yet - and I would hope it stays that way, too.kenmc.comFeudal attitudeThis depressing piece (UK fights against tide on data directive, July 27) suggests that the twits in the UK government are going to scupper it because of their feudal insistence on protecting inefficient and anachronistic "businesses" such as Ordnance Survey. Release the data and let a thousand businesses bloom, people.opendotdotdot.blogspot.comI think it is incorrect for a newspaper to lead a cause or campaign. Most of us in the spatial information industry have heard the charge/no-charge debate for at least 10 years all around the world. The arguments are not new, although their relevance remains. It will be a long while until a decision is reached and the "system" changed, if at all.geovisualisation.com/WordPress/Clean out the fluffIn the recent hot weather, my three-year old workstation started making alarm sounds and often became unresponsive. When I ran SpeedFan, I discovered that one sensor was getting up to 86C. Then, one day, it wouldn't boot. I took it back to Armari, who discovered it was choked with fluff inside. The large heat sinks on both Xeon processors were almost solid with a rather effective thermal blanket, and all the fan grilles were half blocked. Armari painstakingly dismantled and cleaned everything up (at no charge), and the machine is working smoothly again. The point is: if you leave the machines running 24 hours a day, they will build up much more fluff than if they only run, say, 10 hours a day. And it also pays to buy from a service-oriented local supplier.Nigel Pendse, HarrowTop-level matterAlthough the Guardian misspelled my name (Divided by a common language, July 27), I congratulate it for having the conviction to publish an article that points to a choice for the international community that is not US administration-controlled and centralised, like Icann.Khaled Fattal,chairman and chief executive, MINCHow can the Guardian run an article about non-Western writing systems without mentioning Unicode? Unicode is the international standard, a superset of ASCII that enables everyone to use a wide variety of non-Latin scripts. PCs and Macs are all Unicode-compatible, though not all their software is.John Wells,LondonFashion statementTrolleybuses were fast, cheap and virtually silent, with low-cost maintenance and no on-street pollution! Unfortunately they had an ugly network of poles and overhead wires that required continuous and expensive maintenance. Perhaps with modern designs of overhead wiring systems the trolleybus could come back into fashion like the tram.David Williams, Cirencester
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Computer scientists from Bath and Boston have developed electronic artwork that changes to match the mood of the person who is looking at it. Your expression is picked up by a webcam, then software analyses your features and changes the artwork accordingly.In a press release, Dr John Collomosse from the Department of Computer Science at the University of Bath, says: "The program analyses the image for eight facial expressions, such as the position and shape of the mouth, the openness of the eyes, and the angle of the brows, to work out the emotional state of the viewer,"There's more information on theempathic paintingproject, including a video, at:http://www.cs.bath.ac.uk/~vision/empaint/
Nokia's latest foray into the high-end mobile market is the N93, which is billed as a camcorder device. A dramatic revamp of last year's N90, the N93's headline facility is that it captures video in MPeg 4 standard at 30 frames per second. It isn't quite DVD standard, as Nokia suggests, but the footage looks superb on its 2.4inch QVGA screen and on a widescreen TV. Nokia has also bundled Adobe's Premier Elements 2.0 to enable users to edit footage on a PC.Still images captured by the 3.2 megapixel camera and a Carl Zeiss lens are excellent, too. The phone boasts the usual portfolio of N series features, including 3G and Wi-Fi connectivity, a built-in music player and an FM radio. It also sports a screen that can be flipped round so it resembles a mini laptop. This is excellent for viewing video and web browsing - though it is tricky to input URLs. The N93 is a quality handset, but is pretty bulky. The price is dependent on the network.
After pioneering the High Definition camcorder with the HC1 last year, Sony has tried to bring the format to the mainstream with its &pound;900 HC3. The camera shoots images in 1080i, which should deliver images at least twice as detailed as standard definition.Users will need an HD-ready flat screen or projection system to view footage. Sony has worked hard to make the camera more consumer friendly than its predecessor.A few of the HC1's high-end facilities, such as mic input, have been lost, which delivers a much smaller and more manageable model.The camera is fairly easy to use, although its dial control is fiddly. In optimum conditions the camcorder performed superbly. In low light it fared less well.
Motorola's first collaboration with shades maker Oakley was the RazrWire, an inspired, though unsuccessful, attempt to integrate a Bluetooth headset into a pair of sunglasses. This year, with the O Rokr, the pair has added A2DP functionality, which means users can stream music to the shades from either a suitably equipped mobile or a music player. However, to get it working with your iPod, you'll need to spend &pound;40 on an adaptor.The jury is out on the shades, with their chunky wraparound style. I don't think they suited me. I teamed the shades with the Qtek 8500 Windows smartphone, an easy job, pressed play and then heard good-quality music playing through the small earphones. The shades also handled a voice call comfortably, with the music cutting out and the call coming through reasonably clearly. The main drawback is the tiny controls - three small buttons on either side of the frames. You can pause, fast forward or reverse tracks and change the volume, but the buttons are so small that you would probably take off the shades to do that. The best thing is that they work as billed. Whether you like the design and have &pound;200 for them is another matter.
At the E3 games trade show in Los Angeles in May 2005, Ken Kutaragi, head of Sony Computer Entertainment, proudly announced the PlayStation 3 as a "supercomputer for computer entertainment". The man who created the PlayStation phenomenon now had an unbeatable hardware specification, including a new multi-core processor and a high definition Blu-ray movie player, plus an incredible series of game demos. The world's press lapped it up.Sony already dominated the games market, having comprehensively crushed both previous leaders, Sega and Nintendo. Now most people seemed willing it to grant it victory in the battle for the next generation, before any of the machines had even been launched.But it has been all downhill from there. "People in gaming and game publishing are drastically less excited about PlayStation 3 than they were a year ago, and competition is looking much stronger," says David Cole, a market analyst and president of San Diego-based games specialist DFC Intelligence, quoted in The Wall Street Journal.First to worstSony could even go from first to worst. In a research note published on its website, DFC commented: "While it has always been clear that Sony's dominant market share was destined to decline, there now appears to be the distinct possibility the PlayStation 3 could end up third in market share behind both the [Microsoft] Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii (tinyurl.com/rjvo8)."So how did it come to this?The backlash started with the Killzone game demo shown at E3. This was hotly debated in the online community of games sites, blogs and chat forums, and the influential IGN site (since bought by Rupert Murdoch) announced that "IGN believes, overwhelmingly, that the video is a fake".The PS3's new Cell processor came in for similar treatment, prompted partly by Major Nelson (majornelson.com), a Microsoft employee who has become, in his own time, a hugely popular blogger. The Cell does, in theory, offer supercomputer-type power, as Kutaragi claimed. However, doubts were raised about its suitability for games playing, and whether software developers could actually exploit its power.This point was made by star programmer John Carmack, co-creator of Doom, who famously called the Cell chip a "pain in my ass". According to a breathless Forbes magazine cover story, Holy Chip!, the Cell "runs at least ten times as fast as Intel's most powerful Pentium. More important, Cell boasts a staggering fiftyfold advantage in handling graphics-intensive applications that will define the next generation of visual entertainment (tinyurl.com/metvd). Odd, then, that it can't seem to drive the PS3's graphics - Sony eventually turned to nVidia for a PC-type graphics processor similar to the one used in the Xbox. The reality still seems to be a little short of the hype.Image batteringBlu-ray's image has also been battered during the past year. It was initially seen as the inevitable successor to DVD, but the rival Toshiba-backed HD-DVD high-definition system - which also uses a blue-ray laser - got to market first. In the US, Sony didn't even make the commercial launch of its own format, as its standalone Blu-ray players were repeatedly delayed. Worse, the Samsung BD-P1000 player that was released performed worse than expected, apparently because of an "incorrect default setting" in a chip.Although HD-DVD is still the underdog, it has also picked up support from Intel and Microsoft, who were concerned that the Blu-ray camp's commitment to copy protection might put a damper on their plans for exploiting video in Viiv and Media Center PCs.Then there's the price problem. In going for new technologies with Cell and Blu-ray, Sony has committed to using components that are much more expensive than the ones in the rival Xbox 360 and Wii consoles. As a result, the PS3 will cost $499 for the low-end model and $599 for the full-spec version - probably &pound;425 in the UK. That's 50% more than an Xbox 360, twice the price of a Wii, and more than three times the price of a PlayStation 2.Rather than dampening down the overheated online arguments about all these issues, Sony's staff have tended to feed the flames, appearing remote or even arrogant. For example, Kaz Hirai, president and chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment America, recently told PlayStation Magazine: "Every time we go down a path, we look behind and [Microsoft is] right there - we just can't shake these guys. I wish that they would come up with some strategies of their own, but they seem to be going down the path of everything we do."It's a remark that Hirai might have got away with in an earlier age, but it was instantly dismembered online. Microsoft was first to put a hard drive in a console, and pioneered with its Xbox Live community building (or both Microsoft and Sony are following the Sega Dreamcast). Microsoft was first to do a global console launch, which Sony is emulating. Microsoft offered two versions of its Xbox 360 console - which Sony said was a bad idea - but there will be two versions of the PS3, and so on.Paul Jackson, who specialises in consumer technologies for market analysts Forrester Research, says: "You can't overestimate how much negativity there is around the PlayStation 3 in the Web 2.0/blogging space, even among hardcore PlayStation fans. The stories just keep getting worse and worse. They've got a real fight on their hands."But Sony isn't fighting it. Microsoft had Major Nelson embedded in the online community, and it fed the press a string of encouraging titbits about the progress it was making. Sony, by contrast, is often silent, and one contact told me the games developers weren't saying anything because they were "scared of the wrath of Phil Harrison", who is president of Sony's worldwide studios.Others describe Harrison as "a really nice guy", and on the phone he sounded remarkably laid back. According to Harrison, "it's all going well. We are in full swing, from a developer point of view, and over 10,000 development kits have been shipped. Developers now have final hardware in their hands, though there will be some upgrades to the operating system - there's nothing unusual about that. The new controller is now in developers' hands, so all the pieces of the puzzle are there."The development systems have Blu-ray drives, and Harrison says many developers now have Blu-ray burners in their PCs, "so they are now doing their first iterations of games running off discs".Harrison says: "We have shown more playable games than ever before, so the signs are good, and right now there are more than 100 Blu-ray movies available today, in the US. More than 100 games are in development, and all the major third-party publishers have pledged their strategic support for the platform."Developer support is a key issue, because of the cost. "The risk of developing a computer game is now much bigger than it was before. They have to be the quality of big budget movies with the same quality of character acting, animation, music, design and so on," says Jez San, author of StarGlider and founder of the now-defunct Argonaut Software, and an investor in a company developing a major PS3 game, Heavenly Sword. "In the old days when games cost &pound;1 million, it was bad enough," says San. "Now it can cost &pound;5 to &pound;10 million to develop one game for one platform, and no one can afford a flop."I have found San a good guide to the industry over the past two decades, and he thinks the PS3 will win, "but only because it's got Blu-ray". San says: "I think the combination of a next-generation games machine and a next-generation DVD payer that plays full high definition movies is very compelling, despite the huge price."Remember, price is just a function of time and volume. It doesn't matter what the PS3 comes out at, it's what it gets down to, over time, that's important."At Forrester, however, Jackson thinks Blu-ray "is not really going to be a deal-maker, given the paucity of Blu-ray films. At the moment, consumers are not clamouring for something better than their DVDs," he says, "but it could still be a force. Far more people will go for a PS3 than spend $1,000 on a Blu-ray player, so Sony stands a good choice of coming out on top. But it will be a hard fight, and consumers still have Beta versus VHS in the back of their minds."Jackson agrees that "it's a question of how quickly [Sony] gets the price down. You can't get to the mass market until you get down to $300/&pound;200." That will be hard, given that iSuppli and Merrill Lynch have estimated the cost of the parts needed to make a PS3 at between $700 and $880. It's normal to launch games consoles at a loss, but losing $200 on 10 million machines will cost Sony $2 billion, and Sony's games division has already reported an operating loss of $231.5 million for its latest financial quarter. Microsoft's games division loses, or invests, similar amounts, but Microsoft can afford it.Still, Sony is now gearing up for its next big push, which will start with the Tokyo Games Show on September 22. Kutaragi is scheduled to give the keynote speech: Next Generation Entertainment Made by the PS3. All being well, this should be followed by the PS3's launch in Japan on November 11, and in the US and Europe on November 17.Stock shortages will ensure the PS3 sells out for Christmas, but the real battle will be fought next year and there may not be a winner. As San points out, for the first time, all three machines have their own appeal, they're not just "me too" efforts. A three-way tie is a possibility, and that would set up an even more interesting battle for the next round ...&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Years, if you treat it right. But something of a storm in the internet teacup blew up last week over an article in the Chicago Tribune (http://tinyurl.com/m8h5p) which quoted Natalie Kerris, a spokeswoman for Apple, apparently saying that the expected lifespan of any of the players is "four years" - which would imply that those bought when the first model was launched, in October 2001, are geriatric in the extreme, while an iPod nano bought since its launch last year has plenty of life left.The idea of a company putting a lifespan on the physical obsolescence of a consumer electronics item struck many as refreshing, if surprising, coming from Apple, which is notoriously tight-lipped about product flaws - cases in point being cracks in the casing of the Cube computer, fan noise in some G4 models, discoloration of the palmrests on the new Macbook computers and the famously scratch-prone screen of the iPod nano.But wait, said Ms Kerris, when her name appeared by the quote. She insisted she didn't say "four" years, but instead "for years" - a totally different matter. Kerris did say that iPods have a failure rate of less than 5%, which she called "fairly low" compared with other consumer electronics; and Rob Enderle, a consultant who regularly pops up in such stories, suggested that about 15% of iPods fail within one year of purchase - though the source of his figures wasn't revealed.However, we're unable to get at many of the important statistics to truly dig into this story satisfactorily. What, for example, are the failure rates on other digital music players, such as the Creative Labs Zen series? Their lower sales means they haven't garnered the consumer attention of the iPod, for which tales of non-charging batteries or conked-out hard drives have become standard fare for consumer affairs pages.We also don't know how many people have no trouble with their iPods - nor precisely what the average failure rate really is for consumer electronics.The Tribune did point to an (unscientific) survey by macintouch.com of its readers (http://tinyurl.com/95l2g), in which more than 4,000 people owning 8,926 iPods - an interesting statistic in its own right - revealed that 1,416 had failed. Macintouch said that this was equivalent to a 13.7% failure rate (though the raw numbers suggest it's over 15%).The data suggest that the failure rate rises with age. But the Flash memory-based shuffle and nano models do seem to do better, as they don't have a moving hard drive.What you can be sure of when considering such items is that failure rates follow a "bathtub" shape: high in the beginning, low in the middle, and high again at the end. The first high is caused by components that were faulty in the factory; that at the end of the life caused by reaching the end, well, of its life.So if your player has been going for a year already without fuss, don't worry - it's probably got a while to go yet. Why, you might even get three more years out of it.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the most revered characters in the games industry, the 46-year-old developer Will Wright, burst to prominence with SimCity in 1989. The open-ended PC city-building game and its variants sold more than 20 million copies, but Wright really hit the stratosphere with 2000's The Sims. The biggest-selling game, it has now sold, as a franchise, around 60 million units.Technology Guardian:You are working on undoubtedly your most ambitious project - the PC game Spore, which you describe as "Sim Everything".Will Wright:Yes, Spore has five distinct stages, and mixes games genres. In the first - which is essentially a tutorial - players must design a single-cell organism which is able to survive in the wild and evolve. In the second, players design a creature which must establish itself in the game world, and evolve until it achieves sentience. The next phase is a tribal one, in which your creatures struggle to establish a city, and in which the tools you give them and the architecture you design for them define their personality. The next stage documents their increasing sophistication, and involves creating vehicles. Until, finally, they achieve the ability to travel through space and colonise or interact with other planets.Apart from mixing action-adventure, real-time strategy and space-simulation gameplay, Spore innovates in two areas. Its central database will suck up creatures, buildings, vehicles and planets created by players and redistribute them to other players, introducing the concept of user-generated content to the gaming mainstream. And it will be the first major game to sport a "procedural" animation engine, which ensures that the creatures you design, no matter how freaky, will move realistically.TG:Was Spore inspired by the 1997 film Powers of 10, made by Charles and Ray Eames?WW:Yes. Actually the other big inspiration was the Seti (Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence) programme, which led me to astrobiology. Astrobiology looks at the probability and form of life in the universe. It's a field that involves other subjects like physics and chemistry, astronomy and sociology. It's interesting because all of those sub-fields end up mapping to different scales, like the Powers of Ten. So you have very small things at the molecular or cellular level, and very big things at the stellar or galactic level. Those two ideas - The Powers of Ten and astrobiology - roughly became the spine of Spore.TG:You started by simulating cities on a macro level with SimCity, then zoomed in on people in The Sims, and now you've combined both with Spore. Did advancing technology help that?WW:When I did SimCity, the idea of simulating a city in the computer's memory was a really tight fit. Now, I can run a model like Sim City in the tiniest little thread. Also, we've found that we have, over time, given the players more creative opportunities. We have found that to be a really exciting and fruitful path to go down, especially for non-gamers, who don't want to have their ass kicked by a computer player 50 times just to get to the next level.TG:Is Spore all about user-generated content, a big buzz-phrase right now?WW:Yes. There are two main things about it: Number one is how do we make it incredibly easy and fun to make the content? How do we make the game reward you for making cool stuff? And number two: how do we get the maximum use out of that? This is really about how we move it around between players. So the content pollination part of that - where it goes up to the server and comes down to other people - is one of the fundamental aspects of Spore. Your world never runs out, you have continual expansion packs coming from other players.TG:Is there any way you can exercise quality control over that?WW:Players on The Sims can create characters, put them up on a website and others can download them, and we had to put in a system so that if somebody makes the walking penis, other players can flag it. If it gets enough flags, it gets removed from the list.TG:Was developing the procedural animation engine, which uses a creature's construction to determine its movement, the biggest technical challenge in the creation of Spore?WW:It's a deeper physical simulation, with the bones and the feet - how they would move, connect and pull each other. The animation system and the texturing system were technical challenges. The editor was more of a design challenge - how do we make something that is as powerful as Maya, but that the average Sims player can use? That required a lot of prototyping and testing. Those are the things we had to start on very early. Other things, like the simulation - the level of detail is something that's not as obvious, but it's just as important.We have this galaxy of stars and planets and worlds, and buildings and cities and creatures, and even when I pull away from a planet and come back to it, I know I have to instantiate cities and vehicles. If I now pull all the way down to one creature, it's going to have a certain activity - it'll be hungry, say. So you have to prop up the illusion that you're simulating millions of creatures across thousands of worlds, simultaneously. That's a tricky issue, it just requires a lot of hard thinking.TG:What's your favourite one of the different phases of Spore?WW:Probably the space one - that's going to be the most elaborate. The editors, in general, I spend a lot of time in. In the creature phase, working with the creature editor, you have a certain number of DNA points you can spend. Once you get into the space phase, you can open up genetic engineering, which now allows you to build anything in the creature editor for free. You can go hog-wild with the creature-building at that point.TG:People are beginning to make a living from building objects for The Sims and massively multi-player online games. What are your thoughts on that?WW:Anything we can do to make the fan community more vibrant is fine. But in some cases, those activities can suppress the fan community and be a problem. When you are selling something like a high-level WarCraft player and some idiot buys it and comes into the game, they ruin the experience for others because they don't know what they're doing.TG:What's your take on next-generation consoles? You're concentrating on the PC, but will Spore come to other platforms?WW:We're going to do the PC game first, but what we're trying to launch is an entire franchise that will be all across platforms. It will probably take different forms depending on the platforms. You might be playing part of the game on a handheld platform; you might be playing the entire game but more avatar-based on a console. Something like the Wii offers a lot of interesting creative opportunities for the editors, with its controller. That's been one of the ongoing problems with consoles: they don't have a mouse. A console controller makes you want the game to be avatar-based - that's why RTS games suck on consoles.TG:Are there any plans to keep extending The Sims franchise?WW:Certainly yes. The tricky part is not to let it get overly complex, to keep it accessible. I think The Sims 2 was right on the borderline. This is something that happened to SimCity to some degree. As we went from SimCity 3 to 4, the people who loved SimCity thought it was great, but for people who had never played SimCity, it was overwhelming.
Rather like trucks bearing placards asking how well they're being driven, NHS doctors could one day wear badges saying: "How's my healing?" if the concept behind an award-winning consumer feedback website take off. The independent site,patientopinion.org.ukcollects patients' experiences of treatment in the NHS and relays feedback to the organisation responsible. It also allows anyone to sound out "patient reviews" of their 10 nearest NHS organisations.Patient Opinion appears to be an exemplar of innovation based on the free supply of public sector information. The service relies on data taken from the NHS web portal (nhs.uk) about organisations and the services they offer. "We depend absolutely on the quality of that data feed," says Dr Paul Hodgkin, the Sheffield-based GP who set up the site.Patient Opinion is a non-profit company whose business model is for hospitals and other organisations to receive feedback in real time. So far, seven organisations have signed up. For the moment, the feeds go out by email, though the plan is to move to a "web feed" (RSS or Atom) service. "It's early days. We're approaching 1,000 bits of feedback; what we want is 100,000," says Dr James Munro, director of Informatics and Research.Munro says the opinions break down into 50% "absolutely positive", 30% "mixed" and that 10-20% have a "serious gripe". "The vast majority of feedback is very considered and thoughtful. Typically, it will say the experience was excellent apart from one thing that spoilt it, which might be being disturbed in the night or a spillage not being cleaned up."Munro adds: "If you had to pick one issue patients raised, it would be parking."Patients providing opinions can keep their identities secret; they need provide only their postcode and an email address. Comments are moderated, but Munro says that 97% have been acceptable; comments are rejected if they are about organisations outside England, are libellous or would prejudice a formal complaint. Anyone browsing the site can enter their postcode to see what patients are saying about NHS services in their area.After piloting in Yorkshire, the site was launched to cover the whole of England in January this year. Last week, Patient Opinion was commended in the New Statesman new media awards.Reaction from the Department of Health has been "very supportive", Munro says. One attraction is that the site gathers feedback from a wider group of patients than habitual activists. Another is that it is seen to be independent of the NHS.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Early this week Iblogged abouthow the down-sizing of E3 would provoke a rush of competing events, all marketing themselves as bold new alternatives. Well, here's another one. A company named Lunar Tide Communications has just announced the patriotic-soundingAmerica's VideoGame Expo- or VGXPO as they've catchily shortened it to - due to take place from October 27-29 at the Valley Forge Convention Center, Philadelphia."What the industry needs now is something that can be used to showcase products, promote game makers and celebrate the rich history of the industry directly with consumers," exclaims the press release. And later, there's this stirring speech from game industry veteran Bill Kunkel:"It's time for a show that's about games and the people who play them, and not just a giant party where everyone's showing off their best pre-rendered video and earning kudos for best booth babes. It's time for an event where the smallest developers are considered just as important as the big publishers, and both groups get to show their wares directly to consumers and receive direct feedback from those same consumers. In short, it's time for a show like VGXPO."At this point I imagine he was hoisted onto the shoulders of cheering gamers and carried into a beautiful ochre sunset.UPDATE:Still mourning E3? Gamesradar.com has compiled adetailed history of the eventfor your reminiscence pleasure.
Jason Calacanis has been struggling to convert the old Netscape portal (now ownd by AOL) into a community news site pretty much like Digger. It wasn't going well, so he decided to do something outrageous: pay people. He has now engagedthree of the top 10 diggers, the No 1 user on Newsvine, and the No 1 user on Redditt, at $1,000 a month.The story is onNetscape, naturally.One of the people hired,Corey Spring, writes on his blog:Yes it is true, I have become a paid member of Netscape's team. I also have made it no secret that I have been critical of the 'New Netscape.' Jason Calacanis does not agree with everything that AOL does, nor do I agree with everything about Netscape. Nevertheless, I was offered a job with the new site, and I took it... with one caveat.I am not leaving Newsvine. I like Newsvine and have been here since before the doors were open to the public. I agreed to be a paid contributor to the site on the stipulation that I could continue at Newsvine.Comment: Whether or not it saves Netscape, the cash offer is leading to more stories being submitted to all the sites as users compete for top spots that could get them hired by Calacanis....
I've just read a posting on a discussion board that says your PC's IP address can be accessed to find out your home address. Jessica JamesThis may be true if you work for a government intelligence service, but it's not a simple process. When you go on the net, your PC is assigned an IP (Internet Protocol) address, which is made up of numbers separated by dots (eg 66.249.66.205). You can enter this into a "reverse lookup" service -- there's one atzoneedit.com/lookup.html-- and find out who owns it. In my example, the answer is Google, and the lookup provides a postal address in Mountain View, California. However, in most cases, the number will be one of a large block assigned to an internet service provider (ISP) such as BT, and knowing BT's address is not much help. You would need to look up BT's logs to find out who was using a particular IP address at a particular time, then look up BT's customer records to find the user's postal address. ISP's don't make this sort of information generally available.If you buy a domain name, such as jessicajames.co.uk, then your name and address and other contact details will usually be listed in the DNS records. In this case, you just need to look up the domain name using a Whois service. But because many ordinary people now buy domain names for personal use, Nominet, the UK registrar, has changed the rules so that "non-trading individuals" can opt out of having their details displayed. (The owner of jessicajames. co.uk has opted to do this.)If you want to keep these details private, you have to ask the agent who registered your domain name to modify the domain name record.Backchat: A reader who is ex-directory was "horrified" this answer. She had bought a .net domain and says: "I find that you cannot opt out of .net addresses, only from .uk ones." Nominet does not, of course, control top level domains such as .com, .net and .org, or other countries' domains such as .it (Italy), .tv (Tuvalu) and .to (Tonga).Lewis Peake says "just enter dummy details". Reading Whois entries shows that many people do.
My Internet Explorer homepage has been taken over by safetyhomepage.com and I am being bombarded by pop ups for spyware and adult sites. I have McAfee and have run Spybot and AdAware without it being detected. Mark PerryIt sounds like a simple home-page hijacker but seems to be a new variant of SmitFraud. This is a dangerous Trojan that modifies the Windows registry and can download more programs in the background. It can also reinstall itself when you reboot your PC, making it hard to remove.One approach is to use an online forum, where you post a file created with HiJackThis and someone walks you through the process. For an example of someone removing safetyhomepage.com successfully,see the TechGuy forum.Other good malware removal forums include Spywareinfo, CastleCops, TomCoyote and MajorGeeks.
I run Windows XP, Microsoft Office and little else, but my hard drive space is diminishing at an alarming rate. One day, I used a gigabyte. What is going on? David KidmanThere are dozens of utilities that will show you what is using your hard drive space, and in previous answers I have suggestedSpaceMongerandSequoiaView. But you need to track or graph disk usage on a daily basis, and I can't think of a good way to do that.I've been experimenting withMouseSoft's Directory Sizeprogram, which is free for personal use. This lists directories and files in size order, but you can click the Folder+ heading to make them alphabetical. Next, use File|Send To to put them into Excel, where you can track the data after a lot of faffing about.Someone out there must have a much better solution ...
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is now onlinehereIs Sony fighting a losing battle?Sony is facing a struggle over its PlayStation 3. Jack Schofield reports on the next stage in the console wars.The Spore of a new franchiseFollowing the huge success of SimCity and The Sims, Will Wright talks about his most ambitious project.Stay safe in the auction roomDanny Bradbury investigates the growing problem of escrow fraud.Can computers get past Go?Chess is a doddle compared to this ancient oriental game of strategy that has programmers and scientists scratching their heads. Charles Arthur reportsNewly asked questionsHow long is my iPod meant to last?What is the Carr-Benkler wager?Do games have the character to grow up?Keith Stuart thinks they should.'How's my healing?'Michael Cross: An independent website that provides patient feedback shows what can be done with free public sector information.Would a speed limit database lead to fewer road deaths?Charles Arthur: The answer is not as obvious as it might seem, according to Professor Frank Kelly, the outgoing chief scientific adviser to the Department for Transport.File sharing continuesBobbie Johnson on the winners and losers.Phone of the future?Charles Arthur tries a Wi-Fi handset.TechnobileLinda Jones: Learn some basic grammar and spelling rules and maybe then will online networking stand a chance.Ask JackAddress code | Not safe | Vanishing space | Lost on SafariNewsbytesBlind users hear Thunder | Visually impaired Googling | Trailing ahead | Shopping not dropping | Better than Chocolate? | Kon-Tiki 2.0 | King Kong comingLetters and blogs
I use a Mac, but some websites -- eg HBoS for online banking -- are set up for Internet Explorer. When I try to use Apple's Safari browser, parts of the pages don't display properly. What other browser would you recommend? Clare MeikleI recommend Firefox 1.5: in my experience, it works better than Safari with difficult websites. However, I'm influenced by the ability to use Firefox on different operating systems. Mac purists seem to preferCamino, which uses the same rendering engine as Firefox: Mozilla's Gecko. They are free so you can try both.
When Garry Kasparov was beaten, to his furious humiliation, by IBM's Deep Blue chess computer in 1997, it left human players pondering their future. Draughts, Othello, backgammon, Scrabble: by the start of this century, each had been all but conquered by machines.But don't worry. Almost a decade later, with Moore's Law still at work, there is still a board game in which humans reign supreme. The game is Go, an oriental game of strategy. It sounds superficially easy. The board is a 19 by 19 grid of intersecting lines. The pieces (called "stones") are black or white, and identical. Once placed on the board, they do not move (unless surrounded and captured) or change colour. The object is to use one's stones to surround as many blank intersections (called "territory") as possible. And that's about it.Even the lure of a US$1 million prize for the first program to beat a human professional went uncollected after the deadline passed in 2000. No program has yet come close to meeting the challenge. Now, however, there may be a new attack on this outpost of humanity. At Microsoft's research centre in Cambridge, scientists are taking a simpler approach to working out how to beat the best humans. They're telling their program what the best humans did against each other in thousands of games, providing a vast repertoire of millions of moves. Are computers about to invade another piece of our gameplaying territory?A board of possibilitiesWhile simple to explain and to learn, Go has subtle gradations of ability. There are hundreds of professionals, mainly in Japan, Korea and China, yet even the best computer version is only as good as an average European club player, who is as far from being professional as the average tennis club player is from playing at Wimbledon. Even the best Go-playing program is presently only ranked about 9kyu. Why are computers so bad at Go? First, playing Go plunges a computer into a sea of possibilities in which most drown. A chess board, with 64 squares, is comparatively tiny: each turn offers about 30 possible legal moves. In Go, with 361 points, few moves are illegal, offering more possibilities - on average, about 200 per turn. Thus the total number of possible moves in chess is between 1060 and 1070; in Go it is about 10250.Secondly, according to David Stern of the Cavendish Laboratory in Cambridge, who is working on a doctorate on computer Go with the team at Microsoft, it is very hard to determine, for each move, what its effects will be. Although the stones do not move, their presence affects the value and "strength" of the others; adjacent stones of the same colour form "groups" which are harder to capture. That's unlike chess, where it is comparatively easy to determine the "static value" of all the pieces at any time, because there are only 32 at most, where a Go board constantly fills with new pieces. "It is very difficult to produce an efficient 'static evaluation' function to compute the value of board positions in Go for a particular player," notes Stern. "The reason is that the stones on the Go board influence each other's value in complex ways. The value of a particular stone to a player is derived from its relationships with the surrounding stones, not from itself."The effect is that in Go there are many non-ideal moves at any point, but because games last longer - typically about 200 moves (100 stones placed by each side) rather than 70 (35 by both sides) in chess - it's harder to look far ahead enough to see a non-ideal move's defects show up. David Fotland - author of the Go-playing program Many Faces of Go, still ranked one of the strongest available - reckons that for humans, reading ahead is actually easier in Go than in chess. "People are visual, and the board configuration and relationships change less from move to move than they do in chess," he told the Intelligent Go website (intelligentgo.org).It's the visual element of the game that nobody can quite put into code. Go has a visual element; a high-good level player will reject a potential move because its "shape" - that is, the position of a stone move being considered in relation to the stones already there - "looks bad". They're not intuitively obvious. Equally, good players also talk of stones and groups having "influence" on other parts of the board, or being "heavy" or "light" or "overextended". More simply, "urgent" moves are those that will bolsterthe player's position; good players consistently choose the most urgent moves.But computer chess games don't understand chess; they just got better at crunching moves. Won't brute force do the job on Go, as it did in other games? No, says Bob Myers, who runs the Intelligent Go website. "A very rough estimate might be that the evaluation function [for computer Go] is, at best, 100 times slower than chess, and the branching factor is four times greater at each play; taken together, the performance requirements for a chess-like approach to Go can be estimated as 1027 times greater than that for computer chess. Moore's Law holds that computing power doubles every 18 months, so that means we might have a computer that could play Go using these techniques sometime in the 22nd century."Now, though, Stern and the Microsoft team are trying a different tack. Instead of wondering how to get a computer to beat a human, they are showing the computer how humans beat each other - by creating a huge database of moves and positions from professional games. So far they have fed in around 180,000 games, adding them to a huge database so the program can pick the best available in any given situation. Thore Graepel, of the machine learning and perception research group at Microsoft Cambridge, who is helping coordinate the work, says that both the winner's and loser's moves are included: "From the point of view of the computer, these pros are so much better that any variation in their skills is minimal, compared to the computer's playing strength." In other words, it's better to play like a losing pro than the best computer.Speed advantageAnd how well does it perform? Graepel, who is an amateur shodan (the Go equivalent of a black belt), says that the program plays to about 10kyu level. Improvement will rely on getting better at recognising when groups of stones are at risk of being surrounded and captured. But one thing it does have over rival programs, and humans, is speed: "It's fast - about 10 milliseconds per move," Graepel says. Other programs can take minutes to consider any board layout.However Charles Matthews, a 3-dan Go player also based in Cambridge, is unpersuaded. "If you can't beat your computer Go opponent, you are going to be one of the rabbits at the local Go club. But further progress has been by rather small increments. The top programs used to be about 8 kyu; they might have crept up to 7 kyu, but that should mean that I, as a 3 dan, would have a hard time giving them a nine-stone handicap [a nine-turn head start], and that isn't my experience."While it's hard to know how well humans are playing, Matthews reckons that amateur shodans play at about 90% efficiency, and top professionals at about 98% efficiency. "That is with a purely hypothetical notion of 'perfect play' being a few handicap stones beyond top pros." Graepel accepts that gaps remain. But he also thinks there may be a deeper reason why computers remain bad at Go, and humans good. "I believe Go requires certain human characteristics - visual recognition, matching shapes and logical reasoning. You have to do spatial reasoning about which direction should you play. It's all about predator and prey, hunting and chasing, and territory. All these are very basic yet complex human facilities. They're all useful in our natural environment for other things."The implication is that computers are bad at Go because they're still bad at being human. Which might come as some relief. In 2002, David Levy, one of the earliest drivers of computer chess, wrote (in Do not pass Go, October 24 2002): "Perhaps Go will be the final bastion in man's attempts to stave off his inevitable intellectual defeat at the hands of the machine." Despite humanity's own best efforts to undermine it, the bastion still looks remarkably solid.Go rankings: kyu to dan40 kyu:Child beginner25 kyu:Adult learner15 kyu:Top-level social player10 kyu:Weak club player4-5 kyu:Average club player1 kyu/1 dan:Transition to expert (equivalent to county-level chess player)2 dan:Competent well-informed amateur3-4 dan:Good amateur5-6 dan:Strong amateur (top 100 in Europe, top 10,000 in South Korea!)7 dan:Amateur good enough to be professional 1 dan; can play world's best without embarrassmentPro 4 dan:can make a living at Go in East Asia (akin to golf tour professional)Pro 9 dan:among top 100 in world; can win pro tournament(with thanks to Charles Matthews)&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In case anyone missed yesterday'sgood newsit looks like Atari are holding off releasing PS3 games until 2007. Anyone who has had the misfortune to play an Atari game in the last 12-18 months will tell you what a creative (and thus financial) mess that company is in. Test Drive Unlimited is the only glimmer of excitement on the horizon. Don't believe me? Here's what Atari CEO Bruno Bonnell said whenasked by GamsIndustry.bizabout this year's releases.We have the Arthur franchise, which is a major motion picture out between December and January. For the PSP there's Hot Pxl, which takes full advantage of the Wi-Fi capabilities of PSP, not to mention DBZ on Wii... I think we have very strong titles, and we intend to passionately occupy some of the top positions during the Christmas period.Excited by that? Thought not. Luckily he didn't specify whether his "top position" target was 17th or 18th in the Xbox 360 charts. For those of us old enough to remember Atari the first time round the current state of the "brand" is enough to make you weep.
Today'sTechnology sectionrounds up what bloggers and gamers have been shouting about for a while, namely the bumpy ride which PS3 is facing. An analyst quoted in the article states the obvious: "People in gaming and game publishing are drastically less excited about PlayStation 3 than they were a year ago, and competition is looking much stronger." There is even the prediction that Sony could come third behind Microsoft and Nintendo, although a more sensible voice comes from veteran developer Jez San. "I think the combination of a next-generation games machine and a next-generation DVD payer that plays full high definition movies is very compelling, despite the huge price."Elsewhere in the paper there is aninterview with Sims creator Will Wright- "RTS games suck on consoles" - and adecent piecefrom Keith about the lack of rounded characters in gaming. Maybe PS3 will be the catalyst, but in all honesty I think it will be years before we get close to the gaming equivalent of something like the West Wing (sob)
July started out as a good month for Tami. She was about to sell an expensive pair of diamond earrings on eBay and was looking forward to the cash. Two weeks later, she had lost $9,100 (&pound;4,900) and her email account had been ransacked by criminals. Tami was taken in by escrow fraud, which is sucking in growing numbers of online auction customers. "I would have researched things a little more, but I had just had a baby," she says. "As a result, I lost something very valuable. I was very na&iuml;ve."Yet Tami is an experienced internet user. The 30-year-old spa owner has been using computers "since kindergarten" and has been an eBay user since 2004. When her auction ended unsuccessfully, a fraudster in Spain contacted her through her eBay account, asking to buy them. She agreed, and he referred her to what he claimed was an escrow website. Escrow companies normally act as trusted third parties in transactions. They hold one party's high-value goods until they receive the other's payment, at which point the goods and payment are sent to their destinations. That way, traders can trust each other to complete a transaction.In this case, the escrow site was created by the Spanish buyer. Tami sent the earrings to the address it gave; the scammer collected them and failed to pay. Furthermore, Tami had registered at the scammer's escrow site using the same password she used for all her online services. "He logged into my email and erased all the mails from him and the escrow site. I had to change all my passwords," she says. Luckily, she had printed out some of the emails. "I had also given this escrow site my routing and cheque account number, to transfer funds. So I had to close my cheque account, and start all over again."Growing problemEscrow fraud has been a growing problem for online auction customers who ignore the advice of companies such as eBay not to conduct transactions outside the auction system. Once victims have been scammed by someone overseas, their chance of compensation is practically zero. "We don't even take [those] cases. It would be dishonest for us to take the client's money, because we're not going to get it back," says Skipp Porteous, a licensed private investigator in New York who specialises in investigating counterfeit fraud over eBay.The US government is too busy fighting the war on terror to worry about hapless internet users. Tami tried the Internet Crime Complaint Centre (ICCC), a joint venture between the FBI and the US National White Collar Crime Centre. "They didn't return my calls or emails," she says.If governments can't stop escrow fraud, who can? eBay does its best to educate customers not to complete transactions using wire services or unknown escrow services outside the eBay site, explains spokeswoman Catherine England. "We don't recommend escrow as a form of payment, and if the buyer and seller want to use escrow, thenEscrow.comis the only site we recommend," she warns, adding that eBay makes an anti-fraud browser toolbar available. "One of the common tactics is for people to get you to leave eBay, so if you're being redirected away from the site, the toolbar will alert you."But still customers don't listen. Given that escrow fraud is almost always perpetrated using suspicious websites, internet service providers are the obvious point at which to stop scams occurring. However, success has been limited and ISPs' responsiveness to complaints has been haphazard at best. Take Canaca-Com, a small Canadian ISP that had been hosting a website at the domain name mitnick-boss.com. The website, advertising an escrow firm called STS-Trades, had been involved in no known fraud cases, but several aspects of the site were suspicious.In its terms and conditions, the site claimed ownership of the subsidiaries EC Services Corporation and Internet Escrow Services - both of which are operated by Escrow.com, a legitimate Californian escrow company. The mitnick-boss.com site claimed that STS-Trades was registered in California, but it did not display the mandatory registered licence number. And the listed fax number was answered by an angry octogenarian in Oklahoma.Even more damning was the claim by a private citizen from Pennsylvania that the site was registered using her name and credit card when she had nothing to do with the company. She was forced to reverse the charge and cancel her card.Since July 14, Brandon Abbey, managing director of Escrow.com, has been pursuing the Toronto-based ISP to take down the mitnick-boss.com site because it infringed his intellectual property rights. He had also forwarded emails from the ID theft victim to strengthen his case. Canaca-Com did act when the Guardian got in touch by phone, spending half an hour on hold until talking to the general manager, who agreed to suspend the account. "We're like landlords," she says, arguing that the company simply provides a hosting service, and is not responsible for the content of sites hosted on its servers."The rules are that you must have the correct registrant name on the site, and it's never correct, and the ISPs do nothing about it," a US secret service agent who tracks internet fraud said. "Some of them are really good about removing it and some are stubborn. They won't do it without a court order."Fraudulent sites"It really depends on who you get to within a company," shrugs Escrow.com's Abbey, who hears of such fraudsters working from places such as Nigeria, Romania and India. His team issues reams of email to ISPs hosting sites that he suspects are fraudulent. Most sites will eventually be taken down, but by the time a victim complains and a court order has been issued, the fraudsters may already have taken people's money. When a domain is shut down, the scammers will register another domain elsewhere and upload another version of the original site with the company name changed. "We eventually got the fraud site taken off the internet, and the very next day there was an exact copy of that escrow site on another web domain," recalls Tami."Sometimes [ISPs] can't be bothered, and sometimes they're worried that it may be a legitimate site and they're frightened of being sued," says Justin, an anti-scam activist who works with the group Artists Against 419, which tries to stop scams from Nigerian fraudsters. He says that roughly 8% of the scam websites the group sees are fake escrow and shipping sites. Justin is one of many people who try to contact ISPs and warn them of potential escrow fraud. But when the ISPs fail to investigate suspicious sites, more militant activists will try to warn potential scam victims. They use techniques at the edge of the law to obtain administrative passwords to fake sites and to read the criminals' email. They then contact victims as early as possible and try to stop them transferring goods and money."I look at it as economic warfare," says one US-based activist who has been passing on information to law enforcers, ISPs, auction sites and potential victims for four years. The problem is that victims aren't listening, either. "They forward my email warning to the scammers, even though I say 'don't warn them, or I won't be able to help others'." As soon as the scammers realise they have been identified, they relocate their servers and start again.But eBay users should listen, says Tami. "Read all the red warning flags eBay has posted," adding that users should not complete transactions using unknown escrow sites outside the eBay system. "Be very wary of people who are in a rush to complete a transaction before you have time to catch on," she says. "This guy was in a big rush, and supposedly wanted the earrings for a gift." Some gift.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've been rather moved by the stunning Okami imagery which has been filling the blogosphere. It's inspired a trawl around to see what other inspired visuals have rocked the interactive entertainment world.Here are just a few:OkamiA game which "melds art with Japanese mythology and cel-shaded graphics," explainsNTSC-ukDrawn to Be AliveA Unreal Tournament mod, if you can believe it! The unique 2D-in-a-3D-world graphics are inspired byPaper Mario.Comix ZoneThe precursor to the comics-inspired XIII and Viewtiful Joe (both award recipients for their graphics), this game was set in a comics universe to striking effect.Mojib RibbonFrom the camp of Parappa the Rapper- and Vib Ribbon-creatorMasaya Matsuuracame this innovative title, which takes a leaf out of Okami's book.
"With the release today of 'Training Day,' 'Kiss Kiss Bang Bang' and 'Rumor Has It...' on Blu-ray, Warner Home Video has become the the first studio to unleash the same movie titles on both formats, following their debut on HD DVD last month," reportsHigh-Def Digest."Finally, after months of apples-to-oranges comparisons between the two formats via different discs from differing studios, a direct head-to-head analysis can now be made using identical source material. As the first Warner Blu-ray titles hit stores, we at High Def Digest are proud to roll out the web's first in-depth comparisons of all three discs."Comment: Interesting in parts, but not very useful. The review doesn't say how much space each movie takes up, or compare how they have been encoded. (Both systems support the same codecs and should therefore have more or less the same picture quality, if they have been encoded the same way.)If you create a dual-layer HD-DVD (30GB storage) such as Training Day, it has more space than the normal single-layer Blu-ray (25GB), so it's no surprise things had to be dropped from the Blu-ray version. The other two HD-DVD movies were single layer 15GB discs with DVD on the flip side, so more info would have helped.As for picture quality, the HD-DVD discs are using VC1 (which is WMV9, but standardised), and this is dramatically better than the antique MPEG-2 used for the Blu-ray movies. The iHD used for interactivity on HD-DVD may also be better than the Java used on Blu-ray, which is what the reviewer found.In other words, HD-DVD/VC1 should logically have been expected to beat Blu-ray/MPEG-2 3-0, which was the actual result. It's not a surprise at all.Still, well done the reviewer for believing his eyes, rather than the hype. Plenty of people will tell you x is better than y because they think it's supposed to be, even if it patently isn't.
Address codeI've just read a posting on a discussion board that says your PC's IP address can be accessed to find out your home address.Jessica JamesJack Schofield replies:This may be true if you work for a government intelligence service, but it's not a simple process. When you go on the net, your PC is assigned an IP (Internet Protocol) address, which is made up of numbers separated by dots (eg 66.249.66.205). You can enter this into a "reverse lookup" service - there's one atzoneedit.comlookup.html - and find out who owns it. In my example, the answer is Google, and the lookup provides a postal address in Mountain View, California. However, in most cases, the number will be one of a large block assigned to an internet service provider (ISP) such as BT, and knowing BT's address is not much help. You would need to look up BT's logs to find out who was using a particular IP address at a particular time, then look up BT's customer records to find the user's postal address. ISP's don't make this sort of information generally available.If you buy a domain name, such as jessicajames.co.uk, then your name and address and other contact details will usually be listed in the DNS records. In this case, you just need to look up the domain name using a Whois service. But because many ordinary people now buy domain names for personal use, Nominet, the UK registrar, has changed the rules so that "non-trading individuals" can opt out of having their details displayed. (The owner of jessicajames. co.uk has opted to do this.)You have to ask the agent who registered your domain name to modify the domain name record.Not safeMy Internet Explorer homepage has been taken over bysafetyhomepage.comand I am being bombarded by pop ups for spyware and adult sites. I have McAfee and have run Spybot and AdAware without it being detected.Mark PerryJS:It sounds like a simple home-page hijacker but seems to be a new variant of SmitFraud. This is a dangerous Trojan that modifies the Windows registry and can download more programs in the background. It can also reinstall itself when you reboot your PC, making it hard to remove. One approach is to use an online forum, where you post a file created with HiJackThis and someone walks you through the process. For an example of someone removing safetyhomepage.com successfully, see the TechGuy forum (http://tinyurl.com/r8gus).Other good malware removal forums include Spywareinfo, CastleCops, TomCoyote and MajorGeeks.Vanishing spaceI run Windows XP, Microsoft Office and little else, but my hard drive space is diminishing at an alarming rate. One day, I used a gigabyte. What is going on?David KidmanJS:There are dozens of utilities that will show you what is using your hard drive space, and in previous answers I have suggested SpaceMonger (tinyurl.com/34q8f) and SequoiaView (win.tue.nl/sequoiaview). But you need to track or graph disk usage on a daily basis, and I can't think of a good way to do that. I've been experimenting with MouseSoft's Directory Size program (mousesoft.co.uk/index.php?mds), which is free for personal use. This lists directories and files in size order, but you can click the Folder+ heading to make them alphabetical. Next, use File|Send To to put them into Excel, where you can track the data after a lot of faffing about. Someone out there must have a much better solution ...Lost on SafariI use a Mac, but some websites - eg HBoS for online banking - are set up for Internet Explorer. When I try to use Apple's Safari browser, parts of the pages don't display properly. What other browser would you recommend?Clare MeikleJS:I recommend Firefox 1.5: in my experience, it works better than Safari with difficult websites. However, I'm influenced by the ability to use Firefox on different operating systems. Mac purists seem to prefer Camino (caminobrowser.org), which uses the same rendering engine as Firefox: Mozilla's Gecko. They are free so you can try both.Backchat&middot;Stanley Russell asked about cleaning sticky finger marks off CDs and DVDs. N Cook says: "You failed to mention the most important thing: Always clean data/audio or video CDs in a radial sense, not circumferentially, so that any microscratches are across and not along the data paths."
Two musical dinosaurs hit the wall last week - and Top of the Pops wasn't one of them. Metallica, rock monsters who had hitherto refused to play nicely with the net, finally relented under increasing pressure and stocked iTunes with their back catalogue after years of being the industry's premier refuseniks.While heavy metallers were watching their heroes take to the virtual stage, elsewhere file sharers were hearing about an old favourite. The controversial KaZaA program, once the biggest filesharing client in the world, settled its legal disputes with the music industry - ponying up $115m (&pound;61.5m) and promising to filter out copyrighted content for the privilege.Although KaZaA is hardly five years old, many regard it as a relic of a bygone age; a program now so bloated, clunky and corrupted with adware that most self-respecting file sharers bounded off to new pastures long ago.But while KaZaA might seem like old news to the internet's frenetic mayflies, its capitulation could represent something more important. After all, the software has been downloaded around 250 million times, meaning that the deal's beneficiaries - the major record labels - can claim with some justification that one of the biggest brands in pirated music has just gone straight. "I would say this is a major step toward the end of mass market illegal file sharing," Keith Jopling, chief analyst with international music body IFPI, told me. "KaZaA is one of half a dozen really big names in file sharing... this is a big tipping point."But is it? Does this mark a more important watershed than Napster, Grokster or any of those that have come before? The answer is that nobody can really be sure. Traffic has certainly moved elsewhere, away from KaZaA's FastTrack network. And while individual services can be taken down, file sharing as a whole continues to thrive.Some estimates put the popularity of illegally downloaded music at around three times the size of the legitimate market. Those big numbers, too, are matched by the big money that some file sharing services are raking in - how much was KaZaA making if it can pay $115m and still come out standing? These are the sorts of figures that give credence to those trying to get the music industry to see file sharing as a marketing tool like radio.Recent history would indicate that artists like Metallica will refuse such logic for as long as they can. But indications from elsewhere show that things could be changing. Yahoo has unleashed its first attempt at DRM-free sales, and eMusic (which sells restriction-free tracks) is now the second biggest online music retailer. In the end, though, the real lessons here might not be about digital music at all.Those wanting to turn back the digital tide would do well to realise who the real winners in the KaZaA story have been - the people who created it in the first place.Scandinavian entrepreneurs Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis came up with the concept five years ago, built the software and then sold it on before things got too sticky. Then they plunged their time and money into another disruptive technology project... a little application you may have heard of called Skype.The duo sold up to eBay last year for &pound;1.4bn, but are now reported to be working on another scheme (codenamed The Venice Project) which insiders say could revolutionise video distribution in the same way that KaZaA and Skype changed music and telephony. All this shows that change, once started, is very hard to stop. And it proves that Zennstrom and Friis should be the poster boys of innovation: a dynamic duo who have helped change two industries and are now looking at a third, despite opposition at every step. Technology might not be the new rock and roll, but it does have a couple of rock stars, at least.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A phone from the future dropped on to my desk the other day. I'm assuming it was from the future - once plugged in, its display showed the date as "2011-07-03". (Apparently, July 3 2011 will be a Sunday.) Obviously, someone had been leaning over their time machine too closely while testing, and plonk! There goes your phone. All the settings got wiped, but the phone came through OK.I was relieved to find that we won't have adopted American date formatting in five years' time, but perplexed at first by the lack of a slot for a SIM card when I took the battery off.Then I switched it on, and it announced it was scanning for networks. What sort of networks would those be? And then I realised: this was - no, is, well, will be, once the future arrives - a Wi-Fi phone. It appears to be made by UT Starcom, who I guess are going to be pretty big in five years' time, though I'd not really heard of them. Then again, I don't keep close tabs on phone makers, particularly in the Far East.Does this mean, I asked myself, that soon we're all going to be making phone calls over the internet, using wireless hotspots rather than these annoying "mobile network" companies?A Wi-Fi-only phone contains certain assumptions. First, that you won't need a mobile phone any more, since what sensible person would have a mobile phone loaded with contacts and calendars, then duplicate it all on a phone that only works around a hotspot? Second, the one I tried assumes you're not going to want Bluetooth, and that you'd rather try to find the USB cable with the right connector to link to your computer. I fear for our five-years-hence selves if this is true. Bluetooth has the advantage of forcing the phone manufacturer to conform to certain standards of communication with a computer, which means the calendar and phonebook entries have to be formatted in a particular way so they can be transferred without requiring the phone company to write their own phonebook and calendar program for the computer too, which is another duplication.But this phone had no Bluetooth. Probably this is because some companies haven't figured out how to make it play nicely with Wi-Fi, although the British company CSR, from Cambridge, announced a single chip more than two years ago that would handle both signals without squabbling. So interference can't be a good reason for getting rid of Bluetooth, which is increasingly important for any phone you carry around. (Even Apple has managed to put Bluetooth into its new "Mighty Mouse". Then again, since it took 20-odd years to come up with a multi-button mouse, perhaps one should be grateful.)Third, it assumes that hotspots will become pervasive, and that the cost of using them will fall pretty much to zero. I'm dubious. Analysts are talking up the possibilities of WiMax, a long-range wireless system which isn't compatible with Wi-Fi: the other day, Jupiter Research forecast that there will be 21.3m WiMax subscribers by 2012, perhaps using it as an alternative to mobile companies' 3G networks.But the prospects of Wi-Fi getting that big, at least in the UK, seem remote. Hotspots have been around for at least five years and their price - around &pound;5 per hour - shows little sign of falling. Are you really going to pay &pound;5 just to tell someone you're going to be on the train, and that once you're there you won't be calling them because you've given up mobile phones?That, plus the multiple steps required to connect the phone to a secure wireless network (in my home), told me I had the story wrong when I imagined an inventor leaning over his time machine and dropping his valuable item into it. No, I realised what had really happened. Those clever folk in the future have figured out how to get rid of their rubbish: dump it in the past. You have to admit, it's clever.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the Department for Transport's (DfT) principal aims is to cut road deaths by 40% by 2010. And since excess speed is a known contributor to accidents, would a database of national speed limits, available for free, help achieve that aim? The answer is not as obvious as it might seem, according to Professor Frank Kelly, the outgoing chief scientific adviser to the DfT. It's not just a question of whether data should be "free"; just as important is the question of who should contribute to the data, and whether it needs to be "owned".In fact the problem is not technological, acording to Professor David Rhind, formerly director-general of Ordnance Survey and now vice-chancellor of the University of London."The problem lies elsewhere and it is about policy coherence, intellectual property rights and much else," he noted in an article for last September's Journal of the Foundation for Science and Technology. "There is no single up-to-date source of information about the road speeds that are set by all of the agencies [such as local authorities] involved."Ideally, he added, the DfT would like to make all the speed limit data - "including the coordinates [of where speed limits change on the roads] freely available; that is, free from copyright and easily shareable, in the public domain."But, Rhind adds, "this appears to be enormously difficult". One important reason: the obstacle that government ownership of geographic data places on its reuse.However Kelly, who completed his posting as chief scientific adviser to the DfT earlier this week, insists that it is too simplistic to call - as the Guardian does - for the underlying data to be made freely available. "Innovation has many steps," he noted."Just because you do one part of the task - such as making the data available - doesn't mean that every other step in the chain will happen automatically." And the problem with creating the speed limit database is that doing so requires the coordination of many organisations both inside and outside government, and raises questions about which data format to use.However, calculations show that the benefits of having such a database in widespread use would outweigh the costs 100-fold. (The DfT has standard metrics for the "cost" of a death or injury on the roads.)So, we asked Kelly, does he agree with the free data model? No, he said: "DfT wants to facilitate the innovative reuse of data and information. Experience suggests that licencing and intellectual property issues can be a barrier to such use - although this doesn't necessarily imply that free access is the answer. [Free data] certainly isn't the entire answer given the number of other barriers (other than licencing and cost) that prevent use - eg, identifying and sourcing data."But he is keen to see government implement cross-department and even public-private "mashups" of intertwined data. "Government cannot replicate the capability of companies such as Microsoft and Google," he noted in a presentation at Cambridge University last week. "But government does have a role in enabling the delivery of innovative solutions by resolving issues that impede data access and use."&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk
Blind users hear ThunderThunder is a screen reader that works with Windows word processors and email (Microsoft Word, Notepad, Outlook Express) and a text-based web browser, WebIE. It costs &pound;159 plus VAT but is free to home users.screenreader.netVisually impaired GooglingTV Raman, a blind employee at Google, has an experimental version of Google that favours search results with simpler page layouts, which are more accessible to the visually impaired.http://labs.google.com/accessible/Trailing aheadTrexy.comhas won a British Computer Society technology award for its trails feature, which lets users keep a record of their search as it progresses across different search engines and databases. Once blazed, trails can also be shared.Shopping not droppingAccording to IMRG, the e-retail industry body, British shoppers spent &pound;13.5 billion online in the first half of 2006 - 40% more than the same period last year.Better than Chocolate?Korea's LG Electronics says it won't have another model in its LG Chocolate (ie Black Label) range until early next year. In the meantime, it is launching the KG920, a twisting design with a 5 megapixel autofocus camera and flash.Kon-Tiki 2.0An improved version of Thor Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki balsa-wood raft, which crossed the Pacific in 1947, has repeated the journey - but this time with internet access via a satellite dish, so the team could use email and update their website.http://tinyurl.com/fgxnnKing Kong comingBT has signed a deal with NBC that will make 150 Universal Pictures (UPI) movies such as King Kong available to watch or buy via its forthcoming BT Vision service.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A favourite "high concept" movie recipe is coming to videogames courtesy of IO interactive, famous for its Hitman series of stealth shooters. In Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men, two enemies are thrown together and must form a partnership to survive. Where would mainstream Hollywood be without that reliable scenario?But there's a familiar twist - they're both nutters. A disturbed mercenary and a psychotic killer are on death row and must embark on a "violent and chaotic journey, hating each other every step of the way".Videogame designers love disturbed characters. From the sociopathic street urchins populating gangsta romps to the murderers and maniacs fronting horror adventures such as Manhunt, developers plumb the depths of dysfunction to create "cool" dangerous anti-heroes. And gamers are willing to go along.We would never see central protagonists as extreme and unsympathetic in mainstream cinema. For a psycho to take the lead role in a movie, it would have to be a serious drama like Monster, or we would need to discover the hero was innocent after all. Videogame creators feel no such moral compulsions.This is down to the way we relate to videogame characters. They don't have to be sympathetic, because interaction is the driving force, not character. Characters are often merely conduits for the player's fantasies and the narrative requirements of the designer.I can't help but feel, however, that the industry should be trying harder. After 25 years there remains a dearth of rounded human characters - or at least, characters who aren't borderline psychotics or stereotypes. Part of the problem perhaps is the limited demographic from which game ideas are derived: put 25 young men with limited life experiences into a room and they're going to come up with a cop on the edge driven by demons, or ghouls on death row.But it is time for change. As the market widens and technology offers new opportunities, we must stop hiding behind the excuse that character doesn't matter as much. I like the sound of The Outsider, a thriller being produced by UK studio Frontier Developments. A CIA agent, framed for presidential assassination, must use the media to triumph over enemies. A complex AI conversation system brings dialogue into the mix. This is a true next-generation experiment - real people, real adventures.Mature, creative designers need to treat their virtual progeny with respect if a more diverse audience is to be addressed. The industry can become the dominant entertainment form of the 21st century, but it has a lot of growing up to do. And it needs to get out and meet more people.
Though sounding like something out of higher maths it's much simpler: a bet between two high-profile bloggers about whether in two years (or perhaps five) people will get paid for submitting content to sites like Digg and Flickr.On the two sides: Nicholas Carr, a former executive editor of the Harvard Business Review; and Yochai Benkler, a professor of law at Yale University whose book, The Wealth of Networks: How Social Production Transforms Markets and Freedom, suggests that new types of collaboration let people be more productive than profit-seeking ventures.Carr, however, thinks the lure of money will prove far more effective in finding top content pickers.Wrote Carr (atroughtype.com), "the reason 'social media'"- such as Digg or Reddit - "has existed outside the price system up until now is that a market hadn't yet emerged for this new kind of labor. We weren't yet able to assign a value - in monetary terms - to what these workers were doing ... We couldn't see the talent for the crowd. Now, though, the amateurs are being sorted according to their individual skills, calculations as to the monetary value of those skills are starting to be made, and a market appears to be taking shape."Benkler then challenged Carr: "We could decide to appoint between one and three people who, on some date - let's say two years from now, on August 1st 2008 - survey the web or blogosphere, and seek out the most influential sites in some major category: for example, relevance and filtration (like Digg); or visual images (like Flickr). And they will then decide whether they are peer production processes or whether they are price-incentivized systems ... I predict the major systems will be primarily peer-based."However, that was too rushed for Carr, who responded that "two years is much too soon. We won't even have sorted out which parts of the 'social production' movement are fads and which will endure. I would think 10 years would be the real test, but 5 years should be OK - at least the trend should be apparent."So the wager is half-on. Bookmark Carr's site for 2011. If, of course, blogging proves not just to be a fad.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Call me old-fashioned, but I don't like to do business with people I've never met. So it was a pretty unexpected move for me to join an "online networking group"."Matched contacts" screams my weekly email and I'm overwhelmed with interest. Actually, no, I'm not. What's the point? I just don't get it.Looking at my list of "contacts" (135 apparently, but I've never been in touch), I'm no networker of the year.The latest batch includes a "creativity coach" and the director of a breakfast networking group. No thanks.I was also invited to join a group discussing the "future of marketing". (Why me?) By the time I got round to reading it properly, the man who'd invited me had left. Then I was asked to join a discussion about the meaning of the phrase "roll a fag" on different sides of the Atlantic. Much as I wish I could have spent an age debating how two nations are separated by the same language, I had some work to do and a sink to unblock. No contest, really.I'm with Soflow. Clicking through other media members, I spot an American PR woman pictured with a snake around her neck.Perhaps it's just me, but if I was a potential customer, I'd be more interested in her approach to the job. Possibly even her prices.Over at Ecademy, the latest forum entries are just as bizarre. "What's happened to Quavers?" someone asks, while a colleague is researching in a poll: "Who's the UK's foremost business networking coach?" I'll wait with bated breath for the answer to that one.But seriously, this is a business forum, right? For people who want to find customers? If that's the case, they seriously need to limit their use of the exclamation mark. Its abuse in so many posts makes me feel quite ill.Yes, I'm being pedantic. But would you contact a "motivational speaker" who couldn't spell the name of his home town?My bitterness is at least partly based on my complete failure to get to grips with how these services actually work.A writer colleague asked me to join (yes, we'd "met" through another forum) and I'm assured these networks can have great results. "I got my main PR client through Soflow," another acquaintance tells me.But even when I've contacted other members for enlightenment, they've also shrugged their shoulders and pleaded ignorance. (I think they must be shrugging their shoulders as I can't actually see them, of course.)I know I should put up or shut up. I would like to leave. Now if someone can explain how on earth I do that, I'll be out like a shot.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
With cult hacking adventure, Uplink, and award-winning strategy hit, Darwinia, already under its belt, UK indie studioIntroversionis now finishing off its third title, a chilling and quite beautiful nuclear war sim inspired by everyone's favourite teen-causes-armageddon movie, Wargames. Defcon is due out on PC in September and I managed to get some questions over to Introversion's Tom Arundel about the game, the difficulties of small-scale development and the chances of an Xbox Live conversion...With its War Games influence, Defcon seems to follow the themes of your previous games - hacking, computing systems, global domination... is this a conscious development or an accident?I guess it's true that many of the things that inspire us have remained constant over the past five years and it's certainly fair to say that DEFCON's look and feel is not dissimilar to Uplink; both games take huge inspiration from Wargames but in different ways. Uplink takes its inspiration from the hacking elements of Wargames - the war-dialing, password breaking, school record changing etc., whilst DEFCON takes its inspiration from the cold war Armageddon theme and the scenes in the NORAD bunker with the US Generals watching the world end in wireframe.Meanwhile, Darwinia stands out on a limb in some ways with its references to the gems of halcyon gaming, such as Cannon Fodder and Tron. To be honest we don't have a conscious gameplan when it comes to themes or future game ideas, inspiration can come from anything and anywhere. The only plan we've ever had, and stuck to, is a passionate commitment to making addictive and original games for as long as is feasibly and financially possible!After your victory atIGFdo you feel there's more pressure on Defcon than on your previous titles? Has any element of the game been shaped by your experiences during or following the event?Certainly you can't help but feel some pressure. Winning the IGF awards this year was the best and proudest day of our lives! All of the days and nights living, dreaming, sleeping Darwinia suddenly became so much more worthwhile but of course with recognition and appraisal comes a certain amount of pressure to live up to these suddenly heightened expectations. When we started out with Uplink nobody knew of us and there was no pressure, except from ourselves, so it was a real boost to get such positive feedback.I guess we have become quite well-known since IGF for our rather outspoken commitment to steering clear of cashing in to franchises and sequels whilst continuing to produce games that are both wholly unique and often contrary to the rest of the game industry trends. This always has been the main dictator of the kind of games we produce, I guess IGF has just bought it to the fore a little more and strengthened our resolve!Can you tell us a little about how the game actually works? What's the interface? Does it have traditional war game elements - e.g., moving units around a map - or is this a new reading of the strategy genre?We're not doing anything crazy with the interface - it's a mouse driven strategy game and players will be immediately familiar with it. With DEFCON we've tried really hard to create a mood - a feeling of being deep underground in a bunker, slowly bringing the world to an end. Even now, months after the first games were played, we're still discovering new strategies and tricks to try on each other.How are you looking to build a community around the game? What kind of lobby system and other collateral 'social' elements will you build around the release?DEFCON is a multiplayer game essentially (although single player options are available) and yes, we hope that DEFCON will be a communal game primarily with lots of friends getting together and joining in the thermonuclear fun! It was essentially this concept which brought about the Office Player Mode, allowing you to ease the boredom of the working day by firing up a game of DEFCON with up to five other colleagues.The great thing about this is that the game takes place in real-time so a full office game takes about eight hours and there are lots of little features which make it work-friendly, so for example, you can hit the panic button (double ESC) to immediately remove the game from the screen, placing a discreet icon in the system tray. This icon will change when important things happen so you don't miss them, for example, if you detect some nuclear launches the icon will flash the Nuclear launch symbol for a few seconds and because everything's taking place in real-time, you've got at least 30 minutes to respond before a nuke lands on your territory allowing you time to finish whatever work deadlines loom first before you retaliate.Your press release mentions the need to form alliances with other players - will you be supporting voice comms for this?Voice Comms aren't directly supported - we've got a pretty good irc style chat interface in game, and we think that's enough for DEFCON. We even considered theming it like a cold war telegram machine, with everything in cold war minimalist English. Imagine getting a message from someone that said YOU ATTACK OUR CITIES STOP WE RETALIATE AGAINST YOU STOP YOU ARE WARNED STOPRunning an online multiplaying game sounds like a huge step-up in terms of ambition, infrastructure and commitment to your players. Are you ready for this? Is it a strain on your resources?Making the Multiplayer code work reliably has been a massive challenge for us - and it's certainly a step up in terms of ambition. But we now have a multiplayer framework developed in house, and any future Introversion games that require multiplayer will be much easier to put together.Is there an Introversion engine that you've been able to use? What kind of middleware are you employing - if at all - to cut development corners?We develop all of our own stuff in-house, we don't use any engines. We've got a massive library of code and tools that we've written over the years, some of it dating back to pre-Uplink times. It allows us to get programs up and running on Windows, Linux or Mac with minimum of effort. Every time we create another game we add new stuff to this library and modify and improve older modules until they're up to date, so for example with Darwinia we added a whole sound system module to the library. Traditional "off the shelf" engines often don't give us the flexibility we need - for example Darwinia's landscape system is a crazy mix of fractal generation and flat shaded polygons.How closely do you follow industry trends in your games - there's an obsession with real physics at the moment - as a smart developer, do you feel the need to join in. EG will Defcon's long range missiles have accurately calculated trajectories and blast zones based on US army test data...that kind of thing?Many of the current key game industry trends are just not feasible for small developers like us to even attempt to compete in! For example the obsession with ever increasing real-life graphics is not really a viable route for us to undertake. Introversion has a very small dev team so we've had to learn to use our weaknesses as strengths - we only have a handful of people which means we can't spend ages trying to make things look realistic but it does mean we can experiment with off the wall concepts and ideas that the bigger companies wouldn't be able to go near.Making games with unique art styles like Darwinia and DEFCON has another big advantage: your game instantly stands out from the crowd and can be recognised from a single screenshot. Nobody ever confused Darwinia for any other game; its stylised graphics became its trademark. Some companies spend millions of dollars trying to get that exact effect by making their games extremely realistic - but there's only so far you can go with that.DEFCON will contain the kind of information we think it needs to make it an immersive and addictive experience but it won't be swamped with extraneous information that detracts from the main experience. We don't need real time physics or bump mapping or any of that stuff.Do you feel as free now - with your game design concepts - as you did with Uplink? How has your approach to development changed since then?Certainly our attitude to creative freedom and game development remains fairly flexible. Ideas for our games tend to occur randomly really, often as a result from movies. The design process has always been on-going with our games, we certainly don't have a big design plan from the start, allowing maximum opportunity to experiment with and implement new ideas and features as they present themselves.Of course there is always a downside of this for small indies like ourselves; you end up relying very heavily on the financial success of one game because you can't guarantee when you're next title will be out. Having a flexible attitude towards the whole game design process can lead to later release dates than originally intended which can be a worry if cash-flow is drying up.That said we've certainly come a long way since Uplink in understanding some of the key benefits and limitations of being a small dev team and how this can affect the development process. For example, Uplink, was fairly buggy initially and DEFCON is certainly a more polished and slick game. Specifically from Darwinia, we learnt that content is bad, if you're a small team. Even whilst steering away from realistic graphics, Darwinia took months to make all of the custom content because almost every level had something special on it that wasn't on any other level. Looking back, its crazy, the second demo took us four months to create - all for just one level with about an hour's gameplay! DEFCON is a great project for us because it's almost entirely "content free". The minimalist purity of DEFCON is everywhere right from the world map main screen to the simple icons, and stat screens. The only serious content we are producing is the music.Have you been courted by any large publishers, especially since the IGF awards? Although you made it pretty clear on the night how you felt about the mainstream industry, you must have had a few big players trying to tap you up...I should clarify that we have no problems at all working with publishers, and we have a lot of deals with existing publishers, hopefully the IGF awards will continue to make that even more possible! The key for us is maintaining our creative control, owning our own IP's and not accepting funding from publishers before a game is completed because that automatically diminishes your freedom. Our games are always finished before signing a deal with a publisher, so effectively they're acting primarily in advertising and distribution roles which allow us to maintain commercial integrity.Are there plans for a Live Arcade version of Defcon? What do you think about Microsoft's service - do you think this is a genuine new outlet for independent creative talent?Here at Introversion we think Live Arcade is a great idea. Ever since Live Arcade's launch it's been possible for an indie to release a game on a console, something that was virtually impossible for new-comers to the market to do before. It's an exciting time for indies like us because we can launch off-the-wall titles that might never have made it originally into retail onto consoles whilst retaining our own creative freedom and independence.Through on-line distribution, developers are also much more able to profit directly from each individual sale, cutting out the middlemen such as retailers and distributors, requiring fewer sales to make a profit, and thus enabling them to take more risks in terms of game design creativity and innovation. Certainly our deal with Valve on Steam last November has made our future prospects a lot brighter.Depending on who you ask, the PC games industry is either dying or blooming - the former opinion tends to come from publishers selling retail games, the latter from the MMORPG and casual gaming sector. Where do you stand on the debate? What unique properties do you feel the PC still offers and where do you see the platform going in the future?It's probably fair to say that now is not the best time for the PC games retail industry which is why getting Darwinia on to Steam was so important to us. That's not to say that the PC industry is dying but rather changing. We sold more copies of Darwinia online via Steam in three weeks than we'd manage to sell ourselves via UK retail and the Introversion store during the whole launch period which was fantastic and also shows that people still see PC as a legitimate platform but want to use it in different ways.
One of the most distrubing videogame-related court cases in history is drawing to a close this week. Two years ago, Troy Victorino and three accomplices broke into a house in Deltona, Florida, bludgeoning the six inhabitants to death with baseball bats. Victorino had earlier been evicted from a house by one of the victims, Erin Belanger, who had retained several of his personal items, including an Xbox console.Victorino and Jerone Hunter were convicted last week of six counts of first-degree murder with the jury recommending the death penalty for both. Yesterday a third defendant, Michael Salas, was sentenced to life imprisonment.Reporting on the case has drawn criticism from some videogame sites (for examplehereandhere) for the way in which the console itself has defined the gruesome case - some have argued that implicit suggestions of blame have been levied on videogaming through the generally used 'Xbox Murders' monicker. A question (rendered peripheral, surely, considering there are murders involved) has arisen: if the fatal dispute had been over a car, jewellery or almost any other consumable, would the case have attracted such a sensationalist label?Update:As Jonman points out in his comment below, the alternative and more viable argument in this case, is that the Xbox is a cheap gadget - repeated references to it merely highlight the pointlessness of the tragic incident.Read the latest on the casehere.
If you had a blog on MSN Spaces then you now have a blog on Windows Live Spaces, with new friends features and gadgets, because Microsoft has finally rolled out the upgrade.The changeover was announced onThe Space Craft, the official blog. The new features are described athttp://discoverspaces.live.com/, and there's also a little video withMike Torresat10. There are links to another dozen of the Spaces team member blogshere.Thepress releasesays:Expanded social networking opportunities through Windows Live Spaces are balanced by enhanced privacy tools that give users full control over permission settings to specify who can contact them through the service, see their profile information and view the contents of their site. The respective permissions and communications preferences are clearly displayed alongside the user's profile information and can be updated at any time.For those under age 18, the default setting in their Windows Live Spaces profile is that only people in the user's Windows Live Messenger contact list can gain access to his or her space.My emphasis: I think this is a really important feature.Comment: Microsoft claims Windows Live Spaces is the world's most used blogging site, and it's on track to be the world's biggest blogging/social networking system. But it's not going to get MySpace style coverage because it's big in Asia, and in India in particular, rather than the USA.However, Rupert Murdoch -- who owns MySpace -- isn't that parochial, and will probably have noticed a couple of billion customers potentially slipping away forever. The question is, can MySpace replicate its US success in India, China, Japan, South Korea etc, or will Microsoft be able to sweep up the rest of the planet?The result may well depend on instant messaging. Microsoft's Live Messenger/Live Spaces tie-in looks like a winning feature, but could be trumped by an internal MySpace-only IM system. It's still all to play for.
Software developerJoel Spolskyhas a post that will interest and entertain those who aren't fazed by small bits of coding....
Every few weeks I spend a little time sifting through the adjudications made by Britain's advertising regulator, the Advertising Standards Authority. Sometimes its a litany of tedious complaints by axe-grinding ninnies from Tunbridge Wells - but sometimes a few interesting examples pop up.Today the ASA has chastised both Dell and Virgin.net for misleading advertising; InDell's case, for advertising a 299 laptop which didn't actually seem to be available at that price. And in Virgin's, it was the use of a slogan implying no charges -"Get broadband without the commitment"- but ignoring the fact that although they don't have long-term contracts, you are penalised with a 50 charge if you cancel within the first 12 months.[Dell]: The ASA considered that because the ad featured both a phone number and a website address, viewers would expect the laptop to be available to purchase at the advertised price by both means when the advert was first broadcast.[Virgin]: We considered that the claim... implied customers would be able to cancel their account without any obligation. We considered that the fee for cancellation within 12 months, which was equivalent to over three months' service use, was a significant obligation.The results were hardly spectacular, but at least both firms were found to be at fault - Dell was told not to run the ad again (fat chance, considering it ran for only a short period anyway) while Virgin were told they must, in future, make it clear that there's a cancellation fee. A consumer victory? Of sorts.
