Congratulations to Apple! Having released an insecure browser for Windows, it has raced to patch some holes, and version 3.01 is already available.According toApple's release note, 3.01 fixes a command injection vulnerability, an out-of-bounds memory read issue, and a cross-site scripting vulnerability.The Safari download is athttp://www.apple.com/safari/download/It will not be a big surprise if 3.02 follows because Safari is "in play" (at least for now) and Apple needs to protect its reputation for security.
Those gearing up for Glastonbury next weekend should feast their eyes on this little gizmo - the Mobile Wind Charger, from Orange. It plugs onto the top of your tent and apparently catches enough power to juice up your mobile while you'resitting around getting off your facerelaxing in your tent after a hard day's gigging. Mobiles have become an integral part of kit for the modern music fan, but although this mini-turbine won't be on sale for a while, Glasto-goers will be able to take a gander at demo units at the festival.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's no secret that part of Google's plan for world domination is to replace eBay, which involves selling products via Google Base and paying for them using Google Checkout. However, Google isn't yet powerful enough to launch the expected blitzkrieg, so the two companies maintain friendly relations under what's been compared to the Nazi-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact signed by Von Ribbentrop for Germany and Stalin.Basically, theGoogle-eBay dealmeans eBay buys lots of ads on Google while Google supplies text-ads on eBay. So if you type something into Google, eg nukes, then you'll probably get an ad that recommends looking for a supplier on eBay.But relations strained at the latest eBay sellers convention in Boston. AsThe New York Times reports, Googledecided it would be a good idea to invite those sellers to its own party. Not just any party, either, but one to promote Google Checkout, a payment system that competes with the eBay-owned PayPal and which eBay has banned from its auctions."Let Freedom Ring," read the invitation on an official Google blog. And in classic Google style, it promised "free food, free drinks, free live music -- even free massages."Of course, this is an idea straight out of the Microsoft playbook. (Have you guys hired just too many people from Redmond?)eBay promptly cancelled its advertising on Google, hitting the search engine exactly where it hurts: in the wallet. It backed down. As the NYT story says:Google rescinded the invitation to eBay sellers and canceled the party. "EBay Live attendees have plenty of activities to keep them busy this week in Boston, and we did not want to detract from that activity," the Google blog read. "After speaking with officials at eBay, we at Google agreed that it was better for us not to feature this event during the eBay Live conference."A Google spokesman declined to comment further.So peace has been restored, but who knows how long it will last? There are plenty of eBay sellers who don't like things eBay is doing, and PayPal is an expensive way to pay for things. It's a market that could do with more competition.However, the force is clearly with Google. It already has a monopoly market share of search and is busy locking users in with Gmail, Calendar, Google Apps, Gtalk and other applications that will mean most people will rarely go anywhere else. And having a deep, intimate knowledge of everything its users have searched for, Google will be perfectly placed to pitch them whatever products they need. How is anyone going to fight that?
Glenn Garrett freely admits that the noise computers make is a personal obsession. It began in 2000, when he bought a new machine with an AMD Athlon 600 processor. "My own machine was extremely loud," he says, pausing to reminisce about the silent computers of the 1980s, "and every time I upgraded it, it got noisier."The first PCs brought in fan-cooled power supplies, and the Pentium's faster clock speeds required additional cooling just for the CPU. Now, even graphics cards have their own cooling.The Athlon 600 was no exception. "It came with two fans, and I thought this was getting ridiculous." At the time, he says, nobody was paying attention to noise; everyone just wanted a faster computer. So he started a business, QuietPC (quietpc.com) to find, review and sell quiet computer components from his home in North Yorkshire. He thought the business wouldn't last long - surely manufacturers would jump on the issue and make it a selling point? But so far, "We're still doing OK. Manufacturers don't pay attention."Mainstream issueNonetheless, computer noise is becoming a mainstream issue, especially since people are beginning to build media centre PCs into their home audio/video systems. And who wants to watch a great movie or listen to a fine piece of classical music over a high-pitched whine in the wrong key?Certainly, the fans needed to cool modern CPUs, graphics processors and power supplies can make plenty of noise. "Sometimes it sounds like Heathrow in here," says Mac Jordan, a web developer based in Bristol (webhorus.net). Her home office's collection of computers includes a dual processor Intel tower, a dual G5 tower, a Macbook, and a couple of servers. Ask any collection of computer users, and you'll find plenty of complaints about the noise their machines make.There's a simple rule in computer noise: the bigger the fan, the less annoying it is. To shift air, small fans have to run fast, which means more high-pitched noise, and it's the higher frequencies that bug most people. A six-inch fan can run slower and generates sound at a lower pitch than the two-inch ones you'll find attached to processors to cool them down.And modern processors generate a lot of heat; you hope all those fans and heat sinks reduce their operating temperature to under 50C. But others find it's not the computer itself but the screen that's the source of trouble. Traditionally the problem has been the high-pitched squeal CRT monitors produce as a function of the frequency of their refresh rates."I've managed to train a few colleagues to turn theirs off when they go home, but otherwise I have to go around turning them off myself if I'm working late," says Mark Wigmore, who uses the CIX online conferencing system.The arrival of LCDs has solved that problem for some - but not others. "I find I'm very sensitive to the whistle/scream of backlight transformers - the things that make flat screens work," says IT consultant Steve Cassidy. Sometimes you can solve this problem by altering the direction from which you're looking at the screen, though then you may be unable to see it.Why not just ignore it? How well you can filter out noise depends on a number of factors, such as the sensitivity of your ears, the intensity and frequency of the noise, and how persistent it is. "The human auditory system adapts quite quickly," says Tom Stewart, founder and director of the ergonomics consultancy System Concepts. "So we tend not to be aware of how noisy an environment is [until equipment is switched off]. But the noise can contribute to our overall stress levels and tends to make us tense generally."However, he says, hearing damage in modern offices is "unlikely". This is especially so since the Noise at Work Regulations came into force last year for most sectors. These set the level above which employers must take action at 80db - about the noise level of a tractor cab or very loud music. "Most offices are closer to 40db to 55db."How loud is that? A whisper is perhaps 30db. A quiet room is 40db. Moderate rainfall is 50db. Normal conversation is about 60db. A PC that made that much noise would quickly find itself being beaten with a baseball bat. PC Pro magazine, which commissions acoustic testing for its group reviews, says the high end in recent tests has been 47dB - somewhat louder than an average refrigerator, at 45dB.But the comparison isn't as simple as it looks because the scale is not arithmetic but logarithmic, a mathematical technique for reducing a very wide range of data to a more manageable one. Humans experience each extra 10dB - say, from 40db to 50db - as being twice as loud.Testing is also complicated by the fact that the noise of a given PC varies a lot depending on what it's doing. "Decibel measurements only give half the picture," says Paul Ockenden, a director of the new media agency GST Group. The PC that's quiet in December could be a lot louder in July, when higher temperatures get its fans going.Similarly, the PC that's quiet when idling may emit an unpleasant screech when the hard drive is seeking data or the DVD drive spins up. The upshot is that although some manufacturers, such as Hewlett-Packard, do give noise specifications, it's hard to know what the machine will really be like in real life.According to Jim Martin, labs director for PC Pro, the business computer manufacturers - Dell, HP, IBM, NEC, Fujitsu-Siemens, Eisa - have all done a good job of quietening their machines. In general, he says, machines are getting quieter even though their growing processing power makes that harder to achieve, especially at no cost to the manufacturer.Dell, for example, has what it describes as a "multimillion-dollar, state-of-the-art acoustics lab" in Austin, Texas. Dell uses focus groups to compare subjective responses to the raw sound levels it measures. "But," says Martin, "there are a couple of companies that don't seem to read our reviews. For example, Mesh's PCs are noisy, and they don't seem to do anything about the negative comments about noise that we write."But Tony Riccardi, Mesh general manager, says that PC Pro's tests show that Mesh PCs are "quieter than the average living room by a measurable amount". He adds, though: "This is not something that has ever been flagged as an issue by our customers."Comparative testsPC Pro's testing is carried out by the Milton Keynes-based company Intertek, which tests a wide range of consumer goods. Natalie Pickering, the technologist who does the computer testing, says the company uses a "semi-echoic" room - that is, a room with some echo so it's more like a very quiet (27db) normal room.The quietest machines she's measured have come in around 30db. Given the caveats above about what kinds of sound are annoying, Pickering says the comparative tests can't quite tell you which PC you would be happiest with - but they can tell you which to avoid. "At 45db you have something I think you're going to get annoyed with."If, like me, you spend 16 hours a day working on or being entertained by your computer, noise starts to really matter. It was while I was reading reviews of components on sites like QuietPC and Silent PC Review (silentpcreview.com) that it occurred to me that the only way to be sure of having the quiet machine of my dreams with the specification I wanted was to build one. How hard can it be?It turns out that building a machine these days is a colour-by-numbers affair, rather than the difficult engineering project it used to be. You buy a bunch of components (case, power supply, motherboard, processor, memory, graphics card, hard drive and DVD drive) and plug them all together. Plugs are coded to go in only one way, and motherboards come with helpful manuals and diagrams.Plus, dozens of websites (for example,pcmech.com/byopc) have detailed general instructions, and dozens more have advice about your specific components. Any problem you run into has probably already been solved and documented.I wound up buying most of the pieces I needed from Jim Bisset, whose EQ Consultants sells computer equipment and who built himself an ultra-silent PC for home theatre."All I wind up doing," he says ruefully, "is listening for the slightest noise."He's right. What I'd like to know now is when I started typing so loudly.Why do processors get so hot?Computers famously work in 1s and 0s; in reality, these are high and low electrical voltages that are applied to and then stored in the millions of transistors that makes up the processing units in a PC. Every time a transistor switches state, which is every time any bit of data is changed, electricity must flow through it - and each time, a little heat is generated as electrons collide. The faster the processor, the more often the transistors change states - and the more heat the processor generates. This must be dissipated for the processor to work reliably. Current processors run hot enough that the processor has its own heat sink and usually a fan, too. These conduct the heat into the airflow created by the fans incorporated into the computer's case design. Newer designs attempt to make faster chips more efficient, so they are not only cooler but also use less energy.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk&#183;This article was amended on Tuesday June 19 2007. Mac Jordan, a web developer based in Bristol is a woman, not a man as we wrongly assumed in editing the above article. This has been corrected.
It's a freqently asked question: which mobile phone can I get for an elderly relative -- or, indeed, anyone with impaired vision? In a recent reply in Ask Jack (Choosing a phone for grandpa), I mentiond theEmporia Lifephone from Austria, which has been covered on theBBC's web site.Among the many responses was an email from Roger Bessent from the RNIB, saying that it will soon be availablefrom the RNIBand Communic8. "Stock should be available for its launch at the end of June. It has not been advertised yet as it requires reboxing and a change of the charger type for the UK market." The RNIB price is £145 plus VAT.I haven't tried this phone so I don't know whether it's any good or not. However, it seems to me there is a huge gap in the market and it is not being served by Nokia, Motorola and other large mobile phone suppliers. It will be interesting to see if the Emporia Life can profit from that.
It is not often that something makes me laugh so hard I cannot breathe, but Something Awful'spiece on 'wikigroaning'did. It consists simply of a list of paired topics on Wikipedia: the game is just to guess which has the longer and more detailed entry and thus is more important to the nerds who write Wikipedia. In this way we learn that the entire universe can be described in 6,623 words, which makes it smaller, or at least less interesting, than Transformers: Universe - "a line of toys consisting of repainted re-releases from various Transformers toy lines", which gets an entry 8,752 words long.Some of these subject pairs are more obvious: the game Second Life gets 8,743 words, while "real life" gets 1,502. "Love" is worth 6,486 words in Wikipedia; "masturbation", 10,487.The coupling that brought me to a complete wheezing collapse was more subtle. Wikipedia has a List of Conflicts in the Middle East - a subject of some considerable importance, which it ought to cover, and does, in 1,043 words. The list of Furry Role-Playing Games, however, runs to 2,745 words. Furries are people who pretend to be animals for sexual gratification. No wonder Wikipedia's masturbation entry is so comprehensive.In some ways, these Wikipedia statistics are even more depressing than the General Social Survey poll data last week which revealed that 28% of American adults believe it is "definitely false" that humans evolved from other animals - and only 18% think it is "definitely true". The latter is also the proportion of Americans who believe that the sun goes around the Earth. Before we get too smug as Europeans, the figures for the EU as a whole are even worse (nsf.gov). So here we have a society in which adults are just as likely to believe that the sun goes around the Earth as that evolution is true, which has also built an encyclopaedia based on the idea that the truth will emerge from cooperative debate. The problem is obvious. Is there a solution?Some optimists suppose that the answer will come with an older generation. Where are all those well-informed retired people who have nothing better to do with their lives than to correct the mistakes of Wikipedia? I'm not sure, but I suspect that anyone who has the knowledge needed for the task has, almost by definition, better things to do with their lives. The problem is not, perhaps, writing a better article on an important subject than what is already there. It is writing it over and over again in the face of ignorant and destructive edits. No one can teach without authority. You can get people to pretend to do so, by paying them, but Wikipedia is a volunteer effort.Perhaps the answer is the Citizendium, the version of Wikipedia where the answers will be approved by experts that has been launched by one of the founders of the original project (citizendium.org). But I don't think that will work very well either. Their discussion on truth and bias is extraordinarily simpleminded."We could," they say, "state a series of theories about topic T, and then claim that the truth about T is such-and-such. But again, consider that the Citizendium is an international, collaborative project. Probably, as we grow, nearly every view on every subject will be found among our authors and readership. To avoid edit wars, we should agree to present each of these views fairly, and not assert any one of them as correct. And that is what makes an article 'unbiased' or 'neutral'."But the choice in such matters is not between treating only one view as true and treating all views as potentially true. No one in real life does so about any subject that they understand. There are a very large number of theories or fact claims which are simply false; two or three which may reasonably be held by a well-informed student in good faith. It is the job of an encyclopedia to direct us to the very few stories that might be true, whatever the opinions of the mass of readers.In the end, if we are going to act on information, we have to make judgments about truth, and an encyclopedia that refuses to take that risk is lying to us. If that is all that anyone is prepared to pay for in future, that is all we will get. On the other hand, we will know a great deal about masturbation.&#183;thewormbook.com/helmintholog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I am intrigued by last week's Newsbyte announcing 64GB Flash-based SSDs. Does this herald an era of laptops with no moving parts, greater longevity and longer battery operation? Red WintersPossibly. You can already buy solid-state disks (SSDs) as drop-in replacements for conventional hard drives. The main problems are capacity and price. Dell started offering SanDisk's 32GB SSD in the US in April for its Latitude D420 ultra-portables and D620 ATG notebooks. (The Dell part number is 341-4872.) However, whereas an 80GB drive costs around $80 (£40), Dell's 32GB SanDisk SSD costs $494, or $15.44 per gigabyte. Not many people want to add up to $500 to the cost of a notebook PC to get less storage space. SSDs will continue to get bigger and cheaper, but so will traditional hard drives.
I run a pharmacy with a computer that is full of patients' records and telephone numbers. The computer is connected to a modem. Is there a program that will pull out the patient's name when they call me? Umesh G PatelTrilogic UK, based in Bradford, sells a £100 system,Look Who's Calling, but it may not be possible to connect the custom software with whatever database you are using. The system includes a modem, because yours is unlikely to work: both BT and the British cable companies invented their own caller ID systems that are incompatible with standard American modems. An alternative might beCaller Display for Windowsfrom Octopus Systems, which supplies its own caller-ID unit. The obsolete BT Callscape 100 and some others are mentioned in the Caller ID FAQ (http://www.ainslie.org.uk/callerid/cli_faq.htm), updated in 2004, but many of the links no longer work. This seems to be an idea whose time has gone -- or has been superseded by professional call management packages that work with a PABX. Has anyone out there got a better idea?Backchat: Anthony Durham says his business uses "a Meteor box from Crucible Technologies. It reports the caller ID to our admin PC where Equinox looks up the caller in its own database."
I use a fairly rudimentary system of backing up my important documents by copying them to an external hard drive. For simplicity, I tend to copy whole folders across and replace what was there before, rather than try and pick out everything that's changed. Can Windows XP just copy things that have changed or are new? Dan PryceYou can do this from a command prompt using XP's built-in xcopy command (http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/xcopy.mspx), or the more powerful XXCopy Freeware (http://www.xxcopy.com).Microsoft also offers a more powerful utility, Robocopy.exe, with server resource kits and Windows Vista. There's now Robocopy GUI to give it a friendly interface, but you must install the .Net Framework first, if it's not already installed.If you want to continue using Windows Explorer, you can easily select the most recent files if you sort them by clicking on the Date Modified heading. Also, when copying, you don't have to click confirmation for every file. Instead, hold down the Shift key when you click and this will be applied to the whole batch.Otherwise, Centred System's Second Copy (http://www.centered.com/) will do the copying for you automatically, on a continuous basis, for $29.95.Update: Please read the comments to this post for other useful suggestions, includingSyncToy, which I've not noticed before (special thanks to JasCarter). However, my attempt to install SyncToy has failed with an error message, and while it obviously works well for some people, the program does seem to have other problems. See:http://blogs.msdn.com/mswanson/archive/2005/08/09/449349.aspxBackchat: Campbell Sayers, Frank Ewart and Jas Carter recommend Microsoft's free SyncToy. Campbell says it "allows you to set up any number of instances of five kinds of backup operation (Synchronise, Echo, Subscribe, Contribute, Combine) from one source folder to another." Simon Midgley recommends the free Replicator from the Powertools section of theKarenware.comsite. Robin O'Connor and others use SyncBack from2brightsparks.com.
I discovered that I had GrokLoader on my PC. Spybot seemed to remove it, but the next time I ran Spybot, GrokLoader still appeared to be there. Tony FinneganGrokLoader is most commonly installed with the Grokster filesharing program, so it's unwelcome but not particularly dangerous. Spybot Search &amp; Destroy (http://safer-networking.org/) should be able to remove it, but you might need to run it from Safe Mode.If that doesn't work, then either AVG Anti-Spyware (formerly Ewido) or Microsoft's Defender should fix it. Check the results by using Panda's ActiveScan or Trend's Housecall online.When adware is installed by a "free" program, this can stop working when you remove the advertising component. Also, Grokster can install other adware programs, so removing GrokLoader doesn't guarantee your PC is clean.
Team Smurfsnatchers has alerted the gamesblog to the next instalment ofWater Gun War, the real-world water gun battle that pits person against person across the streets of London for three weeks between 16 July and 5th August. Unfortunately, as none of the gamesbloggers actually lives in the big smoke (how's that for nations and regions?) we can't take part. However, if there are readers out there who do live inside the M25 and wish to stalk an assigned stranger and douse him or her with water (or mints, as the FAQ intriguingly explains) in order to be the last wo/man standing for a prize of around £500, headhere and sign up now. Registration closes 9 July.Be warned:last year's Street Wars Londonwas not welcomed by the Metropolitan Police.Jealous.
Guardian Technology's print section this week asks whether Whitehall will embrace citizens on the web, what Safari for Windows and the iPhone means for developers, seeks quieter computers, asks whether smart electric meters are worth it, and wonders - what's the difference between privacy and anonymity?Features:Open the gates of informationWhitehall has taken a first step towards a Government 2.0 with a report that urges a greater official involvement with the grassroots web, says Michael Cross.Safari on Windows shows path to iPhoneDevelopers of applications for the iPhone could find that the browser is their only option - and it could mean extra cash for Apple, says Charles Arthur.New ways of developing blur the border between online and offlineAdobe joins Google and Microsoft in making programs to go. Jack Schofield reports.The art of reducing your computer's noiseIncreasingly powerful PCs mean a greater need for cooling, writes Wendy M Grossman, but reducing the racket seems not to be a priority for manufacturers.Smart meters turn up the heat on those with money to burnWill showing electricity use encourage householders to conserve energy, or is it just a gimmick? Adam Vaughan reports.Columns:Gamesblog:Don't get angry over murder in the cathedralKeith Stuart: Another week, another public relations cluster bomb for Sony. The company has been accused of 'desecration' by the Church of England.No amount of collaboration will make the sun orbit the EarthAndrew Brown: It is not often that something makes me laugh so hard I cannot breathe, but Something Awful's piece on 'wikigroaning' did.TechnobileLinda Jones: Why do computers have to make doing a straightforward thing like a mail merge so very hard?Deleting your stuff is all part of the serviceVictor Keegan: My life's work is on the web in someone else's custody, and since it is free you have to be pretty brazen to complain.The foundations of an NHS IT system are in place: now start buildingMichael Cross: No doubt Gordon Brown's inbox is already creaking with suggestions about what he should do with the NHS national programme for IT.And the rest..Is there a difference between privacy and anonymity?That depends who you ask, says Bobbie Johnson. Online privacy has been big news this week, with two of the net's most powerful names finding themselves at the forefront of rows over privacy issues.GadgetsHTC Touch | Samsung i7 | Shure SE420 sound isolating earphonesAsk JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesRome reborn | Westport in 3-D | NanoBook future | Video chat | The first billion | AntiBot for Windows | Flood warnings | Debian DayLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
HTC TouchThe big story in phones is the arrival of touchscreen handsets. LG got there first with the impressive Prada, the Apple iPhone debuts in the US later this month and now HTC weighs in with its Touch, though you need to use the stylus for adding data and writing text/email messages, as there is no keypad. The touchscreen element is extremely well done. Switch the phone on and you get a very cool customised version of the Windows Mobile 6.0 interface. Running your finger up the screen brings up the touchscreen, which offers quick access to the phone's applications. Other features include a bright 2.8in screen, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and a 2 megapixel camera. If you like Windows mobile phones, you'll love this.htctouch.com.Ashley NorrisSamsung i7A couple of weeks ago we featured Samsung's F300, an innovative attempt to combine a mobile phone and a music player. Samsung has now added this multimedia device to its line-up, at the heart of which is a compact camera. It's a big one too, with a bulky frame and a bright, colourful 3in screen. It takes 7 megapixel images which are as good as most of its compact rivals, offers 800x592 pixel video capture at 20 frames per second and has a basic set of controls and editing facilities. It is controlled via a touchscreen - one of the least responsive I have seen in a while. It is when you flip the rotating screen around that things get interesting. At 90 degrees it morphs into a multimedia screen capable of playing video, while with the screen flush to the device it offers an MP3 player. The downside is it doesn't excel in any area. The MP3 player works reasonably well and the multimedia player displays quality video. But users have to transcode video films using the i7's software before they can view movies. The i7 is a fun gadget, and its low-ish price (&pound;250) makes it worth a punt if you want a camera that also has multimedia options. But it is far from ideal.samsung.com.ANShure SE420 sound isolating earphonesShure has come up with an alternative to bulky noise-cancelling headphones, focusing on blocking out the noise rather than creating an opposite sound wave via a microphone in the earcups. It does this primarily by using malleable rubber for their earbuds, which you roll into a tube before putting them in your ears and letting them expand. Most ambient noise is blocked simply by inserting them. Each earphone has its own dedicated tweeter and woofer, so when the music is on, it's clear and rich. To be honest, though, these headphones - priced at &pound;249.99 - are more suited to original format recordings; compressed MP3 files can't do them justice. Many traditional "cans"-style noise cancelling headphones have a button to mute your music so you can cross the road in safety. Obviously, the style of these means that ceases to be a possibility, so use them with care. And for those who live by the mantra "never stick anything smaller than your elbow in your ear", they'll be completely unsuitable.Susi Weaser
Free to blogA question I wish I could ask Iranians: how much freedom of expression do you think a theocracy could have? (Iran's big brother for bloggers, June 7)cluebyfour.livejournal.com[By demanding blogging registration] Iran rushes in ... where China fears to tread.pintpundit.comAn interesting article that should make us all appreciate the freedom we have to express our opinions, thoughts and feelings on our blogs.rachelboyd.blogspot.comMicrosoft's word is final"We wouldn't tolerate it on web pages now," you say (Microsoft must adapt or die, June 7). But the new Guardian Unlimited front page crashes my wife's Windows 98 computer every time. Should she tolerate this?David Garrick, Antalya, TurkeyBoth Google Apps and OpenOffice use the ISO 26300 Open Document standard which Microsoft has fought tooth and nail to avoid. Once ODF passes a certain critical point, any lock-in to Office will disappear. The outcome is inevitable and Microsoft knows it, which is why it is delaying and obstructing things.Ian Lynch, TamworthRoad to happinessI have twice renewed my car tax successfully online (Letters and blogs, June 7).Harriet Kinloch, BrightlingI renewed my road tax online on May 19. It worked a treat, and I was highly entertained by the sheer comprehensiveness of the car makes available in the drop-down list.Graham Jump, Guildford[Thanks to the many others who also got in touch confirming their positive experiences of the DVLA site - Tech. Ed]Future imperfectThere are a number of very provocative and interesting ideas being proposed in this article (How we have been fooled by utopian visions of the future, June 7). I agree with much of the underlying thesis of governments pushing a technological utopia. However, this has to be balanced with the many writers and prophets - the likes of Orwell, Huxley, Capek and PK Dick - presenting a future of technological dystopia. I have not done the survey, but I imagine that the dystopian vision is at least as prevalent as the utopian.Professor Noel Sharkey, Sheffield UniversitySo we're never gonna be like the Jetsons?pinkplastik.comA friend in needI suspect that almost all of the "friends" on these sites (Collecting friends is the new philately, June 7) are not ones that could be relied on for getting job leads, borrowing $100, watching ones' kids or bringing you chicken soup when you're sick. These sites call them friends and users call them friends, but calling it a duck doesn't make it quack like a duck or walk like a duck.socialcapital.wordpress.comCharles who?Author of this well-informed "insidery" article is one Charles Arthur (Are Steve Jobs and Bill Gates friends once again?, June 7). I've done some checking and nobody at Apple PR has heard of him. But I guess he knows all about my relationship with the Beastmaster. Right. Charles, I'm afraid you've Dentoned [screwed] this one bigtime.fakesteve.blogspot.comLocked outThe tactic of disabling a PC is ridiculous (Legal wrangles over porn billing software, May 31). If you haven't paid the weekly milk bill, can the milkman confiscate your car keys?Sean Taylor, Tarporley
Steve Jobs last month described the Windows version of Apple's iTunes application as "like giving a glass of ice water to somebody in hell". This week at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) he made an audacious bid for the bottled water franchise, launching a version of Apple's Safari browser to run on Windows - and pointing to it as the window through which external applications for the upcoming iPhone will work.Observers pointed out that the Windows version of Safari will probably also boost Apple's income from Google, paid for searches via the browser, already estimated at $25m (&pound;12.5m) a year.Jobs also revisited his demonstration given at last August's WWDC of the next version of Mac OS X, dubbed Leopard, due for release this October at a price of $129 (in the UK &pound;89, not the &pound;65 that current exchange rates would imply). Leopard will sport a redesigned Finder interface for file and network navigation, with graphical depictions of files in "stacks" and another that shows them like album covers being flipped.But it is the iPhone that is clearly the core of Apple's focus - via Safari. Apple has huge ambitions for the combined phone, music player and internet device: in January, Jobs suggested an aim of 1% of the worldwide mobile phone market for next year, which would translate into 10m units. With iPhones about to go on sale in the US on June 29, the company is rumoured to have 3m ready for purchase immediately.The presence of Apple-built software on the iPhone raised hopes ahead of the conference that Apple would provide a software development kit (SDK) or set of application programming interfaces (APIs) to let developers write software to run directly on iPhones.Those hopes were dashed. "We have been trying to come up with a solution to expand the capabilities of the iPhone so developers can write great apps for it, but keep the iPhone secure," Jobs told the conference. His message: write web applications that run on a server (and work via Safari); iPhone users then will be able to access them through the fully fledged Safari browser on the phone. "Don't worry about distribution, just put 'em on an internet server. And guess what, there's no SDK you need!" he said.John Gruber, a Mac commentator who writes the popular Daring Fireball site, said that this "went over like a lead balloon". He notes on his site: "It's insulting, because it's not a way to write iPhone apps, and you can't bullshit developers. If web apps ... are such a great way to write software for iPhone, then why isn't Apple using this technique?"That question gained added importance as within 24 hours security and hacker sites had discovered malicious exploits that could be used against anyone visiting a site with the Windows version of Safari. Apple has just two weeks to identify whether those flaws exist in the iPhone version and close them before it goes on sale.But some think that putting Safari onto Windows will drive Apple's wedge further into the Microsoft hegemony - the first incursion having been in October 2003, when Apple released a Windows version of iTunes. (Jobs characterised the event as "Hell froze over".) Michael Gartenberg, an analyst for Jupiter Research, commented this week: "At the moment, iTunes is one of the most downloaded applications. It will be interesting to see if Apple will leverage that and make Safari a standard part of the iTunes installation at some point. That act alone would immediately give Safari a big boost."It is unlikely that that could significantly dent Internet Explorer's market share, which stands at about 78%, with Firefox on 15%. But even a small takeup could be significant. Safari now has an estimated 5% share of the overall browser market. Gruber notes that Apple already receives payments from Google for the use of its search engine via its built-in search box; he says that generates about $25m a year. "If Safari for Windows is even moderately successful, it's easy to see how that might grow to $100m per year or more."Yet Safari for Windows might also bring another influence to bear on the latter stages of the browser wars, won by Microsoft in the 1990s when it crushed Netscape. Many sites are still developed so that they look best on IE.But if developers of web applications want to perform transactions on iPhones, they will write to the Safari standard, which already has some use in mobiles - Nokia's S60 browser uses the Safari rendering and JavaScript engines. That would force Microsoft to follow external standards for the rendering engine in Explorer, a situation it has not been in for a decade.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There may no be such a thing as a free lunch in real life, but it is different on the internet where companies are falling over themselves to give you free services such as photo hosting, video storage, email, word processing and spreadsheets. A common feature of these services is that what we do is increasingly being stored on the web and not on our hard drives. Most of the time this is a huge advantage because it seems much safer to have one's personal treasures stored on their servers with their back-up facilities rather than on a local disk, which might crash and which has to be changed every few years.It was while I was writing this article that Google's admirable document service, which I use all the time for writing, suddenly wasn't there. Instead a chirpy message popped up saying that the bad news was that we (the users) had found a bug but the good news was that they were attending to it. This was a timely reminder that practically everything I do with my computer these days, from emailing to virtual worlds, is happening on the web. Since, whisper it quietly, I don't always do a backup, this means that my life's work is in someone else's custody. And since it is free, you have to be pretty brazen to complain.But if you do you won't get much joy, as I discovered from re-reading the terms and conditions which most people pass over because there is no way they are going to change them for you or me. Clause 17 of Microsoft's terms state: "We may change the service or delete features at any time and for any reason. We may cancel or suspend your service at any time. Our cancellation or suspension may be without cause and/or without notice. Upon service cancellation, your right to use the service stops right away." Well, thanks for that. Microsoft is among the better ones as it at least stresses that you may have other rights.Yahoo! disclaims responsibility for deletions, misdeliveries or storage failures, adding: "You agree that Yahoo! may under certain circumstances and without prior notice immediately terminate your Yahoo! account, any associated email address, and access to the Service."So what about Google, which has built trust into its brand? After praising itself for its dedication to innovation, it adds: "As part of this continuing innovation, you acknowledge and agree that Google may stop (permanently or temporarily) providing the Services (or any features within the Services) to you or to users generally at Google's sole discretion, without prior notice to you." Well, that's that, then.I turned finally to the virtual world Second Life, where regular users pay significant sums to be part of a service that, highly unusually, gives participants the legal rights to the things they create (buildings, clothes etc) in addition to ownership of land. But what's this in the small print? "Linden Lab (owner of Second Life) has the right at any time for any reason or no reason to change and/or eliminate any aspect(s) of the Service as it sees fit in its sole discretion." It turns out that SL's internal currency, the Linden dollar, is not really a currency at all but "a limited license right available for purchase or free distribution at Linden Lab's discretion and is not redeemable for monetary value from Linden Lab". It adds: "You agree that Linden Lab has the absolute right to manage, regulate, control, modify and/or eliminate such Currency as it sees fit in its sole discretion." Even when you pay for services, you don't get more rights. Danger may seem remote as it is in the companies' self-interest to sustain a service. But think back 10 or 20 years and ask how much of the small amounts you stored on your disks are available now, and then fast-forward 20 years and ask how much of a far bigger proportion of your life will still be around when companies have been taken over and formats changed. Maybe it is time to think of modest charges if companies take responsibility for our data.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
That depends who you ask. Online privacy has been big news this week, with two of the net's most powerful names finding themselves at the forefront of rows over privacy issues.But despite being closely related, the two are often separate problems that become confused.The most high-profile accusations came in a report by the advocacy group Privacy International, which labelled Google "hostile to privacy". The Californian company roundly rejected the claims, but Peter Fleischer, Google's top privacy lawyer, admitted to Technology Guardian that the grey area between the two terms is problematic. "There has been a lot of oversimplification, but we think about three levels - complete anonymity, pseudonymity and identifiability. The latter is something like a credit card purchase, where we need to verify your identity. Anonymity is where there is no way anything can be traced back to a person, and that's rare."Fleischer said that most of the data Google collects was not fully anonymous, but did remain private. "Almost all of Google's services work pseudonymously; we do not require real names for registration. We design our privacy policies so that we do not share identifiable data with third parties - and that includes IP addresses."Apple, meanwhile, drew ire for its new iTunes Plus downloads, which come without the digital rights management (DRM) that restricts the use of ordinary iTunes tracks. Activists were outraged when they discovered that the new tracks were still watermarked with the names and email addresses of the person who had bought them."There's absolutely no reason that it had to be embedded, unencrypted and in the clear," said Fred von Lohmann of the Electronic Frontier Foundation. "Some of the privacy problems, in light of this, is that anyone who steals an iPod that includes purchased iTunes music will now have the name and email address of its rightful owner."Apple has maintained silence over the issue, but it is likely that it did not have the best interest of pickpockets at heart when it made the decision - instead, it means that any iTunes Plus downloads put on to a filesharing system can potentially be traced back to the person who had first uploaded them.So while Google details are private and potentially anonymous, Apple's users only waive their right to privacy if they share their tracks illegally. Still, not everybody had their knickers in a twist."Folks, relax. It's just a watermark, okay? It's not the mark of the beast," said Fake Steve Jobs, the secretive blogger who is the toast of Silicon Valley for his wicked views on the industry - and who manages to remain both private and anonymous.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the biggest drawbacks of web-based applications is that you can only use them when you are online - and very often you aren't. But that could change. Google, Adobe and Microsoft are all working to make online applications available while you are offline, or vice versa.Adobe was the latest to join the fray this week when it released a beta version of the AIR, or Adobe Integrated Runtime. This is the desktop player formerly known as Apollo. But it doesn't just play Flash movies. It also supports HTML, JavaScript, Adobe's PDF and SQLite, the small and highly portable relational database. With AIR, companies that have developed rich internet applications (or RIAs) with Adobe's Flash and Flex products should be able to convert them to run on the desktop, or develop applications from scratch. Adobe is offering a free SDK (software development kit) and a "Developer Derby" to encourage programmers.Separately, Google is tackling the same problem with Google Gears, which also includes SQLite. Gears provides the local server and database facilities needed to run an online application offline. Google produced a version of its RSS Reader as an example, and you have to switch it to offline mode so it can download feeds before you log off.Microsoft's offering, Silverlight, starts from the other end - you can take a desktop application and convert it to run in a web browser. It works with IE and Firefox on Windows and Mac OS X. A Linux version may emerge from an outside project. Rather than being a killer app, each system meets different needs, and they seem most likely to co-exist.Silverlight is best for deploying desktop-style applications - but uses Windows Presentation Foundation, which only runs on Vista and Windows XP SP2, and looks like the worst choice if you want a cross-platform application. Gears is conceptually the simplest, while leaving the developer with the most work to do. And Adobe's AIR provides a runtime product that should be properly cross-platform (it's open source). Also, according to Ben Forsaith, Adobe business development manager, AIR enables applications to run on the desktop without using a browser."It gives you the best of the web and the best of the desktop," he says, "but it's about building a whole new experience. We're wrapping our arms around the much broader development community. That's the key advantage for Adobe."If Adobe sounds unusually cuddly, rest assured: it plans to make lots of money from the server side of AIR applications. Still, the fact that Adobe, Google and Microsoft are now duking it out is a reflection on Sun's Java, which was supposed to provide "write once, run anywhere" capabilities a decade ago.Java father James Gosling says Adobe has "a toolset that works well for people who aren't engineers. One of the things on our 'to do urgently' list is to pay more attention to that corner of the world."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Rome rebornVirtual tourists can now visit Rome at its peak in 320AD, thanks to a 3-D version developed at the University of Virginia. The project has cost around $2m (&pound;1m).romereborn.virginia.eduWestport in 3-DFrom Rome to County Mayo: Westport reckons it is Ireland's first interactive 3-D digital town.amt3d.com/westport3dNanoBook futureChip manufacturer Via Technology has published a reference design for the NanoBook, an ultraportable PC.via.comVideo chatOoVoo, a free video chat program, allows up to six users to talk at once using Microsoft Windows 2000, XP or Vista.oovoo.comThe first billionForrester Research reckons the number of PCs in use will reach 1bn by the end of next year and will grow to 2bn by 2015.phx.corporate-ir.netAntiBot for WindowsSymantec has released a public beta of Norton AntiBot, an anti-malware program based on technology from Sana Security.symantec.com,sanasecurity.comFlood warningsOnOneMap, which plots UK houses for sale on Google Maps, has added a flood risk layer.ononemap.comDebian DaySaturday will be a day to celebrate the Debian version of Linux in Edinburgh, where DebConf 7 is being held.debianday.org
Nobody said working for myself was going to be easy. But being nobbled by Microsoft's mail merge function can't be high up on many lists of small business pitfalls. It really should be.Who'd have thought that addressing a few dozen envelopes could prove so infuriating? Am I deluding myself thinking it could ever be any easier? Perhaps it's one of those mind-numbing administrative tasks that are sent to test us, with or without a "helping" hand from the latest technical know-how. It may be called a wizard, but its magic is not working on me. Do I like it? Not a lot.I'm supposed to be able to do a load of stuff at once - setting a format for envelopes and posters or even a dreaded mailshot letter - while allowing individual details to be changed each time.But the stress of following the instructions to the letter isn't doing my nerves much good.Not all mail merges produce junk, you know. I've recently been sending out letters to regulars at a Black Country pub with news that it has re-opened - an announcement greeted with genuine joy. But had I relied on mail merge, they might never have got to sup their pints of mild.Addresses end up in ridiculous positions, there are too many "Dears" popping up to make any sense and the wrong side of my (very expensive) business stationery is covered in gobbledegook. I am shouting, lots.My next stumbling block is letting the system know what make and size of labels I'm using. There are 14 labels to each page on my screen, but not the one I want. That would be too easy.I also face the dilemma of choosing which way the printer will handle them. Will it be face up, face down, feed end on or feed side on? So many questions! None of which I can be bothered answering and not all of which I understand.Next comes finding the addresses to feed in. They can be taken from any list, (or "data source" apparently), but the process flummoxes me every time. I'm supposed to check out spreadsheets, databases, tables and my Outlook contact list. Bits of paper from my handbag with a fluffy boiled sweet stuck to it aren't included. Shame.A table appears. I feel slightly sick. I should have complete control of what goes in where, taking note of records, fields and titles. I reckon the rudiments of HTML may be simpler than this; shorthand certainly was. And so I end up writing out the addresses and my wrist hurts, instead of my brain.Perhaps I shouldn't have bothered trying to do this in the first place - especially when, depending on what I'm writing, it might go straight in the bin anyway.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
TUAW (The Unofficial Apple Weblog) has been running a reader poll to get itsreaders' views of Steve Jobs's WWDC07 keynote speech. At the time of writing, 69% have rated it mediocre or worse....An apology: Sorry to say I forgot to include the link to the TUAW post, and since this has an obscure address (http://www.tuaw.com) it seems to have too proved rather too hard for some Mac users to find it. Thecurrent resultsare basically the same.However, no apologies to the people who are clearly unable to cope with a long-term Mac user (me) reporting a matter of fact based on poll about a Mac event on a Mac-specific site read by Mac users. In fact, I may even forward some of the responses to my colleagueCharlie Brooker, as evidence that some Mac users are still doing their best to live up to their stereotype. Sure, it's like shooting fish in a barrel, but thanks for all the hits.
I've very recently gone through a major life change: I've moved from ignoring invitations to join Facebook to ignoring invitations to add iLike to my Facebook page (admittedly only two today, but I'm a newbie).iLikeis a music discovery application, which puffs itself as follows: "Check out what your friends are listening to, browse the libraries of people with similar tastes, and get Free MP3 downloads by new artists matched to your own music tastes."Normally something like this would grow slowly as people discovered the Web site. On Facebook, however, you hear about it whenever a friend adopts it -- it's viral -- so adoption can happen at a terrifying pace.The iLike blog says:Launching just over two weeks ago, iLike on Facebook signed up a million users in its first week; then a million more in the [next] 5 days, and another million in the next 4 days. We're currently signing up about 300,000 new users per day.Small problem. Under the Facebook architecture, iLike has to provide the servers to handle the traffic.An earlier post said:We just emailed everybody we knjow across over a dozen Bay Area startups, corporations, and venture firms in a desperate plea to find spare servers so we can triple our capacity for the continued onslaught. Tomorrow we are picking up over 100 servers from different companies to have them installed just to handle the weekend's traffic. (For those who responded to our late night pleas, thank you!)The power of the Facebook platform has beenvery well analysedby a sharp new-this-month blogger called Marc Andreesson, who used to be famous as co-founder of Netscape and "the next Bill Gates". He's also aware of the social networking scene because he's startedNing. He says:The implication is, in my view, quite clear -- the Facebook Platform is primarily for use by either big companies, or venture-backed startups with the funding and capability to handle the slightly insane scale requirements. Individual developers are going to have a very hard time taking advantage of it in useful ways.Sure, you can start an underground app on Facebook, but if it goes viral, it's still going to blow up your servers, whether you like it or not.Anyway, read Marc's post: there's much more to than that snippet suggests....
Ex-Ion Storm designer Harvey Smith, now working on Midway's forthcoming shooterBlacksite: Area 51, has beentalking to Gamesindustry.bizabout the recent Church of England vs Sony controversy. He compared the seemingly prevelant belief that videogames somehow trivialise real-life subject matter to what people thought about comic books before the publication of Art Spiegelman's Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novel,Maus. Speaking in relation to his own game, Smith says:"America's Army is the most political game anyone's ever made. It is a complete commercial for the right wing. So, if that's a super-political game, what's wrong with making a game that questions the role of the US military in the world and the role of the military-industrial complex?"Blacksite, due for release in Autumn on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC, is an interesting title. Ostensibly, a rather nineties-sounding conspiracy thriller based around hidden aliens attacking a small town, it is actually more of a comment on terrorism - specifically, the threat posed by cells hiding within the US. While '50s sci-fi movies like Invasion of the Body Snatchers arguably used aliens as a metaphor for communists, Smith has a more modern threat to national security in mind.As for a videogame equivalent of Maus (or more recently Joe Sacco's brilliant Palestine), it could be argued this has already happened. The serious games sector has produced dozens of affecting titles looking at real-world situations -Darfur is Dying,Food ForceandPeacemakerbeing stand-out examples.On the other hand, all of those games are overtly didactic, whereas Maus works, if you're really determined, as an engrossing story of cute little mice and menacing cats. Metaphorical and implicit moral dimensions are what's been missing from games. Blacksite and Free Radical Design's Haze both promise to explore the ethics of military intervention while still providing 'kick ass' action. This, surely, is the future.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Just a day after Tony Blair ripped into the"feral" mediadriven by impact, US political blog supremo Joe Trippi has said politicians need to realise that political spin could be over, thanks to the web.This, fromTania Branigan in the Guardian:"It may take a disaster: a leader saying something ridiculous in an unregulated moment, thinking no press are there, and then realising a person in the UK with a video cellphone could destroy you, [with the clip] getting passed through social networks."Before TV, what mattered was how your voice sounded. Then with TV it matters what your candidate looks like ... Anybody can fake it on TV: all the Joe Trippis and Alastair Campbells get really good at making sure our guy looks great for the eight seconds that are actually going on the news."We are now moving to a medium where authenticity is king, from what things look like to what's real ... You have to be 'on' 24 hours a day, seven days a week."Joe, who worked on the failed Democratic campaign by US politician Howard Dean (who was, in part,slain by his "scream") and is now attached to the John Edwards campaign, thinks that there are enough watchmen out there that we will force politicos to be better.I wonder whether politicians can take hold of this properly, or whether it will simply existoutsidepolitics, as a check-and-balance regime for the natural excesses of the powerful. I'm still waiting to see what the impact of David Cameron's videoblog orAlan Johnson's Twitter accountwill seriously change the way we feel about them (and, more crucially, the way they feel about us).Trippi's vision is intoxicating but though I count myself among the digital optimists of the world, but I'm not sure I can see the revolution happening yet. Am I alone?
"Today, we put the Safari 3 beta to the test to see how it compares to Internet Explorer 7 and Firefox 2 on Windows. What we found didn't impress us very much. Although Safari offers slightly faster page loading, the beta is extremely unstable and suffers from interface deficiencies that make its value on the Windows platform questionable at best," writesRyan Paul at Ars Technica.The most glaring flaw of Safari 3 on Windows is its utter lack of stability. The prerelease beta status of Safari 3 obviously must be taken into account when evaluating the program's reliability, but the problems I faced during testing really exceed tolerable limits for beta software. The Firefox 3 alpha build I reviewed last week is far more stable and robust than the current beta build of Safari 3.The review mentions Apple's determination to ignore standard Windows practices and interface conventions -- the sort of arrogance that annoys Mac users if Windows programs are inadequately converted for OS X. Paul also mentions Apple's use of its own Mac OS X font anti-aliasing, which makes Safari's rendering look fuzzy and [insert]to meless legible than Microsoft's ClearType (seeJoel on Softwarefor a fuller account), and Safari's security problems. As it's a First Look, he skips various other things, such as the parental controls feature in the Windows version that seems to need Mac OS X.He does think Safari offers a "modest increase in rendering performance" (perhaps not everywhere) but reckons this is "hardly worth the deficiencies, and Safari's user interface simply doesn't provide the usability or flexibility of competing products."All round, Safari's instability, insecurity and inadequate platform conversion suggest it's a rushed if not a botched job that should have been described as an alpha.And if that's the case, you have to wonder about the hype. Perhaps Steve Jobs felt he really needed something to make a splash at WWDC07 and Safari for Windows was the best they could do. If so, the job could still have been done with a more honest presentation of the state of the Safari for Windows code. In this case it would have been better to underpromise and overdeliver, even if that's not Steve Jobs's style.
Calacanis launches Greenhouse. Photograph:NMK Forumin London, a big event for the dotcom community. The speakers include the Marmite-like entrepreneur/investorJason Calacanis, citizen journalism pioneer Dan Gillmor and a bevy of other internet beauties.I'm just headed over there now, but Jemima is already on the scene andliveblogging the goings-on.So far the big news is that Calacanis - who recently launched the hand-curated web searchMahalo- is going to be opening up the service to public contributions with "Mahalo Greenhouse". Right now a small band of indexers goes round hand selecting the best results for the most popular web searches, but JC says he's going to let ordinary punters get in on the act - and get paid for doing so.That's reminiscent of his attempt, while at AOL, to relaunch Netscape.com as a Digg-style news service, and to pay the top story-hunters for their contributions.Right now I remain unconvinced by Mahalo - which not only seems like portal listing 2.0, but must also be acutely labour-intensive and inherently problematic - but then again, he's got a big bunch of investors behind him, so perhaps I'm missing out on something. Or perhaps Greenhouse can solve the problem, but I'll have to pin Jason down later on and find out exactly what's going on.Anyway, more reports later on - but in the meantimestick with Jemima.UPDATE:We've got more onMedia Guardianand our own Kevin Andersonalso puts some thoughts in the mix.
There's a new book out there for teachers who've heard thepositive results from researchinto the benefits of bringing games into the classroom, but haven't known how to do it.Playing to Learnis aimed at primary school teachers and offers over 100 ways to cross the curriculum with consoles. The table of contents, with some very clever suggestions, ishere.As opposed to putting controllers into the hands of learners, this book uses games as a cultural artefact, which can be situated - in the same way as music, film or literature - within the learning objectives of curriculum-based education.There are downsides to integrating gaming into the classroom, and while this book appears to offer a treasure trove of useful activities and ideas, it's important not to assume that every child in the classroom has equal access to games. Particularly because of the well-reported gender divide between players and non-players (disputed in some research completely, but certainly less distinct than it was a decade ago), there could be a danger of isolating one group of kids from learning opportunities.The activities presented in the book, however, look like good springboards for stimulating creativity in the road towards understanding higher-level knowledge, regardless of the medium being used to inspire.
Cyberstalking is a virtual nightmareThe recent case of a cyberstalker who was arrested after an online campaign by a collection of bloggers highlights the growing threat that virtual harassment presents to the web. Calls for a code of conduct do not go far enough; some form of virtual constitution must be ...[read more]Posted by ShroomC at 0954 on 13.06.07. Larry "Shroom" Czyzowski is an internet pioneer and the inventor of the term "LOL"CommentsSixKindsOfChris at 1026 todayI think we have to be careful with our terms here. A "virtual constitution" could be construed to mean a constitution that doesn't really exist.ElSmell at 1031 todayLike the one Britain has.ShroomC at 1040 todayInteresting point, SKOC. I mean a constitution that would be enforceable only in a virtual environment. It would exist in cyberspace, but not outside it.liberati at 1044 todayBut cyberspace isn't real.ShroomC at 1057 todayTell that to the many bloggers who are harassed by cyberstalkers online every dayliberati at 1103 todayI try to but they always delete my posts for being "insulting" or "abusive" or "threatening". Worthless morons.SixKindsOfChris at 1112 todayCyberstalkers are breaking real life laws. Why would they obey virtual rules without consequences?ShroomC at 1117 todayBut there would be punishments - virtual punishments - anything from virtual fines to life in a virtual prison.JaneT at 1119 todayHi Chris! Your comments are spot on as usual - incisive, probing, beautifully worded.ParanoidBob at 1125 todayI'm being bullied on Second Life and I don't know who to tell.liberati at 1142 todayTry telling someone who cares, clown.JaneT at 1149 todayForget to have your latte this morning liberati?Dasiy88 at 1201 todayI bully people on Second Life sometimes. Are you the guy with the antlers?ParanoidBob at 1207 todayNo.liberati at 1213 todayI just think cyberstalking is an insult to proper stalkers. It's like duelling with glove puppets.Daisy88 at 1215 todayIt IS you - I can tell! I'm Viperia6, the big snake in the Nazi uniform. Remember?JaneT at 1218 todayWell I sort of agree, liberati. A lot of what we call cyberstalking is perfectly innocent behaviour.SixKindsOfChris at 1224 todayHow so, JaneT?JaneT at 1244 todayWell, maybe you might read people's comments and get to like their style, so you go to their blog, or other forums where he posts. Pretty soon you know all his opinions, hobbies, personal problems and his home address. As long as you stay in the car across the street, what's the problem?ParanoidBob at 1259 todayI have to go.liberati at 1313 todayYou can't "go" because you're not really "here".Daisy88 at 1319 todayStay where you are, antler-boy. I'm not finished with you yet.&#183;You must be registered to comment. Offensive? Unsuitable? Email us
Hurray, EA has announced a new Sim City title, Sim City Societies. In this fresh-faced take on the town-planning sim, players are able to create urban environments with a specific community 'vibe'. The press release explains it:"Featuring an all-new, revolutionary feature set, SimCity Societies allows players to construct not only the cities they desire, but create their cultures, societal behaviors and environments as well. Build an artistic city, haunted town, green city, spiritual community or most any society you want!"It seems the key addition is a new collection of resources named "social energies". Certain buildings produce industry, wealth, obedience, knowledge, devotion, or creativity energies which shape the social feel of your town."Players can challenge authority and experiment with what happens when citizens flagrantly disobey power in an unruly Orwellian society. Or if players are feeling happy, they can build a Fun City filled with Ferris Wheels, Gingerbread Houses and Chocolate Factories," continues the press release. I'm not sure which of those two scenarios is the most sinister.Well, it's an interesting addition to the Sim City recipe, clearly flavoured by the social micro-management of The Sims. In the past, areas have been shaped only on economic terms - areas would be financially rich and therefore 'good' or run-down and poor and therefore 'bad'. Societies is a move to a new model of urban management that recognises transitory fads and cultures - in short, a very 21st century answer to the eighties 'greed is good' underpinning of the original Sim City title.It's due out on PC in November.
Bob: a new arrival on 7Digital.com. Photograph: Anwar Hussein/GettyThis morning a troop of Guardianistas went down to London's Trendy Soho to catch up with download company7Digitaland find out about their new offering. In short, they're relaunching their website to make it snazzier, including more DRM-free downloads (and more in MP3 format), more video and a new "locker" feature that saves all your media purchases and stores them in the cloud.Jemima Kiss has the story:Ben Drury, the 7digital managing director, said the aim is to simplify the experience by introducing the more universal mp3 file format when possible, and by offering the service online so that users can buy, listen or store music without having to download a new piece of software."The locker is the key thing. It's like the way Hotmail revolutionised email by offering web-based email. 7digital gives access to your media anywhere so you can listen anywhere," Mr Drury added.They also added preferential partnership with Last.fm, meaning you'll be able to click through from a Last track to buy from 7Digital, but it is indeed the locker feature - which is entirely web-based, meaning you can store your library of 7Digital purchases and then listen to or watch them wherever you can get internet access - that's really intriguing.Whereas, say, an Apple TV needs you to buy telly or video content from iTunes, then download it on to your Mac, then stream itbackto your Apple TV so that you can watch it on the telly (phew), you should in theory be able browse the 7Digital site on a Wii (for example) and simply stream your video direct from the locker.Even so, it's tough to see them significantly damaging iTunes market share in the UK - but we do love our plucky British startups.Right now the new site doesn't appear to be live, but you can get a sneak peak by visitingnew.7digital.com.
A Florida teenager has seen off two burglars with his samurai sword after the hapless crooks went after the family PS3. On hearing a break-in at his home, 15-year-old Damian Fernandez, grabbed his sword (Wha?!) and waited for the felons to enter his room. From the Local10.comreport:"the burglars ransacked [his] parents' room, taking some jewelry before moving on to what they were really after - a PlayStation 3."But they were never to lay their thieving hands on Sony's next-gen powerhouse as moments later, the pugnacious teen, a brown belt in karate, lunged at one with his blade, striking him non-lethally in the chest. "He freaked out," commented the sanguine hero.One of the burglars was later found by police, hiding behind a neighbour's palm tree. The next Cell he'll experience will be a 7 x 12ft room... IN JAIL!How long before the captured crook sues the kid for assault? Perhaps Jack Thompson will provide legal representation.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Further to criticism about Google's privacy practices - first fromEuropean bodsand thenthis weekendfrom Privacy International - the Silicon Valley GiantTMhas responded by tweaking its policies.In March Googannounced that it would anonymise user logs after 18-24 months; today it cranked that down to a flat 18 months. Our own Graeme Wearden tells the storyhere:The policy shift was flagged up in a letter sent to the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party in Brussels on Sunday by Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel."We believe that we can still address our legitimate interests in security, innovation and anti-fraud efforts with this shorter period," he said. The letter was released by Google on Monday evening.Is this just a cosmetic change, or a serious statement of intent?Well, I'll be talking to Peter Fleischer later on... anything you'd like to ask him?UPDATE:Mr Fleischer (I'm being formal - he's a lawyer) said that it was important for Google to retain private data in order to analyse behaviours and isolate bad actors (not the Tori Spelling variety)."These logs are useful in analysing patterns - Denial of Service attacks, for example, may happen quickly, but are often preceded by months of smaller attempts... that data is useful to investigators."Clearly there's huge commercial value to this information as well, but Google is - as yet - unwilling to divulge information on how data's shared between different areas of its services.He also said that Google was under a legal obligation to retain data for both law enforcement purposes and as business records, and questioned whether the mishmash of regulators involved truly understood the requirements (read more in the updated version of today's story.Fleischer did say they were thinking of shortening cookie lifespan (though we'd still be talking about years of cookie data). When I asked about the potential problems with DoubleClick - a notoriously cookie-happy company - he said that they were considering heavily promoting the company's "opt out" cookie, which few users are currently aware of, but that DoubleClick acquisition had no bearing on this move.And what about the possibility of anonymous searching, as suggested by commenter CommanderKeen? Well, no dice there either - though there was no feeling that it was innately opposed to the principle (despite previously stated legal obligations to retaining data)."There are clearly third party solutions for anonymising software. We have very serious reasons for retaining information."His original post on the Google Blog ishere.
Safari for Windows is only a public beta, which is just as well. Security researchers and malware writers explored it with some relish, and Thor Larholm proclaimed:Safari for Windows, 0day exploit in 2 hours. He notes:URL protocol handlers on the Windows platform work by executing a process with specific command line arguments. When Apple released Safari for the Windows platform they neglected to implement a proper level of input validation for these arguments, which means that you can break out of the intended confines and wreak havoc.David Maynor at Errata Securityreports that "Using publicly available tools we had a DoS in no time."I'd like to note that we found a totl of 6 bugs in an afternoon, 4 DoS and 2 remote code execution bugs. We have weaponized one of those to be reliable and its diffrent that what Thor has found. The exploit is robust mostly thanks to the lack of any kind of adanced security features in OS X.
Deep in the sawdust of a Sunday afternoon DIY session, a glimmer of the daily grind came back to me in a flash when the BBC Radio 4 programmeGo4itstarted talking about the challenges of storytelling in computer games with interactive authorSteve Jacksonand game designer-turned-fiction writerAustin Grossman. Intrigued, I set down my mitre saw and lost myself in the issues as presented for this kids' talk radio programme.Firstly, it was wonderful to hear grown men (andFrag Doll Jam- nice hair, girl!) talking like adults about computer games. Out of their over-30-year-old mouths came free admission as games players, tripping over past personal interactive glories and those games which sparked a lifetime of playing pleasure. It was as if it was quite normal for games to be mentioned in the same breath and with the same credence as books. Marvellous!It was also a thrill to hear the authors discuss how games have affected their linear storytelling. Grossman, a veteran of Deus Ex and Tomb Raider: Legends, has just released a super-villainous book titledSoon I Will Be Invincible. It sounds like a good bookshelf filler in advance of the next Harry Potter. He explained that he certainly drew on his games design experience, realising only after the fact that he'd set up the endgame as a final boss battle (then again, anyone familiar with Joseph Campbell would argue that this mechanic began in storytelling long before Charles Babbage created the first computer). Jackson, co-founder of Lionhead Studios and co-author of several dozens of Fighting Fantasy books, offered a few insights into how he creates non-linear narratives in a linear medium.But why are games so bad at storytelling? Grossman argued that players mess it up. Designers must write bare-bones materials in case the hero chooses a different path than the one the designer wants, particularly as games become more open-ended.The show can be heard on the website for the next week, and it's worth a listen to see how the auditory medium grapples with game-like experiences (there are several game-y things, like pass-the-story and even an RPG). Why isn't this kind of thing on "grown-up" programming? Or, rather, why aren't game-like activities in panel programmes (Just a Minute,Have I Got News For You) called games?Also highly recommended isan interview with Grossman on Wired, where he discusses how stifled he felt as a storyteller when he was working in games.
Sony has been accused of virtual desecration for using Manchester cathedral as a backdrop for a violent computer game. Church of England officials described it as "highly irresponsible" and are considering a legal claim against the company.Sony's PlayStation 3 shooting game, Resistance: Fall of Man, has sold 1m copies but the firm did not get permission to use the 800-year-old cathedral. The Bishop of Manchester, The Right Reverend Nigel McCulloch, said: "I do not believe they would have done this if it was a mosque or a synagogue. They obviously see us as a soft target - but we are not."He said of all the cathedrals in the country, Manchester is "the most inappropriate because we hold memorial services for people who have been killed by guns".Church authorities are demanding the withdrawal of the game and that Sony do not re-issue it without removing the cathedral interior. They also want the company to apologise and make a donation to the cathedral's education department.A Sony spokesman said it had been in contact with cathedral authorities.
Just over a week ago,Rumourreporter.comclaimed to have insider knowledge of a planned fifth Monkey Island title:"...the fifth Monkey Island is coming. I know some of the guys who worked on the music compositions for the original PC classics, and they say that it is currently being planned amidst rumors. However, LucasArts has so many things on its belt right now, including a Wii title that has yet to be named. Don't expect any revitalizations of its classic graphic adventures until 2008 at the earliest."Then a couple of days later, veteran LucasArts illustrator, Steve Purcell, emailed Monkey fansiteWorldofmi.comwith some new artwork, claiming that it was, "in no way connected to any existing or canceled piratey project." Was he hinting that the three images came from anewMonkey project? It would be a wishful but not entirely unreasonable leap of logic.I'm partially excited by this, but that excitement is tempered by two factors: the sheer vagueness of these rumours and the relative mediocrity of all the Monkey Island titles after LeChuck's Revenge. Personally, I'm still holding out for a DS, PSP, iPod or mobile phone compilation of the first two titles - complete and unabridged. Then I'd like Maniac Mansion and Sam &amp; Max. And possibly Full Throttle. Although you can keep The Dig.
In a strange but ultimately attention-grabbing move, John Carmack chose the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference to officially reveal Id's new games engine, 'Id Tech 5', which promises an end to texture memory constraints and "virtually unlimited visual fidelity" - you can read more of this posturing at theofficial Id site.Id is developing its own title to premiere the technology, which will support Mac, PC, PS3 and Xbox 360. Tech 5 will also be available to third-party developers. Onstage with Steve Jobs, Carmack had this to say:"So the last couple of years at id we've been working in secrecy on next-gen tech and a game for it ... this is the first time we're showing anything we've done on it publicly. What we've got here is the entire world with unique textures, 20GB of textures covering this track. They can go in and look at the world and, say, change the color of the mountaintop, or carve their name into the rock. They can change as much as they want on surfaces with no impact on the game."While programmers across the globe are no doubt rubbing their hands together with glee at the thought of unrestricted texture abuse, the rise of Nintendo's Wii has rather shifted mainstream gamer focus away from graphical advances and towards... erm... shaking a stick at the screen.Anyway, the engine demo resembled MotorStorm - a sort of canyon-based area with shanty town-esque habitations. That'sboundto excite people.More infoeverywhere.
Remember Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference of 2006, when Steve Jobsshowed off a preliminary versionof Mac OSX 10.5 - aka "Leopard" - but said he was keeping the demo of some of them back?Just to remind you - it was about 10.30am, and he said (by Engadget's record): "You know, our friends up north [at Microsoft] spent over $5 billion on R&amp;D, but these days all they seem to be copying is Google and Apple. Shows money doesn't buy everything. Today we want to give you a preview of Leopard. First I want to tell you there are some top secret features that we're keeping close to the chest."OK, now he'sdone the show again. But what was he holding back last year? Maybe it's just me, but I can't spot the secret feature. Yeah yeah Safari on Windows, but I don't think that you can call that a "feature" on OSX. Not by any stretch.What was there today? (Here'sEngadget's list. Open in a separate tab. This comes from the Engadget coverage of today.)some Mac games from Electronic Arts. Except those will run on any OSX.A new Apple desktop including "Stacks" and the Coverflow animation for going through files. (Believe me, no power user is going to use the latter - too slow and no spatial metaphor.)Finderreorganised to look more like iTunes. (ConfirmingJohn Gruber's prediction: brushed metal is dead.).Mac that can connect to computers wherever they areQuick Look - preview files without opening applications64-bit all the way through (not new at all: showed that last year)Core Animation - yeah, seen thatBoot Camp for running Windows - not new at all: "since we put it out a year ago we've had over 2.5m downloads of the beta"Spaces- what anyone else would callvirtual desktopsDashboard Widgets which you can make - um hm, seen that last year..iChat with various new backgrounds - nope, not newTime Machine- nope, not new. (Though the graphic this year seems to show very many fewer people back up than last year. Oh woe.)Safari on Windows, apps for the iPhone developed through Safari... nope, neither of those isnew(d'oh!) on Leopard.OK, we've been through the whole lot now and we're no wiser. Anyone? Hidden features? Top secret? Anything?
Steve Jobs is doing his WWDC07 keynote speech in San Francisco, and the early news is that Electronic Arts is going to produce Madden 08, Tiger Woods and other games for the Mac as well as the usual systems.There's also quite a lot of stuff about OS X Leopard, including a new Finder with Cover Flow, a sidebar, and another attempt to fix some of the usability problems with the Dock.Jobs says Leopard combines 32-bit and 64-bit operations in one operating system. (Microsoft, of course, has separate 32-bit and 64-bit versions of XP and Vista, and the 32-bit drivers don't work in the 64-bit versions.)However, having done 10 things about Leopard, there is still no mention of high-def video support for reading and writing Blu-ray or HD DVD discs, and any clever DRM stuff.Update: The biggest surprise is that Apple is doing Safari for Windows. The announcement was made in conjunction with the "opening up" of the iPhone, in the sense that developers will be able to create applications that run in the Safari browser on the iPhone. If these are in some way Safari-specific, then there might be an advantage in running them in a Safari browser on Windows (since most iPhone buyers will be Windows users -- unless it flops).Presumably the thinking is that if iPods can help drive the adoption of iTunes for Windows -- and Jobs claims there are half a billion iTunes users on Windows compared with only 22 million or so on Macs -- then maybe iPhones can help drive the adoption of Safari. If that works, sales of 25 million iPhones could double Safari's market share....But I'm not yet convinced. I wouldn't really miss Safari on my Mac. Since I already have Firefox and IE on Windows, why would I want a third browser? IE isn't going away, so it's not a compelling proposition ... unless Jobs is out to kill Firefox.You can catch up via thelive blogging at Engadget.
Gao Qinsheng, mother of Shi Tao. Photograph: Vincent Yu/APIs Silicon Valley's attitude to China shifting? In the past most of the companies accused of being complicit in censorship have kept the "we have to do it" line. But we've seen Google's Sergey Brin admit that the approach to censorshiphas damaged the company, and now the wind may be changing at Yahoo.But do you care?Here's the latest twist:China should not punish people for expressing their political views on the Internet, Yahoo said Monday, a day after the mother of a Chinese reporter announced she was suing the U.S. company for helping officials imprison her son."Yahoo is dismayed that citizens in China have been imprisoned for expressing their political views on the Internet," the company said in the statement faxed to The Associated Press, which asked Yahoo to comment on Shi Tao's lawsuit.Of course, the point here may simply be that the issue has come up again since the lawsuit that's mentioned. Yahoo's said it doesn't like what's gone on, but I'm sure it will still continue to operate as before.In the past I'vebeenprettytoughon web companies operating inside China - a stance which has apparently baffled people I know at Google, Yahoo and Microsoft - but it still continues to bubble under as an issue for most people.But aside from noting the story has happened, the blogs are relatively quiet about:WebProNewsadmits that the affair hasn't really harmed Yahoo's business, but "one has to wonder if Yahoo's leaders will, at some point, feel compelled to make amends".Tom Maszman points out that even if Yahoo states that it condemns "punishment of any activity internationally recognized as free expression", it's stilltalking out of both sides of its mouth.Usually free speech is a big issue for surfers - so why are people so quiet about this at the moment?
Tache tastic: Lord Winston. Photograph: Martin Godwin/GuardianThe latest episode of ourScience Weeklyfeatures a smorgasbord of science and technology chat. We speak toLord Winstonabout stem cell research,Stuart Clarktalks about hisnew bookon the birth of astronomy, and we discuss everything fromwireless powertopatenting genes.Listen nowon your computer, or visit thepodcast blogfor more details on tuning in.
Privacy International analysed some of the leading internet companies and ranked them on respect for privacy, asreported in yesterday's Observer. Google ranked last.But Google has some defenders. One is Google's own Matt Cutts, who has written onWhy I disagree with Privacy International. His case is, basically, that other people behave worse than us, and why not point the finger at the companies buying and selling user data?At Search Engine Land, Danny Sullivan provides a long analysis:Google Bad On Privacy? Maybe It's Privacy International's Report That Sucks.But the base problem is that Google is now so rich and powerful, and has so many ways to gather personal information, that what it does matters to most of the people who are online. Google's street level views, for example, created a furore because it reached a wider audience than Microsoft or Amazon's A9, which had done the same thing long before. Who cares what's on A9?There's also the issue of the Don't Be Evil philosophy, which was cute when Google was a studenty start-up but is less so when its coming from an ambitious capitalistic megacorporation.Danny Sullivan says:To save itself, I'd like to see Google appoint a privacy czar, someone charged with, as I've suggested above, assuming the worst about the company and diligently working to ensure users have as much protection as possible.Which reminds me that last summer, I was one of the people suggesting thatGoogle should appoint an ombudsmanto temper its power. I still think it's a good idea.When I discussed it with Google some time before, I pointed out that one thing we've learned in the media business is that if you don't provide your own mechanisms, there's a risk that governments and legal systems will eventually do it for you, with much less pleasant results.
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room to print each week. Here's the full text of those we chose from. The big issues: Xbox 360s showing the "red ring of death" and MBS's porn billing software. You didn't like either...My favourite comment seen on the web re the Xbox: "Blue screen of death, red ring of death.. isn't it about time that Microsoft stopped putting these 'of death' features into its products?"WHICH LAPTOP PER CHILD?I thought it somewhat ironic that the article 'Which Laptop per child' only mentioned the OLPC initiative in the context of 'developing countries'. It appeared to assume that every child in the UK has easy, if not constant, access to a computer. Hello big IT business! There is still a large digital divide out there and large multinationals need to have this pointed out. Seven years ago my school was part of the Microsoft Anytime Anywhere Learning (AAL) initiative which itself aimed at OLPC. This brought laptop manufacturers and suppliers together with finance houses to enable parents to pay for laptops by instalments. Surprise, surprise, this still only reached relatively prosperous parents who were creditworthy. As a result, my school pioneered the 'E-Learning Foundation' concept which became a model for others. Once again parents needed to make contributions, but this time voluntary ones to the whole scheme and could thus access Gift Aid for the Foundation due to its charitable status. This helped another stratification of parent, but it still did not reach the poorest and hardest to reach. AAL in my school died a death because even with outside funding it was not financially sustainable. With the advent of cheaper PCs, some parents opted for these and thus cut themselves off from school (many of these machines were used for gaming rather than for education). Organisations such as 'Tools for Schools' have provided ex-industry PCs and laptops for poorer children, but the spec often leaves much to be desired, particularly when there is an increasing need for multimedia from the internet. The digital divide is actually getting worse if one takes into account the increasing importance of access to broadband services. Many of my parents do not have landlines and just operate with cheap pay-as-you-go mobile phones (36% are in receipt of free school meals). Our latest project is attempting to overcome all these difficulties by providing a community broadband wireless network with the school being the service provider. Cheap PCs are to be installed in homes linked to the schools learning platform, which itself can access the web in a safe way. Parents will still need to make contributions, but these can be less than £5 a week for everything. Even with this sort of initiative, not all parents will come on board. We need even more creative solutions to give every child equality of opportunity. After all, children spend 85% of their waking hours in their own community. The government keeps saying that the lynchpin to a meritocracy is a good quality education for all. How can this occur if OLPC is still out of reach? Many of our deprived areas have similar challenges to those found in the developing world. So, Nicholas Negroponte and Craig Barrett, what are you going to do about the iniquitous and inequitable situation found just below your benevolent noses? David Dixon, Head Teacher Bowbridge Primary SchoolThe article misses the key issue, which is that the OLPC laptop is, from beginning to end, designed for children and designed to be an educational instrument. It is definitely not designed to be a simple cheap laptop whose basic purpose is to teach children to run Microsoft Office. Thus the OLPC laptop is ruggedised to withstand serious drops, water spills, heat, dust, high humidity and to operate in extreme climates. It is specifically designed to withstand the abuse a nine-year-old child is bound to give it. For every OLPC machine returned for repair or disposal, there would be 50 times as many Intel machines. The OLPC machine can be read in sunlight outdoors, where many children have classes or study; not so the Intel device. The OLPC machine can operate in energy-saving black and white as well as colour, can be used as an e-book by swivelling the screen, and is equipped, uniquely, with mesh networking so all children in a village are networked with each other automatically, as well as with their school, and if one child is on the net, they all are. The OLPC machines have security features which may be the best in the world. None of this obtains with the Intel computer. The purpose of the OLPC machine is to allow children to learn to learn with their laptop, both by accessing educational material on the machine itself, on the school server (also being specified by OLPC), and on the internet. Children who had access to a teacher only sporadically, who have no school books (or one to a class) in climates where books disintegrate will be able to access all the information in the world from a village with only intermittent electricity, and when that fails will be able to recharge the batteries themselves. The Intel machine cannot do any of that. For the first time in human history, children with no access to information and education will be able on their own initiative to access everything. The power of a village child being able to look up a subject important to him on, say, Wikipedia is unimaginable. The truth about Intel came out in Mr. Barrett's outburst on 60 Minutes when he was confronted with his own letter to the government of Nigeria attacking the OLPC machine, and said that's the way business worked. Intel sees this all as a business. OLPC sees it as an educational project, and education being the only way to lift children in incredibly under-developed areas out of poverty. To OLPC, this is a humanitarian project passionately pursued with the commitment to reduce cost to nations as scale delivers savings. Barrett sees it as a business plan. In the end, Intel vs. AMD is all immaterial, as I am sure OLPC would agree. They key is education, and OLPC has that, and only that, in its DNA. The Intel machine has nothing more than a Wintel ambition to protect the margins of its user base. Jerry Goldstein, Kolonaki, Greece&gt;&gt; It would help the OLPC's cause if charity organisations come forward to sponsor the XO-1, but it would appear that Bill Gates has the biggest charity organisation going on. No points for guessing where the Bill Gates Foundation is going to put its money.http://mediavidea.blogspot.com/2007/06/olpc-vs-intel-bitter-battle-for.html&gt;&gt; Unfortunately it does seem that Intel is making this a competitive market, but if Mr. Negroponte's beliefs were truly "humanitarian", why wouldn't he welcome the opportunity to bring the best computer to the children who need them most? Just because the OLPC was the first doesn't mean it has to be the last.http://bungatech.com/2007/05/31/is-olpc-competition-ethical/DEAD XBOXESI am currently teaching students on a game design course and most of them have bought an Xbox 360. I cannot begin to tell you the number of them that have told me the XBox 360 has frozen or given the red light. To me it seems nearly all of them. Many of them were hesitant of getting an XBox 360 to begin with but with waiting so long for PS3 and Nintendo Wii they felt they could not hold out no longer and took the plunge. However many of them regret it not in the games that are out for the XBox 360 but the fact that they are waiting for it to freeze or crash in the middle of playing a game. I myself own all three next-generation consoles and I can tell you that I have never had the PS3 or Nintendo Wii freeze or crash on me even when left on for hours on end. If I was to do that with the XBox 360 I was almost always expecting a crash or a failure... overheating perhaps?? It's a shame really because the console has many good games and publishers on board; it's just the hardware that seems to be a little unreliable. I wonder what's going to happen when my students and myself are in the middle of playing HALO 3? Jose Cole, LondonCheck out my clansite athttp://www.dutchghosts.nl- on the left side you will see 360 failure stats amongst my clan members. At the moment, 16 failed on 41 owned. Evert van Brummelen (aka Max Qubit), The NetherlandsI bought my Xbox 360 in March of 2006, thinking that the faulty architecture of the console would have already been fix or modified after observing the failure rate on the launch units. But, oh, I was so wrong. Since then, my Xbox 360 has given me the red ring of death twice and I decided to sell it on eBay after experiencing how the DRM prevented me from playing my Xbox Live Arcade games unless I was logged on. And considering that the Wi-Fi adapter is a whooping $100 + tax, I rather move my modem around every time I feel like downloading a new game or playing online with others. And please note that the Nintendo DS has a Wi-Fi adapter built in and it only costs $130 and the PSP is $169 and can even surf the web. I'm not saying this will be my last MS console, but I will most likely wait until MS makes the changes necessary to make the console more reliable, quieter, and most definitely cheaper. Oscar Millan, El Paso, TexasI work in the video game market and I for one dread selling a $500 machine that will potentially stop working within a couple of months. I know of one customer who has gone through 14 XB360 systems, and WHY is this happening 18 months after the launch?? This is such a HUGE problem, isn't there a Electronic Quality Control branch in the government that is supposed to monitor these issues. [No - Technology Ed.] What is the legal defective percentage you're allowed? I believe Microsoft's ignorance for letting these issues persist should cost them a large scale recall on the XB360. I know Sony has come under fire for the high price tag of the PS3 but at least you're buying quality not crap. Jesse Connell, Vancouver, CanadaI suspect the real cause of failing Xbox 360s is twofold. Dumb users combined with a slightly more sensitive console. I own a 360, I bought it on launch day in 2005 and haven't had any trouble with it since. This is because I keep it in a well ventilated and cool area. Most of my game machines run on wire racks and even hardware notorious for failure (such as the original 1995 Playstation) still run fine to this day. If, on the other hand, you have a user who takes the 360 and sets it up in a stuffy entertainment centre it will overheat, as any other bit of electronics would likely do, and fail. The problem then comes when the user has a repaired machine. What do they do with it? They put it right back in the stuffy entertainment centre that killed their first one. Surprise, surprise. Machine #2 fails. Lather, rinse, repeat and you get 5, 6, 7 replaced units. You can blame Microsoft if you want for making a finicky machine, but the real fault is of the users who try the same thing over and over again expecting a different result. Jordan Lund, Portland, OregonI bought my XBox on the first day of launch, had no problems with it up until a week today, I had heard that the XBoxes that were issued on launch day were not up to scratch, and were overheating, having the 'red ring of death', etc. I didn't listen as mine was working fine with no problems - until last week, when I turned on my XBox, and in front of my eyes was the 'red ring of death', Straight away I went on the XBox website to see what was happening with my console. It didn't give much information, only saying - and I quote - "This behaviour occurs when the Xbox 360 console experiences a hardware failure", so I carried on reading but it only gave scenarios for if the power supply is red, orange or not illuminated, mine was on GREEN, but didn't say anything about this, so I decided to phone them, I told them the problem that I have 3 red lights on the front of my XBox, straight away he told me that there was a hardware failure with my console, and he also noticed by taking my serial number that I had owned it for 18 months, so he told me he would arrange for a rep from Microsoft to come and collect my XBox take it away, fix it, give a one-year warranty. Bargain, I thought, so I asked if I could proceed with it. Then he told me I had to pay £86 first. I asked why: he told me because my warranty had run out I have to pay. This I was not happy with. So I asked him questions about the 'red ring of death', asking if it was true that the XBoxes that were issued on launch day were not up to scratch as the XBoxes being released now. He told me it could be true and it could be a rumour, I asked if it was true, why didn't you recall the XBoxes that were sold, he then said we didn't recall them as it could be a rumour. Now I was getting angry because he was not being honest with me and sounded like they were just after getting as much money as possible by issuing faulty console systems, and not admitting it was their fault. I said I was going to pay for a fault to be fixed, that should not of happened in the first place, he then told me which made me more angry.....you will have to buy another XBox then. i find that Microsoft are not looking after their customers properly, I will be sending a letter of complaint to Microsoft about the attitude I had off the phone rep. i am also trying to find people this has happened to who have also bought them on launch day. Kristian Salter, Port TalbotAt last! Someone in the mainstream press giving Microsoft a hard time about the reliability of their Xbox 360 console. I myself have had 5 machines now (and the latest isn't sounding too healthy) and when the warranty is gone I won't be replacing it. By far the worst piece of consumer hardware of recent times in terms of reliability. What makes it even more galling is how brazen Microsoft are in sweeping it under the carpet. I direct you towards some communities on the internet that have had multiple failures :http://tinyurl.com/2xgcfl(NTSC-uk, one of the largest communities currently collecting info from all of its members about 360 hardware failure rates)http://tinyurl.com/2mg63h(rllmuk forum)http://tinyurl.com/238zfk(NeoGAF, American-centric, but shows that it's a worldwide fault) These three sites represent the tip of the iceberg in relation to the amount of faults that the 360 incurs. I'm delighted that you are bringing this to a wider audience so they do not suffer a similar fate to those of us who have bought a 360 already. Please, keep on applying the pressure on Microsoft by keeping this issue alive so they are forced to change the specification or at least admit the problems the console has. Keith Murray, HaddingtonWell, I would hazard a guess at between 25% and 35% of all consoles... A straw poll at work, 17 people who own a 360, only three of these people are on their original console. (One admitted it does not get a huge amount of use). Four of these people are on their third console, and one is on her fourth.. Not good, and pretty surprising that Microsoft don't want to disclose failure rates... I do wonder how many of the 10 million 360's shipped, are actually replacements for failed units??? Mark Gillespie (no post town given)I am now on my 3rd Xbox, which crashed the day after I bought Crackdown to play the Halo 3 beta. I am lucky enough to still have a warranty and feel for those who don't. They have me by the balls because I have spent too much money on peripherals that are too expensive. I wish someone with some clout would make enough noise to get the word out to the possible customers so they could make better buying decisions. Like a PS3, mine works like a charm. Thank you Sony for making a product that works and is actually worth the money. If you add the money for the warranties and the repairs of my crapbox 360, I have paid more for it than my $600 Playstation. Lucas Key, Springfield, MissouriI was one of the lucky ones who managed to pick up a 360 when they very first came out in the UK. Mine has recently gone (I've had to endure it freezing on games for months prior to the red light thing) and I've had to send it back to Microsoft to get repaired. From what I hear I'm not alone – most of my friend's consoles have also had dreaded "Red Ring" lights over the last 6 months. What particularly frustrates me is Microsoft only have a years warranty on brand new machines anyway, and so are charging me over £80 (nearly a third of the cost of the machine) to repair it and send it back to me: they can't even guarantee I'll get a new box, someone will just tinker with it then I have to hope for the best with a new one year guarantee. It's abysmal from Microsoft - but then again, with their track record should I be surprised? I'd wager, the PS3 – although obviously more expensive – it far better put together and won't have these appalling recall rates. Once the decent titles start emerging, I know who I'll be giving my money to in future. Richard Massheder, YorkNov 2006 I bought my first 360 from Virgin Megastore in Croydon. From buying it, it always gave red rings and refused to boot, but the original Xbox used to crash quite often so I never worried about it too much. After five weeks however, it got to a stage where I would have to switch it on and off five or six times to get it to work. I had it exchanged by Virgin after five weeks. In Jan 07 I bought my daughter a 360 with Gears of War from Blockbuster Video so we could play together online. This had a smashed USB cover on the fascia on unpacking it. They exchanged the unit the following weekend. After 6 days use my daughters replacement 360 started to misread disks, coming up with an error "disk unreadable, try cleaning your disk" the disk would work fine in my unit, and my disks would not read on hers. I called Blockbuster telling them the problem saying I would like an exchange. They refused to exchange but they did refund my money. We drove from Blockbuster to PC World in Croydon and bought a new unit. Got it home and it was DOA, red ring of death. If you removed the hard drive it worked. I took it back to PC World the following night and they exchanged it for a new one (my daughters 4th unit in less than 2 weeks) Up until now this is still working. In March my unit then died, it was less than three months old. Red ring of death, it looked to be a power-based problem. At this point I cheated, I took my unit back to PC World and got it exchanged for a new unit. All in all we have had SEVEN Xbox 360 units (all brand new and boxed) since November 2006. My daughter and I now have PS3's and the hope is that once the games have started coming out, we'll swap to this as our console of choice. Microsoft's quality control is dreadful, their support is rubbish also. Try ringing their support line and I bet you, you will find it hard to talk to someone that has any clue about what they are talking about, and even though I call the UK helpline all 9 calls that I have made have been answered by an Eastern European, 5 of which were so hard to understand I gave up as you would have to repeat everything constantly and then they still didn't grasp what your problem was. We have met many people on Xbox Live, one youngster, who defends MS avidly has had his Xbox repaired 6 times, he has had his 360 just over a year. His last repair lasted 3 weeks before it failed again with RROD. Barry Barton (no post town given)My Xbox 360 failed after only 20 hours use. Microsoft accepts that the usage was that low but flatly refuses to help me as the low usage ran beyond the warranty period. Microsoft do not have a systemic problem with the XBox 360, all the complaints are on another planet to them as they are so big they do not need customers anyway. How many corporations have made these fatal mistakes before ? When will they ever learn to respect the customers and treat them as equals ? Buy another Microsoft product? Not if I can help it. Maybe the ante-Trust cases in the USA had more merit than I previously imagined ? John Parsons, BerkhamstedI have an XBox 360 that I have owned since February 2006. It has worked fine ever since I have owned it. I do not play it for extended hours every day. I have used it most days for a couple of hours and sometimes for longer, so, pretty average use. I know several (about 5 or 6) people personally who have not had a problem at all including myself. One of my friends had the three red LED's of death and had his console replaced. Unfortunately I think it must have had something to do with the hard drive connection or something as when he got a replacement it also did not work. I think the issue here is that quite a lot of people have 2 problems 1) not understanding enough about complexity of the device 2) jumping on the band wagon. Many of the posts you see in forums are sensationalised with swearing and blatantly angry children/teens. This is a high end powerful piece of technology that is often considered to be just a toy. The people posting on the forums or answering to questionnaires often can't spell let alone be considered to have treated a device like this sensibly? Imagine what would happen to a very high end PC if it was let loose in a room with some these excitable screaming infants! It needs to be considered in the same way, people have console squashed in under their TV with the power supply, sky box, dvd player, video recorder, PS2, Wii, Gamecube etc and a nest of cables. Why do the people that have a broken console seem to have more than one and the people I know (all around the 20-29, relatively sensible and reasonably mature) have not had a broken console. I think it is most definitely down to respect and careful usage. My younger brother has had his console since early Jan 2006 and he is a heavy user his console is almost always on. Either gaming streaming media or in Media centre. When you add statements to your story such as 2000 posts on a forum thread it makes it seem like there are 2000 posters and of course this is the intent but there are probably at worst 200-300 individual posters in a thread like that. Obviously I have no basis for that but just as much as to assume they are all individuals. Even if there were 2000 posters this is a very small percentage of consoles compared to how many have been sold. 5% of 10 million is 500,000 units I really doubt there are more than that I think the difference is the internet presence. Neil Andrew, Portsmouth&gt;&gt; So far, there have been many documented reasons why an individual's Xbox 360 would die. Shouldn't that concern Microsoft more than how many individuals have been affected?http://kotaku.com/gaming/what.s-in-a-number%3F/failure-rate-of-360s-264742.php&gt;&gt; I do wonder how many of the 10 million 360s shipped are actually replacements for failed units???http://mgillespie.blogspot.com/2007/05/XBox-360-failure-rates.htmlFIBRE NOT COPPERYou quote someone in the industry saying that at present there is "no financially credible application today that wants, needs or can even use 24Mb". At a Global Telecoms Business conference in April I asked our delegates - about 80 very senior executives from telecoms operators across Europe - what bandwidth they had at home now and what they expected to have in 2012. Today they have pretty much what all of us have - from 1-2Mb up to about 8Mb, though a few had 12Mb or more. The overwhelming consensus was that in 2012 they would have around 150Mb, though a few expected more. Five years isn't long to reinvest in the infrastructure. Alan Burkitt-Gray, Editor, Global Telecoms BusinessWEB LYRICSWhen you mention "digital media giant Gracenote", you perhaps should have mentioned the pertinent fact that Gracenote itself originated ascddb.org, a user-generated content index of CD track lengths to CD titles, which was then commercialised in 2001, taking with it the user-generated database. That disgruntled many people who had helped to build up the index voluntarily. (e.g.http://www.audiograbber.com-us.net/boards/ubb/Forum1/HTML/001250.html) Mike Whittaker, Stapleton&gt;&gt; It's the publishing rights that are the focus of the EMI buy-out, and the current Terra Firma bid believes that they are the real "jewel in the crown" to the future success of the company. Where that leaves the recorded music part of the business is the only question…http://unwrittenfutures.wordpress.com/2007/05/31/lyrics-for-freeer-no/&gt;&gt; Now admittedly this product in this instance - the lyrics - do belong to the artists who penned them and haven't been altered, transformed or used in a derivative way by the people hosting them on websites, for the most part. But... I find it oddly mercenary, though not surprising.http://community.livejournal.com/life_wo_fanlib/24585.htmlMICRO BILL SYSTEMS CONT'DIt says a lot about MBS' business that the only companies prepared to use their software are pornographers. Yoav Tzabar, HoughtonLet's face it, the whole approach of these companies is little more than demanding money with menaces. They know full well the problems that popups can cause, as well the fact that many people lack the knowledge to remove the software themselves. Add to that they know that many people won't want to complain for fear of being branded as some sort of internet pervert - especially if someone else has put the software onto the PC. Let them try to sue, they won't but I urge people to tell them where to go and invest in some antispyware software/antivirus software. AVG is a good one and free as well to download - as companies like this tend to drop all sorts of nasty things onto ones hard drive. 'FIDOTHEDOG" (no name or post town given)I had the MBS software load itself onto my Windows machine recently without any request from myself, and it took a lot of time to get rid of it. I do NOT have a firewall in use. I never type info into panels requesting my details. Certainly not email address nor credit card numbers. Any respectable software comes with uninstall facilities. If the uninstall is used then programmes are removed, though usually leaving a passive record of the event. MBS software comes with no such facility. I had the greatest difficulty removing it from my computer because their main executables, mbsrm32.exe and mbssm32.exe files, loaded into \windows\system32 directory cannot be deleted whilst Windows is running. It is necessary to reboot the machine into DOS to facilitate this. There are other files in the \windows\prefetch directory that apparently reconnect to their website and reload the above deleted files. So these files also have to be deleted. There are also various entries in the registry, and possibly these also reconnect to the website. These also should be deleted. Not so easy. Theoretically, by using the System Restore of Windows XP (or later), to a date before the MBS software was loaded, it should be possible to eliminate all the contaminating files. I did not try this, but I would not put it past MBS that their software is designed to even overcome this procedure! You are right that Symantec does not identify the MBS programmes. This type of software, if not illegal (which I accept may well be the case), should at least be identified as the worst type of spyware. It would be interesting to see if an unwilling recipient of this software sued Micro Bill for criminal damage to their computer because of involuntary loading of it. They might win, were they brave enough to try it! Charles Brown [address withheld by request]Having read your latest piece, the only point you have not investigated is this: if my friend comes over to my house once a year and during their latest visit I find that they have some how put this bill on my computer, they are responsible. When someone else has put it on your computer by accident or by subscribing what has it got to do with you. When you subscribe to anything else you give name, address etc. This is obviously a scam, I know for a fact that I never went on any porn site and would be willing to let someone have my computer for the day. I have deleted it now but have been reading in forums that some people have paid and this has just spurred MBS on to blocking their computer the next time and not stopping the subscription as they know they will pay. This must be the only place in the world that sends you bills and does not know even your name! This can't be right! Jason De Luca (no post town given)AGE SHALL WITHERI'm confused. I've never heard of "Charted: Drake's Progress". Neither have Lucas Arts. Or Google. Perhaps you mean Sony/Naughty Dog's new game, "Uncharted: Drake's Fortune"? If so, you can find out more about it here:http://www.us.playstation.com/Uncharted/Perhaps you might want to do that, when you're writing an article. Research, that is. Rather than listening into a conversation about "cool new games" between some kids at the bus stop. Alex Short, CanterburyGOOGLE MAPS VS OSPerhaps Google Maps is cheaper than OS because it's a third rate product. For example it has always been a mapmakers convention reflect the size and importance of a town. Google completely ignores this, indeed sometimes reverses it. At one scale, Edinburgh disappears, the north east is represented by Hartlepool and Northampton is capital of much of the East Midlands. Zoom in a bit and places like Exmouth and Woking appear, but no Canterbury or Dover. Further in still and we see Fulham in big type as London's twin city, with a few random names - South Oxhey anyone? - to represent the rest of suburbia. And so it goes on. Hampton Wick in big type but where's Kingston? For some reason a random selection of golf clubs is given prominence, but a street level there's no schools, hospitals, pubs or railway stations. Google Maps is fine if all you need to find is a street, but even then there is no indication of the way house numbers go. For anything else it's pretty hopeless and you are better off buying a proper product, like an OS map. Nick Davies, Coulsdon&gt;&gt; OK, I wouldn't use Google data for measurement and there is no info about source, quality, accuracy or date which are vital if you need to use the mapping for legal reasons. But for showing where schools are, or where the local library is - why not? There will always be a place for reliable and accurate data. Ordnance Survey data will not be lost to the nation (as it were) but I believe the two can co-exist.http://geomaticsruth.blogspot.com/2007/06/funny-that.html&gt;&gt; It's an interesting debate: how much longer can the OS last under this sort of pressure? Telephone companies are under pressure from Skype etc. GPO under pressure from email? What is the future for these large companies?http://ictnuggets.wordpress.com/2007/06/02/the-os-looses-out-to-google/BLOGGING FOR CHANGE&gt;&gt; Many times, this has been the case that an issue pointed by a smaller blog doesn't get promoted by Dig and other gatekeepers until Techcrunch or others cover it. Mahatma Gandhi said, "If you want to change the world, first change yourself." That means, if you care about an issue, blog about it, sure.http://mediavidea.blogspot.com/2007/06/can-blogging-change-world.html3GB LIMITYour correspondent Scott Colvey wrote in today's Technology Guardian that 32-bit systems are limited to a maximum addressable memory of 4GB and adds that the last 1GB is unusable not just under Microsoft OSs but also under Linux. That simply isn't true; Linux can make use of up to 64GB on a 32-bit system. While it's true that individual processes can only address 4GB, there can by many processes running concurrently. If more than 4GB are installed, then it uses "Physical Address Extension" (see, e.g. the Wikipedia entry) to address up to 64GB. Robert Harris, LondonTAXING PROBLEMSI too attempted to renew my road tax via the DVLA web-site, as exhorted by the renewal reminder. I got to the payment page; it froze and I gave up in disgust. Rather than ask for more examples of failure, perhaps we could hear from anyone who has succeeded. Catherine Mowat, LondonDAB REDUXDAB radios may not deliver signals acceptable to audiophiles, but in this part of hilly North London, with poor FM signals to begin with and a plethora of pirate stations making FM radio at times unlistenable, my 3 DAB radios perform sterling service in delivering the radio I want to listen to at perfectly acceptable standards of quality for a table radio with a 5" speaker. Paul Soper, LondonSPAM REDUXGuardian Technology has run one or two defeatist articles in the past year that basically said there is nothing that can be done by the industry about spam. I am plagued with about a dozen spam emails every day. Not too bad, but presumably held down by a combination of my anti-spam software and my ISP. There is a solution. Every email could be charged at, say 2 pence (or 2¢), to send. One penny cold be kept by "the system" to pay for administration costs and 1p could be passed onto the recipient. Micro payment systems exist. The internet / communications industry is entirely capable of devising and administrating such a system and users would not object - if it were administered fairly. That is perhaps the biggest potential objection, that the industry would treat it as an opportunity to gouge more profits. Businesses who use email legitimately would not object because they could reduce their costs of processing junk mail. Legitimate personal users would not be penalised by such low costs, especially if they received something of the order of half their costs back when they receive email. Surely this approach would effectively drive spammers out of business. John White, Richmond [Unworkable, unfeasible and ignores all the failures of previous anti-spam efforts. We recommend reading the linked article - Technology Ed.]
You could look at this as a form ofKeynote Bingo, butapfelkueche.de has listed the highlightsandDaily Tech Talkhas picked it up.Jobs kicks off theApple developers conferenceat 10am this morning Pacific time, which is 6pm in London (or 5pm GMT or, rather, UTC).
A blog post at Tech Republicprovides links to two ways to try Windows Vista for free. The simplest is to try a business version online at theWindows Vista Test Drivesite. This runs in a browser window, after you install the (ActiveX) Virtual Server VRMC Advanced Control. Of course, it doesn't tell you anything about Vista's performance.The better but more cumbersome alternative is to install Vista in a "virtual PC" on your hard drive, where it won't affect the rest of the stuff you do. As Greg Shultz points out: "Microsoft has created a 30-day evaluation VHD (Virtual Hard Drive) containing Windows Vista Enterprise Edition that you can download and load into either Microsoft Virtual PC or Microsoft Virtual Server."The drawbacks are disk space and time:Besides a Microsoft Virtual product, both of which are free as well, you'll need to have at least 10 GB of free hard disk space and at least 2 GB of RAM. You also have to have a very fast Internet connection or a bit of time on your hands as the Vista Enterprise VHD is comprised of three very large files -- two 700MB files and one 160MB file.The sizes make it easy to burn them to CD.Once you've done the download, you have to do a real Vista installation, which generally takes half an hour.The test drives are aimed at business users rather than home users, but anyone can have a go.
Japanese giant Sony are feeling the heat of the Church's ire after an unfortunate legal oversight. TheBBCreports that the heads of Manchester Cathedral are considering suing the software publisher if first person shooterResistance: Fall of Manisn't removed from shelves. Apart from the usual arguments citing the effects of violent games on the populace, the religious leaders suggest irresponsibility because the game features interiors of the Cathedral which were used without permission.Sony are pleading innocence, claiming that while the interior shots are replicas of the holy building, the work is fiction, and therefore should be protected under fair use. Indeed, the CGI structure is in serious disarray after attacks from all sides by evil aliens. To remove it even further from reality, there's nary a parishioner in sight.However, fists are shaking because of the game's violent theme, partly set in the city which has its fair share of gun crime.Now I'm not a legal scholar, but I'd like to posit that this high-level dispute may have implications for the types of content that could be included in low-level independent and user-generated game development circles. At what point do the overseers of a real location need to be alerted to its use in a videogame? Why aren't the creators ofMcDonalds: The GameandDisaffected!(set in a Kinko's Copy store) getting their souls smite-d by these big businesses?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
