I got a brief interview with Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, right after Tuesday's launch of iTunes music store in the UK, France and Germany. We didn't get to use much in thefinal pieceso, given the level of interest in the story, I thought I'd post a fuller, edited transcript of our chat here. Students of Jobs interviews - and I know there are some - will note his comments on the iPod's changing role for Apple (it's not seen as a flag-bearer for the whole Mac OS any more) and Jobs' repeated statement of admiration for Sony. Conspiracy theorists, start your engines...NM: What's the rationale behind the pricing of music on the store? SJ: "We want to offer a really good product at a really aggressive price. We want to be the price leader. OD2 announced a price of 75p, but it'sfrom75p. We looked at their store and we could only find very few songs. Most songs were at 99p.NM: Was it also down to the fact that, unlike in the US where you pretty much had the market to yourselves, in the UK the market is more developed… SJ: "But it's not more developed here. It's still very, very tiny. In the UK, the numbers are only about 50,000 songs being sold here a week. We sell 2.5m songs a week in the US. The market really hasn't been opened here. We hope that iTunes does that. The thing to keep in mind is there's not a lot of money to be made running an online music store. Most of the money goes to the record labels. I've always wondered why small companies would want to do it. We're the largest, and we're breaking even, making a very small profit, but the other guys must be losing money. And they don't have an iPod business. If you're not selling iPods, and you have a tiny market share, you must be losing a lot of money. Why would a small company like Napster or OD2 want to be in this business? But that's their business, not ours. I'm sure they have their reasons."NM: When the iPod was launched, you said it might lead people to the Mac platform. Does you still believe that? SJ: "No. We brought the iPod to Windows. That was a big decision. That was basically a decision not to use the iPod to drive people to Macs. We're going to use it as a music device, and we're going to put it on Windows. The majority of iPods we sell are used on Windows."NM: You've gone back to renegotiate with the labels after the first year. Have attitudes changed towards you? SJ: "Oh sure. Absolutely. The labels are really happy with the success that we've shown. We told them we were going to go do a bunch of things, and we did them. And they weren't used to that. So I think there's a lot of trust that's been built up."NM: They're also more likely to be keen on you - you're shifting a lot of songs, and putting some marketing muscle behind it… SJ: "We're investing a lot in this, and they like that".NM: Coming to Europe, were the negotiations more difficult than those you had in the US? SJ: "No, they weren't more difficult. But the difficult thing was the rights. In the US, a company has the right to distribute a song. But in the UK, a different company has the right to distribute that same song. And maybe in Germany, a third company will have the right. And there's no central database that tells you who to pay when you sell a song in the UK, versus Germany, versus France. We had to sit down with the labels and figure all this out. And that's what took a long time – figuring out the rights issues. "On other services, every song has a different set of rights attached to it. We didn't want that. The user should never have to worry about that. When they buy a CD they don't have to worry about what rights they have, and they're the same for every CD they have. So I think what the big breakthrough for iTunes was that the rights – and the price – are the same for every song."NM: What's happening with the indie labels? You appear to have some, but by no means all. SJ: "We have over 500 indies in the US, and most will be coming here. We have dozens signed here, but there are a few – probably many – that we don't. But we're open for business now, and we'll obviously have time now to sign those guys up over the next several weeks."NM: Your competitors are quick to point out iTunes Music Store only works with the iPod, and that their services works with dozens. SJ: "Right, but nobody buys those. iPod has over 50% market share. And, more than that, if you look at the market share of in use players – and there's no data on this – but we guess the share is closer to 75% because that 50% includes comparing iPod with the $50 MP3 players that only hold 16 songs. When you get one of those as a gift, you don't use it."NM: Do you have any data on the market share in hard-disk based players? SJ: "Oh – in the 90s. iPod works with anything – you can put any MP3s from any jukebox, any computer. You can rip your CDs from any jukebox, any computer. With iTunes, we decided to work with the most popular music player – and that's by far the iPod. Rather than support all these other guys, we'd rather use the engineering to innovate. So far the customers have said that's what they want."NM: I was speaking to an academic yesterday who was finding that digital music is changing our listening habits – we have a far broader taste in music than any radio station would give us credit for, especially. SJ: "I agree with that. Another thing that's new is shuffle – there was never real shuffle before the iPod. You could shuffle a CD, but there would be only 12 songs. So you've got 1000 songs and you put it on shuffle in your iPod, and you're listening to things you haven't heard in a couple of years. It's a new way to discover things both on the iTunes music store, but also to discover your own music library again. People are listening to lots more. I think there's a renaissance in music that this is going to ignite. Sony did a great job of this in the 70s and 80s. They had the best CD players, and we look at them as a role model in this new digital age – a lot of people have said this iPod is the Walkman for the digital age."NM: But the download and play model holds – streaming, for instance, isn't something you're interested in doing at this stage? SJ: "It's not something the customers seem interested in doing. We haven't seen a lot of interest."NM: And a la carte pricing is what people want too? SJ: "It was proved long before iTunes – it was proved with LPs, it was proved with cassettes, it was proved with CDs. People want to own their music."
At a venue in central London on Tuesday morning, soul singer Alicia Keys was on stage, purring into a microphone, describing the love she feels for a software package. It was, she sang, a good time to be listening to iTunes.How the rest of the industry must be hoping music lovers sing similar songs of praise over the next few months, as the digital music bandwagon finally gets rolling in Europe.Keys was in town to give that bandwagon a shove. She was appearing as the support act to Apple's iTunes Music Store (iTMS), which launched British, French and German versions this week - more than a year after it opened in the US.In that first year, iTMS has sold 80m songs and taken 70% of the market share of digital music sales in the US. But while it has been a soar away success in the US, iTMS has been slow to get moving on its world tour.On this side of the Atlantic, its rivals - services such as mycokemusic, powered by the OD2 service backed by Peter Gabriel, and latterly the new, legitimate incarnation of Napster - have been making inroads. Already this year, more than 500,000 tracks have been downloaded legally.Spotting the juggernaut on its way, Napster and OD2 were quick to try to steal some of Apple's thunder this week. Napster, which itself only relaunched in the UK last month, announced a deal with cable company NTL to allow 1m cable internet users cheaper access to its catalogue. And OD2 unveiled what it calls a "pay-per-play jukebox" through its stores, including MSN's Sonic Selector, which allows users to stream any track live for 1p a play.But, despite those announcements, the arrival of Apple and its iTunes Music Store is likely to take digital music to a new level in the UK - not least because, while iTunes is not the first music download service on the block, it certainly has the highest profile and is the most lavishly funded."Today's launch is another important step forward in the growing UK downloads market," said Peter Jamieson, chairman of the record industry trade body, the BPI. With a digital downloads chart expected to arrive later this year, Jamieson added this could be "a landmark year" for digital music.At iTunes' launch, it was easy to see why. Instead of turning up to see the industry announce more poor sales figures, or unveil increasingly harsh moves against online music pirates, Apple was injecting some much-needed glitz back into the business. The company's chief executive, Steve Jobs, never short of hyperbole, announced he was "bringing the digital music revolution around the world".Music fans who have been filling their boots in the free, if illegal, file-sharing world of KaZaA, will complain this is a strictly capitalist revolution, even if Apple did unveil unexpectedly low prices of 79p a track, and &#163;7.99 an album (with a few, more expensive, exceptions).And Jobs acknowledged his main foes were those pirate networks that charge nothing. But he insisted the benefits of legality, including good sound quality, downloadable cover art, and what he described as the "good karma" of not stealing music, would win consumers over.Speaking after the launch event, Jobs refused to accept that having rivals already in place in the UK would cause problems for his new store - even though it did not face such stiff competition in the US when it opened its doors in April last year.The market in Britain was, he said, "still very tiny". In the UK, only about 50,000 songs are being sold a week. "We sell 2.5m songs a week in the US. The market really hasn't been opened here," he insisted.He also questioned the rationale behind some of his rivals' businesses, adding: "There's not a lot of money to be made running an online music store. Most of the money goes to the record labels. We're the largest, and we're breaking even, making a very small profit, but the other guys must be losing money. Why would a small company like Napster or OD2 want to be in this business?"The reason that Apple has entered the fray is, of course, because of the iPod. While the company makes only a small profit even selling millions of songs online, its digital music player enjoys a huge mark-up, and is selling so quickly the company can't make some models fast enough. The machine has become an increasingly important part of Apple's portfolio, as its core computer business continues to watch its market share slide.Apple figures claim more than 3m iPods have been sold so far, accounting for more than half the digital music player market - including the cheap, sub-&#163;100 players that Jobs loves to deride. "Even when you get one of those as a gift, you don't use it," he sniffs.And iPod's importance to Apple means users of other devices are unlikely to see their wishes come true, and be allowed to play music bought from the iTunes music store on non-Apple music players. "iPod works with anything," insists Jobs. "And with iTunes, we decided to work with the most popular music player - and that's by far the iPod."Rather than support all these other guys, we'd rather use the engineering to innovate. So far, customers have said that's what they want."A brewing standards war may yet derail the progress of digital music, or end Apple's dominance of the market. Apple finds itself - just as it did in the PC business - offering a proprietary solution with its iPod and iTunes combo. This is ranged against a variety of opponents and a huge selection of music players, all settled on a common, more open platform built by Microsoft - in this case, the Windows Media format.As Calum Chace, a partner at KPMG who specialises in the media business, remarks: "It's never particularly wise to bet against Microsoft. Open systems do tend to win, eventually."And, despite Jobs' certainty about what he wants iTunes to offer, there are still plenty of unknowns in the fledgling digital downloads business. iTunes does not, for instance, offer a subscription service - unlike Napster or OD2 - or stream complete songs over the internet, like its two rivals.Charles Grimsdale, chief executive of OD2, says streaming is an important feature for users who want to experiment with new music. "People like to stream music because you can listen to a lot of stuff you would probably not pay to download," he says.But Jobs insists users are "not showing a great deal of interest" in streaming, and certainly don't want a subscription service. "It was proved long before iTunes," he says. "It was proved with LPs, it was proved with cassettes, it was proved with CDs. People want to own their music."Apple also faces other challenges now it has arrived in Europe. One of its most pressing tasks will be to get the bulk of Europe's important indie music labels to sign up to its service.Those labels - to which dozens of influential acts including Franz Ferdinand, the White Stripes and Craig David are signed - were noticeable absentees from Tuesday's festivities, after talks aimed at getting them on iTunes collapsed over the weekend.The smaller labels say the terms being offered to them by Apple would be "commercial suicide", and do not mirror those being offered to the big labels - a claim denied by Apple.Alicia Keys, luckily for Apple, is signed to one of the major labels that have partnered up with Apple. And, back at the launch party, she was admitting that she hadn't got her iPod working yet - despite owning three. She'd better sort herself out soon, she conceded.Steve Jobs, along with the whole music industry, will be hoping many more follow the young diva's lead in the months ahead.Read more of our interview with Steve Jobs atguardian.co.uk/onlineblog
Any local authority wanting to deliver better services usually ends up shopping for a customer relationship management (CRM) system. But the process of identifying and implementing appropriate systems is fraught. Local authorities have a bewildering number of service areas and, typically, face a range of complex offerings.In January 2003, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister launched a &#163;4.2m national project to help shine a light on the complicated world of CRM. One of its most visible achievements has been the creation of a virtual CRM academy, which is acting as a knowledge hub for local councils.It offers products, information on suppliers, functional specifications and integration guidance. "We have tried to provide a set of documents that cover skill deficiencies. We're trying to provide a bit more capacity from an external source," says Mark Bassham, programme manager of the CRM national project. He claims that 300 of 388 authorities have used products provided by the CRM academy, adding that 52% of local authorities are planning to implement or have implemented a CRM system. Despite the impressive statistics, there are still plenty of councils who are not adopting systems.Says Bassham: "Authorities need to make sure their CRM systems are meeting the needs of citizens and are providing efficiency gains across a range of appropriate services. Is there still a long way to go? Yes."Analysts argue that some local authorities fail to demonstrate to customers they understand what matters. "We have a rump of local authorities who don't have strong leadership or vision around the CRM agenda. Some executive teams will not re-design service delivery from end to end," says Wendy Hewson, head of research for the Hewson Group.She says it is critical to involve front-line staff and their managers when CRM systems are being implemented. "If you bring in outsiders, they chart what they think is happening and try to roll it out to staff. The charting is usually based on the manual and not what is happening."New technologies provide councils with opportunities to become more customer-oriented. However, some private sector suppliers think councils could act more quickly."Councils are very citizen-orientated," says Ruud Veltenaar, chairman of Parkmobile, which offers councils pay-by-phone parking services. "They are under pressure to achieve e-government targets and are more focused than ever. But the decision-making process takes a lot of time." He feels many existing systems do not have the qualities to perform at the levels councils desire.Geoff Connell, deputy head of ICT for Newham Borough council, says it is easy to underestimate the scale of the change councils have to undertake to make themselves more responsive to customers. "You are talking about re-engineering the way councils work so they work around the needs of the citizens rather than their internal structures."Newham implemented its CRM system in the late 90s, and it meant painfully integrating with more than 50 back-office systems. "The staff has to feel ownership of the solution. External input is useful because you are so stretched. But, ultimately, there is no substitute for involving people who are delivering the service." Connell admits that CRM can mean many things. However, he thinks the national CRM project has helped demystify what is required.Traditionally, CRM vendors have been treated with suspicion by councils but the national project appears to have improved relations. "I think it has helped confirm the core components of a CRM system and that is very useful," says Paul Tonks, public services director for Civica. One of the challenges of implementing a system, he says, is that there are a vast number of business objectives across a raft of service areas.The national CRM project is now entering a new phase and will be providing a mentoring service to assist councils with business cases. The project's leaders are also keen to help bring councils together so they can pool resources and jointly negotiate cheaper contracts for CRM systems.Re-designing council services from end to end does pose a significant challenge. In the past, poor communication helped to regulate how much contact councils received from the public but now, they are having to look to the commercial sector to see how they can improve customer experiences. The lessons of the national project suggest that any investment must concentrate on what matters most to customers; and local staff have to be closely involved.Measuring performance is critical, too. Councils which implement new systems have to be able to demonstrate how they are improving productivity and delivering better services. All these require significant changes in the way local authorities work and are unlikely to be resolved before 2005.Links:www.crmnp.orgwww.hewson.co.ukwww.parkmobile.comwww.civica.co.uk
Racing pulseMashedXbox,PS2, &#163;34.99 Supersonic/Empire&#42;&#42;&#42;When you talk of "old skool" gaming, Mashed is exactly what you mean. It is not quite retro because the graphics and sound are up to date. However, the gameplay is rooted firmly in the mid 80s, bringing back memories of the age when hand-eye coordination was king.The title is misleading, as there is nothing extreme or drug-induced about racing tiny cars round tiny circuits. A forced isometric perspective ensures the cars feel as if they are under radio control, with sweeping turns and silly collisions that will quickly reduce your car to scrap if you're not careful.With a dozen cars to race across 13 circuits (and up to four on screen at once), the replay value of having one more go with a buggy is compelling. However, Mashed deliberately sacrifices distance for difficulty. All the races are broken into bite-size chunks, some lasting just seconds. While not particularly realistic (and slightly repetitive in the single-player game) it is enormously addictive. Cars can be equipped with weapons and launch attacks from the sidelines even after elimination.The drawbacks are that it is overpriced, the weapons could be more imaginative and the camera has a habit of losing the leading car off the top of the screen (making crashes impossible to avoid). However, for groups of players seeking boisterous half-time relief, Mashed takes some beating. With more variety and detail, it could have been a classic.Mike AnderieszShot in the footDriv3rXbox, PS2, &#163;44.99 Reflections/Atari&#42;&#42;&#42;The third instalment of the popular driving-and-shooting franchise cannot escape the shadow of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. Both involve much driving and running around, performing criminal actions. In Driv3r, you play Tanner, an FBI agent/cop, renowned for his driving skills and taking on suicidal missions.Driv3r starts off in a lovingly reconstructed Miami, which will seem familiar to Vice City fans. It does outclass Vice City in one respect: production values. Tanner, for example, is voiced by Michael Madsen, while Mickey Rourke, Michelle Rodriguez and Iggy Pop add their voices. This enlivens the short cut-scenes, which are among the best seen in a game. Graphically, too, it outdoes Vice City, and the cars are a joy to drive.Sadly, the stiff targeting sucks out much of the gameplay enjoyment. Inexcusably, you cannot adjust the sensitivity. The driving takes place on realistically populated streets (in Istanbul, Nice and Miami), and you soon learn to drive quickly but with precision. But the clunky shooting engine makes the out-of-car sequences a lottery. It is a shame, because the look and storyline are great.The Xbox version is Live-enabled but, like the Getaway, Driv3r is let down by its on-foot shooting system.Steve BoxerSecond divisionEngland International FootballXbox, PS2, &#163;39.99 Codemasters&#42;&#42;&#42;It may have attracted 1m subscribers worldwide but Xbox Live, the online gaming service for the Xbox, has lacked one thing - a football game.Stepping belatedly into the fray is England International Football, which allows two players the chance to compete against each other or join forces to play the beautiful game. When it works, EIF plays solidly, better than the Fifa series but inferior to Pro Evolution Soccer. Sadly, the key word is "when". Too many games are prematurely disconnected by a fault in the servers, which is frustrating.Codemasters is promising an imminent fix, but it's a major surprise that this slipped through the net. This aside, EIF is decent. Passing is fluid and simple and the slow pace allows for measured build-ups. The graphics are slightly blurry but the player likenesses are realistic.Unfortunately, shooting is flawed, being difficult to direct and aim. Defending, too, is erratic, with attackers able to dribble past far too easily. Longevity is also an issue. While the offline modes include leagues and cups, the online mode - undoubtedly the main reason for purchase - is restricted to single games. The ability to set up online leagues or have access to stats would have been a real clincher.Greg Howson
Safe tripMy partner and I are planning a round-the-world "trip of a lifetime" and expect to be away for several months. We will still have to manage our bank and credit card accounts. We do this mostly by internet, but how can we continue to do this on the road? I have reservations about internet cafes: how do I know they are not running software to record my account and password details? Presumably an internet cafe would not want me to plug my laptop into their network, for their own security.Tony WyersJack Schofield replies:I have not been round the world, but I have usually managed to find a cybercafe that would let me use my laptop, and some offer it as a service. You can't guarantee that a cybercafe will not have a "packet sniffer" that could capture your data. However, if your banks use SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) connections - look for https in the address, and a padlock at the bottom of the browser - then the information sent between your PC and the bank is already encrypted.Still, it would be a better idea to use your notebook from a good hotel. Many now offer broadband to the room, or at least to the business centre, and you can ask to use that even if you are not staying there. Some hotels and airports also offer Wi-Fi wireless connections, but these are not very secure unless Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) is used.I would not recommend using cybercafe computers for financial transactions. If you don't have a   choice, reduce the risk by always using SSL. When you have finished, close all browser windows, open one new browser window, empty the cache of temporary internet files, and reboot the PC. Change your passwords often and, obviously, don't make the operating system remember them.Most internet service providers have a number that can be dialled from overseas, via a modem, so make sure to get this and try it before you go. Long distance calls are expensive but may be cheaper than getting your accounts hacked.An interesting alternative is the StealthSurfer, which is basically a USB drive. The browser (a modified Netscape 7) and security software, your data, and any temporary files are all stored on the thumb-drive so you can unplug it and take it away when you have finished. Seewww.stealthsurfer.biz.Another idea would be to access your home PC remotely, if it has an always-on internet connection. You can do this via a secure VPN (Virtual Private Network) connection. The website at GoToMyPC.com lets you access your home PC securely via the web. Again, you would need to test this before setting off.ExperiencedI received an email from Shyxp.us that says: "ALERT! - Someone who knows you is attempting to share opinions and experiences about you in our online community." The site claims to be legal. What should I do about it, and is there a danger of important information being passed on through it?Gaynor BarrettJS:Emails like this are regularly sent as spam. You are supposed to go to the site and validate your email address. To find out what is supposedly being said about you, you will be asked to pay to subscribe, and then you will find there is no information at all. In other words, it's a scam. Word-of-Mouth.Org tried this trick last year, and the email you sent looks like a repeat. The great Snopes site has an entry about it atwww.snopes.com/computer/internet/wordofmouth.asp.Slow PCSometimes my computer seems to slow (running XP Home, but also climateprediction.net). On looking at the task manager, I find something called model.exe system taking over 90% of the CPU capacity. Is this normal and do I need it?Dr HM GeeJS:I'd guess that model.exe is part of the climate modelling software. Under Slow Computer/Model.Exe Crash, the site says: "Unfortunately due to the heavy requirements imposed by the climate modelling software (&gt;500,000 lines of code), a machine that is slower than a Pentium III/600MHz is not recommended." See:www.climateprediction.net/info/part_faq.php.Forged addressesIs there any way to stop one's email address being spoofed to send viruses to friends and strangers?Tim WalmesleyJS:No, not as far as I know.Backchat&#183;Journalist Carlos Quinn wanted a cheap portable computer for word processing. Both Phil Coughlin and Frank Jordans suggested the Compaq Aero 8000, a thin and light notebook-style Windows CE machine, available secondhand at very low prices. Huw Thomas suggested looking at the "Alphasmart/Dana Wireless, which can be seen as a sort of spiritual heir to the Tandy 100. Dana is not without its design compromises, but the company offers a trial period so you can evaluate these." Seewww.alphasmart.co.uk/dana/.
This morning in Edinburgh, Microsoft is holding what it bills as "an open and honest technology seminar" on the merits of Windows and Linux.Assuming you have missed that, there are two more events in Manchester (June 29) and Newport (July 7). This is not necessarily a recommendation.I went to the first event, held in London last Thursday, and it lived down to my expectations. Well, I did not really expect an open technology discussion, and I did not get one. There were no representatives from the open source movement on stage and, while there was a question time, there was nothing you could honestly call a debate.When I chatted with Nick McGrath, head of platform strategy at Microsoft UK, he was at pains to point out that none of the speakers had been told what to say. That represents a huge step for a lot of marketing departments, not just Microsoft's.However, since most of the speakers were either Microsoft staff, Microsoft partners or Microsoft customers, it was a pretty safe bet that none of them was going to sing out for open source.No doubt the speakers were sincere about what they were doing with IT. However, a debate would have required some equally sincere people who, for whatever reasons, had made different choices. They weren't on stage, though there were a few in the audience.The main exception to the rule was the first speaker, Philip Dawson, who leads Linux research   at the Meta Group consultancy. He provided a comprehensive, independent overview of the current state of the market from an enterprise point of view, and where he thought it was heading. I don't think he said anything that would have surprised anyone who had heard similar presentations from rival consultancies, but he provided a good platform for the debate that didn't follow.As for the stated intention of refuting Linux myths, the event did not do that well. For example, McGrath was pleased that nobody in the audience felt that Linux was "free" - without charge - in a corporate setting, but ignored the point that it was "free" in the sense that you could rewrite and redistribute the code. As the founder of the Free Software Foundation, Richard Stallman, has been saying for two decades: "Think free speech, not free beer."You can understand why Microsoft wants to debunk Linux, but why bother? The IT industry is full of cranks doing "advocacy", and fanaticism is always a bad idea: common sense, courtesy and common human decency fly out the door. So do potential customers.The reason so many companies use Linux to host websites has nothing to do with "advocacy" and everything to do with the fact that there's a pretty standard software stack (including the Apache web server) that does the job well on cheap Intel hardware.In this industry, people vote with their wallets. The way for Microsoft to win the argument is to offer better products at lower prices. Satisfied customers don't need any more persuading.Microsoft Eventshttp://masl.to/?I41353F88
We may not trust doctors as much as we used to, but we tell them lots of secrets. But what happens to confidentiality between doctor and patient when we put medical records on networked computers? There are two schools of thought.More security, says one. Computerised records don't get left on trolleys, dumped with the rubbish or taken home by imperious consultants. Access can be secured with biometric smart cards. The system has a complete audit trail of everyone who has seen - or asked to see - any patient's details.Less security, says the rival school. When records are computerised, they pass beyond the control of the patient's GP. In theory, a corrupt NHS employee at the right level could look up any patient's data and, thanks to IT, probably find it. Then there's function creep: as the record builds up more information, other public servants, not bound by the Hippocratic oath, are tempted to take a peek.The Department of Health belongs to the "more secure" school. It is building the world's most comprehensive system of shared electronic health records. But it accepts that doctors are professionally bound not to share confidential information without patients' consent, and that some people won't give it. So when the new health records "spine" goes live, in stages from this year, we will be able to withhold our records. (Details of how this will work have not emerged.)Tomorrow, some influential doctors will challenge this "opt-out" policy at the British Medical Association's annual GP meeting. They argue that records should go on the spine only when patients positively agree, or opt in. Their case is based on the changing nature of that word "consent".When the issue first surfaced, in more paternalistic times, policymakers argued that registering with a doctor implied consent for the NHS to share medical records for purposes such as administration and research. In today's climate, following the row over hospitals retaining samples from dead children, implied consent is not enough. The rule now is "informed consent" - patients must know they have a choice and be given the information to make it.Critics say opt-out will not constitute informed consent, especially if the "informing" is done with leaflets, such as those used to warn bank customers of interest rates.The Department of Health worries that if too many patients refuse, the spine project will go off half cocked. But research shows that most people, when informed, want their records to be shared within the NHS. And the whole point of the e-enabled NHS is to increase choice and empower patients. It shouldn't be based on a con trick.
This week, Pixies fans will be waking up with grins on their faces, just like they did a fortnight ago. Only now, rather than anticipating the seminal alt-rock band 's reunion gigs at Brixton Academy, they're waiting for the postman. And in doing so, they are part of something that could revolutionise the music industry.At the sell-out gigs, fans queued up at a DiscLive.com merchandise stall to buy an unusual memento: a near-instant live album for $25 (£14). Within two hours of the last encore, they received emails with a link that let them download a burn-once CD image of the gig. Despite the quick turnaround, sound quality - taken straight from the mixing desk feeds - was not far off that of a shop-bought live album.And this week they will receive the real thing. A fancy, limited edition double CD will arrive in the post. The discs will be similar to the ones they burned, but with finely-tuned production. The two-second pauses between tracks will be gone, for example.All 1,500 albums for each of the four Brixton Academy nights, 6,000 albums in total, are sold out. As are the live CDs of all of the Pixies' North American gigs; they're already doing a roaring trade on eBay. DiscLive.com also offered a limited edition of 1,000 NetBurns of each Brixton night. For $18 (£10), you get the home-burned CDs. But only around 50 of each night had been sold at the time of going to press.This shows that music fans aren't just willing to pay for music - that has already been demonstrated by iTunes - we're also still suckers for the physical product, the cute packaging, the limited editions. Given the choice of a gold disc or a proper one, we 'll pick the latter pretty much every time - even when both are legal.The music industry needs to sit up and take notice. Album sales are flagging. According to the Official UK Charts Company, 8,750 sales in a week is enough to make it into the Top 40. The sales of these on-demand albums are significant, then. If the Pixies had done two more nights, the live albums would have made it on to the charts.This is a new model for selling albums. And major record labels, not known for their love of new technology, are missing the trick. The Pixies aren't with a major. Its management approached DiscLive.com, seeing the CDs as a valuable way to make extra money.It's time a major label was insightful enough to give it a try, and not just for live albums. Why not other albums on demand? That could be DJ sets or mix tapes, but again with bootleg-beating music quality and beautiful packaging. Even straightforward compilations could be revolutionised. Why should some record company exec dictate which 20 tracks best represent a band's career? Instead, each fan could customise the track list to feature their personal favourites - and receive it as a great-looking, gatefold, limited edition double CD.Fans would get top-quality music and the fancy packaging.The industry would see increased album sales and extra revenue from live music. Everyone's a winner, except bootleggers. Technology as a weapon against music piracy for a change.
Yippee for YahooBeing one of the many who logged on to Yahoo on Tuesday to find an upgraded service (no 100MB yet, though) I have to say I am pleasantly surprised. I've been using Yahoo for a few high-use email lists for six years and have no plans to ditch the account. Yahoo has consistently revised and improved its service over this period and finding another new interface is nothing new - the search mail function is obviously copied from Gmail but the notepad function is new and useful.However, I'm also one of the lucky ones to already have a Gmail account. It will eventually replace Wanadoo as my main account as I no longer use dial-up access from home, and Freeserve/Wanadoo online access is abysmal.So far, Gmail wins by a mile. The unique mail storage/retrieval system that groups messages by subject is something I'd have loved years ago. The service is flexible and customisable, the advertisements that have caused so much controversy are unobtrusive (they appear outside the text box, at least for Gmail users) and it has the all-important geek-factor of being an established service.Compared to the many services I've tried over the years, both are excellent and leave the likes of Hotmail (and especially Wanadoo) lagging. For the time being, I'm happy with the reassurance that my tried and tested Yahoo account is getting even better, but the smug satisfaction that comes with being an early Gmail user is something a little bit special.Keith BakerLeicesterStarved of cashA large portion of the e-envoy's success in providing internet access to the population is dependent on UKOnline centres. Many of these are small-scale charitable operations. Our local experience is that we are being starved of funds and not likely to survive to support access to e-government - if and when it arrives.It may be that the position in Dorset is unrepresentative. It would be interesting if someone outside the responsible agencies (Ufi and LSC) could report on the national picture.Ken BaxterShaftesburyCleaning upI was interested to read David Bolton's letter (Feedback, June 10). There were several misunderstandings. BT's Project Cleanfeed is an internal project name. This project is nothing to do withwww.cleanfeed.co.ukand never has been.BT's project relates to our company's decision to employ filtering software to prevent access to already "illegal to view" sites and images on the internet relating to child sex abuse. This is content deemed illegal, under the Protection of Children Act 1978, by the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF). BT is not considering extending the block to other areas the Bolton mentions.The list is compiled, kept and maintained by the IWF. It will be audited by independent external auditors for the Home Office and there will be an appeal process. We believe the exceptional circumstances of the 1978 legislation warrant this move now that the technology is available.Mike GalvinDirector, Internet OperationsBT RetailWork to ruleRoland J Young (Feedback, June 3) experienced a massive increase in spam via BT/Yahoo. Since Wanadoo took over Freeserve I have been getting up to 100 daily spam porn site ads disguised as emails from "normal" email addresses where previously I had none. I was a Freeserve dial-up customer and was happy with the service, but since Wanadoo, the speed has slowed to a crawl. Wanadoo is pushing its broadband service - would it be too cynical to deduce it is slowing the dial-up service to sign up more broadband users? If broadband increases speed by 10 times, the result would still be slower than my previous Freeserve dial-up speed.Brian McGarryColwyn BayWritten by handI, too, like Mary Braid (Trial By Ink, June 7), have returned to university to study pharmacy, almost 20 years after studying chemistry. I considered handwritten essays to be archaic but there are many practical reasons not to use computers: word processors are expensive; paper is robust, whereas computer data is easy to lose and easy to fiddle; many disciplines require diagrams or formulae that are painful to create on computer; most people can write a great deal faster with a pen than with a computer.On a more fundamental note, writing a good essay in ink requires thinking about what to write before writing. This is a good thing and a useful skill. People do not properly check what they have written in a word processor. I only have to look at the difference between some of the older lecturers using handwritten slides with very few mistakes and some of the younger lecturers who produce PowerPoint presentations riddled with spelling and other errors.I spent the past 17 years working in IT and can say with confidence that computers are a high-speed way of producing low-quality work. They encourage a slap-dash, fix-it-later approach that is all too obvious in computer software production and, frankly, journalism.Keith Boulton
Cover PoliceFrom at least one of the musical pioneers behind Tron - The Rock Opera, comes Rodeohead - who, as the name suggests, covers Radiohead songs in an authentic bluegrass banjo-picking style. At the moment, all you can download is a five-minute medley of 17 songs (check out the duelling banjos on the descending riff from Paranoid Android). There's something about Radiohead's more mournful material that seems to attract offbeat cover versions, from Karma Police by Brown University, a capella group The Brown Derbies, to Richard Cheese's easy-listening rendition of Creep, from his album Lounge Against The Machine.www.chrishardwick.com/index2.htmlhttp://masl.to/?U18413F88www.richardcheese.comOpen corpNearly a year since Greg Dyke first announced their plans, it's still not clear how the BBC will be releasing online its huge back catalogue. That hasn't stopped independent lobbying group Friends of the Creative Domain from voicing its concerns that the contents should be freely available for non-commercial use. So far, it has a letter to the governors that you can add your name to, and a mailing list to keep you informed about developments in the campaign. Meanwhile, in the US, there's only a week left to enter the Electronic Frontier Foundation's patent busting contest, intended to uncover and challenge some of the "stupid" and "dangerously bad" patents that have been granted in software or internet-related fields, such as video streaming (US Patent No. 5,132,992), paying with a credit card online (US Patent No. 6,289,319), and BT's favourite, the humble hyperlink (US Patent No. 4,873,662).www.public-domain.org/?q=node/view/36www.eff.org/patent/If it's June...Can't keep track of which charity campaign you're supposed to be aware of from one week to the next? Avoid embarrassing oversights by consulting the Count Me In Calendar, where you'll learn that, for instance, today is both National Insect Week, National School Grounds Week and Pet Smile Month - along with National Food Safety Week, an occasion celebrated, coincidentally, by the addition of pre-fermented soya beans to the no-holds-barred, gross-out weblog Steve, Don't Eat It! This latest entry is vividly described by the fearless Steve as "coated in some kind of sick slime" and evoking "the playful, complex aroma of a dumpster in July".www.countmeincalendar.infowww.thesneeze.comCult hybridsSure, the web's DIY video-makers will run out of different cult film permutations eventually but, until then, Imperial Dogs is the long overdue fan-made crossover between Star Wars and Reservoir Dogs, primarily consisting of a part computer-animated video to the soundtrack hit Stuck In A Room With R2. Wizard People, Dear Reader, on the other hand, offers a less family-friendly commentary to the first Harry Potter movie, in the form of two 70MB MP3 downloads, which you are instructed to burn to CDs and play simultaneously with your DVD of the film.http://masl.to/?H2F412F88Dancing weightDance Dance Revolution-style video games are the fun new way to get in shape, argues GetUpMove.com, an enthusiastic endorsement of this new exercise regime, none too subtly backed by a manufacturer of dance mats for home games consoles. Still, if you're looking for a slightly more credible aerobic accompaniment, WebJay's promise of Listener Created Radio provides a range of playlists compiled from freely (and apparently legally) available MP3 and Real Player audio and video downloads. The French experimental multimedia site D*I*R*T*Y has taken the trouble of linking all its tracks together into Real Player streams, including mixes by Air, Autechre and DJ Shadow.www.getupmove.comwww.webjay.orgwww.d-i-r-t-y.com/mixes/
Wi-Fi hard driveWith all sorts of gadgets going wireless, the idea of a Wi-Fi hard drive should not seem too surprising. Asus announced one - the WL-HDD - in March, but it has yet to deliver, and it will soon have competition. Linksys, a Cisco subsidiary, is expected to announce a Linksys Network Storage Link, which can connect to an external hard drive via a USB port. The company has been working with Maxstor, which makes suitable hard drives. The Asus WL-HDD is a Wi-Fi router with space inside for any 2.5in ATA-100 hard drive. Both systems offer 802.11g connections. Wi-Fi attached storage could have an appeal in offices that use wireless notebook computers. Linksys is already shipping a Wireless-G PrintServer for printing, and a Wi-Fi link for streaming music.Frog winAfter 126 years, it could be time to rearrange the standard Qwerty keyboard. FrogPad is offering a change that could more than halve the number of keys and allow single-handed keying-in of information. The company has developed the keyboard with handheld computers in mind: the fewer the keys, the bigger they can be. The FrogPad uses each key for up to three symbols. These keys are surrounded by special keys for selecting the correct symbol, plus Enter and other specialist keys. The company claims that after around eight hours of training, the average user can achieve typing speeds of 40 words per minute - double that achieved using current thumb-driven handheld keypads.www.frogpad.comBet the firmEuro 2004 could be costing some online bookmakers more than they bargained for as extortion racketeers move in. The cyber-gangsters demand sums ranging from $30,000 to $50,000, and launch denial of service attacks against those who refuse to pay. Netcraft, a web metrics company, claims the worst-hit company was Capitalsports.com: its website was recently brought down for more than 14 hours. BlueSquare, Ladbrokes and William Hill were also hit but recovered quicker. A US report by the Computer Security Institute says cyber-crime is costing less per incident. The average has fallen from $379,000 per respondent in last year's report to $285,000.www.netcraft.comwww.gocsi.com/press/20040609.jhtmlDense competitionFuture DVD formats look like being as confusing as the current generation. Today, the plus and minus DVD formats battle, tomorrow it will be Blu-Ray versus HD-DVD. NEC and Toshiba are principal supporters of the HD-DVD format, which packs 15GB of data on a disc. Sony and Dell are behind Blu-Ray, which offers 23-27GB. Both formats can be produced in dual-layer versions to double the storage capacity, and Sony plans to offer rewritable recorders with 54GB capacity discs by the end of the year. No plans have been announced for HD-DVD.www.blu-ray.com/infowww.dvdforum.orgPhone wormAn anti-virus company has reported the first virus to infect mobile phones. Kaspersky Labs says that Cabir is a Bluetooth worm that can use this short-range wireless technology to spread to phones using the Symbian operating system. This is rather like catching a cold: the infection spreads by close contact. Cabir uses a special file disguised as a security management utility, which can be transferred by Bluetooth. Infected phones display the word Caribe when they are switched on. No infections have been reported in the wild: Kaspersky believes Cabir may be a proof-of-concept worm that may be unleashed in a more virulent and harmful form in the future.http://masl.to/?D2FE12198Sites unseenIf proof is needed that hacking exploits are outstripping patch-writing speeds, four new holes have been uncovered in Microsoft's Internet Explorer, with no known patches to cover them. All the flaws can help make a rogue website look like a legitimate one. Two of the vulnerabilities disguise the real web address displayed by substituting a different URL. The other two use a technique known as cross-zone scripting to substitute a trusted website, such as an e-banking site, with another to fool users into giving away log-on and other details. Microsoft is working on patches, but may need to re-engineer its browser.http://masl.to/?X1BE22198IP of ManThe Isle of Man government is moving its voice and data calls to a single VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) network, as part of its one-stop e-government programme. The system is being built by Cisco, Dimension Data and Manx Telecom, an O2 subsidiary that opened the world's first 3G mobile phone service on the island in 2002.
Dell has grown from nothing into a $41.4bn company in only 20 years, and its next target is $60bn in annual sales. Where is the extra revenue going to come from? Dell is already manufacturing PCs at a phenomenal rate - almost one per second, more than 84,000 a day - so the years of explosive PC growth may be coming to an end. Dell is therefore focusing more on its business outside the US, and turning to two new areas: peripherals and services.Selling peripherals such as printers, scanners and even TV sets is fairly simple. Dell already has the sales and fulfilment infrastructure in place: it can take an order and ship a product. Services are different. Traditionally, services companies carry a large staff of highly paid consultants with expert knowledge and a personal touch. Dell wants to do it differently, as I discovered at the annual Product Showcase that Dell hosted in Cannes this month for journalists and industry analysts."As we standardise our approach to overseas markets, there are great opportunities to standardise the service offerings as well," says Neil Hand, director of worldwide enterprise team at Dell in Austin, Texas. "Working with partners such as Oracle and SAP, we're looking for the common denominators that all customers need, so we can wrap standard professional services around those in a pre-packaged but flexible way. You get the cost benefits of being able to do that with a lot of customers, and the advantages of speed: time to delivery, time to set up."Forget about having $1,800-a-day consultants climbing all over your offices, re-engineering your business and ordering custom programming. What Dell has in mind is a menu with a price list, like McDonald's. The services will be straightforward and clearly defined: maybe you want PCs delivered from the factory with your software already installed. Perhaps you want a Microsoft Exchange mail server set up, or a high-performance computing cluster installed. Or you just want someone to take away old PCs, erase the data on the drives, and dispose of them in an environmentally friendly way."Our services strategy is very closely tied to our hardware strategy," explains Jeff Kimbell, director of marketing in Europe, responsible for the non-consumer part of Dell's business. "We're not building a services business in order to become a services company: we're building it to complement and enhance our core hardware business, so customers get a better experience."Instead of selling services and hoping hardware sales will follow, most of Dell's service offerings ride on the back of hardware sales: do you want installation with that?This may not appeal to large companies with lots of IT staff - Dell has a Professional Services group to handle those. However, small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) are often short of IT skills, and could be interested. They also represent a relatively untapped market."They have a good point," says Alan Mac Neela, a vice president of Gartner Research in the UK. "The SMB market is very poorly served, and has been for a long time. Selling services with hardware - we call them 'product affinity services' - would be quite interesting, because they have the ability to do that. But one of the issues with SMBs is that you need to sell to an awful lot of them to make a reasonable amount of money, and that's going to be tricky."Dell reckons that on current sales, it is making $3bn a year from services, and Mac Neela thinks that is not to be sneezed at. However, for comparison, IBM's revenue from services is bigger than all of Dell - $42.6bn last year.The big problem with services is that it is people intensive, whereas Dell runs a famously tight ship. Wouldn't a global services offering require an enormous staff?"Traditionally it would," says Aamir Paul, senior manager of services marketing for Dell in Europe. "But we said: 'Let's not get feet on the street, let's get the right partners. There's a supply chain out there, let's use it to drive standards on behalf of our customers.' It's not outsourcing: customers are still dealing with Dell, with a single point of ownership."Dell says it is taking the same approach as it did when supplying PCs direct - process definition, standardisation, commoditisation, inventory and supply chain management, and so on. But instead of supplying a PC, it's supplying a service such as Transfer My PC.Hand says the service experience also provides useful feedback to design and manufacturing. For example, if storage area networks are too hard to install, it can develop products that make the job easier.How many SMB customers will actually want to pay for installation, data migration, server consolidation and similar services is another matter. If they don't have a clear idea of their own costs, they may not find the list prices attractive. But since Dell is not making big investments in staff, offices, equipment and infrastructure, it's probably not too bothered.Hand is optimistic. He says Dell will look at services "with a fresh set of eyes and try to find better ways to do things", and he reckons there's room for "tons of growth"."There's a lot of frustration out there today," adds Kimbell. "Our strategy is about making customers happy, because happy customers come back and buy more stuff."
How would you describe Voice over Internet Protocol?It's the technology that enables you to make and receive phone calls using an internet connection. But the technology is much wider than that - it's also about instant messaging and "presence", which is knowing when someone's online, how they want to be contacted etc. It's about any way of connecting two computers and allowing them to converse, be it text, voice or video. You're already beginning to see people enabling computer-gaming sites with the telephony aspect so that people can talk among themselves while playing.Is this a direct result of broadband coupled with the new Session Initiated Protocol (SIP)?Exactly ... while VoIP has been around for the past 10 years, most people's experience of it has been quite poor-quality and they were using it on modems. Now, you have a mass market of 4m UK broadband users and also this SIP (www.webopedia.com/TERM/S/SIP.html), which Microsoft has built into Windows XP and Sysco, Siemens and most other major manufacturers are building it into their products, too. Effectively, broadband plus SIP equals the ability to really use this technology properly. A lot of the instant messaging clients such as Apple's iChat (www.apple.com/ichat/) and AOL (www.aol.co.uk/aim/) already use SIP, so it is enabling a large part of what we're doing between computers today.Is this the next step for Instant Messaging?One of the reasons it was developed was to enable all the instant messaging companies to interoperate. From a users point of view, that makes sense as it's crazy that I can only chat to other MSN users (http://messenger.msn.com) or other iChat users.You don't actually need a computer do you?One reason a lot of people think broadband telephony is going to be a major driver of broadband is the huge savings to be made with the ability to make free calls to the other side of the world. We think it will interest people who just want to make the calls and don't necessarily want a computer.Is VoIP hungry on bandwidth?We'll be giving users the ability to select that themselves. Out of the box it uses about 80kbps, which is comfortably within even the lowest of the broadband range. That gives you better qual ity than an ordinary phone line. If, for some reason, you wanted to use less bandwidth then you can bring it down to a lower bandwidth codec, which will still be as good as a standard line.Is VoIP the "next big thing" for the net?I think you'll see a lot of competing services coming out, which has to be good news for the consumer. People I speak to in the industry estimate that in 10 years' time, all communications and telephony will be IP-based and that your television and internet will be coming down a broadband line. There is already a company in France called Free (www.free.fr), which is offering 11 hours of free telephony, multichannel TV and 1MB per second internet all over DSL for &euro;30 a month.Visit:www.gossiptel.com
Last week, BT announced a multibillion pound upgrade of its core network in what might sound like the sort of news that appeals only to techies, but it will open the door to a host of new services to be pumped down your phone line.BT is embracing the technology behind the internet - internet protocol or IP - and scrapping its legacy phone system, which has essentially not changed for decades. The new network will treat both voice and data calls in exactly the same way, enabling "converged" services such as the Bluephone integrated mobile and fixed line telephone.The company's network chief, Paul Reynolds, described the &#163;9bn five year roll-out of its 21st-century network - as BT has nicknamed it - as "among the most important and ambitious infrastructure transformation programmes in communications anywhere in the world".With its range of broadband offerings, BT already has services based on IP but, later this summer, the company will start to roll out a new generation of products that show what it will be able to do with the new network. Starting with the most basic service, internet telephony - or Voice over IP - BT will move towards services ranging from stereo voice calls for those who love the sound of their own voice to a full video-on-demand service next year.Mike Galvin, BT's director of internet operations, believes that as communication devices get smarter, the new network will hand control back to the customer. Instead of replying to an email with another email, why not video call the sender or text them? It will all be possible at the push of a button or click of a mouse."Personal communications is going to become just that: personal to the individual themselves," he says. It will change customers' perceptions of telecommunications, "in the same way as the switch between the public railway system to car ownership has changed people's ideas about travel".For BT, the 21st-century network is also about saving money, according to Mike Cansfield, research director at Ovum. "Is this just a network upgrade or is it a big shift? I think, in the end, it is a big shift. What BT could have done is stop spending on its network. But they are not doing that because they recognise that the technology is there to fulfil a dream they have had for a long time, to collapse the multiple networks they have into one."The company is not alone in switching to an all-IP network. Telecom Italia is carrying out the preliminary work on a similar switch; France Telecom, which has seen its core domestic market attacked by new entrant Iliad - offering consumers multi-channel TV, video on demand and 2MB broadband - is also looking at migrating its network; while in the US, both AT&amp;T and Time Warner Cable have launched VoIP services.So what services will the new network allow BT to produce? The starting point is VoIP. Already, there are a host of new telephony companies using the internet for voice calls. Skype, Vonage and Packet 8 are prob ably the most well known, while in the UK, GossipTel launched a few weeks ago, and another entrant, Zoom-Hayes, is preparing to launch later this month. Services range from free calling to other customers on the same service - Skype - to flat rate calling plans across whole continents using a geographically specific phone number that can be plugged in anywhere in the world - Packet 8.BT's first VoIP product, BT Communicator, is expected next month and is a mix and match of existing services. It will allow free calls to other BT Communicator customers, while calls outside the IP network will cost the same as they would on a basic BT Together package. It will be PC-based, with calling done through a contacts book similar to the one used by Skype, meaning users can call names rather than numbers.BT's Galvin explains that while VoIP is an easy first step, it is not an end in itself. "VoIP is effectively using a technology with a lot of potential to emulate what the old analogue technology can do. But it can do a lot more than that. We start off with VoIP because it is what people can understand."BT is experimenting with 3D images and computer-generated characters or avatars, opening up the possibility of telephone calls expanding beyond the aural environment and into the visual world.Towards the end of the year, the company will launch its Bluephone, which works as a mobile phone when the user is on the move and as a fixed line phone when at home."Bluephone is an excellent example of convergence where bringing two technologies together brings you more than either technology on their own," explains Galvin.As 2005 approaches, BT will also launch a suite of products aimed at digital content - called BT Rich Media - which will help everyone from film studios to local football clubs put video clips on the web and collect a fee for download."While these services make use of the existing local broadband access network, as BT upgrades its backbone to IP, the breadth of services it can offer will increase," says Galvin. "I talk in terms of capabilities. What you will see in technical terms is more bandwidth, and that means more information and convergence of communications, so they work together in a way they don't now."
The arrival of the Apple iTunes Music Store won't simply kick-start legitimate music download services in the UK. It is also likely to deliver a huge boost to the hard disk personal audio player market too. Music lovers should, however, tread warily when it comes to choosing both a download service and personal audio player as the two are inextricably linked.Rather than opt for the ubiquitous MP3 codec, the big three music download services have plumped for different, largely incompatible and, crucially, copyright secure file formats. So buy music from iTunes and the track will arrive in Advanced Audio Coding (AAC), choose music from Sony's Connect and you'll be listening to an ATRAC3 file and opt for Napster or OD2 (On Demand Distribution) which powers many music services, and the file will be Windows Media Audio (WMA).The most enthusiastic supporters of iTunes will almost certainly own Apple iPods, not only for the seamless way in which the device and the service mesh together, but also because there are very few personal audio players that can play AAC files.In a similar way, tracks down loaded from Sony's forthcoming Connect service can only be transferred to Sony's personal audio products.Bizarrely, the tracks downloaded from Napster in WMA will play on all personal audio players on sale, with the exception of one - the iPod.When it comes to buying personal audio players, Mac owners only have one option - the iPod. For PC owners, however, there is a dilemma of which system and player to plump for. Here is a roundup of the key players.Apple iPod&#163;248.99, &#163;299.99, &#163;398.99. Compatible with AAC (iTunes) MP3The industry standard on account of its iconic design and an interface far easier to use than its rivals, the iPod comes in 15, 30 and 40GB versions (a 60GB iPod is apparently on the cards). Its audio performance is up with the rest of the competition and its accompanying iTunes software is superb on a Mac and not bad on Windows, either. Its achilles heel is its battery, which, in delivering just eight hours playback, falls short of almost every other player on sale. For Mac owners, the iPod is a no-brainer; for PC users, it is still a good bet.www.apple.com/ukPhilips HDD&#163;250. Compatible with WMA (Napster, OD2) MP3The only hard disk audio player to rival the iPod in terms of design - it is roughly the same size and finished in an attractive piano black - the Philips HDD120 delivers slightly stronger sound performance, too. The player also has the edge in terms of features, offering direct MP3 encoding from a hi-fi/CD player and the option of doubling as a voice recorder via its integrated microphone. Its huge weakness is its usability. The interface on the player is reasonable, it is just that its accompanying software, Digital Media Manager, is really difficult to use.www.philips.co.ukCreative Nomad Jukebox Zen&#163;300 (60GB). Compatible with WMA (Napster, OD2) MP3Creative's fans cite the sound performance, battery life of 14 hours, competitive price and excellent quality headphones as key reasons why this player leaves its rivals trailing. For serious music-lovers, the fact that it is available with the industry's largest hard drive at 60GB is another feather in its cap. The jury is, however, still out on its rather industrial metallic design, and even Creative's champions admit that its display and scrolling wheel are a pig to use. Ironically, it will be replaced later in the summer by the Zen Touch, which sports an iPod-style white finish.www.creative.comCowon iAudio M3&#163;250. Compatible with WMA (Napster, OD2) MP3The smallest and thinnest 20GB hard disk player on the market is also one of the most attractive, courtesy of its tasteful chrome finish. Unusually, the M3 has no display on the main unit, which is housed on its remote control. It is a configuration that some will find easy to live with but, personally, I found tricky to use. The player is compatible with both MP3 and WMA files, and offers an impressive 14 hours of battery life. Sound performance is good rather than great.www.mp3-plus.netSony VGF-AP1Expected to be around &#163;300-350. Compatible with ATRAC 3 (Connect) WMA (Napster, OD2) MP3While other manufacturers have tinkered with the design of personal audio players, Sony has re-written the rule book with its 20GB VGF-AP1 (due in late summer). There has been no attempt to trump the iPod's size and weight. Instead, the VGF-AP1 sports a chunky rectangular design and includes some innovative features. Most of that extra bulk is to accommodate a 2.2in LCD screen that displays the album artwork of the music that is playing, as well as enabling users to show digital photos. Audio performance is the best in its class and battery life is an impressive 20 hours. The VGF-AP1 is the perfect partner for Connect users.www.sony.co.ukAlso available:Apple iPod mini&#163;200 - Baby sister to the full-sized iPod that features a four GB hard disk.Philips HDD060&#163;150 - Small player in white with a 1.5GB hard disk.Creative MuVo&#163;200 - Rival to the iPod mini that tries hard, has 4GB but is nowhere near as elegant.Rio Karma&#163;250 - Unusual 20GB player that's one of the most feature-rich on sale.
Full Spectrum WarriorXbox, PC, &#163;35/&#163;45, THQ/PandemicIt became apparent during the first Gulf war that American soldiers were being needlessly exposed to the risk of death and serious injury through lack of training in urban combat. Realising that this mode of fighting was likely to become even more prevalent, the US army decided to educate recruits in military operations in urban terrain (or Mout).In a seemingly unrelated observation, top brass noticed that many soldiers spent their spare time playing video games, and reasoned that a good way of keeping GIs drilled in urban warfare would be to get the games industry involved and createsoftware that let soldiers practise their fighting skills without sending them on expensive training courses.To facilitate this, the army founded the Institute of Creative Technologies (ICT) to bridge the gap between the old soldiers at the Pentagon and the rather more wayward electronic entertainment industry. ICT briefed Californian developer Pandemic, which has spent the past four years building Full Spectrum Warrior, which, with a few tweaks to pump up the action and make the interface more accessible, is now available to all armchair gunnery sergeants.Although it is all about war, Full Spectrum Warrior's first surprise is that as a player, you never have to pull a trigger, focusing instead on keeping your men alive through cunning use of tactics. Controlling two fire teams, Alpha and Bravo, your job is to move them around the battlefield, assigning fire sectors and making sure they cover all the angles as they enter new territory.The game begins with the same Mout training course employed by American soldiers, which teaches you the value of cover, how to lay down suppressing fire, and the central tactic of US infantry: that you use one team to keep the enemy busy, while the other flanks and kills them.The game is set in the fictitious and distinctly Middle Eastern Zekistan, where American and UN teams are constantly under threat from the local "Zekes". Missions vary from firefights in which you move through a level, clearing out adversaries (or "Tangos" as your marines insist on calling them), to extracting wounded troopers and taking a specialist to defuse a batch of surface-to-air missiles you discover.Each encounter with the enemy is different. Using impressive levels of AI, locals will run to the aid of friends, take to their heels if they notice they're being flanked, and go out of their way to fill your teams with hot lead. Dealing with this means making full use of scenery - a wall or pile of sandbags provide longer-term cover than a car or market stall.Looking thoroughly realistic, the dedicated professional soldiers also bitch about the heat, make gung-ho comments and swear like the troopers they are. This adds to an atmosphere replete with details such as smoke grenades that are blown around by the wind and final cries of despair as an adversary notices the fragment grenade at their feet a crucial few seconds too late.Superbly polished, challenging and featuring a highly playable cooperative two-player mode, Full Spectrum Warrior is one of the games of the year and a treat for those who demand more than big explosions.
There's a funny piece inForbesabout IBM, which, it says, advertises its support for Linux, motherhood and apple pie but fights "tooth and nail" to stop companies from moving to Linux -- if they are using IBM's high-priced AIX version of Unix. Playing the 'opener than thou' card, Martin Fink, vice president of Linux at Hewlett-Packard, says: ""We're talking to [a company] about moving to Linux, and IBM is going out of its way to demonstrate why Linux is not ready for their environment. It's really twisted. IBM is doing all this marketing around Linux, and here I am competing against IBM using Linux, and IBM is using AIX."
PC Promagazine points out that British iTunes users are being charged more than French and German ones. But it adds: "Having said that, iTunes is still much cheaper than Napster's £1.09 per track or OD2's 99p average. Both Napster and OD2 have also said that music rights in the UK were more expensive than elsewhere."
Martyn Williams, Tokyo bureau chief for the IDG News Service, has produced his monthly round-up of the latest Japanese gadgetshere, including Casio's splashproof Bath-Time LCD TV and Vodafone's bright orange Karaoke Cell Phones.
Steve Jobs zipped around the iTunes music store yesterday. He watched free music videos, played songs, and showed just how frighteningly easy it was to rack up those 79p spends with the click of a mouse.iTunes is perfect for him. But Jobs is the technological visionary who founded Apple and appears to have broad, mainstream music tastes, encompassing Alicia Keys and Jamie Cullum.I, on the other hand, am a technologically incompetent fan of indie music, blessed with an ageing computer. So when I try to buy and download songs from iTunes, I find it a little bit trickier.My computer's operating system is too old to support the software. I jump on two further computers before finding one that downloads iTunes easily.The music store looks fantastic and is easy to use. As well as searching for and buying   songs, customers can purchase and download 5,000 audio books in the store, 12,000 classical tracks, and get "exclusive" iTunes songs performed by the likes of Eric Clapton.Whether you will find what you want may depend on how broad your music tastes are. While 700,000 songs sounds a lot, my palate is limited. I start by searching for my all-time favourite indie dreamers: Ride. No tracks found. A search for Suede turns up all the songs from their poorest album, and none from Dog Man Star, their greatest.I can buy plenty of contemporary alternative rock by the likes of PJ Harvey and Snow Patrol, but it is only when I try something a little older that I hit gold. Duran Duran - everything seems to be there. I try to buy Hungry Like the Wolf. It seems to go smoothly.Buying an iPod or working out how to play it on my computer comes next.
It has been heralded as the end of the high street record shop, the death of the single and the defeat of online music pirates. Apple's all-conquering iTunes music store opened for business in Britain yesterday with the first customers going online to choose from 700,000 songs to download legally for 79p each.Once suspicious of music that exists only as a digital file, rather than as a record or CD, much of the music industry welcomed the arrival of the "revolutionary" store in Europe. The industry hopes it will persuade millions more people to buy music online, as well as encourage music pirates to purchase what they once obtained freely, but illegally, over the internet. In little over a year, 85m songs have been bought from iTunes in the US, where it has a 70% share of the market in legal downloads.But British music fans will find large gaps on iTunes' online shelves and jukebox in the UK after talks between Apple and 800 independent record companies broke down. Independent bosses accused the US corporation of "bullying tactics".Already unable to stock any Beatles songs because of a long-running dispute with their Apple record label, iTunes is bereft of a host of British artists, including Franz Ferdinand, Basement Jaxx, Roots Manuva, Coldcut, Deepest Blue and last year's Mercury music prize winner Dizzee Rascal."To function well in the UK and Europe requires a decent amount of local content," said Sam Shemtob, of the Association of Independent Music, which represents 800 independent labels in Britain. Independent artists make up 25% of the UK market. "We are all very keen on iTunes. We are as eager as anyone to license our music to them, but it has to be at an appropriate competitive rate."According to the independent labels, Apple insisted they accept a fixed "dealer" price for the next three years without any guarantee that iTunes would not raise its competitive 79p retail price. One described accepting such terms as "suicide".Martin Mills, chairman of Beggars Group, claimed that bigger record companies had not been required to sign up for a fixed price for three years. "No one would do a deal for three years in a newly developing market. We wouldn't be representing our artists properly if we allowed them to do that to their music. We are huge fans of the service but we will not put up with being treated in a discriminatory manner."No one from Apple was available to comment on the allegations last night.In a glitzy launch in London, Apple founder and chief executive Steve Jobs insisted he was driven to create iTunes by a love of music. "It all comes down to artists," he said. "That's why we do this. It's for the music." He said Apple was not competing against other legal music download services but against pirates. "This is the biggest market for downloads," he admitted.As its success in the US has shown, people will pay for songs when they get iTunes' user-friendly online "jukebox", free album art and quick and reliable downloads from what Mr Jobs called its "giant server farms". Most of all, he said, people like the fact "it's not stealing, it's good karma."Customers can search for songs, hear 30-second previews and buy individual tracks, or a complete album for &#163;7.99, undercutting not only most record shops but supermarkets and online traders. Songs can then be burned on to CDs, stored on a Mac or PC computer or placed on iPods, Apple's hugely popular personal stereo for the digital age, which can store up to 10,000 tracks. More than three million iPods have been sold and Mr Jobs admitted Apple could not make them fast enough. Hit by a 7.6% fall in retail music sales last year, the record industry said the distribution of music had now entered the digital age.Turning point"This year marks an important turning point in the history of the UK music industry," said Peter Jamieson, the chairman of the BPI, the UK record companies' trade association, which welcomed iTunes yesterday.Napster, the once illegal music download service, was launched legally in Britain last month, offering more than 500,000 songs for sale at &#163;1.09 each. An official UK downloads chart will be launched this year and could quickly replace the traditional Top 40.Ted Cohen, senior vice-president of digital development at EMI, said: "We've seen in the States that Apple's effort to bring digital music into the mainstream has been fantastic. The buying experience is really good. They have unlimited shelf space. The instant gratification aspect is phenomenal. For me, I've bought more music online in the US in the last year than I have in stores in the last five years."But Mr Cohen acknowledged that the iTunes service might not win over teenage music pirates, particularly as a credit card is needed to buy songs. "For people who have more time than money, we may never get them," he said.iTunes' competitors remain undaunted. Charles Grimsdale, co-owner with Peter Gabriel of OD2, a thriving digital music service which enables users to listen to songs at 1p a time, said: "The iPod is generating a lot of revenue for Apple but it remains a fairly closed platform. Consumers have to make a choice - if they download music from iTunes it is going to be compatible with the iPod and not much else."iTunes was launched simultaneously in France and Germany, where Mr Jobs promised "hot local repertoire" for 99 euro cents a song. Apple hopes to launch a pan-European site this autumn.Sales of iPods are already surging. John Lewis said it expected a 40% increase in sales after the launch of iTunes. The department store sold an iPod every three minutes at Christmas.iTunes UK's most popular tracks1 PixiesBam Thwok2The CureLost3PJ HarveyStone4Maroon 5This Love5The DarknessHow Dare You Call This Love?6The DarknessPhysical Sex7The DarknessPlanning Permission8George MichaelFlawless (Go to the City)9The DarknessThe Best of Me10Beastie BoysCh-Check It Out11The RasmusIn the Shadows (radio edit)12Jamie CullumCan't We Be Friends?13Bebel GilbertoUp, Up and Away14AshTeenage Kicks15KeaneSomewhere Only We Know16JetAre You Gonna Be My Girl17 AshEverybody's Happy Nowadays18 The HivesLove in Plaster19 Alicia KeysIf I Ain't Got You (acoustic exclusive)20 OutKastRosesSource: iTunes UK
As the first Prisoner of Azkaban bootlegs start circulating on the internet, the US movie industry has launched a campaign to crack down on illegal downloads.The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), a lobby group representing the major studios, yesterday announced a "public education campaign" intended to explain "why movie piracy is illegal, and how it impacts jobs and the economy".The campaign will be carried in various US print publications, and there will also be ads in cinemas. Two particular targets are university students and parents of teenagers.Jack Valenti, the MPAA president, said the campaign was aimed specifically at convincing people of the "wrongness" of illegal downloads, but warned that the industry would "keep all of our options open, including legal action".The studios are in this respect following the lead of the music industry, which has gone through the courts in its attempt to stop file-sharing services such as Napster, and see them replaced with legal, paid-for services. Napster recently reopened as an online music store, while Apple launched its iTunes paid-for service in Europe yesterday.Similar services for film are in their infancy, but the MPAA cited CinemaNow and Movielink as examples of legitimate sites from which to download movies.
"Numerous bloggers hosted by Weblogs.com are offline and scrambling to find new hosting after blogging pioneer Dave Winer abruptly closed the free service last weekend," reportsNetcraft."Winer, a driving force in the emergence of blogging and RSS, started the service as a founder of Userland software, but left the company several years ago. When the blogs needed to be moved off Userland's servers, Winer said he tried to transfer them to a server he owned, which was unable to handle the load. Winer said cost issues and personal health concerns limited his ability to resolve the difficulties, so he decided to close the service."Comment:Wired Newshas a longer story.
"In a move to pre-empt Google's Gmail, the search site's announced-but-not-yet-final e-mail service that started the arm's race in the Web-based mail space by offering 1GB of storage, Yahoo Tuesday handed out 100MB of storage space to all users of its free e-mail and boosted storage for premium customers to 2GB," reportsTechweb."Previously, users of the for-free version of Yahoo Mail were limited to just 4MB. With the capacity expansion, Yahoo is also allowing users to send and receive files as large as 10MB."
I've never quite understood the BMW procedure for the naming of its vehicles. I know they generally stick to a three-digit code, which may or may not be accompanied by a lower-case i, and perhaps some other letters as well. I also know that their little roadsters come in a range of Zs. While this system is undoubtedly preferable to picking from a long list of fast animals, desert winds and foreign adjectives, the numbers don't conjure up much of an image for the uninitiated.So I was excited about taking delivery of an X3, if only because I knew I would be surprised. It sounds as if they only invented it yesterday. Could the X stand for experimental? What happened to the X1 and X2? Did they explode on the test track? Is it rocket-propelled? Does it make use of anti-matter? Is it a car that turns into a boat? My last guess was closest. The X3 is a vehicle stuck in mid-transformation from car to boat - or at least that's how it looked to me the first time I saw it moored outside my house.It's difficult to imagine anything more specifically designed to inspire hatred in one's fellow road-user than a BMW in SUV form. There are several adjectives frequently deployed when describing BMW drivers, "endearing" being conspicuous in its absence. While this wholesale demonisation of a particular class of car-owner may not be strictly fair, I for one have always found it a handy rule of thumb. If the car you drive says anything about the person you are, then a BMW badge is the next best thing to a personalised numberplate saying A55 OLE.The demonisation of SUV drivers is rather more official: the mayor of Paris wants them banned from the streets of his city. Ken Livingstone has branded them idiots. You don't have to be stuck behind someone trying to wedge their gigantic Range Rover into the car park entrance of the local gym too many times to be in perfect accord.Happily, this animosity does not turn to self-hatred the moment you get behind the wheel of the X3. The intoxicating smell of leather instils a feeling of privilege and, if you stay in it long enough, entitlement. The X3 is a pleasure - nay, an honour to drive. You get a real sense of what it would be like to be rich, carefree and seven feet tall. I was still uncomfortable getting in and out of it, but my wife, who breathed in the leather more deeply, overcame all shame. She insisted the children be picked up from school in it. She started telling people that her father had bought it for her.It is true that the X3 driver can expect very little in the way of sympathy or accommodation from other motorists. You should not expect any grace at traffic lights or when changing lanes. The only people who are likely to let you into a long queue of slow-moving traffic are drivers of the even larger X5, and I'm not about to accept any favours from those eco-vandals.The X3 has a few exotic-sounding features, including "hill descent control" and "trailer stability control",  which I was simply not in a position to test. At first glance, this is not a car you would take off-road; if it were mine I'd be a bit choosy about what sort of Tarmac I drove it on. It's impossible to imagine a real X3 owner letting a wet Labrador anywhere near it. And yet this is more than an ordinary luxury car shaped like an overinflated Zodiac raft: it has 200mm of ground clearance, a "wading depth" of half a metre, four-wheel drive, 192bhp and the ability to tow 2,000kg. With all this at my disposal I fully intended to drive the X3 as it was meant to be driven: very slowly along the narrow streets of Chelsea. I thought I'd talk on my mobile while making a few clearly proscribed right turns, perhaps gently mounting the pavement where convenient. Then I wanted to   hold up traffic while I practised parallel parking in the Little Boltons for an hour or two.In the end I couldn't find the Little Boltons, and parking was simply not difficult enough. The X3 has sensors feeling both the kerb and the car behind, setting off two separate beeping noises which, once you figure out which is which, make it possible to park with your eyes closed. So instead I drove around Chelsea indulging in bursts of unsolicited courtesy; tucking in to let other cars pass, minding my manners at intersections and generally adopting an "after you" at points of potential conflict. You could see, if not quite smiles, expressions of pleasant surprise, a softening of the eyes that seemed to say: "You are not quite the complete prick your choice of vehicle would seem to indicate." BMW owners' club members, you have me to thank.There are a few tricks BMW has missed with its new Chelsea tractor. It should really be available only in automatic (as the larger 3.0 X3 is) and should come with satellite navigation as standard so that when you want to find the Little bloody Boltons, you can. But this particular 4X4 is aimed at women, and my wife seems to like it just as it is. I hope she brings it back soon.The lowdownBMW X3 2.5Price:from £28,715Top speed:129mphAcceleration:0-62mph in 8.9 secsConsumption:25.2mpg (combined)At the wheel:Princess Michael of KentOn the stereo:Classic FMEn route for:serious off-road parking
Yahoo is fortifying its free email service with 25 times more storage and freeing up millions of unused email addresses in an effort to thwart a looming threat from its increasingly powerful rival Google.Beginning today, all of Yahoo's free email accounts will be upgraded to 100 megabytes, a move spurred by Google's plans to offer 1,000 megabytes of free storage through its Gmail service, which has remained in a test phase since early April.Yahoo has been offering four megabytes of free email storage, although some people with accounts opened several years ago have six megabytes of free storage.Yahoo had revealed it would be increasing its free allocation to 100 megabytes during an analyst meeting held last month but had not provided a specific time for the upgrade until now.      Angling for new users, Yahoo has decided to let people begin signing up for addresses that have been inactive for years. The offer is designed to lure customers who may have been previously interested in signing up for a free Yahoo email account only to learn one of their preferred names had already been claimed."Some of these addresses could be very juicy and might attract a lot of interest," said David Ferris, an email analyst in San Francisco.Yahoo says "tens of millions" of dormant email addresses will be made available again. The company also says it will improve the tools used to search its emails - a feature Google has been touting - and spruce up the service with a cleaner look."This is a highly competitive marketplace and we have been listening to our customers so we can build the things our users want," said Brad Garlinghouse, Yahoo's vice-president of communications products.Google declined to comment on Yahoo's changes or the company's own Gmail service. Google cannot say much about Gmail or its other products because the company is pursuing an initial public offering of stock, which requires management and other insiders to remain silent.Although it is still not available to the general public, Gmail has received widespread publicity since Google unveiled its plans to enter the free email business just a few weeks before the company's IPO filing.Not all the feedback has been positive. Many privacy watchdogs and some politicians have railed against Google's plans to scan email electronically and deliver text-based ads related to what users are writing about - something Yahoo insists it will never do.Gmail, nevertheless, appears to have the makings of a hot commodity. Some people already have been buying restricted invitations to sign up for early Gmail accounts on eBay, with some bids surpassing $60 (£33). Google has been steadily expanding Gmail's reach by allowing existing accountholders to send invitations to friends and family to join the service.Yahoo operates the most popular free email service on the web. The company's service had 39.8 million users in April, trailed by Microsoft's Hotmail, with 34.6 million users, according to Nielsen Net/Ratings. The Hotmail service offers only two megabytes of free email storage.Over the past three years, Yahoo has been trying to drum up more revenue by selling subscriptions to premium email accounts that offer more storage and other features, such as stronger protection against junk mail. The company has never disclosed how many subscribers pay for its premium email service.
Doctors may soon be able to monitor the health of their patients by texting them, after researchers in Italy conducted a successful pilot scheme on cancer patients.The researchers, from Italian communications company Reply and the Istituto Nazionale Tumori in Milan, have developed and tested a wireless patient monitoring system using short questionnaires completed using mobile phone messages.Questionnaires are sent to patients' phones, answered using their phone keypads and returned to the doctor without having to leave their homes. The researchers hope it will help doctors to discover a patient's suffering or any change in their symptoms from a distance.The questions ask patients to rate symptoms such as weight loss, shortness of breath and having trouble sleeping. The results are gathered and presented on a secure web page which gives the doctors a quick overview of how their symptoms are evolving.Any serious changes in symptoms causes a flashing light to appear next to a patient's name, which can help doctors prioritise those in most serious need of intervention.The researchers, writing in the journal BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making, said: "The wide and growing use of mobile phones and the internet by the general population provides important new methods for communication between doctor and patient."The team tested the system, known as Wireless Health Outcomes Monitoring Systems (Whoms), on 97 cancer inpatients at the Istituto Nazionale Tumori. All of those who attempted to fill in the 10-question text questionnaire did so successfully on their mobile phones."This confirmed the user-friendliness of the system for people familiar with modern communication technologies," the researchers said.However, 42% of those patients asked to take part in the trial refused to participate, mostly because they were not experienced in the use of mobile phones.The researchers said although more people than expected refused to take part, they hoped this number could be reduced if the patient received help from their family.They also said that other forms of communication, like the internet, could be incorporated into the new system."In particular we are investigating multi-channel approaches so that we can offer Whoms functions through palm computers and interactive voice responders to provide a better interface and a wider choice for patients."The researchers said the next step was to show that the system was useful to patients and doctors so that it would be accepted by clinicians.
A Canadian man accused of being one of the biggest spammers in the world has agreed to stop sending unwanted emails and plans to help educate children about the dangers of the internet, it has been reported.In March, Yahoo sued Eric Head, his father, Barry, and brother Matthew, 21, as part of a worldwide industry crackdown by Yahoo, Microsoft, America Online and Earthlink on hundreds of people sending spam.The companies filed the suit against the Heads under the 2003 US anti-spam law known as Can-Spam, or Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing.Yahoo alleged the three men ran a huge spamming operation that had sent more than 94m emails in one month alone to users of its service.Similar legislation does not exist in Canada, but the federal government has set up a taskforce to decide whether such a law is needed and to examine a range of anti-spam measures.The three have settled the lawsuit and agreed to pay Yahoo at least $100,000 (£55,000), Toronto's Globe and Mail reported this morning.The exact amount of the payment is confidential but a lawyer for the family told the newspaper it was "six figures".Although the lawsuit was against all three men, the allegations centred on Eric Head, 25, who ran a bulk email business from the family's home in Kitchener, Ontario.Mr Head has shut down his operation, called Gold Disk Canada, and become a drummer in a rock band."Eric is out of business," said Huey Cotton, a Los Angeles lawyer who represented the men. "He's going to play in a band and find a way to use his knowledge to help protect kids on the internet."In a statement, Mr Head said: "I urge everyone who is involved in the commercial bulk email business to cease all operations unless and until they are completely compliant with the requirements of the new United States anti-spam laws."The settlement was reached several weeks ago and approved by a judge on Thursday.Mr Cotton said the agreement was not an admission of wrongdoing and the three men neither admitted nor denied Yahoo's allegations. A lawyer for Yahoo confirmed the settlement but declined to comment further.
"World Wide Web inventor Tim Berners-Lee has won the inaugural $1.75 million Millennium Technology Prize, presented by the Finnish Technology Award Foundation. The foundation awards the prize to acknowledge 'outstanding technological innovation that directly promotes people's quality of life, is based on humane values and encourages sustainable economic development'," reportsABC News Online."He took out the rich new prize ahead of 77 other innovators nominated from 22 countries."
According toIDG News: "Antivirus company Kaspersky Labs Ltd said today that it discovered what is believed to be the first computer virus capable of spreading over mobile-phone networks. Cabir is a network worm that infects phones running Symbian Ltd's mobile-phone operating system. No infections have been reported. Cabir may be a proof-of-concept worm from an international group of virus writers known as 29a that's credited with the release of a recent virus, Rugrat, that targets Windows 64-bit operating systems, Moscow-based Kaspersky said."Cabir spreads between mobile phones using a specially formatted Symbian operating system distribution (or SIS) file disguised as a security management utility. When the infected file is launched, the mobile phone's screen displays the word Caribe, and the worm modifies the Symbian operating system so that Cabir is started each time the phone is turned on."
IDG News Service reports: "Four new holes have been discovered in the Internet Explorer Web browser that could allow malicious hackers to run attack code on Windows systems, even if those systems have installed the latest software patches from the Redmond, Washington company, security experts warn."Some of the new flaws are already being used to attack Windows users and include a glitch that allows attackers to fake or 'spoof' the address of a Web page, as well as vulnerabilities that enable malicious pages from the Internet to be handled by IE with very little scrutiny or security precautions."Comment: The article mentions that PivX offers "a free tool,Qwik-Fix, that locks down Windows and prevents many common exploits." I've never heard of it but would be interested to hear the views of anyone who has tried it....
Gangs of European spammers are moving to Britain to exploit a legal loophole which allows them to bombard email inboxes with impunity, anti-spam experts warned yesterday.Campaigners have claimed the gangs are moving from countries such as Italy, where they face severe financial penalties or prison, to Britain, where the most they can expect is a &#163;5,000 fine. No spam operator has been fined in the UK and the gangs see the country as a soft touch.Unsolicited junk mail accounts for more than 70% of all email. Industry experts predict this will increase to 80% by the end of the year and to 90% by next summer.The anti-spam organisation Spamhaus claims that legislation introduced in December 2003, allowing unsolicited emails to be sent to business addresses but not personal ones, has been seen by spammers as giving them free rein to interpret the law as it suits them and spam anyone they like.Steve Linford, Spamhaus's founder, said the law was full of "gigantic loopholes" and its punitive measures derisory.Britain, he warned, was on course to become one of the world's fastest-growing sources of spam and was already 10th in the table of the worst spamming countries.Mr Linford said at least one major Italian spam gang had moved its operations to Britain because spammers can receive up to three years in prison in Italy simply for sending unsolicited mail. When Spamhaus exposed its practices the gang tried to mount a campaign against it, sending fake emails purporting to have come from the group.Mr Linford regularly receives death threats from spam gangs because of his   campaign. He said: "We get all sorts of threats from the American spammers, from 'We are coming to shoot you' to 'The next package you open will blow you out of the country'."One death threat said: "You are a dead man. As God is my witness you will die soon horrid violent death &#91;sic&#93;."British email marketing companies have not resorted to such extreme measures. Instead, they are using the loopholes to threaten Spamhaus with potentially devastating legal action if it continues to name them as spammers and block their mass mails targeted at business addresses.Spam, according to British legislation, is "unsolicited email sent without the consent of the addressee and without any attempt at targeting recipients who are likely to be interested in its contents". The law bans only the spamming of private email addresses.The Department of Trade and Industry agreed that business emails should be exempt from the law, a move which means spammers can fill up people's work email with adverts for Viagra, child porn and money laundering scams without their permission. The law, say campaigners, allows spammers to claim their emails are intended to go only to business addresses when they go to all and sundry.A &#163;5,000 fine faces those who spam private addresses and fail to stop doing so if a complaint is made. But a fine has never been handed down and, according to insiders, is unlikely to be because no extra funds or staff to deal with the problem were put in place at the Office of the Information Commissioner, the government body meant to regulate the information industry.Mr Linford said the government's claims that it allowed business addresses to be spammed at the behest of   business was nonsense. "This comes as quite a surprise to us because any normal person and any British business who is inundated with spam is fed up with the stuff. More and more UK spammers are starting up because they are seeing that there's no action against spammers," he said. "Spammers know they can come here and spam the whole country with almost total impunity."It is estimated that many spam companies, particularly those selling Viagra, make weekly profits of around &#163;15,000. Others are simply frauds. A major concern now is the expansion of Russian   gangs who offer to attack other businesses computers, sending viruses."Russian spam gangs are now a big problem on the internet," said Mr Linford. "These gangs will attack computer networks around the world for you and that is a much more serious form of spamming. American spammers tend to be conmen and fraudsters - and we see them operating in partnership with British spammers - but the Russians are much more hardcore. There is a level of criminality that they employ that is worrying. And our law allows them to come and do it here."
Cyber criminals and terrorists will win an "arms race" against law agencies unless action is taken, a government-commissioned report said yesterday.It said governments, businesses and manufacturers had to work together to make computer systems and the internet more secure or risk the public losing faith.The report put forward a series of visions of the future if moves are not made to tackle ever more sophisticated criminals.In one nightmarish scenario, poor investment in information and communication technologies (ICT) leads to the police being unable to counter cyber criminals by 2018.Under another, mistrust of government intrusions into privacy leads to people taking individual responsibility for cyber security but leaves the country open to attack.A major part of the research was the drawing up of three scenarios - visions of problems which could be faced by 2018 if moves to increase trust in technology and reduce cyber crime are not taken.Knowing it allLaw enforcement agencies gain substantial powers to access and analyse information on individuals who could post a threat. Some online crime almost eradicated. But amount of data becomes unmanageable. Criminals may be able to disappear in the mountain of data.Touch me notCitizens are intolerant of intrusions into their privacy by government, so take individual responsibility for security. Crimes which might have been stopped by large-scale monitoring and surveillance are committed.Frog boilerLack of investment leaves government unable to provide secure electronic services, allowing criminals to exploit them. Criminal gangs steal fortunes and base themselves in places from which they cannot be extradited. Youngsters hack into computer systems for fun. 
The report, by the Office of Science and Technology as part of its Foresight programme, warns that some people will become so mistrustful of and disillusioned by developments that they will become "digital hermits".The Home Office minister Hazel Blears said the internet had brought benefits but added: "Unfortunately, like all advances, these have also been abused."The report says ICT-related crime has had a "significant impact" on businesses, governments and organisations. Two-thirds of businesses in the UK have suffered at least one security breach in the last year. The most common involved viruses but 49% of companies had suffered fraud or theft and 39% complained of hacking.Some action has been taken. In her preface to the report Ms Blears cited legislation to tackle the online grooming of children and a strategy to combat electronic crime. In addition, many police forces now have well-staffed hi-tech crime units.But the report said: "If we carry on as we are, we are likely to run into problems."Co-operation across the globe was crucial because online crime often straddled boundaries.It said that "attackers and defenders get similar advantages from the technology", hence the "arms race" idea. "The rapid pace of change, innovation and uptake of many new services all mean that those trying to reduce crime are having to move more and more quickly to respond effectively."The report also suggests that many people will be willing to immerse themselves in the virtual world "well ahead of understanding the issues it raises" and that new systems of trading - for instance virtual currency - could be introduced ahead of legal structures for them.The report also considered the vulnerability of the internet, which could be brought down by "very knowledgeable people". The technical community which "holds the keys" to the system needs to be made more aware of its responsibilities.Sir David King, the government's chief scientific adviser and director of the Cyber Trust and Crime Prevention project, said he hoped the findings would help "plan today for the UK of tomorrow".
Sky has a bit of a problem. After several years of impressive growth, the number of new subscribers to its satellite TV service has started to slow down. There are a number of reasons for this, but the one most frequently trotted out is the success of the digital terrestrial Freeview service.For a one-off payment of around £75 for a decoder, Freeview offers existing free-to-air channels such as BBC1, BBC2 and Channel Four, plus a few bonus stations. There cannot be too many people left in the UK who are happy to place a dish on their house and fork out for a subscription to BSkyB.Sky's boss, James Murdoch - yes, you have guessed the name of his father - is painfully aware of the dilemma, and this week took steps to ensure the growth continued.The City got most excited about the announcement of a free-to-air digital satellite package. Customers will pay £150 for the satellite system and installation, and will then be able to view 200 channels. At face value it looks like a great deal, but many of those channels will be shopping services, travel stations and "plus one" versions of existing channels that show what the original channel screened an hour ago.While there is still a niche group of customers who cannot actually receive digital terrestrial signals and so may be tempted by Sky's offer, it hardly seems likely to strike a chord with middle England digital refuseniks. Chances are, when they are eventually forced to upgrade to digital TV - the government is discussing switching the analogue transmitters off in 2010 - they are more likely to take the Freeview route through the service's association with the BBC than make the switch to satellite.Of course users who do opt for Sky's free-to-air package must do so in the knowledge that once they have taken delivery of the system, it certainly will not be the last they hear from the company. With the equipment installed in their home  - and let's not forget, subsidised by the broadcaster - the penance for customers is likely to be endless attempts to persuade them to upgrade to a full subscription service and to opt for pay-per-view events.Personally, I think the free-to-air offer overshadowed what will be seen as the most significant announcement Sky has made in years - of the plans to launch a high definition TV service.While Americans have enjoyed high definition TV for years, Europeans have been left out in the cold. Endless wrangling among the continent's broadcasters, to say nothing of the fact that Europe has several incompatible TV broadcast standards, has lead to something of a stalemate.Details about Sky's proposed service are sketchy, yet at last it does seem to be forcing the issue.How much demand there is for high definition TV in the UK is a moot point, but with the gradual shift in living rooms from standard CRTs to LCD and plasma screens, the demand for high definition services seems sure to grow.The move, which has the hallmarks of a man apparently highly keen on new technology, shows that Sky is also focusing on upping the average revenue it receives from each of its core users. High definition channels are probably only the first of many new announcements from the company that are designed to ensure it keeps those crucial viewers who are prepared to pay a premium to be the first users of a new service.
 
Sky is starting to face competition for its Sky+ hard disk based video recoding service, which has been a huge cash cow for the company. This comes from hard disk recorders that work with digital terrestrial services and offer a similar type of advanced on-screen programming guide that Sky viewers have had for years. An even more potent threat may come from PC manufacturers looking to displace digital TV decoders, recorders, DVD players with an entertainment computer that replicates all their functions.It is still early days for the entertainment PC, but models that offer a huge range of features, including a unique selling point over Sky in accessing video and audio content from the web, are now reaching the stores in living-room friendly forms.Sky also faces competition from cable companies Telewest and NTL, who could offer many innovative web-based services through the TV.Sky intends to stop its high-spending early adopters from shifting to entertainment PCs and cable by also offering the type of service the PCs can boast.So later this year, for example, we will see Sky enabling users to program the Sky+ box via the internet or a text message. Upcoming Sky+ boxes will also offer much larger hard drives - 240 gigabytes has been rumoured - and may even feature integrated DVD recorders to enable users to instantly and permanently archive their video recordings.Most of all, Sky almost certainly has devices up its sleeve that connect to the internet via broadband to deliver video on demand and music downloads - something it cannot really successfully offer via digital satellite. Given its experience in producing user-friendly interfaces and its obvious links with the entertainment industry, a Sky service could achieve for video downloads what iTunes has for audio downloads in the US.There are those in the industry who believe Sky still holds all the aces.Brian Sugar, vice-president of marketing for 2Wire - which manufactures a set top box that pulls in content from both satellite TV and the internet - feels that, especially in the UK, the set top box will triumph over the PC."Ultimately it is all about watching TV. About 90% of what you use the screen for is watching TV, not streaming video or going online. Whoever controls the TV content like News Corp &#91;Sky's parent company&#93; in the UK will have massive say over what type of box is underneath the TV," he said."Besides, the kind of people who may think about spending £1500 on a high-end entertainment style PC probably already have Sky and won't want to ditch it in favour of say a PC with just a Freeview digital decoder."But with huge corporations like Microsoft and Intel sensing that the entertainment PC could prove to be another great way to encourage users to upgrade their hardware, Sky is certain to face some stiff competition.
"SAN FRANCISCO'S newest tour guide tends to ramble. Which is forgivable, considering it's a talking yellow cart," reportsThe New York Times[free reg req'd]."Mounted in the rear of the cart, which narrows like a motorcycle sidecar, is a Global Positioning System unit and a computer database of audio clips about 105 San Francisco sights and features. When the GPS system senses that the cart is passing one of the points in the database, the stereo plays a story or gives clear, occasionally imploring directions."The article says the the founders of GoCar Rentals are "Nathan Withrington, 31, a former technology recruiter from England, and his business partner, Alastair Clements, 34, a former investment analyst from Scotland." The carts are imported from The Netherlands.
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server . . .Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:the results from Super Thursday are still coming in! Join the NewsRoom's exit poll debate: how did you vote? What happened in your local elections? What does it all mean for the government?Pashmina:u hav to quitHost_Chris2:so who fared worse - the govt or the tories?LadeezMan:smoking makes u look cool thoPashmina:no it makes u look poor!!capitalistpiglet:hard to say at this pointHost_Chris2:did u vote in yesterday's elections, Pashmina?Pashmina:thank u. noLadeezMan:I spoilt me ballot paperHost_Chris2:was that a protest against the lack of real debate on Europe?LadeezMan:no I got sick on itcapitalistpiglet:I voted lib dem, which amounts to the same thingHost_Chris2:at least you votedLadeezMan:its a funny story actullyPCBaxter:that's enough out of you sunshineLadeezMan:who r uHost_Chris2:PC Baxter is monitoring this chatroom as part of a pilot schemePashmina:spying!!!!!!!!!capitalistpiglet:why weren't we warned about this?nameless:I APPLAUD THE INITIATIVE. WELCOME, OFFICERPCBaxter:I'll thank you to take your caps off when addressing meHost_Chris2:as I said, it's only a pilot schemenameless:certainlyPCBaxter:what sort of name is nameless, then? Something to hide, have we?Pashmina:I always thought sonameless:of course notPCBaxter:how old are you, mr nameless?nameless:38PCBaxter:why would a man of your age be lurking about in a chatroom full of teenage girls?LadeezMan:wherePashmina:he means me!nameless:I'm here to discuss current affairsHost_Chris2:what a novel idea.PC Baxter:I suggest you leave before I throw you outnameless has left the NewsRoomLadeezMan:coolcapitalistpiglet:if a bit worryingPC Baxter:move along please. Nothing to see here.&gt;connection to server has been terminated ...
"The UK is increasingly seen as a soft touch for spammers, many of whom have decided to set up shop here, according to anti-spam organisation Spamhaus," reportsVNUnet."While Italy can impose fines of up to €90,000 (£59,000) and prison sentences of up to three years under the e-privacy law, spammers in the UK face fines of just £5,000 in a magistrates' court (or an unlimited penalty from a jury) and no risk of jail. 'We have seen Italian spammers moving to the UK to set up their business in order to escape the Italian anti-spam laws,' said Linford."Told you so dept: In Online onSeptember 25, I pointed out the cluelessness of UK government moves against spam and contrasted this with the "admirable stance taken in Italy, under the same European anti-spam directive (EU e-privacy directive 2002/58/EC)".
"Database software maker Oracle warned customers using the most recent version of its e-commerce program of a flaw that puts their systems at risk. In a terse but strongly worded advisory released to customers last week, Oracle said a software flaw in its Oracle 11i E-Business Suite and its Oracle Applications 11.0 could let an attacker take control of the database that powers the programs," reportsCNet."The vulnerability was discovered by Stephen Kost, chief technology officer for Integrigy, a company focused on creating software to secure critical corporate applications. Integrigy's own advisory jibed with Oracle's on the ease with which the flaw could be exploited. 'Since attacks can be specially crafted for Oracle Applications and an attack may only be a single (HTTP, or Hypertext Transfer Protocol, request), successful attacks can be easily designed that will evade most intrusion detection and prevention systems,' Integrigy said in its advisory."Comment: Oracle security holes provide some pleasure because Oracle boss Larry Ellison claimed Oracle 9i was "unbreakable" and "impenetrable" -- it could never be broken into. Within a few hours of this claim, David Litchfield of NGS Software demonstrated several vulnerabilities in the Oracle 9i Application Server, and showed how an attacker could gain remote root.Oracle's prime customer is the CIA.
In the movie Dirty Harry, Clint Eastwood's character asks the criminal he has cornered, while brandishing "the most powerful handgun in the world", whether he feels lucky. The music industry can sympathise. The technology industry is brandishing its latest hardware - mobiles able to download, share and distribute music.The music industry is scared out of its mind. The mass sharing of music files that exploded on the internet could transfer to mobile networks. The advent of high-speed 3G networks and mobile phones with complex operating systems, Bluetooth and massive storage capacity, could create another "perfect storm", hurting profits further.Storm clouds seem to be gathering. Only last week Nokia released the 7610, a 1 megapixel multimedia camera phone, which can download and play video and music RealMedia, MP3 and, crucially, the iPod-compatible AAC digital music format. Simultaneously in South Korea, one of the most advanced technology markets, mobile network LG Telecom said it would not restrict the playing of music files on mobiles. To limit the use of individually obtained music files would violate consumers' rights since there are no limitations imposed on MP3 players, it says. The move paves the way for a possible legal battle between record producers and telecom service providers.A debate organised last month by research and analysis consultancy MusicAlly.com discussed this potential "Napsterisation" of mobile. Meeting on the day the new, legal Napster launched with Dixons, the mobile industry went head to head with representatives from the music business.Ed Kershaw, head of music for   Vodafone's global content services, is confident of the future. "Music is predominantly a ringtone business at the moment, but this year is perhaps going to be the most exciting. The Napsterisation of mobile could have happened but ... we learnt a lot from the internet world."Kershaw said the issue of peer-to-peer sharing of music files using Bluetooth or over the mobile network would be solved by increasing handset security and digital rights management (DRM) systems on the network.Gerard Grech, head of music for Orange World, largely agreed. "There will be a number of mechanisms to help legitimate music downloading which you have not seen with PCs and the net. There is cooperation on standards &#91;between the mobile networks&#93; allowing people to share music legitimately in a way that didn't happen with PCs."However, the music companies do not see the explosion of mobile music services as being the walkover the mobile networks imply it will be.Barney Wragg, vice president of Universal Music's eLabs, said: "It's inevitable the technology will develop to allow people to share music over mobile. We need to act fast to prevent the situation deteriorating."What he means is that the music industry needs protection in mobile fast and they need it now.Most operators use the Operator's Mobile Alliance system, which is not true DRM but a voluntary flag that says "do not copy this". Mobile operators are hoping the OMA protection software will delay hackers long enough until its most secure phase can be implemented. This involves encrypting the content sent to a mobile with a signal that will unlock it.Meanwhile, other players are emerging. Microsoft intends to be a leader in media distribution with Janus, its DRM system, which is designed to make subscription-based content available on mobile devices. Apple, by contrast, is going it alone. It rejected appeals from Real Networks to license FairPlay. But Apple's highly successful iPod cannot easily transfer music to mobile phones.Ironically, the DRM battle appeared won years ago. In 1999, the record labels were poised to make their catalogues available online. They had developed technology to protect unlimited sharing of their artists' music.But they didn't bank on 19-year-old Shawn Fanning, coding software in his bedroom that would change the internet and the music industry forever. Here was content without DRM.Labels frantically launched music portals such as MusicNet and Pressplay, but could do little in the face of the success of Fanning's Napster.   Manufacturers felt the market for players with DRM was pointless, so they made MP3 players that could play tracks downloaded via the PC.But the music industry fought back. The Recording Industry Association of America eventually shut down Napster, and mounted a lawsuit campaign targeted at individuals. Napster's brand was slapped on to a new, legal system, owned by Roxio, makers of one of the first MP3 players.Around the same time last year, Apple opened its iTunes Music Store, with 500,000 tracks of music priced at 99c a track or $9.99 an album. Its FairPlay DRM and easy integration with Apple computers took off. Apple recently announced sales of 70m tracks. DRM was back on the map.But the threat remains that another smart 19 year old will beat the DRM regime in the mobile world.Says Simon Wheeler, head of new media for the independent Beggars Group of labels: "As soon as people can get to the music on the phone   and share it unencrypted, who cares what the standards are because once DRM is broken, it's out there."Others, such as Michael Bornh&#228;usser, president and chief executive of SDC, a DRM specialist company, take a sanguine view. He admits people will find ways around DRM systems. "But there is a lot of space for the 80% of people who want a convenient way to download and legally copy music and share securely with friends."Reidar Wasenius, senior project manager with Nokia multimedia, agrees. "We can avoid Napsterisation. What we're talking about is technology, but we need to focus on psychology. Hackers will always be there but, to the majority of people, simplicity is the essential issue."Nokia's Visual Radio service will mean users will be able to purchase songs they hear on their phone's FM radio with one click using a two-way GPRS channel to handsets. Visual Radio displays pictures during   the news, weather maps, sports results and so on, synchronised with the radio broadcast. KissFM in London is trialling the system.Ironically, however, more complex handsets provide fertile ground for new applications. Until the mobile industry makes it easy for consumers to purchase music on their mobiles, there is a window of opportunity for software developers to create programs to allow illegal file sharing.All it takes, Wragg believes, is for mobile music piracy to gain critical mass. "What you carry today is a tiny PC and the power is growing faster than current PCs."Already the openings in the system are beginning to appear. The Nokia 7700 media device runs version 7 of the Symbian operating system, and is described as a "mobile media machine". Symbian 7 is highly adaptable with third party applications, making it a potentially fertile platform for P2P applications."When everyone has a Symbian 7 phone, there will be a proliferation of applications and suddenly there will be games, copying applications and P2P systems," said Wragg. "Someone will figure out how to broadcast a Bluetooth or Wi-Fi network around a phone to share music files. We need to find ways of dealing with this."The issue of pricing for mobile networks is also vexing the music industry. 3G mobile phone systems are predominantly priced according to amount of data downloaded. This metered access, as Kershaw puts it, "makes people think more carefully about sharing content". The contention is that when real 3G competition starts, operators won't be able to resist flat-rate pricing.Furthermore, handset makers could threaten the music industy. Although mobile operators have strict guidelines on how phones should function - Vodafone's list is more than 3,000 pages long - some makers are already tempted to give consumers unfettered functions.As Leslie Golding, head of music for O2, said: "We've had approaches from handset makers who can offer MP3 downloads from the net."Wragg puts it more simply: "OEM makers say: 'We see it as our job to commoditise networks and if your content is in the way, it's roadkill'."Splits within the music industry also threaten to open a P2P Pandora's box. Wheeler said independent music labels, annoyed at the low fees they receive from major labels, could consider ways of using technology to cut them out of the equation. The smaller independent labels view the widespread sharing of digital music as an opportunity.Indie labels could, in theory, use P2P mobile music sharing as a kind of radio - promotion for their artists with selected free releases. Despite P2P networks such as KaZaA, many indie labels have seen sales rise as the audience finds new music."We can work with kids in the bedrooms and get paid," said Wheeler. "DRM networks won't get the revenue. The kid in the bedroom will, and we will. We can't be beholden to the operators who are greedy. We want to be responsible, but if we can still do business and that's what our fans want, then we'll do it."It's effectively a race against time both for mobile operators and the music industry. The question is, do they feel lucky?
How important is the net to the Britain Goes Wild project?It's fundamental as it enables people to follow up information imparted by the show and allows people to take part. TheMake Space for Nature projecthas more information and the facility to pledge your intent or interact via the messageboards.It must be nice as a broadcaster to have such interactivity?It's getting increasingly interactive. At one point, there was almost a divide between the television programme makers and the people working in the interactive web area. That divide has evaporated and it's now seen as a holistic event.What can visitors to the 40 webcams experience?If you don't want to wait till the next broadcast, you can log on and watch it as it happens. The BBC doesn't have a webcam on the Bass Rock, where I have just been, but theScottish Seabird Centredoes. It's incredible when you think that the images from Bass Rock, a mile and a half offshore, are going to the mainland via microwave, then sent up to a static satellite before being beamed down for the show. That's a heck of a way to end up in Devon!Are webcams allowing us closer access to wildlife?Undoubtedly. Hopefully, we've never been intrusive but what one has been able to see has been limited. As technology gets more micro and sensitive to low light levels and infrared, then you have the ability to expose events that otherwise   would not have been seen.Have you gone all digital now?For still photography, the digital arena has changed so dramatically so rapidly I've now converted to digital for about 90% of what I do.Lomomakes wonderful lenses for film cameras but digital photography does allow creativity and freedom. Its instant gratification lets you experiment. I'm using aCanon 10Dand for my snaps I use anOlympus C50, a fabulous quality 5 megapixel camera you can carry in your pocket.Are you a dab hand with PhotoShop?I use it but I don't manipulate the images I take. It's not a purist thing, I just try to create the image within the camera. PhotoShop is a great helping hand but people go a bit overboard on the after effects. That    said,Ansel Adamsdid say the photograph is the orchestra and the printing is the symphony.What technology do you take on your travels?I always travel with my Apple G4 and my Palm Tungsten  - they contain my life. I used to always usePsions, which were great but they always died on me _ it almost felt like a built-in obsolescence. That's not funny when your life is contained in it.&#183;Britain Goes Wild is on BBC2 every evening Monday to Thursday at 8pmVisit:www.bbc.co.uk/nature/programmes/tv/britaingoeswild&amp;www.simonkingwildlife.com
BT yesterday announced plans to upgrade its countrywide network in a move that will bring new products such as video on demand to customers but put jobs at risk as the company targets &#163;1bn worth of annual cost savings within five years.BT said the creation of what it terms a "21st century network" will not lead to an increase in its annual spending budget of &#163;3bn, but hardware suppliers are already jostling for the lucrative contracts to help build it."This is among the most important and ambitious infrastructure transformation programmes in communications anywhere in the world," said Paul Reynolds, head of the company's network business, BT Wholesale. "It's about providing and supporting the next generation of services."BT plans to use the technology behind the internet - known as internet protocol - across its network so it can carry both voice and data traffic. In replacing its traditional "switched" network BT will dump more than 100,000 different components over the next five years.The new network will complement BT's roll-out of broadband internet access, which it hopes to make available to almost every home in Britain by next year.The network will allow new services such as TV-quality video and the integration of mobile phones with fixed lines. BT is hoping to generate revenues from these services to offset the decline in its core residential phone market caused by increased competition from the likes of Carphone Warehouse's Talktalk and Centrica's One.Tel.But the new network will be cheaper to run and could lead to job losses.BT employs fewer than 100,000 people with 28,000 working in its network division. It has been cutting an average of 4,000 to 5,000 jobs annually for several years and Mr Reynolds said yesterday that he did not expect the 21st century programme to initially lead to an increase in that rate.Once the network is complete in 2009, however, "some of those people will leave the business", he admitted.BT yesterday met with 50 suppliers of network hardware and software as the first step towards finding partners to help build its network.One of its main suppliers has already stolen a march on its competitors. BT is using kit supplied by Marconi to trial its new network idea in London and the south-east before it begins a national roll-out towards the end of 2006.News of BT's network plans - and the fact that they will not lead to a boost in spending - helped BT shares add 2p to 187.5p yesterday.But Jim McCafferty at Seymour Pierce was not overly impressed, describing BT's grandiose scheme as "running to stand still"."We see this as evidence that BT needs to work hard at its cost base in order to offset its declining revenue stream," he said in a note on the stock.
It's Thursday, soOnline is online. Mike Butcher reveals why the music industry isscared out its mindby new, powerful mobile phones, Andrew Losowsky reports from the Barcelona nightclub offering toinsert RFID chips in its patrons, and Ashley Norris offers somemust-have gadgetsfor dedicated armchair followers of Euro 2004.
After e-government, m-government. The idea of the state permanently streaming data to and from your mobile phone may be some people's nightmare. In Sweden, it's already reality.In a country where 88% of the population have mobiles, most public bodies either use the technology or plan to. The national tax authority, customs agency and several local authorities already communicate with their "customers" via SMS text.However, the channel isn't suitable for everything. At least one service has been discontinued because it threatened to swamp subscribers with messages.One of the biggest users is the national tax authority. This year, more than 90,000 of Sweden's 7m taxpayers carried out their annual dealings with the government entirely by mobile phone. This is possible because the tax authority sends a pre-completed form to every taxpayer, calculating how much they owe. All they need to do is agree to the assessment - by post, phone, internet or text message.Alf Nilsson, the agency's director-general, says citizens have an incentive to use electronic channels: "It would cost them 6 krona (about 50p) by post." The agency likewise: it calculates it saves 13 kronor (about &#163;1) for every approval filed electronically.Mobile technology is also cutting costs at the Swedish customs agency and for its customers. In a scheme called Gateway Sweden, lorry drivers get customs clearance for their goods by mobile phone, saving hours, especially when bound for Russia. "It's a no-stop shop - they just drive through," says Lars Karlsson, national director. The drivers receive a   message on the move telling them their cargo has been cleared, with a reference number if they're stopped for checking.Holidaymakers get a mobile service, too. Swedes browsing in shops overseas can text customs to check their duty free allowances. There's no need to specify where they're calling from, as the GSM network identifies the country.Meanwhile, by the end of this year, drivers in 40 Swedish towns and cities will be able to pay parking charges by mobile phone. The capital, Stockholm, already collects more than 8% of parking fees in this way.Subscribers to the service send a text on arriving and departing from their parking space, and the system charges a credit card accordingly. A windscreen sticker tells traffic wardens that the car is a member of the scheme; they call up details on the database to make sure the driver is playing fair. "There's no hassle with coins, you pay only for the exact time you're parked and there are no fines," says Carl Rogberg of Mint, a mobile transaction service company. The company plans to launch the technology in the UK this autumn.Under the banner "mCity", the Stockholm city government is setting up a battery of mobile services projects, for the benefit of care workers, commuters and students. "It's not a high-tech project, it's aimed at creating sustainable solutions to people's problems," says Kristina Lundevall, mCity project manager. Under the scheme, any city department can apply for a slice of an annual m-government budget of about 5m kronor (about &#163;400,000).Services so far set up include:&#183;managing truancy and absence at schools. Pupils at some secondary   schools can report themselves absent by keying their ID number and a four-digit code into an automated system, which emails their teachers. Teachers also text parents when a child doesn't turn up.&#183;Managing care workers' rosters. Home-care nurses and other workers plan their schedules on a website. If one has to miss an appointment, the system automatically texts other workers with the right skills until a replacement is found.&#183;Keeping 80,000 students in Stockholm up to date with news such as cancelled lectures and last-minute bargains.Another mCity project, expected to go live soon, will display traffic information to drivers on their phones. (It is legal in Sweden to use a phone while driving, but the mCity team expects most drivers to mount them on their dashboards.)Not all these m-government ideas are new to Britain. Authorities such as Rotherham borough council already accept text messages and the London borough of Wandsworth allows drivers to pay for parking by mobile phone. What impresses about the Swedish initiatives is the level of take-up and the amount of experience gathered. In some cases, this has led managers to accept that mobile technology is not the right channel.Stockholm's public transport authority, SL, which runs a huge range of e-services, including an automated voice-recognition service for planning journeys, tried generating text messages from its internal signalling systems whenever services were delayed. However, even a system as smooth running as Stockholm's generates a huge number of messages, says Bjorn Dalborg, director. "We concluded that was not the way to do it."
Dialler scamEvery time I start my home PC I have one unwanted adult icon in the Start menu and three others on the Task Bar. I remove them (right-click, delete) but they reappear when I restart. Last month I was billed &#163;60 for this unknown number.Mr ScottJack Schofield replies:The oft-mentioned Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and Lavasoft's Ad-aware will often remove diallers, so try these first. If not, try to remove it manually. Right-click and Delete only removes the icon, not the program. Instead, right-click the icon and select Properties. The Target section tells you the location of the program, such as C:\Program Files\Dialler\scam.exe or whatever. Make a note of the name and use Windows Explorer to find and delete the program.Also, go to the Registry (select Start|Run and type regedit in the box), search for the program's name, and remove its registry entries. Windows will not allow you to remove a program's files while it is running, so you may need to stop it first. You can do this using the Task Manager (Ctrl-Alt-Del) or try a utility such asEndItAll2, a free download. Finally, run CleanUp (Start|Programs|Acessories| System Tools|Disk Cleanup) to remove temporary files, reboot your PC, and go to Windows Update to install any critical security updates you have missed.If the dialler is calling a UK premium rate number, complain to    ICSTIS atwww.icstis.org.ukand ask BT for a refund. You can also have premium rate numbers barred. Unfortunately, many diallers use numbers supplied by small, remote countries. BT call barring to premium rate services is free (quote Section 1, Part 18 of the price list), but "call barring to international &amp; premium rate service calls by administrative control" costs residential customers &#163;4.50 a quarter. However, BT would save everyone a lot of aggravation if it disconnected these dialler numbers for everyone.Just wordsI am a journalist seeking a cheap new laptop. I want one with Word, a port for a printer, and email and internet access - with no CD-Rom, no media-player, no scanner facility, no games and no other accessories that never get used. Is such a computer available?Carlos QuinnJS:There have been dozens of attempts to provide simple systems, going right back to theTandy 100in 1983, but not many people buy them. The best attempt was, I think, the original Psion NetBook - a supersized version of the Psion Series 5 - which was fine for word processing though it did not run Word. You might get a cheap one secondhand. The current Psion NetBook Pro is also good and runs Microsoft Windows CE and Pocket Word, but it is expensive. A Windows machine will run Word and Office but is likely to be heavier and will not offer the same battery life.The JVC Mini Note (0.9kg) might be worth considering, but again, it is far from cheap. The IBM ThinkPad 240X or 240Z (1.5kg) might be a good option - I have just retired one - but the screen is small by today's standards. It has been obsolete for years, but Shyamtronics has been selling the leftovers on the Tottenham Court Road (try haggling), and they go for very little on eBay.Virus huntAs a full Kaspersky AV user, I thought myself pretty well immune from virus attack. However, yesterday my ISP sent me a rather annoyed note to say that the Netsky on my PC was spoiling its service, and would I use a McAfee's Stinger to remove it please. The Stinger duly stung, three times. I am bemused. What was the great Kaspersky doing about a well-known problem?James GuestJS:Well done, NTL. Viruses often try to disable anti-virus programs, and any system can be infected due to human or software errors, such as failed updates. That's why it's a good idea to run weekly checks online at, for example, Trend Micro's Housecall, Symantec or eTrust atwww3.ca.com/virusinfo/virusscan.aspx, and also to check the Windows Task Manager (Ctrl-Alt-Del) to see what processes are running. Stinger is very good but only tackles a limited range of common viruses. You can download it fromhttp://vil.nai.com/vil/stinger.Backchat&#183;Last week, Mr Mira asked about smart pasting: I suggested writing a Word macro. Richard Rees Jones says that in Word 2002 and later versions, a "smart tag" lets you match the formatting with the destination document.&#183;Hersh Mann reports that the problem he had with symproxysvc. exe could be solved by disabling privacy in Norton Personal Firewall 2002. Seewww.dslreports.com/forum/remark,10386208.&#183;A reader asked about parental control software. Alex comments: "This is not a software issue. Any child who is known to view porn sites and install malware needs better supervision."
Dell is aiming to sell a lot of printers at low prices, making life hard for Hewlett-Packard, which has something like 60% of the market. This is just what you would expect. But its printer strategy looks like a betrayal of everything the company stands for.Buy a Dell printer, which is probably made by Lexmark, and you also have to buy your cartridges online from Dell. You can't nip down to your local high street - they are not on sale there. And you can't buy the equivalent Lexmark, because it won't fit.You would not expect this kind of thing from a company that has built its $44bn-a-year business by backing market standards - by doing what anyone can do, but doing it cheaper and better.The problem is that the printer market is distorted. Printers are often sold at or close to cost, while the suppliers make vast profits from sales of cartridges. You can only compete by playing the same game as the rest.Last week as Dell's guest in Cannes - where I joined 75 journalists from the UK, Russia, South Africa and other countries for a "product showcase" - I whinged about the lack of Dell-like commodification in its printer business. Users would be better off if they could use standard cartridges in any printer, not have hundreds of high-priced proprietary designs, I said.Tim Peters, the Dell vice president who launched its printer business, agreed. "Indeed, we would like to do that: we think that would be in the best interests of   the customer," he said. "But that's a future stage. Right now, working with our partners, at their request, &#91;we have&#93; to key the cartridges, so they're unique."Dell's three-part strategy is to grow its installed base, says Peters. This involves "more products, more countries, and more technology partnerships". As well as sourcing printers from Lexmark, Dell has added Samsung, Kodak and Fuji-Xerox. Presumably these will also get the Dell makeover from Design Edge, to make them consistent."Having a bigger installed base will allow us to drive the designs," says Peters. "Over time, we can start to redefine that cartridge architecture as a commodity. How long that's going to be, we'll see..."As with PCs, Peters reckons Dell's business model has inherent   advantages: no inventory protection for retailers, and no vast sales force. And dealing direct, Dell gets instant feedback about what users want, and can tune its products to fit."If you've bought one of our printers, I know how much ink you've bought from us. If you're buying a lot of cartridges, you get all my love," says Peters. "We're going to give you promotions and benefits, like a frequent flyer program."Dell shipped about 7.7m PCs in the first three months of this year, which is roughly 30m units a year. If only one in five customers adds a printer, that's 6m printers a year, and many more cartridges. No wonder Michael Dell recently told the New York Times that not getting into printers sooner was the biggest mistake he's made.
Thief: Deadly ShadowsXbox, &#163;39.99 Ion Storm/Eidos&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The PC Thief games have always had a huge influence on the stealth game genre. With a dedicated fan base and a vibrant modding community, it was feared that, in developing for the Xbox, Ion Storm would lose the brilliance of the first two titles. This is understandable - especially in the wake of Deus Ex Invisible War, Ion Storm's other big franchise, which disappointed many.The good news is that Deadly Shadows, which follows the story of Master Thief Garrett, is a Thief game through and through. There's great lighting, interactive environments and familiar weapons and enemies. Although it doesn't push the series further, it remains faithful to its roots. The bad news is that the Xbox version suffers from a few frame-rate problems, bugs and slow loading. The ragdoll physics have not been implemented as well as they could have been, and many of the enemies' death poses look like one half of an advanced users' Kama Sutra position. However, Deadly Shadows boasts a great deal of charm, with incredibly atmospheric and creepy environments designed to unnerve the ears as well as the eyes. Unfortunately, Garrett isn't given the chance to stretch his legs much since the environments are not particularly epic in scale. While it may have been designed with more of a PC audience in mind, if you can forgive its glitches, you'll find Deadly Shadows retains much of the original Thief magic.Rhianna PratchettHarry Potter and the Prisoner of AzkabanPS2, PC, Xbox, &#163;39.99, EA&#42;&#42;&#42;First things first - if your child likes Harry Potter in book or film form, then the game won't disappoint. Like the previous Potter videogames, Azkaban takes elements from classic titles - Legend of Zelda, Metal Gear Solid - and throws in a Hogwarts setting.This time round, players get to control Hermione and Ron, too. The game is neatly structured. Tasks are set each day - find this, deliver that - which, when completed, allow the gang time to explore Hogwarts.Whether it's solving puzzles, firing spells or talking to other characters, there is much pleasant adventuring. Sadly, there is nothing magical about the load times, with the PS2 in particular crippled every time Harry and the crew change room. Then there is the irritating regularity of comments from the two characters not under your control. Signposting is all well and good - and understandable with the younger age targeted - but hearing the same "helpful" phrases repeated ad nauseam istiresome. And, surprisingly, given the polished nature of most EA products, there are a few rough edges. Characters will occasionally utter the wrong words and the game even crashed. Despite this, the latest Potter game is still worth investigating. Fans will enjoy playing around in a beautifully   realised environment, while older muggles will appreciate the Zelda-lite gameplay and pretty graphics.Greg HowsonGran Turismo 4 ProloguePS 2, &#163;24.99 Polyphony Digital/Sony,&#42;&#42;&#42;While we wait for the full version of Gran Turismo 4 to arrive in November, Sony has provided Prologue, a sort of amuse-bouche. It provides plenty of evidence that Gran Turismo 4 will be worth the wait. As ever, you must complete a series of training exercises, which cleverly teach you about racing lines, overtaking, braking early, clipping apexes and so forth. These start off at a simpler level than in previous versions, but build up to an impressively rigorous level - when you get to the exercises involving catching and passing cars, for example, you must overtake them with zero contact, and if all four wheels slip off the road at any point, you must start again.Prologue features a satisfyingly wide range of machinery, and the cars' dynamics are amazing, but it only has a few tracks, including the staple circuits Fuji and Tsukuba, plus a New York street circuit, a narrow track around an unspecified Italian town and a rally section. As long as you don't expect it to provide several weeks' gameplay, Prologue is a worthwhile purchase.Steve Boxer
Not sexyAm I Hot Or Not, a sort of beauty rating site, once swept the web, followed by dozens ofimitators. Amazingly, it is still going. So is a German imitation, Binichsexy.de, which has recently spawned a British version, Amisexy.co.uk. The company that owns it, Wapme Systems AG, is now planning to roll out similar systems in the US and other countries, saying it opens up "considerable earnings potential with the aid of premium multimedia messaging (MMS) and Universal Mobile Telecommunications (UMTS)". Presumably, it already makes money from people who send Sexymail to one another after rating their pictures and clicking the "contact me" button. (Sorry, this aspect was not tested.) Sexymail costs &#163;1 a week. But how many young lovebirds will get together this way is open to question. Rating site pictures often look as though they have been nicked from professional escort agencies or soft porn sites, and even the ones that look genuine could have been posted by a "friend" as a "joke".http://amisexy.co.ukhttp://binichsexy.dewww.hotornot.comAsk HarvardWhat sort of tough questions should journalists be asking about, say, Iraq? The long-established Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University has launched the Watchdog site to tell them. It also "seeks to encourage more informed reporting by putting journalists in contact with authorities who can suggest appropriate, probing questions and who can serve as resources" - people at Harvard, for example.www.niemanwatchdog.orgNigriwhat?Nigritude Ultramarine did not appear on the web until last month, and now Google shows more than half a million hits. What happened? The answer is a competition among search engine optimisers and others to get their website to the top position on Google for that term. The first part of the competition (and an iPod) was won brilliantly by forums.merkey.net ahead of Philipp Lenssen's Google Blogoscoped. The Slayer prize of a flat screen monitor will go to whoever is top on July 7. And if you make it to Blogoscoped, look down the page for info on VisitorVille - website traffic displayed in a Sim City-style format.http://forums.merkey.nethttp://blog.outer-court.comwww.darkblue.com/seochallengewww.visitorville.comNicer oneThe National Institute for Clinical Excellence (Nice) has launched a new website designed to make its guidance for the NHS on treatments and care more accessible. Visitors can now search for guidance by illness, so it should be much easier to find things.www.nice.org.ukSpoof!The Onion now has a challenger in the web satire market, with The Spoof!, and a central part of its appeal is that anyone can sign up to contribute stories. The original site, launched in 1997, was called There's No Place Like Home, before it became Laughsend. The original authors retired, tired, and now Jack O'Farrell has taken up the cudgels with the latest version. Regular features include celebrity diaries and a caption competition. The Onion was founded in 1988 and also has printed editions.www.thespoof.comwww.theonion.comGoogle GuideNancy Blachman's popular Google tutorial has been updated and the content reorganised. Now you can also download a PDF version for $1.99. The guide is a companion to the McGraw-Hill book, How to Do Everything with Google, which Blachman co-authored.www.googleguide.comhttp://shop.osborne.com/cgi-bin/osborneSic transitToo late now to watch the transit of Venus, but the European Southern Observatory site has all the photos and animations you could need.www.vt-2004.orgNew &amp; notedBlogosphere newshttp://blogpulse.comWildlife conservationwww.wildlive.orgFBI insanitywww.caedefensefund.orgMap of Springfieldwww.csupomona.edu/~jelerma/springfield/mapSix of the best:Ronald ReaganHome sitewww.ronaldreagan.comPresidential Librarywww.reagan.utexas.eduMemorial Foundationwww.ronaldreaganmemorial.comThe American experiencewww.pbs.org/wgbh/amex/reaganPictorial historyhttp://victorian.fortunecity.com/manet/404The filmographywww.imdb.com/name/nm0001654
In spite of its heritage, Nikon seemed to have ceded the high-end mini digital camera market to Casio, Sony and Canon. Not any more, for the five megapixel Coolpix 5200, costing around &#163;320, could be the best ultra compact on sale.Unlike its very flat rivals, the 5200 has a curved hand grip that delivers a steadier hold. Surprisingly, it is just 180 grams lighter than the Sony DSCT1. The camera boasts a fairly intuitive interface and turns on in a second - quicker than many rivals.While the 110k pixel 1.5in LCD can't match the superb 220k pixel 2.5in screen on the DSCT1, it is bright and detailed. Key features include a 3x optical zoom, VGA video shot at an impressive 30 frames per second, and 12MB of storage.The shots are detailed, colourful and, when printed out at A4 size, showed surprisingly little pixellation. The Sony DSCT1 may be smaller and cuter, but for overall performance, ease of use and features, this goes to the top of the pile.www.nikon.co.uk
Dixon's decision to close 106 "under-performing" stores recently made it the first high street victim of
    e-commerce. It will not be the last.Admittedly, the retailing giant had a range of reasons, only one of which was the ability of e-tailers such as
    Dell to offer 50 alternatives to every item it can allocate precious shelf-space to. But it does lay down an
    ominous marker for the future.One day (according to some predictions, within a decade), anything that can be shipped from an out-of-town
    depot will be. That applies to a far greater range of goods than even the most bullish venture capitalist
    predicted at the height of the dotcom boom. With Tesco.com predicting a day when 10% of its supermarket
    business will done online, it's clear that almost any consumer item this side of ready-made cappuccino will be
    delivered straight to the door.Argos, Boots, Woolies et al are being outmanoeuvred. Their articulated lorries are being gridlocked -
    metaphorically and literally - as smaller vans weave around them, bringing shopping-on-demand to a public we
    naively assumed would never tire of piped muzak and check-out queues. This, too, is only the beginning.The CD, games and DVD shops have been feeling the pinch for some time - undercut by Amazon on almost
    every item and further threatened by the imminent arrival of digital distribution. Later this summer, Valve's
    mega-game Half Life 2 will arrive - not in the high street first, but online for immediate download.And with the double whammy of a rejuvenated Napster and the arrival of an iTunes music store next week,
    HMV and Virgin are left to wrestle with the declining logic of devoting acres of expensive shelf space to
    products that sell equally well by ticking a box on a website. 
    Amazon recently saw the Star Wars trilogy fly to the top of its DVD charts, a full six months before release
    and a year after flogging 1m advance copies of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix to a very different
    audience. All in all, high street branding is increasingly looking sluggish and counter-productive.And, finally, it will be the turn of cinemas, even though they currently bask in the glow of record takings.
    Throughout the 70s and early 80s, the video and music industries were blase about the prospect of piracy.
    What true U2 fan, they asked, would want anything but an original copy of the Joshua Tree? We now know
    that casual fans outnumbered them by a million to one and grabbed the first disc flogged to them by the
    dodgiest market trader.In the same way, those who think the allure of body odour and jumbo-sized popcorn will outweigh the
    convenience of Hollywood blockbusters beamed directly on to domestic plasma-screens had better think
    again. It won't be long before we're all having "movie nights", where we get to choose the audience, snacks
    and setting - and yes, we'll happily pay extra for it.E-commerce is relentless. It will not stop on the outskirts of town as the supermarkets did in the 70s. This
    time, it's permanent: this time, the high street will fall.
Bought yourself a widescreen TV to watch Euro 2004? Well, the bad news is that you have been sold a pup. For, in spite of the popularity of widescreen (16:9) in the UK, and not to mention a huge amount of advertising selling widescreen sets, the images seen on British TVs over the next few weeks will be in good old 4:3. So, if you own a widescreen TV, expect to see black bars flanking the footage or a picture where the top and bottom of the action is missing.In spite of the lack of widescreen footage, Euro 2004 is something of a tech-fest. Almost every consumer electronics manufacturer is using the tournament as a platform to highlight their wares. Sadly, we are still waiting for the one that could really help - a robot Thierry Henry wearing an England shirt.The timing of the games - there are more than a few at 5pm, including England's vital game against Switzerland - means you could be on the train or rushing to the pub after work. So here are a few gadgety suggestions to ensure you don't miss a kick.On the moveEuro 2004 is the first football tournament where keeping up with the action on your mobile isn't just about receiving the odd text message. T-Mobile will send videos of the goals from each England game to your phone minutes after they have been scored. The downside is that it is only compatible with a few handsets such as the Sharp TM100. T-Mobile is also offering to turn your phone into a news ticker with the latest updates from Portugal pushed directly to its    screen. For more details, seewww.tmobile.co.ukIf you are on another network, Mobile Lounge has a similar service that checks for new stories every minute. Sadly, it only works with high-end Nokia handsets. For more, seewww.mobilelounge.co.uk/news_tickers/adidas_match_centre/index.shtml.TV on the moveIf you are on the move, you may want to invest in a mini portable TV.Casiohas the best model - the &#163;200 EV-4500 - which has the advantage of built-in speakers. Should you find yourself on a train, fellow passengers will be able to hear the commentary, even if they can't see the 4in screen.Arguably a better choice is a tuner for your laptop. You can then watch    the games on a much larger screen without tinny sound. Add-on palm-sized USB-based TV tuners, such as the Lifeview Walker fromPeripheral Cornerat just under &#163;100, or theAVerMedia AVerTV USB2.0at &#163;75, andHauppauge WinTV USB External TV/FM tunerat &#163;100 are a good investment - especially as they work outside the UK, too.If you want to be hugely flash, then the &#163;2,300Toshiba Satellite P-20 504 laptopcomes equipped with a TV tuner, Microsoft's Media Center operating system and hard disk video recording software. So you can not only watch the game on the move, you can also pause live action, jump back to watch contro versial incidents and re-live the goals seconds after they have been scored.At homeAs anyone who watched the Japan game already knows, the tournament is sure to be an anxious time for England fans. What better way to ease the stresses brought about by Gary Neville's unorthodox approach to defending by having jets of water massaging your back.For just &#163;13,000, theAegean Spas LSX 1050 FSTjacuzzi not only comes with 84 hydro jets, but also an integrated 15in LCD screen that can be hooked up to any source.If your stamina begins to sap as the tournament progresses, then you'd best move to the bedroom.    The &#163;11,000 RUF cinema bed fromChaplinscomes with a projector built into the headboard and a home cinema screen that pops up at the foot of the bed. As the beds are made to order, they take a few weeks to be delivered. Still, you might be able to grab one for watching England's inevitable penalty shoot-out disaster in the final.If you fancy watching the games in the garden, how about theSharp Aquos LC-15L1E wireless LCD TV set, which costs &#163;1,100? The 15in screen works within 100 metres of its base station, making it ideal for a trip outside.To ensure you never miss any of the action indoors, you need a hard disk video recorder with live pause and instant rewind. So it has to beSky+or theHumax PVR  8000Tat &#163;200   and the upcomingDigifusion FVRT100, both of which combine digital terrestrial TV decoders with hard disk recorders.If you do have to pop out to the kitchen to refill your glass, theLG GR-G217BTBA, is the answer, as this upright American fridge comes with a 13in LCD screen. Price is yet to be finalised.Finally, for bandwagon-jumping naffness, the England remote control fromBoys Stuffis hard to beat at &#163;24.95 Essentially a TV zapper the shape of a football, it magically changes channels for you. Good if you need something to throw at the telly when a dodgy refereeing decision sends England home in the group stage.
