The kids are alrightThere is no doubt that today's youngsters see technology and the internet as an essential part of everyday life (The kids are online, August 9). Research shows that increased use of internet-powered communications is encouraging children to share ideas and seek opinions from a wide range of sources, and to demonstrate traits that describe a classic knowledge worker - the very type of person on which UK plc is increasingly dependent. This would suggest that the virtual world is not only helping to speed up the socialisation process, but is also preparing them for higher education and future employment. While we are all concerned about the online safety and productivity of this generation, we should consider whether our economy is suitably equipped to cope with their sophisticated technology expectations.Christopher Gabriel, Logicalis UKDead stop to junk mailI lost my wife in 2001 to brain cancer. The constant stream of mail that poured through our letterbox led me to set up The Bereavement Register, a service now presented to 98% of the bereaved within five days of a death (Direct mail reaches beyond the grave, August 9). We have long campaigned for the release of deceased data.However, the idea that the register of deaths should be made available to all and sundry is absurd. There are already numerous accounts of bouquet companies sending offers on the anniversary of someone's death and dubious characters preying on vulnerable pensioners shortly after losing their lifetime partner. Sourcing data to achieve this is already child's play. We should be tightening up, not contemplating further relaxation.Mark Roy, SevenoaksSites for sore eyesIt was interesting to visit Jakob Nielsen's website as, when I started our site (art-science.com) in 1998, I did not look at any other sites for ideas, just concentrated on clarity, usability and connectivity: back then, most people were on dialup (Web design guru, August 9). The longest anyone spent on it was two hours. I have also hosted other sites and two have since been handed back to enthusiastic youngsters (I am 64). They have used standard templates, so now the sites look more professional - but it takes longer to click through to any info you need.Ken Baldry, LondonSounding offIt doesn't help when Amazon says: "Requires SACD-compatible hardware" against a CD I wanted to purchase (No taste for high-quality audio, August 2). A chat to the Guardian music supplier confirmed that it was dual-standard, and its price was the same as Amazon.Brian Casey, York&middot;I am by no means an audiophile, but I do like to listen to my music on the best means that I have at my disposal. I grew up with vinyl, but moved on to CDs in 1990. There are still debates over the merits of each format by those in favour of CD and those in favour of vinyl, but everyone would surely stand shoulder to shoulder on downloading and its terrible audio quality.The idea of downloading and the iPod generation scares me: do these people really care about music? The sound quality is not a patch on the quality of CD or SACD and of course you don't have the artwork to admire, the lyrics, who it was recorded by and where it was recorded, etc. Even if I can't hear a particular frequency or sound on my discs, at least I know it's there. There are still quite a number of us saddos that still like to buy an album and leaf through the booklet while listening to all the music.Michael Cuthbert, via emailSpeakers resurrectedThe Skype-killing-speakers problem is very simple to cure (Technobile, August 2):support.skype.comAndy Singleton, via email
I'm stuck down the rabbit hole of Facebook, and I don't know how to get out. To the east is a blood-sucking vampire, threatening to take away my time and alienate my friends. To the west, an ambiguous spectre familiar in the hazy light of recollection. The emaciated shadow of a long-lost acquaintance. He keeps poking me. Why won't he stop?Behind me, towards the south, is a path littered with crumpled-up paper and inkless quills. That way lies the end of connectivity and a fruitless search through the fields of eBay for out-of-date typewriter ink.Straight ahead, towards the north, I can see only light. It's drawing me forward, promising possibility. But that direction is plagued with obstacles: endless login screens, pithy conversations on public walls, unwieldy friends lists, carpal tunnel syndrome.So which way do I go?If I go towards the vampire, I'm sure to end up on a Homeric journey past rocks and hard places, dodging group requests and useless applications that will drain my resources and energy. If I turn left, I'll end up wallowing in retrospect and spoiled nostalgia, tripping over long-gone relationships and pining for the body I had when I was 18.If I head backwards, away from Facebook nirvana, I'll lose my footing and fall out of step with the trends of the playful web. I'll have to fight my way across a directionless void, missing important early adopter signals.But if I embrace my lot and run self-actualised down the yellow brick road of social software possibility, I will be forced to do it all over again when the next web 2.0 wagon comes to town condemning myself to an eternity of an extraordinary loss of productivity.What's this? Like in all good games, there's another option. Out of the blackness above me looms an ivory tower so tall it appears to teeter over as it stretches into the distance.I don't yet see a way in, but perhaps if I reach into my Lara Croft-style, Tardis-like rucksack and put on the red ruby slippers I brought from the last web-based application I found myself in and click my heels I might land in centre of the hallowed halls of academia, safe for another three years of close readings of the Facebook rabbit hole.I'll be surrounded by vampires and social connectivity, historical insight and the promise of possibility.But before I can decide, I look around me again and the scene has disappeared. The only thing I can see is an angry gnome with a threatening look on his face and something sharp and shiny in his left hand.Social software has me trapped. I don't think I'm ever destined to come out again.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nobody knows, but in a six-month experiment the world's biggest music label will try to switch people away from iTunes, the world's biggest music download store. Pick a side!The bait for the switch is copy protection, known as DRM (digital rights management). Users who continue to shop online at Apple's iTunes Store will still get their Universal music encumbered with Apple's DRM. If they go to a different store, they can buy unprotected MP3s of the same tracks for the same price, or less. Vivendi's Universal Music Group owns more than a dozen labels including Decca, Mercury, Polydor and Deutsche Gramophone. It distributes music by a wide range of artists from Bing Crosby to Amy Winehouse, including 50 Cent, Black Eyed Peas, Elvis Costello, Gwen Stefani, Prince, Stevie Wonder and Shania Twain. The unprotected tracks will be sold by several iTunes rivals such as Amazon.com, Rhapsody and Wal-Mart, plus the new gBox.com. Universal says it will advertise on Google to drive traffic to gBox.British consumers say they prefer unprotected music files: according to asurveyof 1,700 users by Entertainment Media Research, "68% of respondents who expressed an opinion agree downloads are 'only worth purchasing if free of DRM'...".DRM-free tracks will play on any device including portable MP3 players, PCs and many mobile phones. The music industry has generally insisted on copy protection due to a fear of piracy. But in April, the consensus was broken by EMI, which started offering DRM-free tracks in better audio quality at a higher price. The success of eMusic, which offers subscribers unprotected MP3s from 13,000 independent labels, also suggests there is a market.Universal says it will "analyse such factors as consumer demand, price sensitivity and piracy in regards to the availability of open MP3s" during the experiment. The company has been at loggerheads with Apple over variable pricing - it wants to charge more for some new tracks and less for some old ones, and Apple won't let it. It has also tried to negotiate a small payment for each iPod sold. (It gets $1 from Microsoft for each $250 of Zune sales.) Last month, Universal failed to renew its annual contract with the iTunes Store.If the experiment works, Universal will sell enough unprotected files that it can do without the iTunes Store. This will put it in a stronger negotiating position with Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs. It could even threaten to pull out altogether. Since Universal puts out a third of the new releases in the US market, this would hurt Apple.Will enough music buyers leave the comfort and convenience of the familiar iTunes Store and shop around for DRM-free tracks? Maybe not, but it's all to play for.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Robots for ChristmasDixons reckons robots will be a hit this Christmas thanks to Pleo, an "intelligent dinosaur" (&pound;250), due in October, and the Manley Tekno Sakura, "the first best friend robot for girls".dixons.co.ukBetter HotmailMicrosoft is rolling out more than a dozen improvements to Hotmail, including 5GB of free storage space.mailcall.spaces.live.comDigital detectivesHeliMedia's Form Patrol software enables police officers to complete any form (such as fixed penalty notices) "on any handheld device, including the O2 XDA" mobile phone.helimedia.co.ukMr Men variety packThe Variety Club children's charity is selling Mr Men podcasts voiced by celebrities such as Joanna Lumley.varietyclub.org.uk/mrmenThis is no jokeConstantComedy is a 24/7 online comedy and social networking service, now in beta. Viewers can vote on acts.constantcomedy.comUnhappy in ITIT workers came 66th out of 81 for job satisfaction in a Department of Trade &amp; Industry survey of 22,500 UK employees.PDF:bath.ac.ukGrowing ComodoComodo's free security programs for Windows now include anti-malware and antivirus software.comodo.comGmail T-shirtsGoogle's Gmail has received 192 entries so far in its T-shirt design competition.gmailblog.blogspot.com
From what feels like the umpteenth penguin movie this year, we get the inevitable multi-format spin off; and, like Happy Feet, it knows its limits. It's a surfing game, and a rudimentary one at that. Playing as some of the movie's 10 characters, your progress is largely on-rails with the controller used to avoid hazards, jump and pull off tricks. It looks pretty good too (albeit far better on PS3 or 360) with the split-screen version particularly impressive. But merely progressing from one level to the next of the same limited gameplay soon wears thin, and movie sound samples don't make it more than a "casual" game with a big studio licence.
CS3 - the latest version of the industry-standard collection of software for design creatives - has issues with installing. And, given that the full Master Suite - containing software including Photoshop, InDesign and Dreamweaver - costs &pound;2,313.58 from the Adobe online shop, it's not surprising that the internet is full of outrage.I received my copy last weekend and set about installing it on my Vista machine. Four DVDs and 45 minutes later, I got an error message telling me that various components - including Acrobat, Photoshop and InDesign - had failed to install. A quick Google told me that I was not alone. Adobe's support forum is full of wails, while other sites have suggestions for fixes that range from the merely annoying - removing every single instance of Adobe software by hand from the Windows registry - to the nuclear: reinstalling the OS.It's not just Windows users, either; Macheads are suffering, too. So what's wrong? Adobe says you can run into problems if you installed a trial version, while others suggest it's something to do with previous versions of Flash.Adobe feels my pain. "We know how painful this is and will continue to closely monitor and respond to issues. We are also taking steps to ensure this doesn't happen in future," it said.Unfortunately, it doesn't say what steps it's taking, but if you're thinking of installing any CS3 programs, you should visit its support website and search the Knowledgebase, which includes instructions on how to clean up your system.After three attempts to install the suite, I gave up and reinstalled Vista. The very first thing I did once I was back up in Windows, even before going online, was to install CS3. And guess what? It worked.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A recentNew Yorker piecesuggested that there are more than 170,000,000,000 emails sent every day. Of these billions, most are spam: something between 100bn and 150bn spam messages are sent every single day. That means that if Bill Gates were to put everyone on Earth online tomorrow, there would be spam enough for everyone: the newest born Bushman baby in the world could expect to get 20 offers of penis enlargement in her first day out of the womb.What these figures show is that spam is not a technological problem; to treat it as such is to ensure that our defeat in the long war will go on forever and get steadily worse. The metastatic monstrosity of spam is instead a political and economic problem, so the cures will involve political and economic action. Somehow, spamming has to be made unprofitable. In an ideal world it would be dangerous too, but danger alone might never be enough to stop spam. The death penalty for spammers could not be justified on purely utilitarian grounds.What makes spamming so attractive to criminals is that the cost and dangers are borne entirely by the victims. These are mostly ISPs and partly their customers. Any better solution will still involve a cost to us. But we could hope to arrange the costs and benefits so that they encourage pro-social behaviour; at present they do the opposite.For pure spam, I think that this has to mean micro-charging for email "stamps". This mechanism wasfirst suggested, to my knowledge, by Tim Bray. It would require some large, central authorities - the size of national governments, or of Google, or Microsoft - to apply to email some kind of digital stamp certifying that it had been sent by whoever claimed to do so, and that the content had not been tampered with.These certificates would cost money. That is what makes them valuable as a certificate that the email is not spam. Even a cost of one cent an email would destroy the economics of spam campaigns - and the record of payment would also destroy the anonymity of spammers. Once such a system was in place, it would be open to anyone, and any ISP, only to accept paid-for email; even if they did not, there is a guarantee that stamped and paid-for email would not be almost any form of spam.Of course, this solution isn't perfect. Among the losers are poor people, for whom even 1&cent; a message might be a notable cost. It is certain that some harmless granny whose computer was owned by a botnet would get a bill for $10,000 from Microsoft or Google or whichever after it sent out 1m Viagra spams one evening. But a few stories like that would inculcate a culture of computer hygiene more quickly than you could believe. ISPs would be faced with the choice between rotten publicity (and going broke as customers defected) and installing efficient botnet detection mechanisms. They would choose the latter and we all would benefit.The choice, it seems to me, is not between free and paid-for email, or between an open and closed internet. It is between paying for inefficient means of combating spam, and more efficient ones. Shifting the balance of cost and risk would do a lot to eliminate the sorts of spam that are merely selling things very few people can ever buy. It wouldn't do much about the more profitable, if less irritating, end of the business: stock scams and phishing attacks.Pump and dump scams are not just a problem of spam. Some people make money off them knowing that they are scams, but figuring that there will be a bigger fool along soon. Stopping them requires action from stock exchanges; again, this is not a technological fix.Phishing is perhaps the hardest of all these problems to deal with socially. It may well be sufficiently profitable that some would continue even if spam cost real money to send out. But the problem there, too, is social: the companies that phishers impersonate have spent years trying to seem friendly and easy to access electronically. Maybe banks would be safer for all of us if their websites were as forbidding as any building where real money is kept.&middot;thewormbook.com/helmintholog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Computers can recognise faces in pictures, and even (it's often claimed - and disputed) filter out porn images from normal ones. But can they understand what is copyrighted content and what isn't? That's the problem facing engineers at Google-owned video site YouTube. But while the company says it is developing software to do just that, some experts are suggesting that the challenges are more to do with business than technology.In March, YouTube was served with a $1bn (&pound;497m) copyright infringement lawsuit by Viacom, which claimed that copyright-protected videos had been viewed 1.5bn times on the site. In May, the Football Association Premier League launched a class action lawsuit against YouTube, and has since been joined by other content providers.The site said recently that it would roll out better technology to help detect copyright-protected video content: "Apart from being reactive and removing content when asked, what we have in place now is our digital hashing technology."Unique hashWhen someone uploads a video, YouTube feeds the binary digits making up the file into a program that produces a short alphanumeric string representing that file. Each file's string - or hash - is unique. YouTube can compare the hash for an uploaded video against a database of hashes for copyright files. If it finds a match, it knows that someone else owns the video.You might wonder why YouTube is in court at all. In 1996, the WIPO Copyright Treaty introduced guidelines that were then reflected in national legislation such as the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act. The treaty relied on copyright holders notifying violators, who would then take infringing content down.But in the late 1990s, most people were thinking about internet service providers and static websites, says Duncan Calow, a partner at Piper DLA. "Along came peer-to-peer and web 2.0, and then you had to ask what the position is for all these new people, who aren't ISPs," he says.But experts back up Viacom's claims that YouTube's technology doesn't work very well. "It's no solution at all, for anyone who has the intent to subvert it," says Suranga Chandratillake, chief executive of video search company BlinkX. Changing the colour of a pixel in a single frame or shaving a second of video could change the file's hash, making it impossible to match it in the database.That's why YouTube is working on smarter fingerprinting technology. It still generates a unique string for each file (called a fingerprint), but it does it by trying to understand the unique characteristics of the content. This makes it less susceptible to alteration.Different fingerprinting technology vendors look for different elements within a video clip. These may include the amount of a certain colour in the image, the pattern of frequencies in the audio track, or perhaps the straightest line on the screen.Fingerprinting technology vendor LTU Technologies, based in Paris and Washington DC, concentrates on what what its chief technology officer Alexandre Winter calls the "image DNA". "It contains an analysis of the visual structure of the image," he explains. "The colour arrangements, the textures, the shades - things like that."Another vendor, Audible Magic, examines the audio contained in a video clip. It lets content owners analyse their own video so that when someone uploads a video to a participating video site, the site can fingerprint the video on the fly and check it against the company's database.Such systems generally need the fingerprint of the original copyrighted content as a reference, so that they know what to look for, explains Sean Varah, president of fingerprint technology vendor MotionDSP, based in California.With more than 5m prints in his database, Audible Magic's chief executive Vance Ikezoye is promoting the company as a copyright-checking service that automatically mediates between content owners and video distribution sites. But for the time being, he is only using his own technology. Unless he can sign all the major video distribution sites, content owners in his stable today, such as 20th Century Fox, could have to index their content multiple times to satisfy sites using different fingerprinting technologies.You might expect the content owners would club together and ratify their own fingerprinting standard, index all their content using the same technology, and perhaps even operate an online service of their own for the video distribution sites.  But that is unrealistic, warns Calow. "The reality of competitiveness pressures [and] jealousies has shown that getting that support is very difficult," he says.That's good for Izekoye, who needs market share to succeed. He has already penned deals with sites including MySpace, Bebo and Microsoft's forthcoming Soapbox site. And competition is emerging. Last week, Silicon Valley company BayTSP, which built its business by scanning websites looking for infringing content, launched a similar online service designed to connect content owners with video distribution sites.Commercial assetBut YouTube won't be using either service. Why has it chosen to develop fingerprinting internally, rather than use an off-the-shelf service? One answer could be that the fingerprint files will be worth money in their own right. Each one is a quick way of finding out what someone is watching, and therefore a good way to target online advertising. Advertising represents almost all of YouTube owner Google's business - and to date, YouTube's contribution to the search company's revenues have been negligible."If someone could make money by generating ads just because a viewer watched [part of the film] Transformers, Paramount would want to be involved in that," Ishikawa says. He warns content owners not to give up their content without a financial agreement: "They will be a commercial asset."While the industry tries to solve the copyright infringement problem, still more legal questions are just around the corner. Does a fingerprint file constitute a derivative work? In other words, if the fingerprint has financial value of its own, should we call it a new piece of commercial work and if so, does the owner of the work that was fingerprinted also therefore own the copyright of the fingerprint?  One thing's for sure: as the industry tries to solve such questions, the lawyers won't be out of pocket.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A good day for 2K Games. Bioshock is pulling in astonishing scores all over the place: Eurogamer gives it 10/10, Game Informer goes with 10 as well, PC Gamer says 95 percent. The latter concludes its gushing review with, "I spend my career, and my gaming life, waiting for a moment when a game just astonishes me, when I can't believe what I'm seeing, what I'm doing. BioShock has five."You've downloaded the demo right?The interesting thing is - this game does violence, it does quite gruesome violence, but it does it with style, intelligence, context, ideas, integrity, imagination... And, hey, no sign of a negative BBFC ruling.Also, 2K Games will be handling the newly revealed game fromGearbox, the makers of Brothers in Arms as well as several Half-Life spin-offs. Borderlands is described on the cover of American magazine Game Informer as 'Diablo meets Mad Max' - the FPS adventure features character customisation, vehicular combat and an online co-op mode. Lots of people are already drawing comparisons withid's recently announced, Rage. There are a few new features though. Fromefluxmedia.com:"Borderlands features a groundbreaking content generation system allowing for near-endless variety in missions, environments, enemies, weapons, item drops and character customization. Apparently, it will be an open-space FPS with RPG elements (much like STALKER, Shadow of Chernobyl or id Software's upcoming Rage), set up in a post apocalyptic décor, but we'll hopefully have more details in the next few days.'Borderlands represents an important evolutionary leap in game design and technology,' said Christoph Hartmann, President of 2K.'By utilizing revolutionary new technology to create thousands of unique, randomly generated missions, weapons and situations, Borderlands will raise the bar for next gen action games.'"It's due out winter 2008 on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC.
The latest ABC magazine circulation figures were released today. The Xbox mags are doing okay. Official Xbox 360 is up to 65,673 from 56,000, while Xbox 360 World stands at 30,296, a 31 percent boost in year-on-year figures. Those are both from Future, while Imagine Publishing's 360 crept up from 11,369 to 12,017 and X360 risen from the 28,000 mark to 30,179 issues. Uncooked Media's 360 Gamer is at 12,586."Future's PlayStation portfolio is looking grim in contrast,"writesGamesindustry.biz. "with all titles recording a drop in circulation. Official PlayStation 2 figures are now below 44,200, compared to 76,300 for the period ended in December. Unofficial titles PlayStation World (17,132) PSM3 (24,121) and cheat magazine Powerstation (15,171) are all down."As for PC mags, they're all down - PC Gamer is at 41,600, PC Zone at 24,400 and PC Format at 28,300. Multi-format mags have slumped too since the establishment of the next-gen consoles: Edge is down to 30,021 and Games Master is on 47,719. GamesTM has not posted ABCs for this period.Finally, Official Nintendo Magazine is doing 47,925 (a 35% year-on-year rise according to Future). There are no figures from the independent titles.Pretty downbeat really, but also predictable. PS2 is slowly fading into its good night, while the Official Xbox and Nintendo magazine are doing decent business - although nowhere near the halycon days of Official PlayStation Magazine in its glory days (in the 200,000s). It'll be interesting to see how the new all-inclusive Official PlayStation Magazine fares when it posts its first figures - I hope my successive Haze and Assassin's Creed cover features haven't done too much damage.One last thing, Future has posted ABC figures for its online duo: "Social gaming website GamesRadar attracts 3.25 million unique users a month, whilst its companion-site for hardcore gamers, CVG has some 1.56 million unique users each month." I don't think that Eurogamer or Pocket Gamer are officially audited in this way - would be interesting to compare the big UK games sites.So, are you still buying games magazines? And where do you tend to go for your online news fix? Apart from here of course.
There is an interesting little debate going on, started by a post from the famous former Wall Street (Merrill Lynch) analyst Henry Blodget:Running the Numbers: Why Newspapers Are Screwed(seehere).Blodget looked at The New York Times and reckoned that although going online reduced costs, compared with printing on paper, it reduced profits even more.There were some interesting responses, particularly one from Seamus McCauley at Virtual Economics onWhy newspapers are not screwed(here). The gist of it was that as more papers went bust, the survivors would become more valuable. "If most news publishers are to fall by the wayside, the market in which those remaining operate will be very different."Now Blodget has fired back withThe Great Advertising Share Shift: Google Sucks Life Out Of Old Mediaat hisSilicon Alley Insider. He points out that online advertising revenue at the big four (Google, Yahoo, AOL and MSN) is up by 42% while "US advertising revenue at 15 big television, newspaper, magazine, radio, and outdoor companies (Time Warner, Viacom, CBS, etc)shrankby $280 million in Q2, or 3%." (He's also published hisspreadsheet.)"Traditional media executives are doing a superb job of milking cash flow out of shrinking businesses, but you can't save your way to prosperity," says Blodget.Perhaps the situation is even worse than Blodget thinks. Newspapers are responding to the decline of print and finding new markets by going online: The Guardian has done that very successfully. But asJakob Nielsenpointed out in my interview last week, Google "takes a big percentage of the money. The web is a web, and that is good, but companies invest a lot of money in creating content, and the money goes to Google for indexing it."If it wasn't Google, of course, it would be Yahoo, MSN or some other search engine site. Google is more of a problem not because of what it does, exactly, but because it's so damned good at it.So, are newspapers really screwed, and if so, what could we do about it?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yanko Design has a short item (and photo) of abendy phoneconcept design. It has a flexible plastic housing. "You can drop it, bend it, sit on it, toss it around, and give it to Naomi Campbell to throw at her assistant without detriment." No, you can't actually buy one.
Armchair Assassin points the gamesblog tothis Gamasutra articlefrom last week about the attempts of the US Library of Congress to "preserve" computer games and virtual worlds.'Course, they're only interested in American games, and why not. Surely we have the British Library to do the same? One might think so. Then again, it was only last week that the head of EIDOS, Jane Cavanagh,slammed the UK governmentfor "starving development studios" of needed creative funds. Trade bodyELSPA also weighed in.Meanwhile, theBBC has backed downfrom rumours that they're moving into development, so it seems like the only government-associated bodies rooting for the games team areOfcomand the recently deceasedDfES.It's not surprising the UK's development industryhas slipped to 4th place.
Controversial publisher Rockstar is asking for the industry's support in its battle to revoke the BBFC's 'no rating because it's revolting' decision on Manhunt 2. In an interview with Develop, Rockstar Leeds chief Gordon Hall, said:"But if you look at a film like Man Bites Dog, it makes Manhunt look tame in comparison, but that film can be bought by anyone aged 18... We need to teach people that games are an art form - they are more artistic than film."I think the games industry should rally behind us, because there will come a time when we'll all have an idea that's a little edgy, and we need to have the freedoms to express it."We are an adult entertainment industry - we may have started out with child-like technology making games solely for a younger audience, but it's just not like that anymore. It might take legislature a little while to catch up, but if the industry sticks together hopefully we can change people's attitudes quicker."Well, first of all, Man Bites Dog was a small, independent foreign language film, which received a tiny cinema run, and which had salient points to make about the nature of violence and the voyeurism of the mass media age. Manhunt 2 is a mainstream release about virtually context-free extreme violence. There's a bit of a difference here - even if we don't want to admit it to ourselves; even if we rail against the elitism and classism implicit in the suggestion that it's okay for arty middle-class cinema goers to experience hyper violence but not the hoi polloi in front of their games machines.Plus, how adult is Manhunt 2? I mean really? Some of the defences I've read for the game in various magazines have been laughable - the sulky squealings of little boys who've been told they won't get to pull the wings off a daddy long legs today.At least be honest. Manhunt 2 - like Saw and Hostel - is a trashy piece of gore for frothy-mouthed teenagers. Except it shows the acts of violence in the sort of gratuitous detail wethinkwe see in movies, but rarely do.I can't imagine slogan-shouting industry execs gathering behind Rockstar at the gates of Downing Street. Weeks after the BBFC decision I'm still not sure whether this is a game that fundementally needs to be defended, or whether lines must be drawn for the makers of mainstream entertainment. I just know that citing films that only a tiny percentage of the population have seen is not the way to build an argument.
Lots of fun from the world of next-gen consoles this week. It all started on Monday when US news sources started picking up on apreview of Splinter Cell: Convictionfeatured on Aussie site, Gameplayer. In it, the game's producer Dany Lepage seems to trash PS3's AI capabilities. from the preview:"So, Conviction is confirmed for PC and Xbox 360. But what about the other consoles? Double Agent was a 360 exclusive for a whole week. On this issue, Danny could give us a firm answer. "It's NEVER gonna come out on the PS3 or the Wii." It's a logical decision. Nintendo's console simply doesn't have the graphical horsepower, and he candidly told us how the PS3 can't handle AI nearly as well as the 360."Naturally, Xbox fanboys leapt on this delicious titbit like banned attack dogs.Today, though, Sony struck back. The company's US mouthpiece Dave Karrakerstruck back, snarling, "PS3 can more than handle AI... as you will see with Heavenly Sword, which has hundreds of on-screen enemies with different AI routines at one time thanks to the power of CELL."But the excitement doesn't end there. Also today, EA has been 'forced' (asked) toexplainwhy the latest version of Madden runs at 60 frames-per-second on Xbox 360, but only 30FPS on PS3. It's not a technical issue this time however, according to an EA Sports technical support chap emailed by a concerned PS3-owning Maddenite:"In the case of the next-generation consoles, many publishers have been developing titles for the Xbox 360 for over 3 1/2 years while everyone who publishes now for the PlayStation 3 with the exception of Sony has been developing for the PlayStation 3 for only a little over one full year. The differences in the overall knowledge of the hardware is vastly different for both consoles and, as is the case with newer technology, it is very difficult to get it right the first time."Convincing enough. Yet a member of the Call of Duty 4 team - another graphically demanding third-party franchise - has beenassuring gamerson several forums that the game will run in 60fps on both Xbox 360 and PS3. So has Activision had its dev kits longer than EA? That doesn't seem right...Anyway, one final kick in the chops for Sony - Xbox 360 sales in the US have risen by 50 percent since last week's price cut making it the best selling HD console in the country. (Morehere.)The amusing thing is, while PS3 and Xbox 360 watchers quibble over small victories, Wii is just motoring ahead regardless.According to Eurogamer, the console is soon to hit the one million sales mark in the UK - it's now outselling Xbox 360 by four to one, and by October should be the biggest selling console in the country.Do Nintendo execs just wake up laughing every morning?
Last year, New Zealand-based academic Peter Gutmann attracted a lot of attention with a"research paper": A Cost Analysis of Windows Vista Content Protection. I blogged it.What's odd is that Gutmann doesn't seem to have used Vista, and some of the things he says (or is said to have said) are not true. For example, aNetworkWorld.comreport last week's the USENIX Security Symposium is headlined: "Vista prevents users from playing high-def content, researcher says".This assertion is so obviously wrong that you have to wonder what NetworkWorld.com thinks it's doing. There could be millions of people who have, with their own eyes, seen Vista playing high-def content from commercial discs (eg HD DVD) or downloads or stuff they've shot with their own HD camcorders."This is not commercial HD content being blocked, this is the users' own content," Gutmann said. "The more premium content you have, the more output is disabled."Really? So we have a Vista researcher who didn't notice that, for example, the latest Vista fix-packs offer "better HD DVD/Blu-ray playback" (CDR Info).BothEd BottandGeorge Ouhave now taken Gutmann to task on their ZD Net blogs. Ou mentions the popularity of Gutmann's paper and says bluntly: "There's just one little problem: Gutmann's theories are unsubstantiated and they're all wrong."Ou says Gutmann's claims about CPU use have been disproven by tests atAnandtech, and thatArs Technicahas "debunked some of Gutmann's other crazy claims". He concluded (before some ruder updates):Peter Gutmann if you're reading this, have you even bothered to do any research before you make your claims? As for the media that keeps citing Peter Gutmann, have you guys checked the validity of Gutmann's claims? I have thoroughly debunked Peter Gutmann's claims and it's time we put this nonsense to sleep.Last year, Vista was a bit of an unknown, but today it's the world's second most used operating system, after Windows XP. It must have reached New Zealand. Seems to me that Peter Gutmann should step up to the challenge, and either do the research needed to substantiate his claims or withdraw his paper. Seems to me that doing neither reduces his credibility to zero. Sorry.
Google is looking to defend itself in a $1bn court battle by calling American TV stars Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert as witnesses, it has emerged.According to documents filed in a New York district court, Stewart - host of the popular satirical news programme The Daily Show - and his colleague Colbert are on a list of witnesses for deposition in the case brought by their employer, Viacom.The billion-dollar lawsuit, filed last year by the company which owns MTV and Comedy Central, accuses Google's videosharing website, YouTube, of encouraging users to pirate copyrighted material. It is the first major action brought against the site since it was bought by Google in 2005 for $1.65bn.It is thought that Google's lawyers are keen to interview Stewart and Colbert because they have both been supporters of YouTube in the past, becoming cult fixtures and appearing in some of the most popular videos.  Colbert has even asked viewers to help spread the word of his show, a parody of rightwing talkshows, by uploading viral videos taken from TV. The pair appear on a list of 30 names issued by Google for depositions, including  Viacom chairman Sumner Redstone. In response, Viacom has requested depositions from Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin - as well as chief executive Eric Schmidt, plus YouTube creators Chad Hurley and Steven Chen.The two companies are likely to squabble over the witness list before it is finalised and the case goes to trial, unlikely before the end of 2008. One legal expert likened the deposition process to "a fishing expedition".
It's that time of the month again. Yesterday, Microsoft distributed this month's round-up of patches, as describedhere. My main XP SP2 system, running AutoUpdate, got about a dozen updates and needed a restart, but it all went smoothly.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Photograph byMatt CashmoreYesterday saw a protest by the Free Software Foundation'sDefective by Designcampaign outside the BBC's Television Centre in London and the corporation base in Manchester.The Registerpopped along:In filthy weather, about 20 assorted free software and open source advocates turned out at the BBC's Television Centre in west London. The protesters donned yellow jumpsuits and picketed a series of BBC offices clustered around White City. A couple of passing police showed similarly passing interest in the gaggle.. The photograph above is part of asettaken by Matt Cashmore ofBBC Backstage.
Photo of Lompoc by coolcaesar from the ciy'sWikipediaentryThe arrival of cheap Wi-Fi prompted thousands of towns and cities to imagine how easy it would be -- and how useful -- to offer networking as part of the local infrastructure. Local residents would love it if they had free Wi-Fi access and it would be a boon for businesses. And firms queued up to install and run systems.Almost everything was right about all this, except for the economics. Some of the companies that thought they'd make money out of municipal Wi-Fi are finding it harder than they expected. BusinessWeek gives a good example in an article,Why Wi-Fi Networks Are Floundering:Take Lompoc, Calif., population 42,000. The city deployed its 11.3-square-mile Wi-Fi network last September, at a cost of more than $2 million so far. Today the network brags of just 442 users. Though Mayor Dick DeWees hopes to reach 1,000 users by year-end, the network needs 4,000 paying customers just to cover its annual operating costs. In Lompoc's case, the city is wealthy enough to absorb the expense for several years to fund a project it deems a public good. But companies are bound to be less patient.In the early days, suppliers competed to build Wi-Fi networks free, and would kick back a percentage of their subscription and advertising income. Now, cities have to pay to get deals. "The days of a service provider coming in without a city commitment are over," asserts Pelosi of MetroFi.One of the problems, which suppliers should have recognised at the start, is that Wi-Fi generally isn't good enough to provide home broadband services worth paying for. Plenty of people have problems with walls and so on, even when they have their own Wi-Fi systems.Of course, all those problems should be solved by the arrival of WiMax, which we've been writing about for four years now. Seethis Guardian article, for example:Wireless broadband will soon be everywhere, says Bill Pechey. It just isn't clear which version we will useI'm still optimistic about WiMax, but that's probably because I've never used it. I'm still far from convinced that copper is dead, that we'll never install fibre, and that we're all going to go unwired. What do you think?
Editing your own entry on Wikipedia is usually the province of vain celebrities keen for some good PR. But a new website has uncovered dozens of companies that have been editing the site in order to improve their public image.The Wikipedia Scanner, which trawls the backwaters of the popular online encyclopaedia, has unearthed a catalogue of organisations massaging entries, including the CIA and the Labour party.Workers operating on CIA computers have been spotted editing entries including the biography of former presidents Ronald Reagan and Richard Nixon, while unnamed individuals inside the Vatican have worked on entries about Catholic saints - and Sinn F&eacute;in leader Gerry Adams.Meanwhile, an anonymous surfer from Labour's Millbank headquarters excised a section about Labour Students which referred to "careerist MPs" and criticisms that the party's student movement was no longer seen as radical.And somebody from a computer traced to Democrat HQ edited a page on conservative American radio host Rush Limbaugh, calling him "idiotic", "ridiculous" and labelling his 20 million listeners as "legally retarded".But the biggest culprit that the Scanner claims to have discovered is Diebold, a supplier of voting machines, which it says has made huge alterations to entries about its involvement in the controversial "hanging chad" election in the US in 2000. The company was criticised in the wake of the disputed results, but edits made by its employees on Wikipedia have included the removal of 15 paragraphs detailing the allegations."In August 2003 Walden O'Dell, chief executive of Diebold, announced that he had been a top fundraiser for George W Bush ..." the deleted text read. "When assailed by critics for the conflict of interest ... he vowed to lower his political profile."The change, made two years ago, was quickly reversed and the culprit warned off for "vandalism". A Diebold official was not available for comment.It is not the first time people have been found editing their own Wikipedia entries, which is considered a breach of etiquette on the site. Last year some US Congressional staff were found to be removing information they deemed unsavoury from the profiles of the politicians they worked for, and this year computer group Microsoft back-pedalled after it was revealed to have offered money to experts to "correct" entries about it on the site.The Scanner, built by Virgil Griffith, a researcher at the California Institute of Technology, works by comparing 5.3m edits made on the encyclopaedia against the internet addresses of more than 2m companies or individuals.Edited entriesRepublican partyApparently replaced the term "occupying forces" with "liberating" in an article referring to the Iraq war. Somewhat less controversially, a Republican staffer also rewrote a biography of American revolutionary leader George Rogers Clark.Democrat partySomebody using a computer inside Democrat HQ edited a page on conservative American radio host Rush Limbaugh, calling him "idiotic", "ridiculous" and labelling his 20 million listeners as "legally retarded".Fox NewsUsers traced back to the rightwing TV station have edited a number of pages about its presenters, including excising information about reporter Shepard Smith, who became infamous after saying "blowjob" on air.CIAAlongside numerous revisions about America's national security and geography, a surfer using a CIA address also took the time to add extensive sections on lightsabre combat in the Star Wars movies.Labour partyA section on Labour Students was edited to remove a section on the rise of the career politician. "It is sometimes claimed that Labour Students has helped the rise of careerists within the party at the expense of more radical leftwingers," said the deleted text.
Fascinating, how when creatives get stuck in ruts, they turn to other media's ruts to get them out. At this year'sEdinburgh Interactive, the folks from Endemol - yes, Big Brother's Endemol -gave a presentationon how they're trying to develop interactive content with the themes of reality TV. And you know what? It seems to be a resounding success.Final. Nail. In. Coffin.Endemol are no stranger to gaming; I remember speaking several years back to an Endemol exec about gaming applications for their pre-BB properties. They wanted in in abadway. So now that they've got the bums of Britain on millions of seats interacting with television in the only way that media allows (hello text-voting), they're trying to get the fingertips of the world interacting with the nincompoops who thrust themselves and their psychoses into our living rooms.Now Endemol aren't the first big media organisation to get involved in these parts. MTV, most recently, has been using There.com to extend its reality TV show branding for products like Virtual Laguna Beach and Virtual Hills. Apparently they're doing rather well, too.Which means Endemol'spathetic Big Brother attemptin Second Life (yet another example of hownotto get into virtual worlds), was just the beginning. According to Endemol's Peter Cowley, the future feels a little bitKate Modern(a concept that worked well when no one knew they were being duped), and a lotDeal or No Deal.Hey, I'm all for expanding content and bringing new IP to the table, but surely this is a step backwards rather than a step in the right direction? I mean, how interactive is Big Brother,really?
Your article (Direct mail reaches beyond the grave, Technology, August 9) was a particularly interesting read for me as the founder of an organisation that has stopped over 200 million items of mail being sent to the deceased in the last six years. We have long campaigned for the release of deceased data, and we believe we have been instrumental in persuading key stakeholders to release the data for crime-prevention purposes.However, the idea that the register of deaths should be made available to all and sundry in some naive attempt to sticky plaster over the problem is absurd. The are already numerous accounts of bouquet companies sending offers on the anniversary of someone's death, or singles holiday companies targeting the newly single or, perhaps most worryingly, dubious characters going door to door to prey on vulnerable pensioners shortly after losing their lifetime partner. Sourcing data to achieve this is already child's play; we should be tightening up, not contemplating further relaxation.Ironically the MoD sends out a help pack to the families of soldiers that have died which would have included a Bereavement Register form, but does not use the register to screen its mailings.Mark RoyChief executive, The REaD Group plc
Just in case you missed this, Microsoft has announced the winners of its 2007Dream-Build-Play competition, which challenges coders to build a game using the hobbyist game coding kit,XNA Game Studio Express.Two games - a winner and runner-up - were to be offered the chance to put their games on Xbox Live Arcade, but it turns out both positions resulted in a dead heat, so four games should be appearing on the site soon: Blazing Birds, an innovative badminton sim (morehere); The Tim Burton-esque Dishwasher: Dead Samurai (videohere); multiplayer space shooter, Gravitron Ultra (morehere); and pirate romp, Yo Ho Kablammo!, written by game design students at the University of Huddersfield (morehere).Quite an interesting bunch and a welcome contrast to the recent influx of early eighties arcade gems.
Been struggling with that Rubik's Cube that your friend/enemy/relation bought you? Got it to two layers perfect but the third just won't come right? Consider this:anyRubik's Cube can be solved in 26 moves or less, according toDan CunkleandGene Coopermanat Northeastern University, Boston.It took a supercomputer (of course!) but also some reduction: apparently there are 43 quintillion configurations for the cube (that's 43 million billion).Of course, some of those are the same and some can be solved quickly. They got it to 29 moves, and then - aiming to beat the previous demonstrated record, of 27 moves - reduced it to just 80 million configurations to try to solve in 26 moves or fewer.Their paper (http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/gene/papers/rubik.pdf) details how it's done.Read more at theMath Trek blogandScience Daily.
Okay, so this cute story about 2K Games' lip-smackingly enticing shooter has been around for a day or so, but it's worth mentioning on here, if only as a reminder to experience the huge demo Microsoft put on Live over the weekend, or to download the free Bioshock artbook:Breaking the Mold. According to the game's senior designer, Joe McDonagh, recentlyinterviewed on CVG, the company spent years hawking the game to a variety of publishers, but no-one wanted it."I remember pitching the game to one publisher who later told a friend of mine that it was 'just another fucking PC FPS that's going to sell 250,000 units.'... Something I realised very quickly was that as much as your boss won't ever know that you turned down a future game of the year, he will know that you signed up a turkey. You don't get fired for not taking risks. That kind of mentality is driving the industry into a creative cul de sac."This sort of thing must happen all the time - or at least it would have done before most decent independent developers were purchased by major publishers. The famous example is EA turning down Championship Manager because the company didn't see a market for it (Sports Interactive still has the letter). I also know of several games developed in-house for major publishers that were dropped when the studio changed management or re-aligned its creative direction. The original Conker's Quest on N64, for example - later re-imagined as Conker's Bad Fur Day. And then there are the games cancelled when their target platform ran out of steam. Star Fox 2 maybe (how come I can only think of Nintendo examples?) I wonder how many amazing titles we've lost that way?Or maybe we haven't lost any. I mean, the Beatlesdidget signed after the famous Decca slight. JK Rowlingdidfind a publisher for Harry Potter after dozens of rejections. A while ago, Gamespot published alist of canned games- there's not much on it that excites me. Of course, Bioshock was a different situation - it was just a concept. But even in our ultra-conservative industry I can't image an interesting game like this being turned down byevery one. Timing might be everything. Maybe genius always finds a way in the end.One thing about videogames, though - it's unlikely lost classics will be unearthed at a later date and belatedly hailed for their genius, as has happened in other areas (Van Gogh, Nick Drake, etc). Publishers tend to be pretty ruthless, burying away source code on ancient hard drives, moving on with no sense of history or preservation. There are not enough nostalgics in the upper echelons of videogame companies to ensure that unreleased or unsuccesful titles aren't just disposed of. Maybe now that we have Wii's Virtual Console and PlayStation Store we might see old gems unearthed and re-assessed - wouldn't it be amazing if Sony releasedPolicenautsfor download to coincide with the release of Metal Gear Solid 4?Any other lost game/modern release tie-ins?
Users who don't behave themselves online could be cut off, says Sony's Peter Edward, director of the Home platform, speaking at the Edinburgh Interactive Festival.GamesIndustry.bizreports:"Ultimately we know a user's details, we know machine details and we know where they live," said Edward."If you really, really misbehave you can have your console disconnected at a machine level, so you would actually have to move house and buy a new PS3 before you could get online again."That sounds like a challenge....
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
After around 100 incidents of overheating mobile phones, Nokia is issuing an advisory for a massive number of Matsushita-made batteries.Nokia has identified that in very rare cases the Nokia-branded BL-5C batteries subject to the product advisory could potentially experience overheating initiated by a short circuit while charging, causing the battery to dislodge. Nokia is working closely with Matsushita and will be cooperating with relevant authorities to investigate this situation.Apparently this affects "only" affects 46 million batteries, but the company says no serious injuries have occurred. It's far from good news; the replacement process is likely to be incredibly expensive - and the company is already taking a beating on the stock exchange.The affected batteries were made between December 2005 and November 2006 -there are more details on the Nokia site.Update:A Nokia representative just called to say that this isn't legally a product recall. However, any affected individuals can send their batteries back to Nokia and get them replaced for free. I've edited this post to reflect that.
Cory Doctorow. Photograph: Bart NagelWe've just the published latest column on DRM fromCory Doctorow, who - following - continues to take the industry that's selling digital rights management to the media.This time he says we need to stopfalling for the "Potemkin demo"- the perfect and unachieveable world in which DRM is sold to vendors.The DRM business model is the urinary tract infection of media experiences: all of the uses that used to come in an easy gush now come in a mingy, painful dribble - a few pennies out of your pocket every time you want to watch a show again, hit the pause button, or rewind.It's timely, given Google's Video decision tostop its DRM-based video salesservice (much to the irritation of those who have paid for movies and now lost them).
Aliceis right. Thereare some stellar partiesattached to theVirtual Worlds Forum, taking place in London in October. But I'm not yet at liberty to say what they are either, even though, like the Wonderland author, I'm on the advisory board.But it's not just about the ligging (o rilly?), the event promises to bea rather international spectacleof who's who in the virtual worlds, er, world. If you have any interest in this arena, particularly from a business perspective, you might want tohead hereto find out more.And if you are indeed curious enough to come to the big smoke to find out what's going on, I may have some discounts to hand out. Contact us at the usual address (gamesblog+at+gmail.com). You can also join the Facebook group (if you're inclined towards social softwares).And speaking of virtual worlds news + events, theEdinburgh Interactive Festival(formerly EIGF and EIEF) - currently happening in sunny Scotland - not only features a keynote withBabbage Lindenof Second Life (he who inspiredthis gamesblog postabout games that aren't), but it's being piggybacked byRen'sDIS:E. Yes, yes, I've mentioned thesebefore, but thought I'd get a wee notation in again. If anyone hears about coverage from either of these events, do let us know at the above email address.Me, I'm off to Singapore tomorrow for the State of Play conference. I'll be talking about internet ethics in virtual worlds. I'll be away for a fortnight, also visiting Kuala Lumpur, from whence I was born.Gads, with all this PhD writing up and conferencing, I feel I've got virtual worlds coming out of every pore.
When Soviet bureaucrats wanted to impress foreign visitors with the success of the grand experiment, they would visit Potemkin villages - fake towns where actors pretended to be living a life of luxury amid bulging granaries and well-paved streets bustling with happy babushkas pushing prams.It was a facade, a veneer, a sham. The actors lived in squalor, in crumbling tenements built with the typical Soviet love of concrete.When entertainment executives are given tours of digital rights management technology, they are being fooled in just the same way. These Potemkin demonstrations depict a universe of happy devices, all seamlessly interoperating, tossing media back and forth to one another in a superbly orchestrated fashion. In this world the honest users are kept honest, are gently turned aside from overstepping their privileges, and are happy to pay a tiny sum for the right to do something new.These demos almost never involve real hardware. It's so much easier to do interoperability when all it takes to make two devices communicate is to draw a dotted line between them on a slide. And when the demos do involve real hardware, it's usually all from one vendor, and only within a constrained universe of uses.In reality, it's bloody hard to get any two technologies to talk to each other successfully. Remember how hard it was to get your new wireless card, printer or DVD recorder to work? Now, imagine that these technologies had been deliberately designed not to work with each other - except under the exactly correct circumstances.Microsoft's PlaysForSure platform is typical of this. All such devices, "certified" to work with each other, barely ran on their own. And God help you if you tried to connect them to a competitor's device (even Microsoft's Zune won't handle PlaysForSure music).Reithian valuesThe most recent victim of the Potemkin DRM scam is the BBC, whose iPlayer launched in July. Ostensibly, this is a "seven-day catch-up service" that allows you to download Beeb shows for up to a week after they air. You can then watch the shows up to 30 days later - but there's a seven-day lifespan as soon as you press play.Every time anyone at the Beeb proposes something weird and woolly, there's always a commissar ready to shut down the discussion by pointing out that Auntie has to serve every single licence fee payer (right down to the centenarian shepherdess whose tall antenna stands atop her shearing shed so that she can get her Power of Nightmares or Dalziel and Pascoe fix).But it's not clear to me where iPlayer fits in with the Reithian injunction for the BBC to "educate, inform and entertain". After all, 25% of licence-paying computer users don't even have the right operating system needed to use it. Most of these people aren't going to futz with their machines to get things working.Most importantly, Britons have grown up with the VCR: a show you record on there is yours forever. You can loan it to a mate, your daughter can take it with her when it's her father's custody weekend, you can plan marathons. The iPlayer is the anti-VCR, a new technology with less flexibility than its predecessor.There's no evidence that licence payers are crying out for this "business model". No one has been in Currys this week asking if they had a new gizmo that would do less with their video. Indeed, the whole premise of DRM - that audiences want to pay a few pence every time they try to use their media in a new way - is based on an a priori assumption that has precious little evidence to back it up.The DRM infectionOf course, there's always an alternative: licence payers can just download the video for free from UKNova, the Pirate Bay and their ilk. After all, if you're going to bother becoming tech-literate, why waste the energy learning to use official crippleware that gives you less, when you can just teach yourself to download the videos that your more savvy neighbours have put on the net?The DRM business model is the urinary tract infection of media experiences: all of the uses that used to come in an easy gush now come in a mingy, painful dribble - a few pennies out of your pocket every time you want to watch a show again, hit the pause button, or rewind.If the next generation of British TV viewers doesn't understand why they should pay a license fee for video they get for free from the net, or why they should buy videos that won't play on their cheap, DRM-free Chinese devices, we'll know who to blame: the BBC, and the DRM vendors who suckered them with their Potemkin demo.
No matter how sleek and snazzy Apple's new iPhone looks there is one finishing touch that its designers distinctly forgot to add – a sense of touch. Despite its novel touch screen interface, many users are still frustrated by the fact that they can't actually feel its on-screen buttons in the same way they can with their ordinary phone.With an increasing number of mobiles and portable gadgets now featuring these kinds of displays, it's a problem that has not escaped the attention of the world's largest handset manufacturer, Nokia. To address this issue the Finnish giant is now developing a new kind of tactile display capable of fooling the human senses into thinking a completely flat screen has buttons protruding out of it.It may sound fanciful, but in fact it is the latest development in a field known as haptics, which deals with manipulating the human sense of touch. While most haptic devices have so far been limited to providing fairly crude force feedback (such as in joysticks or games consoles) the latest haptic interfaces should go much further by generating completely artificial sensations.Most phones already have some form of haptic interface built into them, albeit in the very simple form of the vibration alert function, says Roope Takala, program manager of future user interfaces and interaction solutions at Nokia. Companies like San Jose-based Immersion have developed ways to use these built-in motors to generate a "click" sensation when the user presses a virtual onscreen button.This is only possible through careful control of the vibration motor. By starting and stopping it very precisely, Immersion's VibeTonz technology makes the entire handset move in such a way as to create a range of sensations, from spongy to crisp, that will be felt by a finger or stylus pressing the screen.Fooling the brain"You feel like you're pushing a button even though you're just touching a glass screen," says Vic Viegas, president and CEO of Immersion. This can have a profound impact on how you use the device, he says, because the "click" sensation gives you vital confirmation that you have pressed the button.This is possible because our sense of touch is every bit as susceptible to being fooled as our other senses, says Vincent Hayward, a leading haptics researcher at McGill University in Montreal, Canada. In much the same way we can be tricked into thinking coloured dots of a TV screen are a broad range of colours, so our sense of touch can be tricked into feeling something that isn't there. As odd as it may sound, haptic displays are in every sense analogous to other types of display, says Dr Hayward.To demonstrate he has developed an experimental prototype of a novel haptic display for mobiles, which he calls the THMB (pronounced "thumb"). This is functions like a typical swivel button, enabling users to toggle through menus. But in addition the switch also feeds tactile information to the user to generate animated icons that are felt through the skin. "It can feel like small objects moving under your fingers," he says.Unlike traditional haptic devices, THMB does not work by vibrating or poking the skin, but instead uses a technique known as skin stretch. The button itself is a flat surface, made up of eight rib-like "tractors" that can move independently and quite literally stretch the surface of the skin to generate sensations.Hayward's team have carried out some initial experiments to show that volunteers can reliably recognise different haptic icons through their thumbs. The point of such devices is that they could enable users to scroll through menus, or recognise who is calling without having to look at the display - for example if they are driving or when the device is in their pocket.Cost still an issueAt Nokia meanwhile, the company is working on taking Immersion's technology to a new level. Although it can generate sensations when an onscreen button has been pressed, it would be even more useful if we could feel the virtual buttons before pressing them. There are a number of ways to do this, says Mr Takala, but Immersion has already demonstrated it on its larger kiosk-sized touch screens. It uses two modes of sensors: one to sense the position of the hand and the other to sense button presses, says Mr Viegas.So as the user gently moves their finger over the screen the software monitors its position and vibrates the screen whenever their fingers run over a virtual button. "The glass screen is actually moving sideways but the brain perceives this as a protrusion," says Dr Hayward. Then when they press down on a button glass will vibrate to generate a different clicking sensation.For large, expensive touch screens this is may be quite feasible - but to squeeze all the hardware onto a mobile device still remains challenge. But it will be worth it though, says Mr Takala – and if we are to continue using touch screens it's going to be pretty essential.Once you've started using haptic interfaces, there's no going back, he says. "The old ones feel like they are broken."
You may already have heard aboutJenny Chowdhuryand her "intimate controllers" (in fact Aleks may already have blogged about this, but my memory is blank and our search facility seems to be on strike). Jenny is working on an Interactive Telecommunications masters in New York, designing offbeat gadgets, one of which is a new kind of joypad. As the Guardianexplains today:"These are a set of wired-up his-and-hers undies that she describes as 'a collaborative video console for couples'. The garments have three pairs of touch pads hidden in increasingly intimate places which the couple have to press in the correct order while being prompted by a set of symbols on a computer screen. As players get better the software encourages them to go for the more intimate pads. 'You can't get any further unless both players are playing the game well,' said Ms Chowdhury, who developed the idea as a solution to 'video-game widowhood'".The controllers were getting a fair bit of coverage a couple of weeks ago, with lots of blogs linking to a video demo of thepads in action. But now they've been shown off as part of Siggraph 2007's Future Fashions event, which also featured a solar bikini capable of charging an iPod.So, lots of buzz, lots of coverage, lots of novelty appeal - these are sure to be picked up and modified for commercial release, right? I mean, in the Wii-driven era of physical interaction, this is the ultimate realisation of full contact gaming.But, no, of course not. If the dull-as-ditch waterHot Coffee 'scandal'proved anything it's that censors and politicans are much more squeamish about sexual content in games than they are about violence - especially in the States, where attempts to restrict violent games to over 18s have been thrown out time and time again as unconstitutional, but where the hidden sex games in GTA: San Andreas caused such a furore Hilary Clinton got involved. You'd think the worst thing that could possibly happen to a 14-year-old was sex.It's okay to use the Wii controller as a gun, no problem, but can you imagine what would happen if Intimate Controllers were actually released as a retail product? Nothing less than the collapse of society I shouldn't wonder.
Microsoft has been spelling out its ambitions for Halo 3, due for release on September 25.According to Variety, the company is aiming to out-perform the summer's biggest movie releases:"In its first 24 hours of release in 2004, the second installment of the sci-fi shooter earned $125 million. That number forced many nongamers to take the vidgame biz seriously for the first time."With Halo 3, Microsoft's Xbox unit wants not only to top the 2004 figure but to reach $155 million in a single day - besting the $151 million opening weekend for "Spider-Man 3," the current record holder for a pic at the box office."Microsoft is going to considerable lengths to ensure its success...There will be three versions of the game in the US - "a $60 standard edition, a limited edition and an "ultra-collectible" Legendary edition for $130". Of course, plenty of publishers release spurious 'collectors' editions' of key titles, buttwocollectors' editions is pretty unusual.On top of this the company has several big promo partners - Comcast, Burger King, 7-Eleven, Mountain Dew and Pontiac. From the Variety report, "Campaigns start today, with Pepsi launching a 12-week effort that includes a new flavor of its Mountain Dew drink dubbed Mountain Dew Game Fuel that's loaded with 30% more caffeine. Halo's Master Chief character is emblazoned on the specially designed cans."What they all see is a way of connecting with that elusive yet free-spending male 18-34 year-old category. You can read more courtey of Microsoft's August 9press release, which also boasts about the game's one million pre-orders.Meanwhile, videogame bloggers in the States are accusing retail chain Best Buy of cashing in on the coming phenomenon by hiking up the prices of Xbox 360 peripherals. Comparison imageson Xblradio.comshow the recommended retail prices for a selection of accessories, then the Best Buy equivalents - all three dollars more expensive.If these RRPs are correct and thisisrelated to the Halo 3 release, it's pretty sneaky - while console and game prices can be easily compared between stores, accessories tend to be a last-minute decision and gamers rarely take the time to check out other prices. Consumers will be getting to the counter with their copies of the game, only to be told that, hey, they should probably buy a headset to play online... oh and for those really long sessions, a joypad charger might be a good idea...Halo 3, like the big summer movies, is a commodity, there to be picked apart by marketing depts and cross-promotional deal brokers. Its quality - even its veryexistence- as a game, is secondary to the collateral benefits it represents. It's strange how such a fundamental endorsement of games as a legitimate cultural force is also rather scary and disheartening.
Wowee!The gamesblog's wikigame has a playable demo! OK, all you can do at the moment is stand up, look around and feel vulnerable at your nakedness, but holy cow it's a whole lot of something!Big props toMichaelBruntonSpall, currently on holiday for the next fortnight, for wrangling with the Inform6 code to get something up and running. The gamesblog team has been hard at work developing a story arc, devising all manner of awkward situations for our nude main character to find him or herself in.When you've tired of looking around, check outthevariousotherlocationsthat are forthcoming. Don't worry, it's not cheating. But send feedback to gamesblog+at+gmail.com or throw your thoughts up onto thewikiand join in the fun.
Geek parents are probably among those who turn to things likeBaby Einsteinto try and cultivate their nippers into pint-sized professors. But, you may not be entirely surprised to hear,they don't necessarily work. Guardian newshoundHelen Piddexplains all in the latest episode of our weekly science and technology podcast.As well as that, we have conservation biologistSam Turveyas our guest in the studio, discussing the plight of the Yangtze river dolphin which wasdeclared officially extinctlast week.Plus the rest of the crew get excited aboutdancing robots, fat cats and exoplanets.You can listen to it straight awayhereor peruse more listening options over at thepodcast blog.
The movement of stars as seen from Cyprus. Photograph: Alex Mita/AFP/GettyLast night saw the height of thePerseid meteor shower- the annual raining of as debris from the Swift-Tuttle comet breaks up in the atmosphere.The response on the web was mixed -this guy watched it from a remote hilltop in Utah, but some peopledidn't see much at all.Fred Firsthas a nice rendition of the experience.I didn't stay awake to watch the show, but I'm sure plenty of you did. Did you see the meteors? What did you think?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Experts are warning internet users to be more careful with their private information after secret code from the popular social-networking site Facebook was published on the internet.This is the first time that some of the site's secret operational code has been made public. Although it does not allow hackers to access private information directly, it could help criminals close in on personal data, according to one expert.Nik Cubrilovic, of Techcrunch.com, said: "This leak is not good news for Facebook, as it raises the question of how secure a user's private data really is. Facebook has become such a success and has such a high profile that it has become a magnet for attacks against its systems."The Facebook craze has been sweeping the world, and the site now has more than 30 million users, including 3.5 million in Britain. New users registering for a profile on the site usually publish their date of birth and home town for anybody to see, and in many cases let approved friends see more personal details such as their home address and telephone number. Though this information is semi-private, criminals who become "friends" with other users have the potential to find out much more information about them.The company blamed the leaked code on a "bug" that meant that it was published accidentally, and said users should not be concerned. Facebook's spokeswoman, Brandee Barker, said: "It was not a security breach and did not compromise user data in any way."Facebook has been the centre of controversy in recent weeks. A US court is in the process of hearing claims that the website's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, stole the idea for the site and advertisers including Vodafone and the AA pulled their money from the site after discovering that their adverts were being shown on pages run by the British National Party.The leak comes hot on the heels of warnings that social-networking sites are honey pots for identity thieves. Last month the credit information group Equifax warned people against putting too much personal information on social-networking websites.Neil Munroe, external affairs director at Equifax, said: "More and more consumers are signing up to these sites every day and chances are they'll put on their date of birth, location, email, job and marital status. Fraudsters can use this information to steal an individual's identity and open accounts in their name."Figures released recently by CIFAS, the UK's fraud prevention service, show that a record number of frauds were committed in the first six months of 2007, including an estimated 40,000 identity thefts. And according to the payments industry association Apacs, online banking fraud increased by 44% last year. CIFAS called the numbers "worryingly high" and pegged the cost of ID fraud in Britain at about &pound;1.5bn a year.The government's approach to internet crime came under the spotlight this week after a parliamentary report accused it of an "outdated" and "inefficient" approach. The House of Lords science and technology select committee suggested that public- and private-sector services needed better ways to deal with the rise of online fraud and hacking, and recommended the formation of a new national police squad charged with reducing online crime.Online safety tips&middot; Use complex and random passwords wherever possible, and try to use different passwords for every service you are registered with&middot; Choose specific security questions - not your mother's maiden name or birthplace. "What colour did you paint the fence in 1973 is not something a hacker could find out, even from Facebook," says Graham Cluley of the internet security firm Sophos&middot; Make virtual friends only with people you know and if you have doubts over their identity then check&middot; Be prepared for the consequences if you make your address or telephone number available online&middot; Avoid using machines accessed by the public, such as in internet cafes, and if you do, log out properly
Perhaps you expected Encyclopedia Britannica, or one of the world's great libraries, to become the web's leading reference site. Well, Wikipedia holds that title: an amateur encyclopedia created mainly by poor writers and even worse editors. The amazing thing is how well it works.Wikipedia was started in 2001 and has almost 2 million articles in English. There are scores of non-English articles as well, written in about 250 different languages, from Arabic to Xitsonga - including 83 articles in 'Klingon.' And according to traffic monitoring service, Hitwise, Wikipedia is one of the top 10 sites on the web.It's not hard to see the appeal. Wikipedia is a leading example of trendy, user-generated content. It also follows an open source ideal: anyone can rewrite and re-use all the content under the GNU Free Documentation License, a relative of the license used for GNU/Linux.In theory, thousands of users can spot and correct errors in Wikipedia until each article approaches perfection. But open source software development doesn't really work like that. Millions of people can't change Linux's program code on a whim. What they do is submit improvements to the benevolent despot who runs the project, and hope they're accepted. Often they aren't, as only a subset of the very best makes it through.This approach has been used for decades to produce high-quality internet FAQs, each of which has a "maintainer". Wikipedia articles would probably be much better if they were handled the same way - but the site may also be much smaller and probably less popular.Wikipedia works because the software keeps a record of all the changes made. Vandalism can therefore be reversed very easily – either automatically by the software, by Wikipedia's volunteer administrators, or by self-appointed maintainers who watch pages in which they have a particular interest.Wikipedia also lets users look behind the scenes. When reading an article, you can click the history tab to see the 50 most recent changes. Pick two entries, hit "compare selected versions" and you will get a side-by-side comparison. You'll be able to see if there is disputed content or a "revise war" going on behind the scenes.Sometimes it's useful to click the discussion tab, which allows users to suggest improvements or disagree with others' recommendations. Often there is conflict between users/writers and admins about whether something is "NPOV" - the desired Neutral Point Of View.Wikipedia is excellent at providing quick guides to subjects, which is all most people want. But remember it's a work in progress. For serious research, it's a starting point, not an end point. Use Wikipedia's notes, references and external links.One of the areas where it stands out is in providing episode guides to popular TV series such as Friends, House and The Simpsons. How many encyclopedias have a 1,400 word entry devoted to Homer's Duff Beer? When it's a labour of love, it gets done.
ISPs don't like filesharing because it soaks up bandwidth, and it sounds as though they don't like the iPlayer because it could get millions more people filesharing, even if they don't know they are doing it. So the ISPs could use "traffic shaping" to limit the damage, or perhaps the BBC should pay the costs of the service. At the moment, say the ISPs, it's getting a free ride.TheMail on Sundaysaid:Senior executives, including BT Retail's Ian Livingston, The Carphone Warehouse boss Charles Dunstone and Tiscali UK's chief Mary Turner have held informal talks amid growing anger over the BBC's hitching a 'free ride' with its new iPlayer system for downloading TV programmes over the web.TheFinancial TimesandThe Independenthave similar stories. The FT has a quote from Tiscali:"The internet was not set up with a view to distributing video. We have been improving our capacity, but the bandwidth we have is not infinite," said Mary Turner, chief executive of Tiscali UK. "If the iPlayer really takes off, consumers accessing the internet will get very slow service and will call their ISPs to complain."Ms Turner said that unless they could agree a strategy with the BBC to share network costs, Tiscali would have to restrict users' access to the iPlayer.All this is similar to the US debate onnetwork neutrality.... .
Future imperfect: Gibson. Photograph: Eamonn McCabe/GuardianAs William Gibson's new bookSpook Countrycomes out, yesterday's Observerran an interview with the man himself, ranging over his views on the past, present and future:'From my starting position, it seemed to me that part of my job would be to treat new technology entirely neutrally,' he says. 'I mean, I would not look at it and say, "That is beautiful" or, "That is fucked". I'd just say, "This is our culture". I was neither a Luddite nor a technophile.'Was he a prophet? 'Not a very good one: there are no cellphones in Neuromancer. A 12-year-old would spot that straight away. There's no email either, no websites, no internet really. But there is a lot of heightened language about the possibility of computers to transport us out of ourselves.'Worth a read.
Workers are suffering from the growing problem of 'email stress' as they struggle to cope with an unending tide of messages, new research reveals. Employees are becoming tired, frustrated and unproductive after constantly monitoring the electronic messages that keep interrupting them as they try to concentrate at work.The team of academics who carried out the research recommends that staff check their messages just a few times a day to reduce stress levels, safeguard their health and stop feeling 'invaded' by emails.Computer scientist Karen Renaud of Glasgow University, with psychologist Judith Ramsay of Paisley University and her colleague Mario Hair, a statistician, surveyed 177 people, mainly academics and those involved in creative jobs, to see how they dealt with emails received at work.They found that 34 per cent of workers felt 'stressed' by the sheer number of emails and obligation to respond quickly and a further 28 per cent were 'driven' because they saw them as a source of pressure. They characterised just 38 per cent as 'relaxed' because they did not reply until a day or even a week later.They also found that employees working on a computer typically switched applications to view their emails as many as 30 or 40 times an hour, for anything from a few seconds to a minute. While half the participants said they checked more than once an hour and 35 per cent said they did so every 15 minutes, monitoring software fitted to their machines for the experiment showed it was more often. 'This indicates the astonishing extent to which email is embedded in our day-to-day lives,' they say.They uncovered 'evidence of pressure: respondents generally felt they had to respond more quickly to emails to meet the expectations of senders'.They say: 'Females, in particular, tended to feel more pressure to respond than males. Many individuals seem to feel pressured by email and feel this pressure negatively as stress.'Renaud said: 'Email is the thing that now causes us the most problems in our working lives. It's an amazing tool, but it's got out of hand. Email harries you. You want to know what's in there, especially if it's from a family member or friends, or your boss, so you break off what you are doing to read the email.'The problem is that when you go back to what you were doing, you've lost your chain of thought and, of course, you are less productive. People's brains get tired from breaking off from something every few minutes to check emails. The more distracted you are by distractions, including email, then you are going to be more tired and less productive.'Workers in creative occupations or jobs involving periods of concentration focusing on getting an important project finished - such as academics, writers, architects and journalists - were likely to be worst affected, she said, while those in call centres for whom constant emails were integral to their work would not have the same problem.Email senders at work should never press other employees, especially those they supervise, to respond to their emails as they would to a phone call, the researchers suggest. Recipients should not constantly monitor their emails 'since this will negatively affect all other work activities', and should instead set aside dedicated email reading times to catch up on their messages.The numbers that drive us crazy6trillion business email messages sent worldwide in 200649minutes spent managing emails each day by the average office worker4hours spent managing emails per day by senior management worker80:the percentage of emails sent which are actually 'spam' - unsolicited adverts, many of which are fraudulent or otherwise illegal62:the percentage of workers who check business emails while at home or on holiday10:the points fall in IQ experienced by workers distracted by email (more than twice that found in cannabis studies)20:the percentage of workers who are stressedLyndsay ParrySources: Ferris Research, Gartner Inc, Postini Inc, University of London, Health and Safety Executive
We've beenfollowingthe story of the One Laptop Per Childprojectsince its inception. For several years the team, spun out of MIT, have been working on an innovative low-cost laptop for use in developing countries. and now the production lines are starting to get rolling.It's interesting, then, to read a review by 12-year-old "SG" over at Ed Felten'sFreedom to Tinker blog:My expectations for this computer were, I must admit, not very high. But it completely took me by surprise. It was cleverly designed, imaginative, straightforward, easy to understand... useful and simple, entertaining, dependable, really a "stick to the basics" kind of computer.A few provisos, of course: although as a youngster SG is the right age for the so-called "$100 laptop", he or she is clearly not the target market for OLPC's products. Felten is a professor of computer science at Princeton, so it's likely that the kid (the child of a friend) is well-educated in Western terms and highly computer literate.There are some issues with this beta version - speed and power consumption among them - but worth a read for some insight.
Google'sGoogle Packof software for Windows users now includes Sun's Star Office. This is Sun's version of Open Office, which is a free but slow and somewhat bug-ridden clone of an old version of Microsoft Office. (Sun bought the failed German program on which it's based.)If you thought Google's priority was to support open source, you'd expect it to offer the OpenOffice.Org version, rather than Sun's commercial version, which includes proprietary code. So the implication is that Sun is paying Google for the distribution.Of course, the Google Pack already includes Norton Security Scan, Spyware Doctor, Adobe Reader, Skype and RealPlayer, whichconfirmssuggests that the selection is driven by commercial needs.Multinational capitalist megacorporation seeks to make an honest buck? Nothing unusual about that. It's exactly what they are for.Update: I posted this rhetorical (I thought) question on Sunday afternoon, and it's taken more than four days for someone to shoot a hole in it. So well done MrJoe for posting a link toGoogle Pack Help, which says:We don't receive any payment to include programs in Google Pack.My apologies for jumping to conclusions in thinking that Googlemustbe getting paid for distributing the likes of Norton Security Scan and RealPlayer. My mistake. I am sure users just love Norton and RealPlayer software with such a passion that they will be delighted to hear that Google is giving them a free ride.But this just makes the Office deal even more mysterious. If Google isn't getting money (or some form of payment in kind) to distribute software, why on earth is it distributing Sun's version of the Open Office suite instead of the open source version? (Coincidentally, Google's bossEric Schmidtused to be the chief executive officer at Sun.)Further,Google saysthat it has a principle:"Getting paid to distribute, or paying money to be distributed with undesirable software enables more undesirable software.Responsible software makers and advertisers can work to prevent such distribution by avoiding these types of business relationships, even if they are through intermediaries."In which case, you have to wonder whether Google is following its own principles when it's paying Dell large amounts of money to bundle Google software with Dell PCs....
Last week,dozens of sitespicked up a story that appeared under the headline: Man surgically alters thumbs to better use Apple iPhone.Unfortunately the humour seems to have been far too subtle for most sites, and theMacDailyNewsdoesn't just swallow something that is obviously nonsense, it adds: "The article is dated August 8th, not April 1st -- that was the first thing we checked."The last thing too, apparently.Now anEditor's noteon the North Denver News site has finally told the gullible thatthe story"represents satirical social commentary". It says:Among the points of the piece: that U.S. society accepts plastic surgery and decorative deformation of the human body for vanity, but not other reasons (consider the Bonds steroid stories); that technology has become a new cult phenomena, in which items are praised or ridiculed based upon tribal allegiances instead of functionality and performance (and we are members of the Cult of the Mac -- iPhone division); and we like to pretend that some of our writers have a sense of humor..
