Amazon is looking to become the world'stapebackup store, introducing a new cloud service called "Glacier", which it says will offer "secure, reliable and extremely low-cost" retention of data for as little as $0.01 per gigabyte per month.The move could disrupt companies which have for years offered digital archiving services – but, Amazon suggested, should hugely lower overheads for companies which have to retain data for long periods for future reference or for legal reasons.The service, announced on Tuesday morning, is initially aimed at data that is "infrequently accessed, yet still important to retain for future reference". It cited as examples digital media archives – such as films or TV episodes – financial and healthcare records, genome sequence data, database backups and data that has to be held for "regulatory compliance"."Companies typically over-pay for data archiving," Amazon said in its press release. "First, they're forced to make an expensive upfront payment for their archiving solution (which does not include the ongoing cost for operational expenses such as power, facilities, staffing, and maintenance). Second, since companies have to guess what their capacity requirements will be, they understandably over-provision to make sure they have enough capacity for data redundancy and unexpected growth. This set of circumstances results in under-utilised capacity and wasted money."By contrast, Amazon Glacier uses Amazon's own services and doesn't require capital commitments by businesses that want to use it, who can thus determine how much storage they need, and for how long, and budget for it.The service will not be suitable for individuals or organisations who need repeated access to the data: while it isfree to upload data into the service, getting data back out costs $0.12 per GB per month (excepting the first gigabyte), making it more important for archiving than backups that might be needed urgently.Amazon is looking to get companies to start using Glacier together with its other cloud services, such as its EC2 (Elastic Cloud Compute) and S3 storage service – where the latter is for immediate access, but is substantially more expensive.Amazon's move into cloud computing, which it began in 2001 by re-using systems that were being replaced for its online store, has dramatically changed the way that many startup businesses now operate. Rather than having to buy their own infrastructure such as servers, many companies instead now rent storage on S3 and buy computing time on EC2, where they are charged per customer and by processor use.At one point, evenWikileaks used it to serve up pages to its site leaking US diplomatic cables– until withdrawing it, claiming that the site did not have the rights to the content it was distributing, which violates its terms of service.For organisations requiring storage for compliance reasons, but which cannot move the data out of the EU for data protection purposes, Amazon is offering a storage facility based in Ireland at the same pricing as for its US centres.John Minnihan, founder of Freepository, which offers a code repository service for companies including Oracle and Nokia, said of the service that "storage isn't expensive for them or you, it's getting the bits onto archival disk that's usually very costly."An estimate by Richard Gaywood, a British software architect, suggests that a one-terabyte backup with 100,000 files, changing by 1% per month (and so requiring updates) would cost about $11 (£7) per month to maintain – equivalent to $132 per year – and about $140 to restore.That compares favourably with the price of buying and running industrial-quality hard drives or tape backup services, where the quality of the data may degrade over time.Updated to clarify that Amazon Glacier won't use tape backup - that was not the intended implication. "Tape" has usually been the long-term storage medium for computer data. Amazon will use magnetic hard drives.
A day after Sony's 14 August press conference at Gamescom, the company received confirmation that it had made a splash in Cologne from the unlikeliest of sources.What it showed had gone down so well that the Japanese giant's mortal enemy, the hacker group Anonymous, tried to put a damper on the mounting goodwill by claiming to have hacked another 10m PlayStation Network accounts.Once Sony's hugely beefed-up online security department had confirmed that those claims were false, Anonymous's churlish attempts at thunder-stealing merely added to the prevailing conviction that Sony was the most impressive player at Gamescom.Among the platform-holders, admittedly, it had the show to itself: both Microsoft and Nintendo were absent, but Sony still had to step up to the plate.And the weapons with which it managed that were impressive: it unveiled a typically whimsical and inventive PS Vita game called Tearaway, created by Media Molecule; a deliciously bonkers, mass-appeal PS3 platform game called Puppeteer from its Japan Studio; and a significant tie-up with the BBC which will bring the likes of Walking With Dinosaurs to the Wonderbook platform it unveiled earlier this year.Plus it demonstrated, using custom-designed levels for LittleBigPlanet, how the PS Vita can operating exactly like the Wii U's tablet controller, and provided further insight into highly anticipated PS3 exclusives such as The Last Of Us and Beyond: Two Souls.Tearaway gives the Vita a boostAfter copping some criticism at E3 for concentrating on the PS3 at the expense of the PS Vita, Sony conspicuously realigned its priorities by opening its Gamescom press conference with a round-up of Vita games.Titles such as Call of Duty Black Ops: Declassified, Assassin's Creed III: Liberation and Fifa 13, all due this Christmas, could turn out to be the console-shifting killer games it has so far lacked.But the  game that stood out the most wasTearaway–  a PS Vita exclusive created by the world's cuddliest developer, Guildford's Media Molecule. Indeed, it will be the first game the company has made that isn't a LittleBigPlanet variant.It looks every bit as charming as LBP. Media Molecule's co-founder Alex Evans and lead designer Rex Crowle explained that in Tearaway, you control a character called Iota, who is made from paper and whose head consists of an envelope which contains a personal message for the player.You must guide Iota on an action-platform adventure through a world made entirely of paper, until he is able to escape and enter the real world. Tearaway makes heavy use of the PS Vita's abundance of input mechanisms, including the joysticks, tilt sensors, touch-screen and especially, the rear touch-pad.Gameplay included tapping the rear touchpad to cause drum-skins to resonate and send Iota flying to otherwise unreachable areas, and using it to apparently thrust your fingers through the surface of the paper world, creating obstacles for Iota's pursuers. As you would expect from Media Molecule, there will be no mistaking it for any other game when it comes out in 2013.Puppeteer adds weirdnessSony premiered another game, this time for the PS3, which looks set to rival Tearaway in the individuality stakes. CalledPuppeteer, it is being developed at Sony's Japan Studio, under the auspices of Englishman Gavin Moore.Moore explained that Puppeteer arose from a desire to reawaken his young son's imagination – he felt that modern games, with their near photo-realistic graphics, may look stunning, but don't spark flights of imaginative fancy among the young.Which shouldn't be a problem with Puppeteer, which is best described as utterly bonkers. It's also pretty experimental in certain respects.For example, all the action plays out from a single perspective: what you would see in a theatre, looking at the stage, with all the scenery moving around a fixed space. And then there's its plot: you play a boy-puppet called Kutaro, whose head is pulled off and eaten by the evil Moon Bear King.Banished to the magical theatre, he must first find a new head (and continue to do so – different heads provide different powers), then steal the Moon Bear King's magical scissors and use them to escape. Moore cited influences including Japanese Bunraku puppet theatre and Monty Python, and promised a meaty, full-game experience and gameplay that varies wildly.Puppeteer looks like one of those rare games that operates on two levels of humour, so could appeal equally to kids and adults.The BBC signs up to WonderbookAt E3, Sony Computer Entertainment chief executive Andrew House unveiled Wonderbook, a bizarre assemblage using a book-shaped accessory, the PlayStation Eye camera and the Move controller to blur the boundaries between books and games.Reception among games journalists was split between admiration due to Sony's ability to sign up JK Rowling to the project, via Miranda Goshawk's Book Of Spells, and scepticism that it would provide much by way of gameplay. But House explained that it would be a platform, supporting all manner of content designed to engage kids in a manner which their parents would find conducive.That assertion gained some flesh at Gamescom, when Sony announced that it had signed up the BBC to provide content for Wonderbook, and gave a mock-up demo showing how Walking With Dinosaurs would work with it, promising to bring many more similar efforts from the BBC's archives (although it studiously avoided any specific mention of Doctor Who, which has consistently disappointed whenever anyone has tried to turn it into a game).And it showed another Wonderbook game calledDiggs Nightcrawler, under development at Moonbot Studios – a humorous detective story with mock-hardboiled dialogue. While gaming purists may fail to see Wonderbook's appeal, it should appeal to parents keen to park their kids in front of something absorbing that won't cause their brains to atrophy.LBP Cross-Control: emulating the Wii USony's director pf product development, Pete Smith, gave an intriguing demo of what he termed Cross-Control between the PS3 and PS Vita – which essentially means using the PS Vita as a controller for the PS3.This is something that we have long known the Vita was capable of, but have never previously seen in action. And, of course, it's significant, because it lets the PS3 provide gameplay experiences that are more or less identical to what you will find on the Wii U.Smith played through a custom-designed LittleBigPlanet level containing things such as hidden traps which could be avoided only by paying attention to hints on the PS Vita's screen, areas that could only be negotiated using the rear touchpad and the ability for Sackboy to drop from the PS3's screen onto the Vita, then reappear on the machine on which the demo was actually running.You can expect more Wii U-alike games playable via Cross-Control, although it clearly isn't something Sony will build into games just for the sake of it.And the restThere were plenty of other snippets at Sony's press conference, which should help keep their existing consumers satisfied.We were shown some typically off-beat and visually inventive PlayStation Network games – notably Rain, in which you play a character who is only visible when he is being rained on; andUnfinished Swan, which starts off with a completely white screen and, as you splash black paint around, you begin to uncover a terrain that can be navigated.Sony teased with a tiny glimpse of Killzone Mercenary, a Killzone game designed specifically for the PS Vita. It added that PlayStation All-Stars – Sony's answer to Super Smash Bros – will support Cross-Play between the PS3 and PS Vita, and will introduce something called Cross-Buy, meaning that if you buy the PS3 version, you'll be able to download the PS Vita version for free. It also confirmed that the PS Vita would get PlayStation All-Stars and CoD Black Ops: Declassified bundles.All in all, there was an abundance of inventiveness, quality and commitment on display for those who own PlayStation 3s and PS Vitas.Sony's subtext seemed to be two-fold. Firstly, it isn't going to suddenly give up on the PS3 just because the PS4 is looming (in marked contrast to Microsoft). It has a good track record in that regard: both the PlayStation and PlayStation 2 outsold their successors for surprisingly long periods.And the almost bewildering amount of creativity on display spoke of its determination not to fall back on making new versions of the same old games. Which is refreshing in an industry which is increasingly risk-averse and happy to fall back on the tried and tested.he more risks that Sony takes, the quicker it will extricate itself from the doldrums into which it fell after last year's string of natural disasters.• Steve Boxer was taken to Gamescom by Sony
Apple has become the most valuable company of all time, surpassing a record set by Microsoft in 1999.Shares in the tech giant hit a high of $664.75 (£422.50) in Monday morning trading, valuing the company at more than $619bn. The price topped the $618.9bn Microsoft achieved in December 1999.In January, Apple surpassed oil firm Exxon Mobil for the first time to become the most valuable company on the planet. It now dwarfs Exxon's $405.6bn market value by more than $213bn.The company's shares dropped dramatically in July as sales figures disappointed analysts, even as profits rose 21% year-on-year to $8.8bn (£5.6bn).But shares have risen again on rumours that Apple is planning to launch a smaller version of its top-selling iPad and is close to making a new push in the TV market, which has long been a target for chief executive Tim Cook.The company's share price was $378.55 on 5 October 2011, the day that Steve Jobs, co-founder and the driving force behind the firm's most famous products, died. Since his death, Apple has gone on to report record sales, and its share price has soared.Apple's landmark high comes as Facebook's shares hit new lows on Monday, sinking to less than half their initial public offering price and halving the fortune of founder Mark Zuckerberg.By mid-morning, Facebook's shares hit a new low of $18.75, less than half the $38 they were sold for in May amid the most heavily hyped stock sale in recent history. The slump has knocked close to $10bn off the value of Zuckerberg's stake in the firm, which is now worth about $9.5bn.Facebook's latest share slide comes after the expiration of a lock-up period that allows some of its earliest investors to sell more of their shares. The expiration increased the pool of available shares by 60% and confirmed analysts' fears that it might lead to more falls in Facebook's already battered share price.Some of Silicon Valley's most prominent investors are among those now able to reduce their holdings. Details of which large shareholders have decided to cash in are not yet available.Facebook's share price faces a series of other potential challenges in the next few months as more lock-up periods expire and staff are allowed to sell shares.Facebook's fall comes as its peers, too, have faced investor scepticism. Shares in Groupon, the daily deals site, are also close to new lows and early investors including Marc Andreessen, one of Silicon Valley's most respected investors, have been cutting their holdings.Shares in Zynga, the online games company, have fallen over 68% since last year's initial public offering. The firm, whose hits include Words With Friends and Draw Something, was responsible for 12% of Facebook's revenue last year.On the day of its IPO in May Facebook was briefly valued at more than $100bn, more than the combined worth of Nike and Goldman Sachs. The social network is now valued at $40.61bn.The company is on course to claim a billion people as users this year. But while its size and reach are undisputed, analysts fear that the firm has been unable to find a way to make money from its mobile users, the fastest growing sector of its business.
Benjamin Disraeli once derided the, "hare-brained chatter of irresponsible frivolity". But chatter is our stock and trade. So do it. Do it now!
The pursuit of paid bloggers by Judge William Alsup, who presided over the Oracle-Google trial earlier this year, has gone into its second lap. Google, says Alsup, "failed to comply" with hisorder demanding the two sides to reveal whether they pay anyone who has commented publicly on the trial, with a disclosure date of last Friday. Only Oracle offered any names, that of Florian Müller, who it pays a retainer, and who writes the FOSS Patents blog.Now Alsup has told Google that "the order was designed to bring to light authors whose statements about the issues in the case might have been influenced by the receipt of money from Google or Oracle" and that its statements on Friday - in which it said that it pays nobody directly, but said that many bloggers might receive money indirectly, as well as staff, and some people at institutions indirectly - "failed to comply" with his original order.On Friday Oracle formally noted the relationship with Müller, who first disclosed the payments in April on his blog as the trial got underway. He has also previously disclosed that he is paid by Microsoft over patent consultancy."Even though the payment was for consulting work, the payment might have influenced the blogger's reports on issues in the civil action," writes Alsup in his latest order. "Just as a treatise on the law may influence the courts, public commentary that purports to be independent may have an influence on the courts and/or their staff if only in subtle ways. If a treatise author or blogger is paid by a litigant, should not that relationship be known?"That echoes accusations made by Oracle in its submission, in which it said that Google "maintains a network of direct and indirect 'influencers'; to advance Google's intellectual property agenda. This network is extensive, including attorneys, lobbyists, trade associations, academics, and bloggers, and its focus extends beyond pure intellectual property issues to competition/antitrust issues." It alleged that "Google brought this extensive network of influencers to help shape public perceptions concerning the position it was advocating throughout this trial."Alsup apparently agrees that may be more to Google's influence than direct payments. Google now has until noon PST on 24 August to disclose payments. Alsup told it: "Payments do not include advertising revenue received by commenters. Nor does it include experts disclosed under Rule 26 [to the court]. Google suggests that it has paid so many commenters that it will be impossible to list them all. Please simply do your best but the impossible is not required. Oracle managed to do it. Google can do it too by listing all commenters known by Google to have received payments as consultants, contractors, vendors, or employees. As for organizations receiving money, they need not be listed unless one of its employees was a commenter. Gifts to universities can be ignored. Again, Google need only disclose those commenters that can be identified after a reasonably diligent search."That will probably broaden the number of "paid" commenters on Google's side, as it funds a number of organisations. Oracle suggested a couple of organisations which receive money from Google and which were not listed on its 17 August disclosure.But there's a kicker for Oracle too in the order: "Oracle must supplement its list if this order clarifies any issue for Oracle."Even so, what is still unclear is the extent to which Alsup thinks members of the jury - who came down in Google's favour on almost every point in the trial - were influenced by any paid bloggers. As the payments to Müller clearly had no effect, it remains an open question whether Alsup thought Google somehow benefited from any network of funded bloggers and commentators.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPatent troll Intellectual Ventures is more like a HYDRA &gt;&gt; The RegisterStanford University researchers have compiled the most extensive set of documentation to date of the activities of patent troll Intellectual Ventures - and their work reveals a behemoth of truly epic scale.Scary.The iPhone has passed a key security threshold &gt;&gt; Technology Review...the AES key in each iPad or iPhone "is unique to each device and is not recorded by Apple or any of its suppliers," the company said in a security-related white paper. "Burning these keys into the silicon prevents them from being tampered with or bypassed, and guarantees that they can be access only by the AES engine."What this means in practice is that when iOS devices are turned off, the copy of the encryption key in the computer's accessible memory is erased. That is why an investigator who gets a suspect's phone would have to try all possible keys--the task deemed impossible by the NSA.The iPhone and iPad do keep a copy of the encryption key deeper in flash memory--otherwise there would be no way for the device to recover data when it was turned back on. But that encryption key is itself protected by the user's "PIN lock," a code that must be entered before the device can be used.Android supports encrypted storage, but only for some data, and the key isn't burned into the hardware. RIM has multiple strong encryption factors.Google goes back to the drawing board for Nexus Q &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comA bit late to this, but anyway:In June, Google engineers took to the stage in front of thousands of cheering software developers to introduce the Nexus Q, a black ball meant to stream video and music. It was Google's first try at building its own hardware -- in the United States, no less -- and Google called it "a third wave of consumer electronics."Google engineers with the Nexus Q, which is assembled in a factory in San Jose, Calif. But last week, just five weeks after the introductory pomp at the annual developers' conference, Google indefinitely postponed shipment of the device.Nexus 7 sales volume: estimate based on supply chain data &gt;&gt; tech-thoughts.netHow many Nexus 7 units have Google &amp; Asus sold so far and how many do they expect to sell this year? Those are the questions everyone wants an answer to and I'm going to attempt to do just that.Digitimes recently reportedthat suppliers will be shipping 4m touch (OGS) panels for the Nexus 7 in Q3 2012. Based on this, and some other data we already have, we can make an educated estimate of the Nexus 7's sales volume.Short version: 2.9m for Q3. Estimating Q4 is rather trickier, even if you don't assume any new entrants.This will be the most irritating thing you see today &gt;&gt; SFistProbably correct.Who cares if Samsung copied Apple? &gt;&gt; Harvard Business ReviewIf Apple ends up winning this case against Samsung -- and either stops Samsung from releasing their phones and tablets to the market, or charges them a hefty license fee to do so -- does anyone really believe that the market will suddenly become more innovative, or that devices will suddenly become more affordable? Similarly, if Samsung wins, do you really believe that Apple will suddenly slow its aggressive development of the iPhone and iPad? It's certainly not what happened last time they lost one of these cases.Join data files on the command line &gt;&gt; Craig RussellLike most shell commands join does one thing very well, it takes two data files and merges them line-by-line. Matching lines on a common identifier present in both files.More helpful hints from the land of the terminal.6-8 Weeks until Bitcoin debit/credit card, says BitInstant &gt;&gt; Coding In My SleepSounds impressive for the anonymous cash transaction crew. However, looking at the small print...The cards themselves will be issued by "a major international bank" that BitInstant has teamed up with. This of course means that the traditional AML or other local laws &amp; regulations for obtaining a bank account, such as proof of identity, will apply as per your jurisdiction.So not quite the key to invisibility. You'd have to ask why it's better than cash if you're going to use it as a debit card.A look at early Facebook investors who sold shares in the social network as part of IPO &gt;&gt; The Washington PostMicrosoft cashed out and sold 6.6 million shares, according to the AP. Ominous.Google Plus deletes comments in Gmail; Facebook doesn't &gt;&gt; ZDNetJack Schofield (sometimes of this parish) on Google+, "Google's struggling bulletin board system" (ouch) and its behaviour to comments you email or leave:Of course, comments on bulletin boards are always at the mercy of whoever started and/or owns the thread. If someone on a forum deletes their original post, all the comments usually go with it. When someone deletes a post on G+, the same thing happens. That shouldn't be surprising. What isn't normal is that email copies of comments get deleted as well.If Google is going to do this, it should warn people in advance, rather than obliging them to learn the hard way.Amusingly enough, I learnt this the hard way by making comments that were critical of G+ on a post from a Google employee/G+ evangelist. (It is, obviously, shocking that anyone should have the temerity to criticise G+ in public. Anyone who does this is a troll to be blocked, if not sent to jail without passing Go.) By deleting his G+ post and/or blocking me, Mr A Googler also removed the only visible copies of my comments. These could have been useful to anyone writing a blog post along the lines of "The top 5 reasons G+ deserves to die", though the system's failings may be too obvious for this to matter.With Facebook, even if you make comments somewhere, if you get them emailed then you'll still have them.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The UK could be getting its first taste of 4G superfast mobile internet within months with the telecoms regulator Ofcom expected to announce on Tuesday that it will allow Everything Everywhere, the owner of the T-Mobile and Orange networks, to launch the service, potentially ahead of rivals.In a week which is likely to see a significant reshaping of Britain's mobile spectrum landscape, Everything Everywhere is also close to selling a chunk of its airwaves to the UK's smallest and operator, Three.EE has applied to Ofcom to be able to use some of its existing spectrum for 4G services. The company has been installing the necessary equipment since the beginning of the year and already has some major population centres covered.If given the go-ahead , the company would be ready to start selling 4G services to customers before Christmas. Rivals say this could give a massive advantage to what is already the UK's largest operator with 27 million customers.Vodafone and O2 say they will have to wait until the forthcoming 4G spectrum auction, which could raise as much as £4.5bn for the public purse, before acquiring enough airwaves to launch their own services. The airwaves being auctioned are currently used for digital television and will not be freed up for mobile signals until later next year.As EE combines the holdings of two networks, it has a large amount of spectrum in the 1800 band, which is well suited to 4G. The new technology is a successor to 3G, which allowed connections to the internet on mobile phones for the first time when it was introduced a decade ago. Networks are promising that 4G will bring even faster download speeds, helping networks keep up with the growing demand for data from smartphones.Ofcom said in March it was "minded" to approve liberalisation of the 1800 band, currently licensed for 2G and 3G services. However, after protests from rivals that EE would have an unfair first mover advantage, it extended the consultation period. EE had originally hoped to have its service running this autumn, having applied for liberalisation last November.Ofcom is thought likely to approve EE's request, although it may impose conditions such as a later launch date than the company is hoping for.Meanwhile, sources have confirmed that EE is on the verge of announcing a deal with Three, owned by Hong Kong conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa. The European commission had ordered EE to sell a quarter of its 1800 holding as a condition of approving the T-Mobile/Orange merger .Vodafone and O2 also bid for the spectrum, but it is thought they have missed out. The sale, arranged by EE's financial adviser Morgan Stanley, would not necessarily allow Three to launch 4G this year. This is because EE is not obliged to clear the spectrum until September 2013.A spokesman for Three said: "We are interested in all mobile spectrum", but declined to comment on any deal with Everything Everywhere.
Barnes &amp; Noble is to take on Amazon in the European digital book market by launching its Nook e-reader in the UK this autumn.The move marks Barnes &amp; Noble's first expansion outside the United States, and follows a $605m (£385m) cash injection by Microsoft in April as the software company acted to capitalise on the digital publishing boom.A nook.co.uk shop front will open in mid-October, selling e-readers and a catalogue of digital books, magazines, newspapers, films and computer games. The company says it will soon announce partnerships with "leading UK retailers" to sell both devices and content from its range of 2.5m digital titles.The Nook, launched in October 2009, has been popular in the US and helped Barnes &amp; Noble eat into Amazon's ebook market share. Thanks to the popularity of its Kindle reader, Amazon at one point claimed to generate 90% of sales in the US, but that has fallen to 60% as Apple's iTunes store and the Nook make inroads.Barnes &amp; Noble, which runs 691 bookstores across the US and a further 647 shops in colleges and universities, now claims to control between 25% and 30% of digital sales in the US – a share it was never able to achieve in paper books.Although the Nook range includes a full-colour touch-screen tablet, launched in February to compete with Amazon's Kindle Fire, only its black and white e-ink readers will be available for now in the UK.The company's stock surged by over 50% earlier this year when Microsoft took an 18% stake in its college and digital businesses in exchange for $300m, with a promise of a further $305m over the next five years.The alliance ensures a rich catalogue of digital content for Microsoft's own Surface tablet computer, which will go on sale later this year.The UK is likely to be the first in a quick succession of new territories for Barnes &amp; Noble, whichsaid in a regulatory filing earlier this yearthat it plans to launch its digital bookstore in 10 countries over 12 months.Windows 8, Microsoft's reinvention of its best-selling PC software for the touch screen, will also go on sale in October and under the terms of the deal the Nook app will be available on the new interface.Before Microsoft's investment, Barnes &amp; Noble had been thought likely to follow other real world books stores such as Borders into financial difficulty. The company is loss making, and competing with Amazon and Apple's iTunes is taking its toll. Quarterly losses from its digital business have widened in the last year from $47m to $77m."We are proud to be able to offer our top-rated line of Nook reading devices and our award-winning digital bookstore to the discerning and highly educated consumers in the UK," said Barnes &amp; Noble's chief executive, William Lynch.No prices have been announced for the two devices in the UK, although the Nook Simple Touch and a read-in-the-dark version with a stronger backlight sell for $99 and $139 respectively in the US.
Rock band Green Day is starring in a new episode of the Angry Birds Friends game on Facebook: the latest big-name partnership for developer Rovio following previous deals with 20th Century Fox, NASA and the Philadelphia Eagles.TheGreen Day episodecomprises 10 levels in the Facebook game, including pig characters based on the three band members: Billie Joe Armstrong, Mike Dirnt and Tre Cool. The band's new single Oh Love features in the game, alongside an additional, exclusive track called Troublemaker.More music and levels will follow later in the Autumn, as Green Day release three albums – Uno, Dos and Tre – in four months.It's the first time Rovio has worked with a music artist in this way, although the company's chief executive Mikael Hed wasmooting such partnershipsat the Midem music industry conference in January 2012.Rovio's marketing chief Peter Vesterbacka explained the partnership to The Guardian. "We have been contacted by a lot of different music artists for areas like co-promotions, and we have talked to lots of labels," he said."We had been looking to give the pigs a more prominent role in the games, and when we started talking to [label] Warner and the Green Day management, we realised it was a very good fit."For now, the levels will only be available in the Facebook game, rather than the iOS and Android versions of Angry Birds Friends. Vesterbacka hinted that the partnership may extend to mobile devices in the future, though."We haven't announced anything besides the Facebook stuff that is live now, but we view this as a first step in a much bigger co-operation," he said. "Our fans and Green Day's fans should expect more of the same surprise and delight. We always want to surprise people!"Vesterbacka is keen to describe this as a two-way partnership, rather than one brand piggybacking on the other."For us, it's bringing Angry Birds to more people, and it's the same thing for Green Day, bringing their music to a new audience," he said, noting that Green Day have sold 70m albums, and have notched up 25m Likes for their Facebook profile."That's 4m more than we have, so they are pretty big! A lot of people that play Angry Birds haven't listened to Green Day before, and a lot of fans of Green Day haven't played Angry Birds before. On both sides, we want to expand the fanbase and expose more people to Angry Birds and Green Day, so it's a very good fit. It's two big green brands..."Rovio's last publicly-announced milestone for the Angry Birds games was 1bn total downloads back in May 2012, although Vesterbacka says the company is now focusing more on its drive to get to "1bn fans" of its franchise across games, animation and other products."People often think I'm joking when I say we're only getting started, but that's still our perspective," he said."We have some pretty interesting other things in the pipeline for this year, and we're slowly getting to where we ought to be: making Angry Birds a pop culture phenomenon."
Facebook's shares hit new lows on Monday, sinking to less than half their initial public offering price and halving the fortune of founder Mark Zuckerberg.By mid-morning, Facebook's shares hit a new low of $18.75 (£11.91), less than half the $38 they were sold for in May amid the most heavily hyped stock sale in recent history.The slump has knocked close to $10bn off the value of Zuckerberg's stake in the firm, which is now worth about $9.5bn.Facebook's latest share slide comes after the expiration of a lock-up period that allows some of its earliest investors to sell more of their shares. The expiration increased the pool of available shares by 60% and confirmed analysts' fears that it might lead to more falls in Facebook's already battered share price.Some of Silicon Valley's most prominent investors are among those now able to reduce their holdings. Details of which large shareholders have decided to cash in are not yet available.Facebook's share price faces a series of other potential challenges in the next few months as more lock-up periods expire and staff are allowed to sell shares.Facebook's fall comes as its peers, too, have faced investor scepticism. Shares in Groupon, the daily deals site, are also close to new lows and early investors including Marc Andreessen, one of Silicon Valley's most respected investors, have been cutting their holdings.Shares in Zynga, the online games firm, have fallen more than 68% since last year's initial public offering. The firm, whose hits include Words With Friends and Draw Something, was responsible for 12% of Facebook's revenue last year.On the day of its IPO in May Facebook was briefly valued at more than $100bn, more than the combined worth of Nike and Goldman Sachs. The social network is now valued at $40.61bn.The company is on course to claim a billion people as users this year. But while its size and reach are undisputed analysts fear that the firm has been unable to find a way to make money from its mobile users, the fastest growing sector of its business.
Jeremy Hunt has pledged to give creative industries a shot in the arm by ensuring Britain has the fastest broadband network of any major European country by 2015.The culture secretary's commitment marks a firming up of the government's original target to create the best superfast broadband network in Europe by the end of this parliament, and follows a House of Lords report into the national broadband strategy published last month."To really be the best you need to be the fastest," Hunt told broadband experts at Silicon Roundabout, the area around Old Street on the fringes of the City of London where many technology firms and startups are based."I am today announcing an ambition to be not just the best overall, but specifically the fastest broadband of any major European country."Getting the plumbing right for our digital economy is not just an advantage to consumers – it is also essential for our digital and creative industries, all of whom need reliable high-speed networks to develop and export their products as they move large digital files around the world".Industries where Britain excels, such as television, music, animation and video games, were reliant on good broadband, he said. The UK has the world's largest independent television sector and is the world's second largest music exporter.But Helen Goodman, the Labour culture spokeswoman, said the plan prioritised speed over access and meant "millions of people will have to wait at least three more years for a broadband connection".Hunt's announcement at Google's offices came as survey of 1,500 companies found that 57% of them thought that poor quality internet access adversely affected their business.Freelancer.co.uk, an outsourcing marketplace, said its survey put businesses at odds with Hunt who was prioritising speed. Of those surveyed, 65% thought there was a rural-urban divide with more remote areas unable to take advantage of new opportunities because of lower broadband speeds.Broadband performance will be monitored by Ofcom, the telecoms watchdog, in a scorecard to be published for the first time this summer. Britain is ranked 15th in Europe in the quarterly speed league table by web technology company Akamai, behind countries such as Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Norway, but ahead of France, Italy and Spain. In the OECD's league table of advertised, rather than actual speeds, the UK is again in 15th place, ahead of the US and Germany, but behind France, the Scandinavian nations and Japan.Hunt's original target, set out in his first speech as a minister, was to create the best network through a combination of speed, coverage and take-up, price and choice. Ofcom will be asked to give a verdict on all these factors.The government is also aiming for 90% of the country to have access to superfast services – defined as 24Mb per second or more – by 2015, with the final 10% receiving no less than 2Mb.The Lords communications committee has suggested such targets are unambitious and could soon be out of date as the speeds required for internet connections increase to cope with new services such as online television.They urged ministers to switch their focus from speeds to building the right technologies, encouraging fibre-optic lines to be built for as many homes as possible. An all-fibre connection allows internet speeds many times faster than those available over copper wires.BT, which has the largest fibre-optic cable investment plan of any consumer-oriented telecom company, aims to link fibre cables to telecom street cabinets and relay them to homes via copper wires.An all-fibre line from BT will be available on demand from next year, although the prices are likely to be too high at first for households and smaller businesses.Hunt said: "[The Lords] suggest that fibre to the cabinet is the sum of the government's ambitions. They are wrong. Where fibre to the cabinet is the chosen solution, it is most likely to be a temporary stepping stone to fibre to the home."He said fibre would be available on demand to more two-thirds of the population by 2016.The government was backing optic fibre to the cabinet "as a potential medium-term solution", said Hunt, because it would allow a big enough rise in speed to create "Europe's biggest and most profitable high-speed broadband market", creating the climate for further fibre investment.
The court-ordered release on Friday by Oracle and Google of details about any bloggers or commentators whom they retain produced no surprises: the database giant said that it "retained" Florian Müller, author of the Foss Patents blog, while Google said that it has not directly paid anyone to comment – although Oracle alleged in its filing that Google "maintains a network of direct and indirect 'influencers'" to advance its intellectual property agenda.In the filing, which had been ordered two weeks ago by Judge Alsup as part of the fallout from the Oracle-Google trial,Oracle saidthat it has "retained" Müller "as a consultant on competition-related matters, especially relating to standards-essential patents."Müller posted about that retainer on his blog in April; Oracle says he wasn't retained to write about the case. "Mr Mueller [sic] is a frequent critic of Oracle and was a leading advocate against Oracle's acquistion of Sun Microsystems," it says in the filing.Neither the amount, nor the date from which any payments have been made, were revealed. Müller has previously said that he is receiving payment from Microsoft for research into patents.Oracle said that while some Oracle employees blogged about the case, they weren't asked to do so. It added that Professor Paul Goldstein of Stanford University advises [Oracle lawyers] Morrison &amp; Foerster and is the author of the treatise "Goldstein on Copyright". Professor Goldstein, it said, "has not commented on this lawsuit".Google says in its filingthat neither the company nor its lawyers have paid any "author, journalist, commentator or blogger to report or comment on any issues in this case." Nor has it offered or asked for any quid pro quo coverage of the case. It excludes bloggers who might use Google's AdSense system on their own blogs because "it is possible that any number of individuals or organisations … might have expressed views regarding this case."It has asked Judge Posner to specify who else the judge might want. Again, it says, it has not paid "any individuals or organisations" to report or comment on any issues in the case.Alsup, who presided over the Oracle-Google trial earlier this year, ordered the disclosure in a one-page order issued on 7 August, in which he wrote that: "The court is concerned that the parties and/or counsel herein may have retained or paid print or internet authors, journalists, commentators or bloggers who have and/or may publish comments on the issues in this case."That provoked some perplexity over the extent to which he believed the jury might have been influenced by anything they read before or during the case. It also raised questions about whether such demands might infringe on the freedom of speech of anyone who turned out to be paid by those organisations.Alsup has still given no reason for why he requested the disclosures over the trial, which was heard before a jury.Google said it has made philanthropic payments to universities and non-profit organisations, where "at least some … have representatives who have elected to comment or opine on the issues in this litigation, even though Google did not pay any of those representatives to provide that commentary."But Oracle disputed Google's hands-off claims, writing in its submission: "Oracle notes that Google maintains a network of direct and indirect 'influencers'; to advance Google's intellectual property agenda. This network is extensive, including attorneys, lobbyists, trade associations, academics, and bloggers, and its focus extends beyond pure intellectual property issues to competition/antitrust issues." It alleges that "Google brought this extensive network of influencers to help shape public perceptions concerning the position it was advocating throughout this trial."It alleged that Ed Black, head of the CCIA (Computer and Communications Industry Association), a pressure group which it says is "funded in large part by Google", and has written specifically on the extent of copyright of APIs – a key issue in the trial which Oracle lost on almost every count. The CCIA's members also include Microsoft, Yahoo, Facebook and Fujitsu.Oracle also raises a query about Jonathan Band, co-author of a book called "Interfaces on Trial 2.0", cited by Google in its copyright brief on 3 April 2012 for the trial. Band, it says, has an "indicated relationship to Google" through Google-supported trade associations.Oracle did not specify which, if any, trade associations it funds or supports.Chris Watson, a partner and social media expert at law-firm CMS Cameron McKenna, commented: "It is unlikely a similar case to this would occur in the UK due to most civil cases not involving juries."However, there have been criminal cases in the UK where a jury has had to be discharged due to the concern that social media articles could influence their verdict and so risk contempt of court, which shows that judges are aware of the power of social media to shape debate on legal proceedings."Of the prospects for possible guidelines or regulation, Watson said: "We have seen examples of celebrity product endorsements on Twitter being banned by the UK Advertising Standards Authority, so there is no reason why blog posts, whether paid-for or on a retainer basis, should not also be censured if they are deemed to constitute stealth advertising."The introduction of standardised guidelines on what is and isn't acceptable advertising behaviour would help make it clear to both social media content creators and corporate marketing departments the code of conduct they are expected to follow."In Australia, for instance, regulators have recently put the onus on companies to police all comments made on their Facebook brand pages, which suggests how regulation in this area could develop in the UK."Müller, however, uses Google's Blogger service, which is hosted in the US, where the First Amendment would mean that he could ignore any strictures on commentary that UK or other countries might want to place.Oracle filingGoogle filing
If you didn't seeour story last week, Gamesblog Live has teamed up with Disney Interactive for a very special event, taking place in London on Tuesday night.I'll be interviewing industry legend Warren Spector, the genius behind Deus Ex and the Epic Mickey titles. Spector is one of the most fascinating game designers on the planet, a tireless advocate of open-world creative gaming and a hugely compelling guy to listen to.Plus, attendees to this free event will get the chance to pose questions to Warren, as well as get hands-on time with Epic Mickey 2, which looks astonishing.The event takes place at Disney's headquarters room in Hammersmith. Tickets are FREE, but you need to emailRebecca Wharmbyat Disney to register your interest!
This new weekly post rounding up the best new smartphone and tablet games will usually be published on a Thursday, but due to personal holiday, last week's is being published today (Monday 20 August).Here's this week's selection:HornThis visually-stunning adventure is getting some Infinity Blade-sized buzz among iOS gamers, as you try to free your fellow villagers from a curse that has turned them into monsters. The key difference to Infinity Blade is that this game is free-roaming: you can wander the world and then dance around monsters while fighting.iPhone / iPadThe Humble Bundle for Android 3Okay, strictly speaking this is five games rather than one. It's the latest Humble Bundle for Android, where you can pay what you want to get four games – Bit.Trip Beat, Fieldrunners, SpaceChem and Uplink – with a fifth thrown in (Spirits) if you pay more than the average price – currently $6.14. Fieldrunners and Bit.Trip Beat alone make this an excellent bargain.AndroidJetpack JoyrideFruit Ninja may be developer Halfbrick Studios' biggest game, but Jetpack Joyride is its most critically-acclaimed on iOS. Now it's available on Android too, albeit only through Amazon's Android Appstore at the time of writing. It's an endless... well, endless flyer is probably the term, as you scoot through levels with your jetpack, unlocking new outfits and items as you go.AndroidCafeteria NipponicaIt's beenout on Androidfor ages, but Kairosoft's Cafeteria Nipponica has just made the leap to iOS too. It follows similar mechanics to all the other simulation games from the Japanese developer, as you open restaurants, develop dishes and train up staff. More importantly, it is ruthlessly addictive – as my last lost weekend and current smartphone-generated squint show.iPhone / iPadFluid FootballIf the name LMA Manager rings a happy, nostalgic bell in your mind, you should download Fluid Football immediately. It's a tactical line-drawing football game that provides a more thoughtful take on touchscreen football, with lots of depth. Andy Gray and Richard Keys provide expert analysis, which may be a pro or a con, depending on how you feel about them.iPhone / iPadPunch HeroIt's been out on iOS for a little while, but Gamevil's entertaining boxing game Punch Hero is now on Android too. The free-to-play game may bring back memories of Nintendo's famous Punch-Out games, as you jab, hook and uppercut your way to the top. Lots of customisation is included, as well as the option to add your own face to your virtual pugilist.AndroidLittle AcornsLast week's Xbox Live-enabled Windows Phone release was Little Acorns, a casual game from EA that sees you playing as a squirrel named – his parents must bear responsibility for this, presumably – Mr Nibbles. Cue 80 levels of platform-based acorn-collecting action.Windows PhoneThe Grunts: Beard of BeesBritish publisher Nosy Crow is best known for its book-apps, but this is something different: an iOS game to promote a new range of books by author Philip Ardagh and illustrator Axel Scheffler (of Gruffalo fame). The game sees you building a beard of buzzing bees for the Mr Grunt character, fending off flowers, birds and butterflies. Ardagh provides the voice narration, with the game as fun for parents as its target audience of children.iPhone / iPadPuzzle CraftMixing RPG mechanics with match-three puzzling worked well for Puzzle Quest, so why not town-building and match-three puzzling? That's the idea here, with two separate gameplay modes as you build your town, and match tiles to boost your resources. It's one of a new breed of "paymium" games: you pay 69p for the game, but then in-app purchases are also available to speed your progress.iPhone / iPadJack LumberFinally this week, something new from Sega without a hedgehog in sight. Jack Lumber is a "time-warping line-drawing log-slicing pun-filled lumberjacking mashup", in the words of its App Store listing. Which means something akin to Fruit Ninja with logs instead of fruit, a dash of Matrix-style bullet time, and some characterful graphics to make it stand out from the herd on iOS.iPhone / iPadThat's our selection, but what have you been playing? Give your thoughts on these games, or recommendations for other new smartphone and/or tablet titles, in the comments section.
It has been a middling season in the south coast resort where greens and grandees, bikers and Bentleys, the cool and the crumpled, like to hang out. The weather has often been poor and the Olympics have proved a distraction. But Brighton bravely battles on, as plucky in adversity as Blackpool or Bridlington.Julia Butcher and her partner Christopher Sparrow are from High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, and have popped down to Brighton for the day, marking their arrival with a coffee – and hammering away at their mobile phones."He uses his phone much more than I do," says Butcher, who is only using hers to tell friends they have arrived safely. Sparrow, who is in the retail business, has the smartphone, but Butcher, a nanny, is the one who drives: "So I can concentrate on the driving while he can be working on the routes."Do their phones upset the work-life balance? Sparrow says he tries not to deal with office business on holiday and mainly uses his smartphone email to keep work at bay. He says it's more a blessing than a curse: "When you need the phone it's there, it's handy. Years ago you needed a phone box."According to arecent Ofcom report,more than a quarter of adults and almost half the UK's teenagers own a smartphone  – iPhones, Androids and BlackBerrys – with numbers rising rapidly. About 81% of smartphone owners use them many times every day, compared with 53% of owners of earlier mobile models.More and more people with smartphones admit making personal use of their devices during work, but many more (70%), the survey found, take work calls during their leisure time.On Brighton's pebbly beach, Anne, her friend Alison, and Alison's daughter, Kristen, down from Enfield, north London, for the day with the kids, all have smartphones. They say they use them a lot and are busy sending photos to friends. Would they answer if the office rang? "No, not on holiday." Not if it was the boss? No. "When you're away you don't want to hear from anyone," says Anne.A nine-year-old in the group boasts an iPod which she handles more deftly than mum. "What's a tape recorder?" one of the children asked the other day. The mums laugh at the generation gap.Four grey-haired tourists boast only one "antiquated" mobile between them, for emergencies only. What if the office rang? "I don't get calls from the office, I'm not that important," explains one man. "Not at our age," adds a woman.All the same, far more people on the beach seem to be tapping away than doing other beach activities.  In the 20 years since mobiles ceased to weigh 8 lbs - and look like a brick ‚Ä" they have become ubiquitous, even on the beach. Brighton's seaThe Guardian finds only one group proud not to have a mobile to hand ("They talk mostly nonsense anyway," says the matron in charge).An Indian couple on holiday (she's doing her master's degree in Britain) are Skypeing the family at home from the beach because it's their first wedding anniversary. Two sisters, in Brighton because mum (90) has been admitted to Sussex county hospital, admit to having "one idiot phone" between them, again with nothing more ambitious than to keep in touch. "It's OK for businesspeople to take business calls; I wouldn't," says one.A care home manager taking the sea air with his family says he keeps his phone switched on because he has a responsible job and has to stay in touch. No, his 12-year-old son doesn't have an iPhone – "I don't want one, I have a Xbox."Some analysts predict a trend towards privately owned smartphones, customised for personal needs, but also used for work. That makes some worry about contaminating company IT systems – either via technical glitches or "inappropriate" activity. The answer, they say, lies not in returning to the old days of having two phones, but allowing two separate operating systems: one for work, one for leisure, which can co-exist securely within one smartphone.Pacing up and down in a blue shirt on Brighton's sole surviving pier while talking about "salvage", James Ross is clearly doing business despite the presence of his young family. A self-employed insurance broker from Hinckley, Leicestershire, he's been at Butlins in Bognor for a fortnight but reckons a few "firefighting" business calls are unavoidable. "I do not answer emails. I work for myself and try to avoid as much as I can." This particular call about a crashed car is personal: the car was his wife's.Around Brighton's other famous landmark, at the Prince Regent's Pavilion, a young couple say "no way" to any suggestion that they blur their personal life with work calls. "When I am with Lucy I tend not to get personal calls," says Lucy's boyfriend. So why was Lucy just on her phone? "I am looking for a job."In the UK in 2012 the line between personal life and work life is diverging for many people, not integrating. As for Brighton's lighter than usual tourist traffic, some in the holiday trade blame smartphones – or rather the customised weather forecasts. "If their phone says it might rain in Brighton, they stay away," says  a veteran of the pier. "Then it doesn't rain."
It's the second in our now-weekly Apps Rush posts, which have been split between iOS and Android (today's Android versioncan be found here).Both offer a selection of the 10 most interesting new apps from the last week for their respective platforms, focusing on non-game apps – a separate post on the Guardian's Games Blog will offer a weekly 10 Best selection for all smartphones and tablets.On with today's selection for iPhone and iPad:WWEAmerican wrestling body the WWE has launched an impressive app offering a mixture of news, videos and photos, with the videos split between new clips and archive material. However, it's innovation is in its second-screen features, designed to be used while watching the WWE's weekly TV shows.iPhone / iPadRoyal Mail SmilersWhy should gold medal-winning Olympians have all the fun when it comes to appearing on British stamps? The Royal Mail's Smilers service has a brand new app from developer Intelligent AR, helping people turn their iPhone or iPad photos into First Class stamps. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the iPad version.iPhone / iPadFleksyAndroid has had all the fun when it comes to innovative keyboard apps, due to Apple's stricter rules on developers taking over the native iOS keyboard. Fleksy is very interesting though: a predictive texting app designed for blind and visually impaired people, but attracting rave reviews from a wider range of reviewers for its smartness.iPhoneFairy MagicStartup Inlifesize has pulled in some top-tier film and games talent for this augmented reality app aimed at children. It gets them to hunt for beautifully-animated fairies in their local surroundings, with more than 50 to collect and play with.iPhone / iPadSeven PoetsEdmund Pevensey is the latest developer experimenting with interactive fiction in an app. This is a "real-time, serialised story" with new chapters due to be released every week, starting on 15 August and running into October. There's even a fictional newspaper from the story's world that delivers new articles every day, in between the arrival of chapters.iPhone / iPadSalon.comGood news for fans of news and entertainment site Salon.com: there's now an app for that. In its current incarnation, it pulls in articles from the site, as well as images and video, and provides sharing features for Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. More features are promised regularly.iPhoneVodioLots of startups are trying to sell the merits of social video discovery apps, even if evidence is still relatively slight on whether there's a big demand – as opposed to people simply watching videos from within apps like Facebook and Twitter. Still, Vodio looks slick, tracking videos and sorting them into categories, while learning from your habits and your social graph to serve up more relevant suggestions. It's new on iPhone, although it's been out on iPad for a while.iPhoneCityBeatsHaving nicked the Premier League in the final minute last season, now Manchester City have designs on the world of music apps. CityBeats is a club-branded remix app from Bounce Mobile promising to showcase "the great up and coming bands from around the UK", while enabling you to make them sound even more (or less) up and coming by messing about with their beats and melodies.iPhone / iPadTalking GingerExpect lots of children to be getting very excited about Talking Ginger, the latest in Outfit7's Talking Friends series – 400m downloads and 115m monthly active users at the time of writing – and a virtual nephew for the equally-virtual Talking Tom Cat. Kids can interact with Ginger by tapping and talking, while guiding him through his bedtime routine (showering, teeth brushing and having a poo, rather than slaughtering a mouse on the living-room rug like most cats I know).iPhoneAppFlowApp-discovery app AppFlow has been a hit on Windows Phone, but now it's venturing onto iOS, where there's considerably more competition. The idea: "discovering apps in a social way" through recommendations from other users, while creating your own curated "App Lists" for other people to browse.iPhoneThat's this week selection, but what new apps have you been enjoying on iOS in the last week? Make your recommendations with a comment.
Electronic Arts was a major presence at this year's Gamescom conference, showing off new trailers and hands-on footage for big brands like Fifa, Crysis 3, Dead Space 3 and Medal of Honor. he company is also pushing its way into the social gaming space, not only with its Facebook titles, but with its Autolog, Battlelog and EA Sports Football Club online infrasturctures.So what's next for the company, and how is it preparing for the digital era, as well as a new console generation? To find out, we grabbed a quick chat with European vice president Jens-Uwe Intat. Here's what he had to say.Around 40-50% of EA's revenues now come from digitally distributed products. Do you think the end is nigh for traditional high street games retail and boxed copies?There will still be a place for physically distributed products for quite some time. Some people still like to have their games as boxed copies, and lots of people would prefer to give a box rather than a voucher as a present.The amount of data that we're putting into games is always increasing, and some are just more convenient to distribute as a physical product. Also, retailers have a value added function in the delivery process to the consumer – they can work with people who just want to pay with cash, or want to redeem used games; there is still a footprint there.Having said that, the growth will come from digital distribution. With increasing bandwidth, the full game download sector will develop over time. We also see paid-for DLC growing as part of our business.There seem to be two key trends at Gamescom this year. Free-to-play and cross-platform gaming. How is EA preparing for these two related phenonema?I agree, those are two of the biggest trends that we're seeing. They're related, but they're very different. Multiplatform play is definitely going to become more important; people want to continue to play their favourite franchises across multiple devices, wherever they are. But you'll have different experiences with different sizes of screen and in different occasions.With Fifa, you may play the full game on your console at home, but then, when you're on the way to school or work, you could take part in training sessions, for example. We're still working on the whole concept of what a mobile version of a console game should look like – we want to make sure users have different opportunities in different situations.As for free-to-play, what we're trying to do is reduce the entry barrier to our games. Take Star Wars – we want to give everyone the opportunity to start for free, to see if they like the experience, and later give them the opportunity to spend money. We also see with Ultimate Team in Fifa that people will continue to spend money despite the fact they have already bought the game. Some fans will spend much more money than in the old days when they could only buy the boxed copy.If you look at linear media, they have multiple ways for customers to consume content: you can go to the movie theatre and have a triple AAA experience with Dolby surround, you can have a subscription to pay-TV or pay-per-view, then you have completely free television – consumers will spend money depending on their appetite and situation. That is going to happen more and more in our industry. We're moving away from the one-size-fits-all model and toward appealing to different people, in different situations with different desires.How will that affect big titles like Fifa?We'll continue to have a core game with connected elements, but how we'll integrate the mobile experiences will depend on technical capabilities of the hardware: the graphical and processing power in tablets is increasing at a fast rate. Whether or not it will be the same experience just in a portable system we'll have to see, it depends what our developers come up with. But we're certainly working on ways to have your favourite franchise accompanying you through the day.We're approaching a new console hardware generation – and it could be the most important and most disruptive for decades. How does a publisher like EA prepare for that?We're an industry with a lot of innovation – and there will certainly be another generation of Xbox and PlayStation. As a software publisher, we've always worked at an early stage with console manufacturers. Also, in the early stages of hardware, we define a couple of our key titles that we think will be interesting on that platform, and we'll develop an offering that will allow consumers to experience whatever that platform has to offer. We've always been fairly platform agnostic, we try to help any new platform if we believe in the potential.Can original IP remain a big part of mainstream games development?As a company, in our space, as in every other industry, you have to find a proper balance between building the strength of existing brands and enlarging your portfolio with new titles. If you do either to the extreme, you won't be successful. If you never innovate, you will lack growth. If you only come up with original titles, it will be too expensive.I don't agree with the argument that you need new original IP in order to be innovative – if you take the Fifa franchise, what our team is doing there – and we're talkingannualiteration – I find that incredibly innovative. Look at player AI, team AI, how you can manoeuvre the players, it's innovative on a yearly basis.I do agree that, from time to time, you have to come up with new IP – the market and consumers both need it. Historically, we've seen that a new console generation is a better time to come up with new IP; to do it at the end is possible, but it's very demanding. At the beginning, you can position a new franchise with a new machine – it's a point of time where you can have more fun introducing new IP.EA's conference was very centred on familiar brands. Will we see more new IP announced next year? Because the consoles are going to be revealed at E3, aren't they?That could very well happen.Let's say it will. Will we then see something from EA that we've never seen before?That could very well happen. (Laughs.)Games are becoming much more social now, but we're seeing something of a backlash against titles like Cityville – a lot of people seem to hate Zynga. How do you avoid that?I'm not sure if Zynga is attracting hatred…You should go on games forums…Okay, you always find people who'll object to or complain about any publisher – but there is still a vast majority of people out there who do like those games. EA has been in this space for a long time – both Sims Social and SimCity Social have a huge number of users. I would not underestimate what we've been doing… Many people associate social gaming with Facebook and only Facebook. But I would say that what we and Activision are doing with shooters, what we're doing with Autolog, what we're doing with Fifa, we're breeding social communities around all our major franchises. Facebook isn't the only way to build a big social phenomenon around a game and never will be.Are we heading into an era in which divisive terms like single-player and multiplayer no longer exist?That's a very good question. There are still quite a few people who just want to play alone, from time to time. But the online element, the sharing, it's just so big – and only our medium allows you to do it. There's something in the nature of gaming that makes it much more social – gaming has always been a social activity. Teenagers these days will set up eight PCs in a garage and play online together, having a few beers … it's a social experience.  But the core of any game needs to be enjoyable enough to play by yourself.What do you think of this whole second-screen concept – the idea that everyone is now sitting in front of a large LCD display, but also playing about with a smartphone or tablet at the same time. Is this something EA is thinking about?Younger people need multiple things going on at the same time. But again, whether you're multitasking or not, the individual experiences have to be strong enough on their own. Using multiple screens for one game requires a very subtle game design, it has to be technically very feasible. Nintendo and Apple will be allowing this, but it will only take off when developers embrace it. We'll see it, but only after some time. At the very beginning with the Nintendo DS, people were saying, why the hell do I need two screens? It was only after a while that developers started to do new things.EA is supporting Wii U but not in a major way. Are you waiting for developers to get to grips with it, or is this a business decision?We always have to embrace new hardware with caution. When Nintendo, Sony or Microsoft step behind a new piece of hardware, we're certainly more confident because of their track record and the capabilities those companies have. So yeah, we're looking forward to Wii U and will certainly put development effort into contributing our fair share to making it successful.With things like smart TV and cross-media franchises, are we heading into an era where there are no movie producers or game producers, just media producers? Maybe the whole barrier between linear and interactive media is coming down. What do you think?That's the whole world of media in one question! I see publishing as a consumer relationship role; there's part of the organisation that creates a product and another part that maintains the customer relationship. Publishing is evolving from the time in which you sold into retail who in turn sold to the customer; it's now about ongoing consumer relationship management.In terms of how TV and games will blur more, that will depend on the individual titles – there will be no general trend, not every game will have a TV show and not every TV show will have a game. There was a time people thought that. Some games lend themselves to be interesting TV shows or movies, but as a general trend, I don't see it.
It's interesting that, while everyone is getting ironically excited about The Expendables 2 (the irony is dead important), the announcement of a new Army of Two title has been met with much head-shaking and world-weary bemusement. EA's co-op shooter titles are cut from the same idiotic, hyper-masculine cloth as the Expendables flicks, but yet the games industry has seemingly run out of patience with guilty pleasures. I'm not sure if that's progress or not.Army of Two: The Devil's Cartel at first seems like a toned down version of the previous two titles. The daft, sweary mercenaries have been replaced by two anonymous troopers, Alpha and Bravo, on some covert mission against Mexican drug gangs. This is a darker world, with more at stake, yet the gameplay seems highly familiar – blast through a series of set-piece battles, using co-operative tactics as much as possible while occasionally splitting up to take on solo paths.At Gamescom on Wednesday, I played a mission named Drug Lab, set in a decrepit building filled with lower ranking members of a violent cartel. While the previous games used the Unreal Engine, this one is built with EA DICE's superior Frostbite 2 technology so each environment is absolutely loaded with destructible items. With enough gun fire, stone pillars can be obliterated into skeletal poles of shrapnel and wire, while furniture is splintered into millions of wood chips.The cover system works well. Approaching a wall or scenic object and hitting a button locks you to it, allowing you to aim and shoot from safety or just spray gun fire without looking. Players can disengage from this at any time by just pulling back on the analogue controller; or you can use the gun sight to target another cover position, then hit the button to whiz to it – allowing you to zip about from one safe place to the next. It's not revolutionary, but in a cover-based shooter this stuff is important to get right.From here, it's all about legging it through the building, up the stairs and through derelict rooms, shooting the bad guys. Players score better for using co-op tactics like flanking. Points boost a meter in the top centre of the screen and when this fills you get access to the Overkill mode. When one player hits this, both get a timed sequence of ultra damage, but if both instigate overkill together, they go into a bullet time sequence for added destructive effect. Again, not a single original idea in sight, but the systems combine well – and to visually impressive effect.The action leads out onto a rooftop, where a helicopter evac has been arranged. While one player gets into the chopper and mans the mini-gun, the other must work along the rooftops, searching out an enemy with an RPG. It's exactly like one of the co-op missions in Modern Warfare 3. You see, a theme is sort of developing here: Army of Two remains silly, structurally derivative fun and despite a multitude of familiar moments, working out the most efficient ways to combine resources is still quite a kick if you completely disengage your brain and moral compass."We wanted to take the flanking and the weapons customisation from the first titles, add in the Frostbite engine and all the destruction, and give it all some really vsiceral production values," says producer Zach Mumbach. "There are lots of big moments, and it's not about watching them, it's about playing them."And whatever positive effects you have in the world, you're rewarded for that – not only in terms of Overkill points but with money. And that feeds back into weapon customisation. You can bring out custom guns for different situations, combining shotguns, sniper rifles and all sorts."The Devil's Cartel allows drop-in drop-out online co-op as well as split-screen two player, and there will be other multiplayer modes, though those haven't been announced yet. There's no word on whether developer, Visceral Games, will be resurrecting the Aggro meter from Army of Two: 40th Day, which caused enemies to target the player with the most Aggro points, allowing the other to sneak around and flank them. It would provide some extra tactical clout to a title for which Overkill is both a game system and an accurate description.•Army of Two: The Devil's Cartel is out on PS3 and Xbox in March 2013
Change is inevitable in MMOs, but ends up cheesing off pretty much everyone for different reasons. In particular, veterans resent watching months of level grinding and hard earned booty devalued on the promise of new players that often fail to materialise.As someone who left WoW behind after the disappointing Cataclysm (along with nearly 200k others), I approach this fourth expansion with an open mind but a heavy heart … will it be enough to justify dusting off my old characters, weapons and tactics, and will they work the way I remember?Mists of Pandaria sounds vaguely like a something you'd need Gaviscon to treat, but it's clearly aiming to take WoW back to its roots in exploration and adventure. With a new region to explore, a new character class and too many changes to cram into an 800-word preview, it's certainly a meaty update.Pandaria is the new kingdom, starting out in the Jade Forest and pitching straight into an ongoing struggle between the fishy Jinyu or simian Hozen races. From the lush Valley of the Four Winds to the irrevocably bleak Dread Wastes, the seven new zones pack more variety than anything we saw in Cataclysm – and that's not counting the Wandering Isles levels where Pandaren characters start out, which take place on board a giant floating turtle!Continuing the all-new features, there's a Monk character class, sharing some traits with the Shamen (for instance — his proximity healing powers), but also boasting three unique abilities; Brewmaster, Windtalker and Mistweaver.Then there's the Kung Fu Panda-like Pandarens, stars of the recent cinematic trailer and a race that can be allied with either Alliance or Horde. Pandarens are peaceful and spiritual in nature but powerful fighters, able to play as some but not all classes (Mages but not Warlocks, for instance) and you'll certainly want to experiment with one of your own once you reach the requisite level.In gameplay terms, there are significant changes to how most of the classes and races act, helpfully summarised in a new spellbook tab. Leveling up is now easier to customise thanks to an overhauled Talent system that redistributes points every 15 levels.Of course, veteran hunter-gatherers may balk at these changes, as well as the challenge mode approach of normalising all armour and equipment before the start of a raid, as it risks fundamentally changing the balance between fighting skill and equipment.Indeed, the biggest criticism against Cataclysm was that raids had been dumbed down for the benefit of new "casual" players. Blizzard seems to have taken this on board, tempting newbies with a bagful of new daily quests before launching into the nine new dungeons, four new battlegrounds and a frantic five-player challenge mode, reminiscent of the old Straholme and Zul'Aman dungeon runs.There are also scenarios, massive PvE quests for groups of three to 25 players and you can also team up to withstand enemy onslaughts on specific targets. Inevitably, once you get to level 90, there are raids – the first three of which will be introduced after launch, including an epic battle in the Mogu'shan Vaults. Will they have the clout of the Heroic and Burning raids of old? That's something WoW veterans will be battling over in game and on the forums in the weeks to come.So what else does Pandaria hold in between the new bosses and battles? Well, it ranges from the trivial to the obsessive. Fans of Vanity Pets can indulge in new turn-based mini fighting games, levelling up their beasts or discovering new ones in the wild. Meanwhile, WoW's enduring obsession with booty continues with a wealth of new Pandaren items and Monk glyphs – both of which can be cashed in at the auction house (including a new black market version) to noobs looking for an easy alternative to gathering. Naturally, competition for the best items will be frantic once the BattleNet servers (still wrestling with a massive security breach last week) open to the public. As always with WoW expansions, slow and steady would seem a better approach than charging off into the unknown hoping to stake an early advantage.MMO's are almost impossible to judge on Beta first impressions with so many features still to be implemented, but MoP is looking promising so far. There's plenty of new stuff to refresh the landscape, but also a return to the old adventuring spirit that sucked you in the first place.If you're still unconvinced, Blizzard are promising a future update that will allow you to play as Pandarens without the MoP pack – but having had a taste of the full menu, I doubt an appetiser will suffice. However, there's no doubt that WoW is an aging world that relies as much on the good will of veterans as the influx of new blood. Will Mists of Pandaria strike a balance that satisfies both audiences? Expect the verdict in late September.• World of Warcraft: Mists of Pandaria will be released for PC on 25 September
This weekly Apps Rush post will usually be published on a Friday, but due to a personal holiday, last week's has slipped to Monday.A separate iOS-focused post will be published later in the day, with both concentrating on non-game apps. New games for smartphones and tablets get their own weekly post over on the Games Blog.On with this week's Android selection:PinterestIt took a while, but picture-focused social network Pinterest finally has an official Android app. You can pin images and links from the web to your own boards, and browse those of other people – your friends, and the wider Pinterest community.Sky Sports TVJust in time for the new football season, Sky Sports TV makes its way onto Android, offering eight streaming channels for £4.99 a month. Sky says that will include 115 Premier League football matches, although Android Jelly Bean 4.1 isn't currently supported – be warned, owners of the Nexus 7 tablet.Dolphin Browser BetaDolphin Browser has been around for a while on Android, but this is a new "improved Webkit version" that promises to be faster than ever. In fact, its developer reckons it's 5-10x faster than the default Android browser, and twice as fast as Google's Chrome (albeit with an "at times" caveat on the latter claim).Falcon for Twitter BetaThe future of many third-party Twitter clients may be in some doubt, but Falcon shows why innovation continues to happen outside Twitter's official apps. It's an Android Twitter widget with a good set of features, all designed to be used from the homescreen.UK Bus Times: Bus Scout+This paid version of the same developer's Bus Scout app ditches ads, but keeps the focus on live bus times and routes from around the UK – throwing in tubes, trams and ferries for good measure. That includes departure boards for 370,000 stops and stations.RealPlayerNow, RealPlayer for Android isn't new, as such – it's been downloaded more than 10m times according to the Google Play store's stats. But it has emerged from beta this week, hence its inclusion here. As before, it plays music, video and photos, with Last.fm scrobbling and a graphic equalizer for the first of those.Mapsaurus BetaArmed with a "visual map" user interface that's reminiscent of the Discovr apps on iOS, Mapsaurus tackles the challenge of Android app discovery. Users can start with an app they own, or specific app categories, then browse the flowchart-style map to find similar ones.EchoerReleased earlier this year for iOS, location-based app Echoer is now available for Android devices too. Its aim: "working out which thoughts are worth hearing; elevating the most recent and popular content above the noise". That means filtering relevant recommendations about local venues and businesses.WebMD BabyMost new parents will have found themselves on a WebMD webpage at one time or another, in varying degrees of panic about their children's health. Now the site has an Android app – "a pediatrician in your pocket" – and while its content has a US audience in mind, it's still relevant to British parents too.Visit The CityThe 2012 Olympic Games may be over, but with the Paralympic Games to come – and the weather taking an upturn – there are still plenty of tourists milling about in London. Visit The City may help them: it's an app from the City of London Corporation showcasing hundreds of events and attractions in the capital.That's this week's selection, but what's been floating your boat on Android? Post your recommendations in the comments.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 18 August 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (40)12 (–)New Super Mario Bros 2(3+)3DS (100)13 (1)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (41)PC (1)84 (2)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (21)Wii (13)DS (4)95 (3)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (66)3DS (33)386 (4)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (45)317 (5)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (37)DS (2)3DS (1)88 (10)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (36)PC (3)139 (9)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (40)PC (2)710 (20)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Xbox 360 (32)PS3 (24)DS (19)Wii (18)1011 (6)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (31)PC (19)3812 (11)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (41)PS3 (30)PSP (10)Wii (9)4713 (7)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (35)PC (10)4214 (13)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)1515 (12)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (31)5816 (16)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure (7+)Wii (50)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (15)3DS (6)3117 (8)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (37)3718 (14)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)1719 (17)Grand Theft Auto Episodes - Liberty City(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)PC (0)1520 (–)Sonic Generations(7+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (29)3DS (28)PC (0)7UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
And so Gamescom is over. The European video game behemoth, which sits at the other side of the summer from E3, saw 275,000 visitors shuffle through its vast halls and its comparitively civilised business area, grabbing hands on time with the treats hinted at in Los Angeles in June.With Nintendo and Microsoft both absent, Sony seemed to take control of the event, introducing five original new titles at its press conference and delighting many tired games journalists with its fin de siècle creativity and enthusiasm. The free-to-play MMO makers were out in force too, asserting their growing claims on the industry, while reliable old guns like Assassin's Creed, Fifa and Call of Duty did their best to shout above the cacophony.So who won? Who surprised us? And what general themes can we draw from gaming's biggest show? I put this question to four veteran games writers: Pat Garratt, founder of the ceaslessly prolific news site,VG247; freelancer Dan Griliopoulos (PC Gamer, Rock Paper Shotgun); Nathan Ditum,bloggerand producer of PlayStation Access TV; and Chris Dring, associate editor at trade publication,MCV.Here's what they had to say:So, a nice easy one to start with: what were your favourite games of the show?Nathan Ditum:I've got two. Epic Mickey: The Power Of Two uses Disney's massive archive of brilliant and often forgotten characters in a way that fascinates me as a Hollywood nerd, and Warren Spector's such an interesting guy. My other favourite was Rain, a small PlayStation exclusive from Sony's Japan Studio that looks arty and sad and other things I'm a total sucker for.Dan Griliopoulos:For me it was X-com. Just a loving tribute to one of the best strategy games of all time. The multiplayer promises endless variation, whilst the single player will have a compelling detect-shoot down-fight-loot-research-manufacture-equip loop. Far Cry 3 came a close second, then Sim City, and Impire.Pat Garratt:Far Cry 3 was the best thing I saw. It's an open-world gun game based on a fight-for-survival story on a Lost-style desert island. It's completely stupid. I'm drawn to its drugs and bear attacks. Crucially, you can fist-fight a shark, which clearly makes it the most anticipated game of 2012. It's out at the beginning of December.Chris Dring:Call of Duty: Black Ops II. After all the talk of new things, what I loved the most was something that everyone apparently is really bored of. The new multiplayer, although still very Call of Duty, has been given more than just a face lift and introduces another new level of strategy. I also really love the look of Hitman's Contracts mode. It is so good, Square Enix even threw a press conference to announce it.Keith Stuart:I'm going for Dishonored, which is complex and compelling and seemingly – shock, horror – very intelligent. But like Nathan, I'm also interested in Rain by Sony's Japan studio, which reminds me very much of Konami's Lost in Shadow. I also enjoyed DmC, but then I love Ninja Theory games – they have a very different understanding of third-person combat than, say, Rocksteady, but it is very compelling.And what were the biggest surprises?DG:Lords of Football. Solid quality simulation of football management from a Sims/Theme Park POV. Makes interesting use of a town as a user interface. Surprised by it being any good at all. Other than that, Impire is an extremely good riff on the Dungeon Keeper theme.CD:The fact that Sony didn't show a new PS3, didn't cut the PlayStation Vita, and yet still romped home with a fantastic press conference was a surprise. Vita was all about the big brands pushing the format – and the wonderful Tearaway – while PS3 was all about new IP, most of which just looked fantastic. Not entirely sure the new PS3 games are system shifters, but they looked the sort of games us journalists will pick up on day one.ND:I was surpised by just how much I hated Army Of Two: The Devil's Cartel, without even playing it. The dumber than rocks trailer was enough.KS:It was actually okay fun to play, though still doesn't do enough with the co-op mechanic. I want to see crazy, idiotic synchronised stunts. My biggest surprise was Sony – five new IPs! The best quote I read about it was that Sony just won E3: two months late... Anyway, Pat?PG:The biggest surprise of Gamescom 2012 for me was the German public's capacity for being fed into a human sausage machine in the name of seeing some computer games. Around 250,000 people turned up this year. I was only there for one of the public days, but I'm not sure I've ever seen so many people inside a single building. I couldn't play anything. Apparently the queue to see a ten-minute demo of Crysis 3 was over three hours long. It was honestly frightening.The organisers were forced to stop entry on one of the weekend days last year because the Messe was dangerously full, and it's obvious the overall experience for paying customers is diminished by the sheer scale of the show. It's pretty depressing to see young kids and parents standing completely bewildered in a hall the size of an aircraft hangar while thousands of teenagers bay for free T-shirts. So, the greatest surprise of the show for me is that fact that some of these people even bother.Finally, the big one: what do you think were the key themes of Gamescom 2012?CD:Free, free, free. It was all about games that cost nothing. Nintendo and Microsoft's stands were replaced by Wargaming and Trion Worlds and Gameforge. And these companies are all building or publishing free-to-play titles that compare with your big triple-A boxed games. EA announced a new free-to-play Command and Conquer, The Old Republic was there, Ubisoft unveiled three free-to-play companies. And of course, Dust 514 was there. The industry is changing, and although this can be scary to those of us used to the way the games industry has operated for the past 20 years, there's no denying it's all a bit exciting, too.In our traditional market, new IP was the order of the day. Are consumers bored? Well, the media certainly appeared to be, with much of the press praising the likes of Capcom and Sony for daring to do new things. Remember Me looked great, Tearaway was wonderful, as was the Sony Japan IP. You never know, daring to launch new IP might do something unspeakable and actually extend the life of these consoles even further.DG:The paid MMO is dead. No-one's doing it. The developers who have MMOs in development now tend to say they haven't decided what the business model is – by which they mean, what flavour of free they're going for. There's still a lot of room for price experimentation in both the mobile and MMO space, and someone's going to find a model that's not just not-intrusive but compelling and also a fun way to pay.Lots of developers are still confused about their route to market. Lots of them have instinctively crass tastes, and the increasing preponderance of booth babes at GamesCom is hardly redressing the public's negative impression of computer games. Making an analogy to politics, developers need to lead the public, like the Indie developers do on Kongregate, iOS and Steam, not follow like the marketing bods do at GamesCom.PG:To my mind, gamescom 2012 had three main themes. First, there was Vita's viability. Sony needed to show there was a future for the machine. Shuhei Yoshida, PlayStation's development boss, told me it was  key he proved there were enough games in the works for Vita to make near-term ownership worthwhile. As such, we saw reveals of some major new first-party Vita projects – Media Molecule's Tearaway, a fresh Killzone game and others – and got an exciting Sony press conference. There was a great deal of positivity surrounding Sony and Vita this year, and that's good for everyone.Secondly, we had the show's unavoidable elephant: the next console generation. The main publishers announced no new product, giving us nothing more then fresh-ish demos of E3 software. Development's being pushed wholesale onto next-gen hardware, so there's a huge amount going on behind the scenes that we're not going to see until next year. It made the whole thing a bit stale in terms of blockbusters. Gamescom 2013 will be a very different show, as it's likely the next Xbox and PlayStation will be announced at E3 in Los Angeles next June.Lastly, there was the free-to-play model. Some business journalists were saying they rarely had a meeting about anything else, and it was predicted in the show's main opening ceremony that "F2P" would be the dominant method of consuming games within a matter of years. Some of the biggest crowds in the consumer halls were for games which are free to download and are then monetised through micro-transactions, as opposed to being bought for €50 on a disc. It's very likely this is going to be the future of games in general, and we were seeing the entire subject emerge as a strong theme at gamescom this year.ND:From a console perspective the biggest story is about what'snothere – next gen is clearly the driving force behind what the big three are doing, including Microsoft and Nintendo not coming because they're not ready to (or in Nintendo's case, bothered about) showing anything new.Next gen loomed large in Sony's conference as well, despite not actually being there – with Move, Wonderbook and bright, younger-skewing new IP, PlayStation 3 is going kid-friendly for a final profit-squeeze before the end of the cycle, while The Last Of Us looks likely to be its last big hardcore hurrah.KS:I think on balance then, there's an interesting asynchronous war brewing between the traditional console manufacturers and their old business model, and the emerging free-to-play giants and their platform agnostic mega-brands. If this show really was about the calm before the next generation storm, that coming generation of consoles had better learn from the likes of Trion Worlds and Gameforge. Adaptable delivery and pricing structures are going to be vital. Also, people seem to really like and respond to orginal new titles at these events... whoever sawthatcoming?
Monday, here ye be, the foul work doth begin. Guess who spent the weekend watching eight episodes of Game of Thrones? How about you?
Samsung abused its "monopoly power" over certain wireless patents and demanded an unreasonable royalty from Apple for their use in the iPhone, hurting the device's commercial prospects, Apple experts testified on Friday as the two sides presented their last pieces of evidence.Richard Donaldson, a former lead patents attorney for Texas Instruments, told the court on Friday that a 2.4% royalty Samsung wanted on the price of the iPhone was discriminatory because the patents in question enabled just a fraction of the smartphone's features.Later, New York University professor Janusz Ordover likened that rate – equivalent to $14 (£8.90) per $600 iPhone – to a holdup.Ordover, a former deputy assistant attorney general for the Justice Department's antitrust division, said Samsung's conduct distorted the decision making process in setting standards."It enabled Samsung's technology to be introduced, to become part of the standard," he said. "They have acquired holdup power."Samsung accuses Apple of infringing those patents, which are related to wireless communications for smartphones and are broadly licensed to Intel and other technology corporations.Apple, meanwhile, accuses Samsung of copying the design and some features of its iPad and iPhone.The former Texas Instruments executive joined a string of rebuttal expert witnesses that Apple presented in court in the closing hours of the US legal battle with its South Korean rival.The two sides finally closed their submissions with Samsung having used all 25 hours it was allowed for evidence and cross-examination in the trial, and Apple using all but a minute of its 25 hours.Closing arguments and jury deliberations, neither of which are time-limited, are set to begin this week.The court battle is a facet of a bigger war for supremacy in the mobile market between the two corporations, which sell more than half the world's smartphones. The mobile market is one of fastest growing and most lucrative in the technology sector.In part, Apple's aim is to limit Samsung's explosive growth, which it has testified has seen it lose sales to the South Korean company – because, Apple's witnesses said, of features copied from the iPhone, though Samsung countered with Apple data suggesting lack of iPhone availability was a key to lost sales.But it is also part of a wider strategic assault on companies selling phones running Google's Android software, which now make up well over half of all smartphones shipped worldwide.If Apple can prevail over some elements of Android software, it could force handset makers to change certain features – which might cause a confusing diversity of features and implementations of some functions in Android.Google is not directly involved in the trial, but its executives will be watching the outcome closely.Donaldson testified that: "If other companies were to determine that this is a reasonable royalty, then the total royalty on the iPhone would be something like 50%.  It's neither fair nor reasonable because you could not be successful in the market."Other expert witnesses included Michael Walker, a former senior Vodafone research executive, who from 2008 to 2011 chaired the European telecoms standards authority. He said Samsung failed to disclose in a timely fashion the patents referred to by Donaldson.During cross examination, Samsung lawyer Charles Verhoeven probed the idea that trade secrets and confidential information were exempt from a requirement for full and timely disclosure.In any case, the South Korean company had never come under scrutiny from the standards-setting agency on that issue, he said.The courtroom battle has transfixed insiders since July. Apple is demanding more than $2.5bn in damages and a sales ban on certain Samsung smartphones and tablets, while its rival is demanding licensing fees.Samsung also says Apple's damages should be calculated not on gross margins, but after all other costs – such as marketing – are factored in.The trial in San Jose, in the heart of Silicon Valley in California, has offered glimpses into the two huge corporate machines – from their design and marketing processes to the profits they make on devices.Tensions have run high with so much at stake, but the trial has offered some levity.Judge Lucy Koh asked whether Apple lawyer Bill Lee was smoking crack after he presented a 75-page list of witnesses with only minutes left on Apple's "clock" – a quip that came up again to much good-natured chuckling, including from Lee himself, on Friday.Friday's testimony centred on the concept of standards or essential patents – intellectual property built into a commonly agreed set of specifications – and in this case, the UMTS wireless communications standard used worldwide by mobile devices.Professor Ordover testified that standards essential patents (SEPs) – a point of contention in a global market where corporations constantly seek an edge – had enormous benefits to consumers and manufacturers.But they also had potential risk and could be abused. Ordover argued that Samsung unfairly wielded its two patents against Apple.Such patents are meant to be licensed to all comers on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis, in return for being agreed to be essential to a standard.Apple's lawyers argue that Samsung – a member of the body that crafted UMTS standards in 2005 – is charging an unfairly high licensing fee for those patents, in effect trying to stymie market advances.Samsung says the patents are intellectual property for which it rightly requires compensation.As the clock ran down on Samsung's lawyers on Friday, they did not cross-examine many of the Apple witnesses at any length, and in many cases simply chose not to do so.Apple concluded its rebuttal case to Samsung, which had presented its evidence during the week, with just one minute remaining.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamExclusive: HP creates Mobility division to focus on consumer tablets, hires Nokia's ex-MeeGo boss Alberto Torres to run it &gt;&gt; The VergeCreating a new "mobility" unit to focus on the consumer side:The news comes almost exactly one year since HP killed the TouchPad, effectively ending Palm's run as a hardware company and throwing webOS itself into an uncertain future as an open source platform.Running the new Mobility unit will be Alberto Torres, who departed Nokia after running its MeeGo operations -- operations that were doomed once it became clear that CEO Stephen Elop would be taking the company down the Windows Phone path.Google's Motorola files new patent case against Apple &gt;&gt; BloombergGoogle's Motorola Mobility unit said it filed a new patent-infringement case against Apple claiming that features on some Apple devices, including the Siri voice-recognition program, infringe its patents.The complaint at the US International Trade Commission claims infringement of seven Motorola Mobility patents on features including location reminders, e-mail notification and phone/video players, Motorola Mobility said yesterday. The case seeks a ban on U.S. imports of devices including the iPhone, iPad and Mac computers.Winning this case wouldn't restore Motorola's position in the market; Samsung (particularly) and HTC would still be hammering it. So what's the real purpose of this case? If it wins and Apple pays up, then what?An unexpected ass Kkicking &gt;&gt; Blog Of Impossible ThingsJoel Runyon thought the old man who sat next to him and dissed his MacBook Air was just another person with an opinion. Turns out he wasn't.Twitterrific firsts &gt;&gt; furbo.orgA few of the ways in which third-party apps paved the way for Twitter - including the first use of "tweet" to describe an, er, tweet. Other things (including using the @ and # systems) were first used by users, not Twitter itself.The Twitter API Insanity - What Everyone Seems to Be Missing &gt;&gt; Nova Spivack - Minding the PlanetWhy not have a two-tier API system? Here's how it would work.True confessions of a former iPhone developer &gt;&gt; ZDNetMay not be typical of broader experience (he spent a month writing a variety of "Days to..." apps back in the early days of the App Store) but still interesting.RIM Web Usage Down 25% in the Past Year &gt;&gt; Chitika InsightsBlackBerry users, look away now:A recent report from IDC pegged RIM's quarterly market share at 4.8% based on sales - the company's lowest mark in this area since 2009. Meanwhile, Apple's iOS shipped 16.9% of all phones worldwide. The Chitika Insights team was interested in seeing how these global figures translate to overall Web usage in North America by analyzing the past year of mobile usage statistics.Despite the original similarity in mobile business models, the graphs below show two nearly polar opposite results. Apple's success with both the iPhone and iPad have led its devices to command a staggering 63% of all mobile traffic - up nearly 35% from slightly under year ago.The iPad is surely distorting the figures. According to Chitika, RIM's mobile web share was just over 1%. In October 2011 it peaked (for the past year) at 5%.DEAR FACEBOOK EMPLOYEES: Here's The Truth About Your Stock Price &gt;&gt; Business InsiderFormer internet stock analyst Henry Blodget explains it in terms that everyone can understand. Basically, any insider who was hoping to be a bazillionaire on their stock has plenty of waiting ahead of them, unless their surname's Zuckerberg.Fewer and fewer people want to know about computers, says Google &gt;&gt; The AtlanticSince 2004:We see some seasonality around the holidays, as you would expect, but the dominant trend is DOWN. Every year since Google started tracking this information in 2004, the number of people trying to find information about computers has marched ever downwards.Mobile-related searches, meanwhile, have risen relatively.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Many of us are already cyborgs. If you have a contraceptive coil fitted, or a pacemaker – arguably even if you wear contact lenses or have pierced ears – then you are in a sense part-human and part-machine. For a small but growing global community of"biohackers" or "grinders", however, there is far more fun waiting to be had.A common procedure is to implant a strong neodymium magnet beneath the surface of a person's skin, often in the tip of the ring finger. This causes nearby magnetic fields – and even their strength and shape – to become detectable to the user, thanks to the subtle currents they provoke. For a party trick, they can also pick up metal objects or make other magnets move around.Calling this a procedure, though, gives rather the wrong impression. Biohacking is not a field of medicine. Instead it is carried out either at home or in piercing shops, cleanly and carefully with a scalpel, but without an anaesthetic (which you need a licence for). If you think this sounds painful, you are correct.Britain is the birthplace of modern transhumanism, as the field is known. Probably the most sophisticated implantation ever made can be found inside the left arm ofKevin Warwick, professor of cybernetics at the University of Reading, who can now control a robot arm by moving his own. The system also works the other way, so he can now sense his wife's movements in his own body, after she had a similar implantation.A more intuitive exponent isLepht Anonym, the&nbsp;name used by a young woman in Aberdeen, who has performed manyadaptations on herself at homeusing nothing more sophisticated than sharp implements and vodka. She began with a sensor that allowed her to lock and unlock her computer, and then fitted a temperature display that emerged through the skin, though this was not a success.To Warwick, Anonym and the wider grinding community, who meet online in forums such asbiohack.me, implanted technology or "wetware" represents the next stage in mankind's evolution. And, indeed, the idea is not outlandish. Brain stimulation from implanted electrodes is already a routine treatment for Parkinson's and other diseases, and there are prototypes that promise to let paralysed people control computers, wheelchairs and robotic limbs.Last week, X-Men producer Bryan Singer launcheda web TV&nbsp;series called H+prophesying&nbsp;the cataclysmic consequences of all this. Yet the&nbsp;ultimate potential, for good&nbsp;or bad, may be even greater than it imagines. "Bringing about brain-to-brain communication," Warwick&nbsp;says,&nbsp;"is something I hope to achieve in my&nbsp;lifetime."
Anton Vickerman probably didn't want to enter the history books in this way. As the founder of surfthechannel.com, a website that provided links to TV and film content – in a significant number of cases, unlicensed and illicit – the 38-year-old last week becamethe first person in Britain to be jailed for running a site linking to pirate material. He was jailed for four years after a private prosecution brought by theFederation Against Copyright Theft, AKA Fact, funded by the TV and film industries.In a furious 18,000-word commentary on his website, Vickerman says a lawyer had advised him that Surfthechannel was legal. Fact, he alleges, behaved like a private police force  – with employees and private investigators using subterfuge to get hold of personal information. But worse: it acted without oversight or any sort of restriction on behaviour, intent on its task of trapping alleged copyright "thieves". (Although as any lawyer will point out, there's no such offence as copyright "theft", only "infringement", because by its very nature if you take a copy, the original remains. But "Federation Against Copyright Infringement" doesn't have quite the same ring.)For its part, Fact is unapologetic, and declined to comment on Vickerman's allegations. "If what he was doing was legal, why did he go to such lengths to hide his identity and location?" said a spokesman for Fact. "Why not just operate as a legitimate business in the UK? Why did he set the site up anonymously, and make it so hard to find him?"In the ongoing "content wars", between those who run sites that offer links to all sorts of content, and the people who don't always want those links to exist, Vickerman's conviction marks the conclusion of a remarkable battle. After Google's announcement this month that it woulddemote sites with high numbers of copyright complaints, the content owners seem to be getting an edge.And Fact, long known as a pitbull when it comes to pursuing alleged copyright infringers, now has a victory that it can use to intimidate others who might be thinking about setting up link sites.In his writing on Surfthechannel, Vickerman expresses amazement and fury at the prosecution and the lengths that Fact went to in order to mount it, especially after the Crown Prosecution Service declined to mount a case under the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (CDPA). Other cases where links websites have been tried under forms of the CDPA, including TVlinks and Newzbin, have not found them guilty of infringement. The CPS also declined to prosecute Richard O'Dwyer, who ran tvshack.net, another links site.What's so different about Surfthechannel? Nikki Powell, an intellectual property lawyer at the London-based Addleshaw Goddard, points out that Fact did not bring a case under the CDPA; instead, Vickerman was tried under the criminal charge of "conspiracy to defraud" (specifically, to defraud the film companies whose pirated products were being linked to)."That's much harder to prove," Powell says. "You have to show that all the parties have the intention to [financially] harm the plaintiff." Theattorney general's guidancesuggests such cases involve some or all of "several significant but different kinds of criminality; several jurisdictions; different types of victims, eg individuals and banks; organised crime networks". By choosing to prosecute Vickerman under that law, Fact was arguably setting the bar high, because it also had to match the criminal standard of conviction – that is, beyond reasonable doubt – unlike civil cases, which are decided on "balance of evidence". And if Fact lost, it would bear all the costs of both defence and prosecution.Fact's case – which the jury accepted – is that Vickerman conspired with others to put the infringing content online and link to it, thus denying the film producers, cinema chains, DVD rental and pay-TV companies potential revenues, while collecting money from adverts placed on the site. All are necessary elements of a "conspiracy to defraud" case.Among the titles that were up early — in some cases simultaneously as the doors opened at cinemas — were films such as Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull and Prince Caspian. Fact argued in court that the millions of links and visitors, and the length of time that Surfthechannel operated, meant between £52m and £198m of lost revenues, based on the provision of access to the top 50 films over the indictment period, tallied with the idea that 55% of those who went to the site would have bought the film in some way instead.Judge John Evans put the case against linking sites more succinctly: "If the producers are unable to exploit the product in which they have invested, then almost certainly the film will not make a profit. Whether made by the major film studios or the smaller production companies, if films fail to make a profit or at the very least break even, then the incentive to produce films diminishes and with it goes what has been a major source of entertainment to millions worldwide for over a century." That, in a nutshell, sums up the content wars: producers who want to set a price, against consumers who also want to set a price – ideally, zero."For the CPS, it means they can feel that even if they don't pursue a case then they can rely on a private prosecution by someone like Fact," says Luke Scanlon, an intellectual property lawyer at Pinsent Masons. "But you do have to wonder about the data protection implications. The police arrest the guy, and then they hand over private data about him to Fact because it's mounting a private prosecution? That's surprising."For Vickerman, the latest casualty in the content wars, it won't be any comfort to know that he has been doubly precedent-setting.
Unless your child is the latest in an unbroken line of a family name –  I once met a Bruce IV – every parent sweats over what to call their latest arrival. Too posh, too common, too weird, too boring… Part of the problem is also that we believe the name will somehow mystically shape the character of the child. Martin Amis firmly believed that Tim Henman could have been a contender if only he'd been called Tom. Now, it seems, there really is something else to consider. Name  your child Juliet or Rupert and chances are they'll be caught speeding.Diamond, the women's car insurance specialist, looked at more than 3m motorists to identify the first names of drivers most likely to have points for speeding. The top five for women are Juliet, Susannah, Justine, Deirdre and Alexis, while for men the speediest names are Rupert, Julian, Piers, Giles and Justin. The research also revealed the occupations of the motorists most likely to have a speeding conviction: step forward surgeons and chartered surveyors.My wife isn't a surgeon, but her name is Juliet, so I was able to tell her to "slow down" from a position of authority as we shared the driving in Volkswagen's new CC en route for Bristol.The CC is VW's gift to the corporate world – at least 80% will be sold as fleet – and it's a welcome alternative to the fat-cat hegemony of BMW, Audi and Mercedes-Benz. It's fast, efficient, reliable and far better looking than you'd expect. All virtues we'd do well to emulate in the boardrooms of the land.The CC started life back in 2007 as the Passat CC. The letters CC often stand for coupé cabriolet. This VW is no cabriolet, but its long, graceful lines have clearly been inspired by the two-door coupés that cut such an elegant dash on the highways of the continent. To muddy the waters further, the CC is also no longer  a Passat. The European name has now been changed to the simpler "CC", which is favoured Stateside.The differences between the old Passat and the new CC are not huge. But the CC now boasts an all-new nose, pronounced sills, a sloping roofline and frameless doors that seem to flow into the grooved side panels. From the front perspective it's a particularly handsome car, with the jewel-like Bi-Xenon headlights glinting next to the black gloss radiator. Inside it has deep, buckety seats; a sculpted dash that sweeps round you and a lower roof that adds to the grand-tourer feel of the car.Soundproofing has also been improved, so even with a mile-munching diesel shuttling you from conference to conference, there's almost no road noise. And there's an extra seat in the back. The old Passat was a four-seater but this has five, plus a colossal boot to cope with all that family clutter and, of course, the set of golf clubs you'll be spending so much time with. Interestingly, that extra seat eliminates what VW says was the car's greatest point of rejection among potential buyers.Being a premium car it comes freighted with kit – both driver aids and safety features. But one that all the Juliets and Ruperts would do well to heed is Traffic Sign Recognition, which detects changes in speed restrictions and warns the driver.
Gamescom is one of the biggest games trade fairs in the world, attracting around 300,000 people to Cologne, Germany each year. Open to the public as well as industry figures and press, it's a celebration of interactive games and the culture surrounding them.Last week, the star of 2012's show was Sony, showcasing a number of new titles to reinvigorate thePlayStation Vita. The extraordinarily powerful handheld console has been hampered by limited software releases, but with new titleTearaway(fromLittle Big Planetcreators Media Molecule) and an exclusiveAssassin's Creed, those days seem to be over. Sony's new Cross Buy feature – purchase certain games on PS3, get the full Vita version free – should also be popular with parents as the holidays kick in, especially with kid-friendly favesRatchet and Clankincluded. Other new releases included  PS Move-compatible horror effortUntil Dawnand the ethereal ghost story,Rain.Elsewhere, Namco Bandai impressed with their upcomingStar Trekgame andNi no Kuni, a gorgeously animated RPG. 2K's anarchistic co-op shooter-cum-RPG-hybridBorderlands 2looks even more striking than its much-lauded predecessor, with the same off-colour comedy and distinctive visuals.In addition to updates on the rebootedDmC: Devil May Cry, Capcom unveiled the ambitiousRemember Me, a cyberpunk thriller where memories are monetised and fought over. Square Enix'sTomb Raiderreboot takes aCasino Royaleapproach to the franchise, re-energising it for a new generation by positioning Lara Croft in a deadly open world where survival is paramount. For shooter fans, EA'sCrysis 3improves the already successful series with some truly fun and original multiplayer modes.The conference paints a picture of the global gaming market as a healthy, thriving industry.For players of all tastes, the coming months will be very exciting indeed.
While many modern games seem increasingly packed with grim, desensitised killer heroes – soldiers, ninjas, minor deities –Darksiders IIskips to a logical extreme and stars Death himself. Except in this combat-heavy third-person adventure, Death isn't just a whirl of souls and scythes, he also has a rarely seen softer side, as he puzzles his way through a premature apocalypse – "It happens to lots of horsemen" – to set the universe in order again. Which, naturally, is mainly achieved by smashing things to pieces.Darksiders IIis a grand journey between heaven and hell, a mishmash of legends and biblical tropes that results in a vibrant, comic-book pile of ancient races and ruined,Zelda-style dungeons. Exploring these relies on the primary gameplay mix of fighting, climbing and puzzling, aPrince Of Persia-esque formula of fleet-footed wall runs and lever-pulling posers. A constant stream of RPG upgrades guards against boredom – Death's armour and weapons are tinkered with like some reaper-based Ken doll – and enough side quests and collectibles are packed into the expansive world to make it seem less linear than it really is. Pulled together, it's a big, meaty, end-of-world enterprise, made all the more compelling by the unexpected grace of the grimmest of heroes.
After something of a troubled path to market – originally a True Crime title, then cancelled, before switching publishers and gaining a new name –Sleeping Dogsescapes development hell and proves to be one of the best crime games in years.Playing as Chinese-American cop Wei Shen, the game sees players infiltrating an arm of the triad in Hong Kong. Cue some serious violence and dubious police work as you balance Wei's original mission with increasing power earned from escalating notoriety in the underworld. Completing objectives for each faction earns points to unlock skills unique to them, leading to some conflicting moral choices.Combat is a blend of fisticuffs and shooting, with plenty of vehicular action on the side. Though Wei's most common combos involve hammering the attack button, additional grapples, counters and finishers mix sorties up nicely. You'll soon be composing scenes right out of a John Woo movie, which, I suppose, is rather the point.The script and attendant voice acting is superb, bolstered by brilliant cut-scene animation with precise facial movements capturing the actors' performances.Sleeping Dogsis an outstanding romp through the seedy underbelly of one of the world's most vibrant cities – it's so good that the upcomingGTA Vmight have cause for concern.
Here's a question you don't often hear asked: whatever happened to Microsoft? To many people, it will seem a silly question. Microsoft, they point out, is still around – with a vengeance. It's a huge company worth $250bn (£160bn) thatemploys 94,000 people worldwide and earns vast profits. (OK, it made a loss last quarter for the first time in its history, but that's because it had to write off $6bn it blew in 2007 ona company called aQuantivewhich turned out to be a turkey.) Microsoft dominates the market for PC operating systems and Office software, products that are still licences to print money: its Xbox game console sweeps all before it; its server software is a big seller in the corporate world. In 2012, the company's net revenues totalled $74bn.Sure, there are some flies in the ointment. Microsoft's search engine, Bing, has failed to break Google's stranglehold on search. The company's repeated attempts to break into the smartphone market have been failures, and its new partnership with Nokia hasn't changed that. Its effort to get into the music business with theZune player(remember that?) turned out to be an embarrassing farce.As far as social networking is concerned, Microsoft's modest shareholding in Facebook represents its only successful foray into that territory. It has zero presence in the tablet business (though it's been making brave noises about a forthcoming product calledSurface). And its share price has been flat for as long as I can remember.But when you set all these failures against the money pumps that are the Windows and Office franchises, it's hard to avoid the conclusion that Microsoft's doing just fine. Besides, its products are so deeply interwoven with the IT systems of governments and corporations round the world (just think of the 750,000 Windows machines in the NHS and UK government departments, for example) that Microsoft is one of those enterprises that is – to borrow a phrase – too big to fail.So why does it remind me of General Motors around the time that Toyota arrived in the US automobile market? This thought was triggered by an astonishing statistic I came across in an article byKurt Eichenwald inVanity Fair. It is this: Apple's iPhone now brings in more revenue thanallof Microsoft's products. In the quarter ended 31 March 2012, the iPhone had sales of $22.7bn. In the same period, Microsoft earned $17.4bn from everything it sold. So a single Apple product, which didn't exist five years ago, had higher sales than everything Microsoft has to offer.Cue the predictable storm of protests that this is a misleading comparison: apples and bananas and all that. Smartphones are not office systems, you can't run the NHS on iPhones, blah-de-blah. All true. But don't let those soothing rationalisations distract you, because implicit in the statistic highlighted by Eichenwald are two salutary, general lessons.The first is about the speed of change in this industry. It's not just that the iPhone (and the iPad) came from nowhere and created a market that nobody, including Microsoft, took seriously, it's that it happened in under five years. And that it propelled a company (Apple) that was a corporate zombie 15 years ago into the most valuable company in the world, with a current market cap of $590bn.The second lesson is about how hard it is for dominant companies to stay innovative in such a fast-changing environment. Microsoft, remember, was once an incredibly rich, smart, agile, innovative, competitive and aggressive company. Today, only the cash reserves and the aggression, personified by its current CEO, Steve Ballmer, remain.The question Eichenwald set out to answer was this: how did Microsoft change from being the lean, mean machine created by Bill Gates and Paul Allen into the sleepy behemoth it is today? In seeking an answer, he interviewed a lot of ex-Microsoft employees. They told a dismal tale of opportunities missed, innovations squashed and talented people demotivated by the corporate ethos of a maturing organisation.What it basically came down to is this: in the start-up phase of a tech company, people are collaborative and technically innovative because a successful IPO means that they'll all get rich. But once the share price flattens out and the company grows, stock options become less valuable (or even worthless) and then the only way to get on is to play managerial games and organisational politics. Bureaucratisation takes hold and innovation takes second place. Eventually, the point is reached when everything is designed or decided by committee, and... well, you can guess the rest.And – to return to my original question – that's what became of Microsoft.
Darksiders II, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360In the original Darksiders you played War, one of the four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.This time it's Death's turn as he races through the underworld in an effort to save War by ravaging legions of hell spawn, solving cathedral-filling block-and-lever puzzles and riding his skeletal horse to the four corners of its chunky vision of the netherworld. Combat is fast and brutal, rewarding parrying and in the case of bosses, cautious observation. Like Dark Souls, it punishes the greedy for launching one too many attacks when they should be evading, but in spite of a bracing difficulty level, it stops well short of that game's smiling cruelty. Breaking up intense fights with exploration and lightly cerebral puzzles, you'll be able to customise Death as you progress. It's a bit glitchy, but its size, lusciousness and some unexpectedly lovely English and Scottish voice acting makes its delights a pleasing experience.THQ, £39.99-£49.99Sleeping Dogs, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Sleeping DogsYou're Shen Wei, an undercover cop with the unenviable job of infiltrating the triads. After proving yourself to your heavily-tattooed quarry, you work your way up the organisation, using intimidation, robbery, shootings and kung fu. Cultivate your reputation while learning new moves and upgrading Wei's skills as he progresses as both policeman and gangster, enjoying a grimly-detailed expanse of suspiciously empty, neon-lit, perpetually night-time Hong Kong. Shamelessly "inspired" by Grand Theft Auto IV, it lacks that series' humour, character and limitless scale, although its fist fights are more interesting and its setting is a nice change from yet more slices of seedy Americana. There are numerous asides from rhythm-action karaoke to street races, but this is a shorter, more focused adventure than GTA's sprawling playground and one that – despite some rough edges – plays a decent game of cops and triads.Square Enix, £29.99-£39.99Games newsDayZDayZ, the mod that changed ArmA II from a military simulation to a bleak game of tactical zombie defence, is to be developed into its very own standalone title, something that should make its 600,000-odd players very happy …Meanwhile Guillermo del Toro's nascent horror game trilogy,inSane, has been cancelled as part of publisher THQ's hack'n slash restructure that's seen the company can everything remotely experimental …Other games out at the moment includeDark Souls: Prepare To Die Edition(PC), which finally brings this exquisitely brutal crucible of combat to computer owners, with a range of new places to meet your sticky end and – alas – issues with its frame rate;Tekken 6(PSP) gets a bargain bucket PSP Essentials release, while colourful, post-apocalyptic RPG-meets-realtime-strategy gameKrater(PC) proves to be tediously repetitious.
Advertisers make all kinds of claims on behalf of cars. They'll give you more freedom, make people want to have it off with you. But one thing they never suggest is that their car will make you feel more mature or grown up. I&nbsp;mention this because grown up is how the Passat Alltrack made me feel, and it was not an unpleasant sensation. I've waited my entire adult life to feel grown up. Mortgages, marriage, fatherhood: none of them stopped me essentially feeling like the same clueless div I was at 17. Then it happened, sitting in a kind of rurally, pimped-out version of Volkswagen's redoubtable family car. I felt quietly self-assured. In charge. Mature.Perhaps it was because, beneath the rugged styling, the Alltrack is an estate car and in my youth, estates seemed to be cars driven exclusively by grownups: this was an era before fashions shifted towards MPVs and SUVs. The latter's influence is reflected in the way the Alltrack is designed for a purpose you suspect it'll never get used for. It has an off-road setting, activated by a&nbsp;button I&nbsp;never pressed and wondered if anyone else ever will. The closest I&nbsp;came to off-road activity was sending it too fast over some speed bumps – you'll note I was still driving like a clueless 17-year-old div – which inadvertently took advantage of the Alltrack's heightened body.Or perhaps it was because there's something quietly assured about the Alltrack itself. Its price puts it in competition with Audi's A4 Allroad, the Range Rover Evoque and – if you're prepared to admit you don't actually need a car that can drive up a mountain, because you live in Weybridge – the BMW 5 Series Touring, all of which are flashier marques than VW. The Alltrack is selling itself on doing what it does really well – it's comfortable, smooth, the automatic gearbox felt powerful – while chucking in the ability to tow things and cope with a rotten winter via its four-wheel drive.It's also hugely capacious. There are Londoners paying £500 a week rent, plus bills, to live in things smaller than the boot. The cabin is similarly big. I used it to take my two daughters and their friend to a birthday party. My kids fought continually, their friend favoured us with a deafening solo performance of songs from last year's nativity play and, to add to the gaiety, I&nbsp;couldn't work out how to turn down the satnav to a volume below ear-splitting. But the Alltrack still didn't feel claustrophobic. I wouldn't say I&nbsp;arrived home in a cloud of zen-like calm, but it didn't take that long for my wife to prize my knuckles off the steering wheel: further evidence, I&nbsp;thought, of the new-found maturity the Alltrack conferred.Volkswagen Passat Alltrack 2.0 TDIBlueMotion Technology 170PS 4MOTIONPrice£31,030Top speed131mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.9 secondsAverage consumption49.6mpgCO2emissions150g/kmEco rating5/10In a wordAdult
Resident Evil is back. No, I meanreallyback. While Resident Evil 4 changed the old recipe in a brutal yet considered way, the fifth title seemed to mangle the whole franchise into a sub-standard sun-burned shooter. Resident Evil 6, however, wants to have its slice of undead gore cake and eat it.The game's interesting structure follows three sets of characters on three very different quests through a zombie-infected world. There's Chris Redfield breaking out the blast-'em-up action in China, while Jake Muller, son of Resi antagonist Albert Wesker goes on the run in Eastern Europe in a sort of action adventure romp. And then there's Leon Kennedy, back in the US and facing his own infected outbreak in the traditional Resident Evil form. Having played a section of his story, it seems Capcom has truly rediscovered the essence of the survival horror genre.In this section Leon and his partner Helena must escape from a college campus where a zombifying gas has infected just about the entire student body. As soon as the demo begins it's clear this is classic Resident Evil fare. We're in a dingy cellar room, poorly lit and filled with rubbish. Leon's footsteps echo loudly and every once in a while a strange noise makes him flinch and look around. Was it a cry? A growl? We don't know, but our view of the room is restricted and the tension cranks up.So up the creaking steps Leon goes, out into a corridor, littered with more trash and smeared with blood. We're back, at least in terms of dense atmosphere and crushing inevitability, to the mansion in Resident Evil 1. And I might be over-reading it, but I'm sure the way that Leon slowly pushes each huge wooden door open is a reference to the old loading screens between locations in the first title.Leon makes his way gingerly into a tiered lecture theatre – bathed in shadow and seemingly deserted. Then, suddenly and subtly, a drink can rolls down the steps onto the central floor. Immediately from the gloom, a zombie rises, then another. It's game on. Leon has a handgun, as does Helena, but – guess what – ammo is in very short supply. The one concession to modern tastes is the melee element: while in the first Resi titles taking on a zombie in hand-to-hand combat was always a nightmarishly risky endeavour, Kennedy is a high-kicking hard guy, who can knock the undead down then quickly stamp on their fetid faces. There are also short QTE sequences, allowing more devestating and visually impressive attacks.As an AI character, Helena tends to hang back  prefering to avoid and shoot, rather than wade in with blows. It's a good idea, meaning that she never puts herself into unncessarily risky situations.As monsters are disptached, Leon picks up skill points, which can be used throughout the game to upgrade characters and weapons. Rooms also contain herbs and bullets, as well as useful pieces of information. Leon and Helena don't talk much, but they trade theories as they move. In the background a discordant organ soundtrack plays, or there's silence punctuated only by breathing sounds.Cleverly, although it's a 3D environment with a dynamic camera, there's still an angular, expressionistic feel to each room, like the weird fixed camera angles in the first Resi titles. Often objects or shadows restrict your view, or you'll catch glimpses of movement through doorways – Capcom has remembered how to be subtle and artful; how to use the tricks of Hitchcock and Romero to hint at terror while restricting our ability to properly see or deal with it. At times when groups of zombies come in, I often get stuck trying to turn Leon between the undead aggressors, and far from being a flaw, it once again takes me back to the tension and vulnerabiity of Resident Evil 1 and 2.Outside, the campus is crawling with the undead – we need to open a security gate but the key is in a staff house and when we go in, zombies suddenly mount an attack on the building crawling in through the windows in a reference to the classic stand-off scene in Resident Evil 4. It's bloody, nerve-wracking stuff, and when we finally grab the key, it's all bout navigating through the darkened landscape to get to that gate and to freedom.From here, there's a great denoument. Leon and Helena dive into a police car and screech away, heading for a cathedral, until another zombie attack sends the car spinning off the road. This is how Resi has always worked – slowly but surely building the atmopshere to firestorms of destructive action. I can't wait to see the end-of-level monsters in this one.Best of all, I love the way this level plays with the memories and expectations of longtime Resi fans. It's not only those door-opening sequences; there are also sections that comment on how the first games made you run through the same sections time and time again; only here, new zombies awaken to make the return trip more dangerous. It also looks as though zombie dogs will be back, no doubt smashing through windows and giving us all heart failure once again. Everything is both familiar and new. It is marvelous fun.It will be fascinating to see how all this fits together. Apparently each of the three sections is its own adventure, though the stories interconnect. They're all around ten hours long, and finishing them unlocks an extra Ada Wong story, which itself is another ten hours. On top of this, there are multiplayer modes, as well as a new social layer, RE.Net, which compares player stats and achievements, and lets you unlock extra costumes and other goodies.I played Leon's quest in single-player, and it'll be fascinating to see if the old skool fear is retained with a co-op partner. It's the same thing people are worrying about with Dead Space 3, though here it feels like co-operating is subservient to the main motivation – trying to get out, trying not to be eaten, trying not to be scared. Resident Evil has always been about the terror of transmogrification and decay – it was at its best when it did this in a mannered, manipulative way. Leon's story is hitting those same old nerves, those same fear points. We are residents of evil once again.•Resident Evil 6 will be released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in October
In the early 2000s, something disheartening happened to action adventure game design. The emphasis on high-end visuals and cinematic storytelling led to the dominance of linear progression and spoon-fed plot. Artificial intelligence became about having baddies who could avoid gunfire rather than engage with the lead character in meaningful ways. In a sense, the mechanisms of the virtual world were being quietly but forcefully withdrawn from the player.Remember Deus Ex – Warren Spector's intimidating, panoramic cyberpunk epic? Remember the Thief titles, with their sneaky sandbox missions and amoral positioning? Dishonored does.Co-designed by Harvey Smith, a graduate of Spector's Ion Storm studio, this vastly ambitious steam punk odyssey provides us with an intricately realised universe and provides us with a multitude of tools in which to explore and manipulate it. In short, Dishonored promises to bring the player back into the creative equation. The sandbox is open again.If you've managed to miss all the background on Dishonored so far, here's a short primer. The game is set in the seamy, cursed city of Dunwall, a Victorian futuristic megaplex of grimy brick tenements and weird steam-driven industrial infrastructures. Lead character Corvo Atano, once the most respected bodyguard of the empress, has been framed for her murder and now a dictator, the Lord Regent, has set up a regime of supression and darkness (think Bioshock, or Terry Gilliam's Brazil).Atano wants revenge, and to get it, he becomes an assassin, stalking the stinking streets, loaded with weapons and magical powers – all customisable by the player.At Gamescom, Bethesda had one mission playable – Lady Boyle's Last Party. Here, Atano must discover and murder one of the three Boyle sisters during a masked ball at their family's lavish castle. You don't know which of the sisters is the target, so searching the building for clues and talking to other guests is your main priority. The key is in hiding your true intentions – one slip and the castle guards will be alerted to your true identity.Atano approaches the castle by boat along a fetid canal, and the first task is to slip in unnoticed. The street is guarded by tallboys, stilted soldiers who loom over the streets, armed with incendiary arrows – they're an amazing concept, part Victorian bobby, part circus performer, and they suggest artist Viktor Antonov has been drawn to the movies of Jean-Pierre Jeunet for inspiration.As with the classic Thief titles, there are multiple choices – here, and throughout the level. Taking the guards down is an option – Atano has his own collection of ranged and melee weapons – but it's better to work out their patrol patterns and slip by unnoticed.Heading one way will lead you into an abandoned building, the other will get you to the gates of the castle, each with their own problems and opportunities. This is the way of the game – it sets up the world, and invites you in as an agent, not a dumb tourist.I take the route to the castle gates, and spot a group of aristocrats chatting outside. Maybe I could take one out? I wait, plotting in the shadows, when one drops her invitation to the party, it blows along the street and I grab it, showing it to the moustached doorman. I'm in.The masked ball is a wonderful dramatic conceit – as guests pass, they comment on my appearance, congratulating me on my resemblance to Atano. Inside, the interior design is Victoriam ancestral pile mixed with fantastical steam punk trappings.There is lavish furniture, there are candles flickering beneath vast family portraits, but there is also an electrical forcefield guarding the castle's upper floor – out of bounds to guests. As Atano stroills through the party, picking at the vast feast, chatting to guests (using the Square button to prompt them to speak), he also encounters the Boyle sisters, dressed in differently coloured versions of the same spooky Edwardian costumes. Which is the target? Who is to die tonight?And beautifully, from here, everything is open, and the possibilities are many. Along with his weapons, Atano has a range of powers that can be levelled up as the game goes on. Dark Vision allows the character to see in the dark and eventuall through walls; Blink lets him teleport for short disances; Possession lets him inhabit the bodies of animals, and later, humans.There is also a range of Enhancements, which augment Atano's health, endurance and adrenaline. Then you have a huge range of gadets and resources to collect, and discovering bone charms will boost special powers for limited periods.The set up is overwhelming, complex and multifaceted and gamers will want to spend hours experimenting with combinations, figuring out their own style of play, their own version of Atano. Again, this is the realm of Deus Ex – the concept of game character as mouldable avatar for the player, rather than a set character to be merely progressed through a limited chain of customisations.So I wonder from room to room, catching snippets of conversation – the town is infested with rats; a moral decay is gnawing away at society, but the gentry is trying to carry on under its new leadership, scrabbling for order. Developer Arkane has created its own take on the British Empire, all stiff-upper lips and blind subservience to a warped political ideal; all trying to ignore the pestilence encroaching from the slimy streets outside.During brief snippets of dialogue, I pick up on the fact that there are clues in the bedrooms upstairs, if I could only get past that forcefield and the homicidal guards. And there are lots of ways. There are rats sniffing about the place; possessing one of them and bolting in through a grate into the wall structure might get me up there. Or I could go into the courtyard and try to Blink onto an upper balcony. Or it's possible to create some sort of diversion to just run up the main stairs. The possibilities go on.Half an hour later, and the demo is over. I've scratched the surface of the level, strolling about, listening to the chamber music echo through the halls, listening in on private chats. At one point a man approaches me claiming to be in love with one of the Boyle sisters, he's wearing a weird straw mask, resembling something from the Wicker Man. He says that if I bring the target sister to him unharmed, he will lock her away with him. No one will know.It is sinister and unsettling, but his mission is logged in my inventory, if I should wish to accept it. Along the way I also get embroiled in a dual – the idiotic rivalries of society's upper echelons continuing amid the city's decline.Dishonored looks to be a dark, intricate and incredibly ambitious game. Its sense of style, of setting, of thematic and visual unity is enormously impressive. It exudes depth, not just in its vast selection of abilities and possibilties, but in its realisation of a functioning world.This is a game of the year contender; and in its apparent offer of a world that can be bent to the wills of every player, it promises a truly intelligent action adventure. In this sense, Dishonored is both a link back to Deus Ex and forward toward a future of genuine sandbox design.•Dishonored will be released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in October
Twitter has horrified third-party developers by hinting that it will in future limit their size by preventing them having more than a certain number of users, as part of a wide-ranging shift in the company's strategy – apparently part of a growing attempt to generate money from adverts.In apost on its developer blog, Twitter's director of consumer products Michael Sippey points to a number of changes that will be introduced from March 2013 for third-party access, including per-hour limits and obligatory authentication for calls to Twitter's back-end database, and more significantly a change to its "rules of the road" for developers.It is the latter which has stunned developers, who see it as trying to shut down the development of apps that let people access Twitter and which present the content slightly differently from the official apps or the website.Sippey writes:If your application already has more than 100,000 individual user tokens, you'll be able to maintain and add new users to your application until you reach 200% of your current user token count (as of today) – as long as you comply with our Rules of the Road. Once you reach 200% of your current user token count, you'll be able to maintain your application to serve your users, but you will not be able to add additional users without our permission.That in effect puts a ceiling on every existing app: none can grow to more than twice its current size without Twitter's explicit say-so.Sippey then explicitly says that Twitter is trying to limit certain use cases involving traditional Twitter clients and syndication of Twitter content – while wanting to encourage various data analytics and "influence" systems.Twitter's 'quadrant of services': those in the upper-right-hand side could be hit by changes to its policiesWrites Sippey:In the upper right-hand quadrant are services that enable users to interact with Tweets, like the Tweet curation service Storify or the Tweet discovery site Favstar.fm. That upper-right quadrant also includes, of course, "traditional" Twitter clients like Tweetbot and Echofon. Nearly 18 months ago, we gave developers guidance that they should not build client apps that mimic or reproduce the mainstream Twitter consumer client experience. And to reiterate what I wrote in my last post, that guidance continues to apply today.Tweetbot in particular which has been developed during precisely that 18-month period might be at risk. Ryan Sarver, Twitter's head of platform and API,wrote in March 2011that: "Twitter will provide the primary mainstream consumer client experience on phones, computers and other devices by which people access Twitter content (tweets, trends, profiles, etc). If there are too many ways to use Twitter that are inconsistent with one another, we risk diffusing the user experience."Other changes alluded to by Sippey could directly affect Storify, which lets users create stories by embedding tweets and Facebook posts and inserting commentary between them. According to the changes being planned, a "timeline" must not have other content inserted. The vagueness might mean that Storify is being targeted – or it might mean that websites or client apps that insert their own adverts between tweets, and hence reduce Twitter's ability to make money, are the real target.External developers though have universally expressed dismay. British developerBenjamin Mayo calculated in Julythat around 77% of the 340m tweets sent out daily are made via Twitter's website, or its apps for various mobile platforms. That makes Twitter's action look contrary – unless it thinks that there is so much extra value in showing adverts to that group.However, the proportion of people using Twitter through Twitter's own services has grown dramatically since its early days. In 2010, between 60% and 80% of access came via third-party clients. Sarver said last year that 90% of active users use one of the official Twitter apps on a monthly basis.Tom Scott, a developer who has built a number of services using Twitter's API,writes on his blog:Us techies? We use our third-party clients that don't show ads. We start doing interesting things with data, and then we share it with the world – putting a decent load on Twitter's servers at the same time. We don't make Twitter any money doing those things. Twitter's decision makes fine business sense but, frankly, it's rude.Marco Arment, developer of Instapaper,had more immediate worriesabout the changes to the "rules of the road" and the API terms: "Sending links to Instapaper or its clones, viewing a tweet on Favstar, and certainly sharing links to tweets on other social services is probably prohibited," he noted.Other changes to prevent Tweets "grouped together in a timeline" from having non-twitter content such as comments means, he said:Apps cannot interleave chronological groups of Twitter posts with anything else. This is very broad and will bite more services and apps than you may expect. It's probably the clause that caused the dispute with LinkedIn, and why Flipboard CEO Mike McCue just left Twitter's board.Closer to home for me, it affects Instapaper's "Liked By Friends" browsing feature, which will need to be significantly rewritten if I want it to comply. (If.) Naturally, this also prohibits any client from interleaving posts from Twitter and App.net, or any other similar service, into a unified timeline.What developers are most concerned about, though, is the apparently deliberate vagueness of Twitter's posting on the topic, where it has not specified on what terms permission for third-party apps to exceed user numbers will be given, or why it wants to limit the number of third-party apps.Perhaps of greatest concern is that while it has been deprecating third-party apps, Twitter has been slow to update its own apps on the various desktop and mobile platforms, and that they do not offer the functionality or ease of use that other clients do – and that it would be impossible to offer the range of experiences that other apps try to offer, including the muting of hashtags or users – something that Twitter has declined to offer through its own site or apps such as Tweetdeck.
Playing SimCity used to be rather an isolating endeavour, enjoyed alone in vast stints of town planning and disaster management. But the idea of fans beavering away alone on their virtual cityscapes is an unattractive one in our socially connected era. EA wants to bring us together. So like Need For Speed and Battlefield before it, the latest incarnation of the game is getting a social layer – and it does sound rather intriguing.At its pre-Gamescom press briefing on Tueday evening, EA announced SimCity World, a whole suite of online connectivity features. While building their own towns, players will get to check a City Log showing the progress of any friends also playing the game. A news feed on the menu screen shows when pals have, say, founded a new region or perhaps completed a major building project, and all of these messages are interactive, so you can compare the progress made by friends with your own ambitions.On top of this, there will be regular challenges for the whole SimCity community. Some are collaborative, inviting players to work together to create one million jhobs in their respective games within a set period of time. Other tasks are competitive, with players challanged to get their own cities to one million inhabitants before all the others.Most intriguingly though, all cities will be linked via a global financial exchange which will see prices of key in-game resources like oil and food fluctuate with real demand. So if everyone in SimCity is building oil refineries, then demand drops and the price goes down. The ramifications will be profound, forcing players to think as part of a world market rather than as an isolated city state. It's fascinating stuff.It will also be interesting to see how this affects the game's concept of regions, in which friends can connect with several other cities online, forming an interdependent co-operative. Cities within regions can share workers, power and other resources, as well as work on major group projects, like creating airports, which help the local economies. While SimCity used to be great at teaching us about how individual cities operate and flourish, it looks like the newest version of the game will show us how all urban centres around the world actually co-exist together in symbiosis.Meanwhile, the game looks lovely. A short hands-on session at Gamescom showed off the beautiful, slightly stylised visuals, the camera seamlessly swooping in and out on the action with simple mouse moves and button presses. Every where you look there are visual representations of how the city is fairing, from smiling faces hovering over houses, to crowds protesting outside city hall. The new GlassBox simulation engine also makes it easy to open up data layers. After I built a sewage plant, for example, the effectiveness of my new system is shown via images of poo flowing down the city streets. Lovely.Having the ability to zoom in right to street level and see the individual sims going about their business is a real treat. Using the building tools is as intuitive as ever, with the ability to add curved roads possibly leading to more imaginative designs – though I struggled at times getting my gridded and curved roads to meet neatly. I'm sure I'll get a heck of a lot more practise.The announcement of a Mac version, available via Origin, is good news – except for those gamers who remain skeptical about, and resiliant to, EA's alternative to third-party digital game services like Steam. But really, the key thing here is that SimCity has been re-thought for a more connected generation without junking any of its old depth or charm. Our demo ends with a massive meteor storm, blasting chunks out of my carefully structure residental zones and commercial areas. Although respectful of the past, Maxis, like SimCity itself, isn't afraid of dramatic change.SimCity is out in February 2013 on PC and Mac.
I knew there was something I'd forgotten this morning! Thanks for all the Twitter reminders – here is Friday's Chatterbox. Now I must get back to writing my 15 Gamescom articles!
Tensions ran high in the court case between Apple and Samsung in San Jose on Thursday as the case neared its close, with a financial expert saying Apple had overstated Samsung's profit margins on mobile products, and the judge telling Apple's lawyer that "unless you're smoking crack" there was no chance 75 further witnesses could be called before testimony ended.Witnesses for Samsung testified that Apple should have to pay $422m (£268m) for infringing the South Korean company's patents in the US with its iPhone and iPad.The case also provided more insight into the famously secretive workings of Apple, revealing how much it pays in patent royalties.Michael Wagner, an accountant who testified on Thursday for Samsung, said Samsung's US profits from the smartphones and tablets targeted in the case should be calculated at about 12%, or $519m.Earlier in the trial, an Apple expert witness, Terry Musika, testified that Samsung's US margin was closer to 35.5% on sales from mid-2010 through to March 2012, and that Samsung's US profits on revenues of $8.16bn were boosted by infringing products.Apple is seeking more than $2.5bn in damages as the two companies stage a bitter courtroom fight that mirrors their broader struggle outside for supremacy in mobile markets.Together they control more than half of worldwide smartphone sales, while Apple dominates in tablets with Samsung a distant second, according to figures from analysts and those released to the court by Samsung.Apple says Samsung copied the design and some features of its iPad and iPhone, and is asking for a sales ban in addition to monetary damages.Samsung, which is trying to expand in the US, says Apple infringed several patents, including some for its key wireless technology.Wagner testified on Thursday that Musika did not take into account many of Samsung's costs, including marketing. "Not a penny," Wagner said. He said his 12% figure assumes a period beginning in April 2011 for most of the mobile products.At the start of the trial, each side was allotted 25 hours by Judge Lucy Koh to present evidence and cross-examine witnesses, a standard procedure in such trials.The case began with Apple, yet it was Samsung that began to feel the time crunch on Thursday, with its lawyers choosing not to cross-examine two of Apple's technical experts who were called in to rebut Samsung's case, which has been made this week, after citing time limits.The two sides began the day with Apple having used 18 hours and one minute, while Samsung had used 22 hours 25 minutes. By the end of the day that had fallen to three hours 53 minutes remaining for Apple, and just 25 minutes for Samsung.Apple's greater amount of time at one point saw its attorney suggest a list of 75 pages of objections to dozens of witnesses who had not yet been called, leading to Judge Koh to exclaim: "You want me to do an order on 75 pages tonight? When, unless you're smoking crack, you know that these witnesses are not going to be called? Who is going to call all these witnesses when you have less than four hours left?"Apple's lawyers disclaimed any use of crack cocaine, but insisted they had figured out that they could get through 20 witnesses on Thursday and Friday to rebut Samsung's case. "We didn't mean to burden the court," said Apple's lawyer, Michael Jacobs.Koh told Jacobs that if Apple's timings turned out to be wrong and there was no realistic chance of calling the witnesses: "I'm going to think up a proper tax for that."Meanwhile, the case has continued to prove more useful for onlookers interested in the inner workings of both companies, particularly Apple, than to the two opponents.More financial details about the famously secretive Apple were revealed on Thursday. The company has paid about $1.4bn in patent royalties to at least 90 companies, according to testimony from Samsung financial expert Vince O'Brien.Apple has sold $12.23bn worth of iPhones in the US since September 2010, and US sales for the iPad are at $2.29bn since the end of April 2011, Samsung financial expert David Teece said.Other testimony on Thursday focused on how much Apple should pay if the jury finds that Apple violated Samsung's patents. O'Brien said a reasonable royalty for three of Samsung's feature patents – including one for seamlessly emailing a photo – was $22.8m.Asked why the amount was so small, O'Brien said: "They're one of many features on the phone."Yet Teece said Samsung's wireless patents in the case were worth up to $399m. Under questioning from Apple, Teece acknowledged that he had not seen any evidence that Samsung had ever received money for those patents from another company.That could make its position in chasing Apple for payments look anomalous if it was aware of infringement by other companies.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIT firms fear council tax benefit collapse &gt;&gt; 24dash.comMeanwhile, back in the back office...The cabinet member for finance at a North London council says local authorities are finding it difficult to find an "affordable" IT supplier to devise a system for the Government's new council tax benefit regime because they're pricing "massive risk" into their costs.The Government is abolishing the current scheme where councils receive rebates on the financial support they provide. Instead, it has told them to come up with their own schemes from next April, cutting expenditure by 10% and handing them the money to administer it.Toshiba Cancels Windows RT Devices on Delay in Getting Parts - BusinessweekToshiba Corp cancelled previously announced plans to sell computer and tablet devices based on Microsoft's Windows RT operating system because of a delay in getting components.Can't get enough ARM processors, apparently.RIM's first test: a preview with carriers &gt;&gt; WSJ.comResearch In Motion Ltd will start delivering nearly complete versions of its new smartphones to carriers next week--the start of a crucial effort to convince consumers and carriers alike that the BlackBerry can compete with the iPhone and Android devices.RIM Chief Executive Thorsten Heins, in a briefing with The Wall Street Journal, said the company will show two "beta" versions of its new phones to carriers during the five-week roadshow. The meetings will test RIM's credibility as it tries to regain its footing in the global smartphone market.Two phones initially, one all touchscreen, one with a keyboard. Eventually, there will be six phones: three touchscreen ones. The sentiment that comes out of carriers in the next few weeks will be telling. (Article may be paywalled.)Joyent ending "Lifetime" hosting accounts. Some years ago... &gt;&gt;Ken McKinney on Google+Some years ago when Joyent (then TexDrive) was young and strapped for cash they offered "Lifetime" hosting accounts apparently by "lifetime" they meant until we get tired of supporting them.......Yes, those "lifetime" accounts are being closed. Presumably, the alternative was to kill the customers.Postcode Wars &gt;&gt; Young Rewired StateAwarded "Best Example of Coding" atYoung Rewired State. It's brilliant. If you're stuck for a postcode to set up a fight, try SW1 1AA (Buckingham Palace) or N1 9GU (The Guardian).Stop Publishing Web Pages &gt;&gt; Anil DashHe means for content:The vast majority of advertising online is dependent on a page-view model that users have overwhelmingly decided to abandon. Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and others will succeed by making in-stream advertisements that fit in with the native content of their networks. Meanwhile, page-based sites are cramming every corner and bit of white space on their sites with ads that only ever decrease in effectiveness until they are made even larger and more intrusive every few years.Why Apple bought AuthenTec: it needed NFC fingerprint sensors, quickly &gt;&gt; The Next WebOn July 27, seemingly out of nowhere, security companyAuthenTecannounced in a regulatory filing that it hadagreed to a $356m acquisition offer from Apple, making it one of the Apple's biggest mergers in its 36 year history.Terms of the deal included provisions for the company's patents, control of its fingerprint sensors, touchchips and security technologies, but much of the detail was missing from AuthenTec's document at the time.However, with the recent filing of aPREM14A proxy statementwith the SEC (a document which notifies shareholders of the deal and how it was finalised, allowing them to vote on whether it should be completed), the security firm has shed more light on why Apple decided to acquire the company.Good spot by TNW (you have to love the SEC), and very intriguing. NFC? Fingerprint sensors? But not soon; this sort of technology will probably take some time to surface.Asus UX32VD Zenbook Teardown &gt;&gt; iFixitToday we tore apart the Zenbook UX32VD, Asus' flagship Ultrabook. And the Zenbook lived up to its name, giving us very little frustration during deconstruction.Even though it lost by a couple of millimeters in the slimness race against the MacBook Air, the Zenbook more than made up for it with stellar repairability. With an upgradeable RAM slot, swappable 2.5? hard drive, and a battery that can be easily replaced, the Zenbook earned an 8 out of 10 repairability score, easily trumping the soldered-RAM-and-proprietary-SSD MacBook Air's meagre 4 points.webOS GBU to become quasi-independent cloud and UX company: meet GRAM &gt;&gt; webOS NationWhat's more interesting is the stated focus for Gram. Unsurprisingly, Gram is dropping any pretenses of producing consumer hardware. Instead the company is going to focus on software, user experience, the cloud, engineering, and partnering. If you're wondering exactly what that means, you're as in the dark as we are, though apparently webOS and Enyo, as well as the webOS group's own cloud services team (said to still be quite large with respect to the overall size of the unit), will play some sort of role.It's hard not to feel that webOS has become some sort of sinecure for using up spare HP cash. There's simply no obvious demand for any of this stuff from an independent, tiny company; far better to license or sell the UI ideas from webOS to Google and/or Apple.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Hackers have claimed responsibility for the spread of a computer virus that forced the world's largest oil company, Saudi Aramco, to isolate its production systems from infected PC workstations inside the company.It is still unclear whether the problem, which is thought to have affected thousands of the company's PCs, was the result of a hacker attack, a state-sponsored attack such as the Gauss or Stuxnet worms, or one of the millions of viruses found online.In astatement on its Facebook page, the company said it had "isolated all its electronic systems from outside access as an early precautionary measure that was taken following a sudden disruption that affected some of the sectors of its electronic network".It said the disruption "was suspected to be the result of a virus that had infected personal workstations without affecting the primary components of the network". It added that the electronic network running its core business was not affected and that the interruption "had no impact whatsoever on any of the company's production operations".Saudi Aramco, the Saudi government-owned oil company, is estimated to be worth about $781bn, more than twice as much as Apple or Exxon, the most valuable public companies. It has the world's largest daily production of oil and an annual output of about 8bn barrels.On Pastebin, a site often used by hackers to anonymously lay claim to attacks, the Arab Youth Groupclaimedthey had "targeted administrable structures and substructures of Aramco, and also the Stock Exchange of Saudi Arabia. This action has been done in order to warn the Saudi rulers."However, the group provided no way to verify the claim.The Middle East has become the focus of increasingly subtle hacking attacks, apparently backed by state-sponsored groups. The discovery of the Stuxnet worm last year, which affected Iranian nuclear research facilities and was apparently devised by the US and Israel, was followed by the discovery of the Flame and Gauss worms, which have also targeted systems in the region.
A Microsoft Surface for $199? Everyone is aghast. The news has leaked (perhaps intentionally) from a Microsoft event. Everyone is aghast, or agape. That's the same sort of price as a Nexus 7! Also: it will destroy the market for OEMs who want to make ARM tablets running Windows 8, who will have much higher prices, because they don't have billions in the bank, unlike Microsoft.If you do the maths, then it certainly seems to make no sense. Microsoft can't possibly make any money if it sells a Surface - a 10in tablet with much of the functionality of a PC, and certainly with the guts at least equivalent to an iPad, which sells (in the US) for around $399.OK, and now consider this: $199 is an entirely feasible upfront price for the Surface. And Microsoft wouldn't have to lose a penny in the process.How, you ask. How can that possibly be done?Simple. Same way you get a smartphone for free. You know - a two-year contract to some service.And since we know that the Surface won't have 3G, the sort of contract we're talking about here isn't going to be a mobile telephony one. It will be something that Microsoft can make money out of.Why not Office 365, its desktop-and-cloud Office offering? That has a $200 price tag attached in the shops; you could instead sign up to buy a Surface for $199 and agree that you would take a two-year subscription to Office 365.This would have multiple benefits for Microsoft:• it gets Windows 8 tablets into peoples' hands;• it gets those users tied into Office 365, which for Microsoft is a giant bonus when it is trying to get customers not to defect to Google Apps• it cements the position of Office in corporations• the low initial cost and ongoing cost are easier for cash-stretched companies and individuals to justify. In the lingo, it shifts a big capex (capital expenditure) into a smaller capex, plus some opex (operational expenditure, ie the subscription).In case you think Microsoft can't do this, it already does: in May it introduced a scheme in the US where it offers the Xbox 360 for just $99.$99! How can it do that when the console costs far more? Because itties it into a two-year Xbox Live Gold subscriptionat $15 per month.So in that respect, completely simple. Sure, Microsoft will have to bear the upfront cost of getting the devices manufactured, and even after the contract is signed it will not be level in cashflow terms. But it's not a struggling startup where cash is king. It's got billions in the bank to cushion it past.I can't claim to have had this idea: I first saw it on ex-MicrosoftieHal Berenson's blog, where he notes thatThe tea leaves increasingly indicate that Microsoft is moving to a subscription model wherever they can figure out how to do so.  The Office 365 Home Premium offering is the latest evidence of this.  The Zune Pass and Xbox Live Gold are other consumer examples.  And Microsoft is reportedly working on a streaming media service that could debut this fall.He also points out thatMost of today's $199 tablet are either explicitly or implicitly subsidized offerings.  Some are carrier subsidized with a traditional cellphone-like contract, others are subsidized by the media services that you are expected to buy.  Amazon charges $199 for a Kindle Fire because they expect most people to consume books, movies, and music from Amazon.  Ditto for the Nook Tablet and B&amp;N store.  Ditto for the Google Nexus 7 and Google Play.You might wonder: how will Microsoft deal with people who stop paying? That's quite simple: these devices have to connect to the internet, and being tablets, they're pretty hard to take apart (considerably more so than a desktop computer). Attempts to offer subscription-tied desktop computers have failed, but with internet-connected hard-to-disassemble tablets where you won't be able to change components, it will be easy to identify machines (by their MAC address, licence number and so on) that are on the subscription deal. And disabling them if the owner falls into default will be simple too; it already happens with Windows on desktops and laptops, after all. Plus it's likely that many of the first buyers will be corporations - it's the capex/opex thing, remember - though consumers might also offer up their credit cards, and the same will apply.This means that yes, you can really believe the basement price of $199 for a Surface. But what you shouldn't believe is that that is all there will be to it. When you do the maths, you'll end up at a price that will be much higher. How much higher? Ah, that's the hard part. Shall we start at $399?
Anton Vickerman, the Briton sentenced this week to four years in jail for running a website that linked to pirated US TV and film content, has launched an 18,000 word attack on the anti-piracy organisation that ran a private prosecution against him.The 38-year-old from Gateshead complained about the evidence-gathering methods of the Federation Against Copyright Theft (Fact). Film-industry financed Fact filmed inside his home – with one of its agents posing as a prospective house buyer – and obtained evidence  at a meeting where another Fact operative posed undercover as an investor in his website.Vickerman, wrote: "By the time you read this I will be starting my new life behind bars." He claimed that Fact initially wrongly complained to police that he was criminally distributing DVDs from his home, and encouraged a police officer working at the body on secondment to try to get the police to tap his phone and internet connections.On Wednesday Vickerman, who owned and ran the Surfthechannel website, was found guilty at Newcastle crown court of two counts of conspiracy to defraud. He had been successfully prosecuted by Fact after Surfthechannel was found to be carrying links to sites the organisation said infringed copyright on films, including newly released blockbusters.Angry at the outcome of events, and the conduct of the eight week jury trial that led to him being found guilty, Vickerman said in his farewell blog: "If you were looking for an example of British justice in all its shining glory then you weren't going to find it here."Surfthechannel was set up by Vickerman in 2007 and his "video search engine" rapidly became a prime destination online, growing from 40,000 links in April 2008 to more than 2m in August 2009, and was just outside the 500 most visited sites online, according to evidence presented at the trial.Vickerman, who located the website in Sweden and received payments for adverts on the site through bank accounts in Latvia, said Surfthechannel "did not, nor has it ever" streamed content itself.In the site's early days, Vickerman said, he formed partnerships with the likes of Warner Bros, Discovery Channel, A&amp;E Television Networks "and many other bona fide companies, as they realised how important [Surfthechannel] was becoming in the video on demand market. Surfthechannel quickly became one of the leading video search engines in the world, second only to Google Video."Fact's prosecution of Vickerman was principally over links to sites hosting films and especially movies which had not been released on DVD or pay TV – and in some cases had not had theatrical release.Vickerman claims that the original search warrant used to seize computers at his house in August 2008 was issued after Fact wrongly claimed to Northumbria police that that he and his wife were illegally distributing DVDs from his home. The computers seized in that search led to the prosecution and conviction of Vickerman, although he declined to yield the password for his encrypted content — a fact about which the judge was highly critical in his sentencing remarks.He also makes a number of complaints about the collection by FACT's data forensics experts from his home computer. He also says the "chain of evidence" of data collection from his computer to the evidence presented in court was not complete. The Crown Prosecution Service decided in December 2008 not to prosecute Vickerman, but Fact then pursued a private prosecution, and retained an image of his computer.He says that internal Fact emails revelaed in evidence indicate that the private enforcement body had intended, after seizing his computer, to replace the Surfthechannel front page with a message saying "This website is under investigation by FACT" — which, he says, "would have immediately have killed the STC website before it (and I) had a chance to properly defend it in a court of law", and which he calls "a prime example of FACT Ltd acting as judge, jury and executioner." However Fact's lawyer said at the trial that as no such action was carried out, the claim is immaterial.The now jailed man also complains that Judge John Evans, who heard the case, "went from hostile to incredible hostile to myself and my defence team" after a Public Interest Immunity (PII) hearing in December — one where Fact presented a witness whose identity was kept secret from the defence and the court in a secret hearing. "It became clear to me even at this stage that I was not going to receive a fair trial in front of HHJ [His Honour Justice] Evans," he writes.Fact declined to comment on Vickerman's claims. "He is a convicted criminal, though he's entitled to say what he wants," said a spokesman. "But it should be remembered that this case has been through an eight-week criminal trial with a verdict decided by a jury."The judge has heard not only the evidence but also the arguments by lawyers. Some people on the internet seem to think that Vickerman was just tried in front of a judge. He wasn't – this was a jury trial."Vickerman's case and the long sentence has surprised many. However Judge John Evans in &lt;a href="http://www.judiciary.gov.uk/Resources/JCO/Documents/Judgments/anton-vickerman-sentencing-remarks-14082012.pdf"&gt;his sentencing remarks&lt;/a&gt; said that Vickerman had ignored the reality that another site, TV Links, which had done something similar had been taken offline following action by Fact.Judge Evans, presiding, said Vickerman had in some cases located files of films and uploaded them to sites, often in China, which he then linked back to on his site, and that forum messages, chat logs and emails sent and received by Vickerman indicated that he "knew fine well" that the site was not operating lawfully.He added that Vickerman took steps "to keep both your location and your own personal identity secret" so that policing his activity would be harder, and by registering domains outside the UK "you would be both difficult to trace and be able… to escape the legislative regime that you knew you were offending".Evans says that the losses estimated by the film industry — of between £52m and £198m, on the basis that 55% of those who watched films via the site might instead have seen it in the cinema, rented a DVD or otherwise paid for it — was "somewhat speculative" but that the industry had undoubtedly "suffered a loss running into millions".In the trial, Vickerman said he could not remember the password to his encrypted computer without access to a keyboard – a claim the judge did not accept. "You were deliberately obstructing the investigation," Judge Evans said. The judge added that Vickerman showed no remorse but  "I'm bound to say that in all the years I've worked in this court I have never encountered arrogance of the kind that you displayed during this trial."Vickerman is understood to be planning an appeal.
If Android is winning (to quoteTechcrunch, which managed to readtheGartner release on smartphone shareand see the big 68% for the share of Android phones shipped), then howcome American developers still aren't battering down the doors to develop for it? Why aren't they all launching on Android first?To quote the Techcrunch article,There is no denying Android's dominance anymore. There is no way even the most rabid Apple fanboy can deny that iOS is in second place now. Android is winning… Developers cannot ignore Android. The old mantra of releasing on iOS and then eventually hitting Android needs to be rethought… Android the ecosystem still sucks, but Android the mobile platform is winning.To which the simple answer is that those US developers would certainly be rethinking it if Android were really running away with the smartphone business in their own backyard. But it's not quite that simple. Why? Because Gartner's headline figure is for worldwide share. In the US - where many of those developers are - different measures pertain. And in Europe, where many more developers are, different measures pertain again.What those differences add up to is a world where while it's absolutely true that Android is the best-selling mobile platform, for US and European mobile developers - in fact for any who aren't developing specifically for China - the whole topic is more nuanced.Let's revisit theGartner numbers: those said that Android had a 64.1% market share worldwide, and Apple's iOS 18.8%. Other platforms - Symbian, RIM's BBOS, Windows Phone - were all under 10%, and totalled 17.1% (that is, less together than iOS). Android is winning, right?The China syndromeBut the world is not a level playing field, and it's not split up into evenly-sized areas. Digging a bit deeper into those Gartner numbers (as I was able to do), you learn that China is the world's largest market, and that it's there where Android really stakes its claim. Of the 153.7m smartphones shipped in the quarter, 39m (that's 25% of the total) went to China, and of those 31.2m (80%) were running Android. Apple managed just 4.7m (12%). Everyone else? Just 3.1m. Slim pickings.Which is great - bringing the internet to people in rural China must be a good thing - but means that the story for Android, the iPhone and other platforms in the rest of the world is rather different.The US, the world's second-largest smartphone market, took 23m devices (15% of the world total): there, Android was 58% (13.3m) and the iPhone was 36% (8.3m). Everyone else? Just 1.38m, which is astonishingly slim pickings in terms of new phone sales. Yet it fits with what we've seen over Nokia's Lumia sales, which were reckoned to measure in the hundreds of thousands in the US, despite an encouraging launch.Here's how the picture looks if we split the world into three territories - China, the US, and everywhere else - and show the averages from the Gartner figures. Suddenly it's clear that Android is over-represented in China, and that it distorts the average. If you're a smartphone developer in China, then you'll want to be on Android. But you already knew that.Android, iOS and other smartphone platforms' share by region: US, China, rest of world, 2Q 2012. Source: GartnerYet even that doesn't tell the full story. "Market share" reflects sales, not installed base - and some (many?) smartphone sales are upgrades. What we really want to know is the installed base for each platform; if in the US all of those iPhone sales are going to existing customers, but all the Android sales are going to new customers, then that's significant - for developers, the new customers represent potential growth in sales, whereas someone who already has an iPhone and just gets another one won't have to re-download all their apps. (Of course then you run into the question of whether they give their old iPhone to someone who didn't have one before, who sets up a new account, and then does download new apps. But this is why we're looking at installed base.)US installed base by platform. Source: ComScore, interpreted by The GuardianIt turns out that the only set of data that gives us a picture of installed base anywhere comes from ComScore, whose monthly data sampling of thousands of users in the US has been giving us a picture of smartphone evolution there since 2009 or so.US smartphones users added or lost by month, by platform. Source: ComScore, interpreted by The GuardianAnd what does that tell us? That Android is indeed the dominant installed base in the US, with nearly 57m users; next is iOS, with just under 36m users. RIM has 11.8m; Microsoft, 4.2m, and Nokia's Symbian is still in the not-yet-cold-or-dead hands of just under a million people. In all, more than 110m people in the US has a smartphone - but that's out of a mobile-owning population of 234m. There's a huge amount of room for those four platforms (and any new ones) to expand into; more than half of users there don't yet have a smartphone.New users, or just new phones?So in the US, by the ComScore numbers, Android has 51.6% of the installed base of smartphones in the US; iOS 32.4%; RIM 10.7% (but falling); Microsoft 3.8%.The shocking thing, really, is that the ComScore numbers suggest that the net increase in smartphone ownership over the past three months was less than 4m - yet in that time Gartner is saying 23m handsets were shipped (of which most, one would think, were sold). That's a lot of trading up by existing users.We can even break it down further: 13.3m Android devices were shipped to the US; the Android installed base increased by 2.65m (on my interpretation of the figures ComScore releases).For iPhones, it's 8.3m shipped, while the installed base increased by just over 3m. On that data, Apple would seem to be getting less churn, and growing its users moreas a proportion of shipmentsthan Android.The intriguing thing with Android's installed base share is that it is bumping along at about 51%; thedistortions in the US market(which make iPhones on contracts cost almost the same as much cheaper Android phones) mean that the iPhone gets a disproportionate share. Every month, about another million featurephone users shift to a smartphone; and it seems that Android captures about half of them, though sometimes the iPhone does. (It's hard to be sure, though, because there are also defections among platforms, with people leaving RIM and Symbian in particular.) What's clear is that feature phone users are, slowly but surely, upgrading to smartphones.Everyone's a winnerThe conclusion? Android is indeed winning - in the US as well as China. But the single "worldwide" figure masks far more complexity in the market than you might think, and the fact that Android's "market share" (the sales snapshot) is high and growing actually masks a situation in the US - where, like it or not, many of the headline apps appear - that favours the iPhone.In Europe (for which figures weren't available), Android likely has a similar advantage - but remember the distortion of the Chinese market on the "average". For the rest of the world, Android is closer to that 56% figure of the US, and other platforms stronger than iOS.Even then, though, the story isn't so simple, because of the twin hassles for Android developers of different devices, and of OS fragmentation, and different monetisation.From the Techcrunch comments, one finds this:Meanwhile in the discussion on Branch (side note: it's already useful) about Android fragmentation, there's acommentfrom Matt Brezina - co-founder and chief executive of Sincerely, and previously the founder of Outlook inbox organiser Xobni:I'm on the front lines - building both iPhone &amp; Android apps. I won't comment on the revenue disparity between the two - that is for a different branch. But I will say we release lower quality, less tested apps on Android because we can never test all devices - we test live with our customers. It sucks. Luckily the Android customers know to submit their android device &amp; OS whenever they send us bug reports.Fragmentation in my experience has produced less, and lower quality apps.Of course fragmentation is often in the eye of the beholder; for someone using a device, it doesn't matter what the latest and greatest version of Android is (and, as is always pointed out, developers can target multiple versions of Android inside the development framework). All that matters is what they have.Android OS versions accessing Google Play over time, by version. Source: Google, The GuardianAnd while we're on that topic, the latest monthly figures from Google Play are in, and show that Android 4.0 is rising rapidly, and has now passed "Froyo" (2.2, released in June 2010). It's still theyear of Gingerbread, but all the signs are that Android 4.x is going to rule 2013.
Facebook's shares fell to new lows Thursday as insiders were freed to sell another 270m shares.The expiration of a lock-up period for insiders increased the pool of available shares by 60% and had worried analysts that it might lead to more falls in Facebook's already battered share price.Their fears proved well founded in early trading as Facebook's share price 7% to $19.83, their lowest level since the $38 IPO price set in May. They ended the day at $19.88, just over 47% below the IPO price.The expiration of the lockup means early investors including Goldman Sachs, Elevation Partners, which counts U2's Bono as a partner, and DST Global are now allowed to sell more shares. Goldman and DST were among the investors who increased the number of shares they sold at $38 shortly before the IPO.Facebook's shares have got off to a poor start after one of the most hyped sales in recent history. They fell below $38 within days and had dropped below $20 at the start of August. The price has been hit hard as analysts have worried that the firm has yet to figure out a way to make money from mobile users, the fastest growing part of their business, and fears that growth is slowing.After such a precipitous fall in share price, analysts are split on whether investors will take advantage of the end of the lockup to sell more shares. One analyst, who wished to remain anonymous, pointed to Angie's List, a referral service, whose share price plummeted on Tuesday after its IPO lockup expired. "I wouldn't even think of buying this until the price comes down," he said.Facebook sold some 421m shares at its May 17 IPO, a further two billion shares will be released for potential sale between now and next May, when the final lockup expires.Tom Forte, analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said he expected more volatility in Facebook's share price in the short term. Another 243m shares are set to be released from lockup between mid-October and mid-November. On November 14, co-founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg will be able to sell shares and more than 1.2bn shares will be available for trading."I'm a glass half-full man on Facebook. In the near term I expect increasing pressure on the share price as more shares come unlocked. Holders may be unwilling ti part with their shares at nearly half their IPO price but in the near term there are going to be more shares out there and not enough demand to pick them up," he said.But Forte is more confident on Facebook's future once its gets through the lock-up period. He has a 12-month price target of $40-$42 for the shares. "I think Facebook will figure out a way to monetize mobile advertising," he said.The company and its bankers are facing legal action from shareholders who have accused them of selectively handing out negative information about Facebook's mobile issues to some shareholders ahead of the sale.The fall comes as Facebook's peers have experienced similar setbacks on the US stock markets. Shares in Groupon, the online daily deals site, hit a new low this week after announcing that revenue growth had slowed and profit margins were shrinking. Groupon's IPO launched at $20 a share last December and its shares now trade for just over $5. Zynga, the social gaming company behind hits including Words With Friends and Draw Something, has lost 68% of it value since its IPO last year.
My son turns 15 later this month, and is asking for an iPad 3, because all his friends have them, apparently. However, our budget doesn't stretch that far. Having considered other tablets, purely based on price, I really can't decide what we should buy. In terms of use, it'll be for nothing more than email, YouTube, playing online games (like Fifa 12), playing music, and apps. He already has an Xbox, so I'm wondering which tablet would best integrate with that.NickThe most attractive non-Apple tablet at the moment is Google's Nexus 7, made by Asus. It's an Android 4.1 tablet with a 7in screen, and isavailable in the UK for £159 (with 8GB of storage)or £199 (with 16GB). The Xbox connection will come later, via Microsoft'sSmartGlasssoftware, previewed at the E3 games conference in June. Microsoft already connects Windows 7 smartphones to the Xbox, and will connect Windows 8 tablets, due in late October. However, Microsoft says SmartGlass will also be available on devices you already own, so Apple iOS and Android apps are expected.EA Sports does offerFifa 12 for Android, but Android does not have anything like as many tablet apps as the iPad. In this sense, the Nexus 7's smaller screen may not be such a disadvantage: Android smartphone apps can be disappointing when blown up to a 10in screen.Unfortunately, I don't think the correct answer to your question is one that looks at the technology.If you were asking the same question as a business user, the decision would involve identifying a need (for example, we must do a better job of answering email), identifying the best technology for the job, and calculating the return on investment. The best answer might be to buy an iPad or a Google Nexus 7, or to wait for a Windows 8 tablet, depending on precise needs and your existing infrastructure.In this case, you don't really have a technology problem, you have been put in an emotional and psychological dilemma more suitable for Annalisa Barbieri, who writesProblem Solved, the advice column in Saturday's Family section.Children are quite likely to ask for unaffordable things because they don't understand the costs or the ramifications, and even when they do, birthdays provide an accepted platform for making extravagant requests. I'd expect most parents to react against these demands ("we're not made of money") even if they end up buying the item. Denial is part of managing expectations, and it's better for kids to be pleasantly surprised when they get something they want than to be disappointed when they don't get something they expected.In this case, your son wants an Apple iPad 3 because he wants an iPad 3, and the possible uses – email or whatever – are arbitrary props for the argument. Earlier generations pleaded for PCs to do their homework then used them for playing games.Your son's request probably has several components. One of them is for you to show your love by giving him something you can't afford. Another could be to relieve the peer pressure that is making him feel left out (all the other kids have iPads).If this is the situation, there is no substitute for an iPad 3, and a businesslike attempt to find a substitute is not a solution. Even something functionally identical to the iPad 3 at a quarter of the price would not be a substitute, because it would not be supported by the same peer pressure and other emotional enforcements.One possible answer would be to give your son a tablet that made him a member of the cognoscente, rather than the "iSheep" who are simply following the crowd. That kind of thinking enables some Nikon SLR camera owners to feel superior to Canon SLR owners. (Nikon was for decades the choice of knowledgeable professionals; Canon was for amateurs.) But as I'm sure you appreciate, no such tablet exists. You'll have to find a different type of answer.Could you buy him a completely different but cheaper product that has the same kind of peer pressure behind it? Not being a 15-year-old boy, I don't know what these are, but ask your friends, other parents, and so on. Affordable examples might include MP3 players, over-ear headphones, chunky watches, bits of DJ equipment, and sports and fitness products such as theFitbit Ultra. It might include aMicrosoft Kinectfor your son's Xbox 360, though at around £110, that's not cheap for a 15th birthday present.For a concrete suggestion: have a look at theSamsung MV800 digital camera. The touch-sensitive 3in screen on the back flips up so you get a good view of what's in the picture when you take photos of yourself with your friends. (To judge by Facebook, most kids do this nowadays.) I thought the flip screen was a gimmick when the MV800 cost £250. However, at £114 at Amazon or £120 in Currys, it should now be entering the teenage market.The MV800 also shoots HD movies complete with sound, does "sweep panoramas" on the fly, and has various amusing effects for creating antique-style photos, postcards etc. It's not just a camera, it's a creative toy.Another idea would be to help your son on the way to buying his own iPad 3. For example, you could give him an Amazon gift voucher for what you can afford, and get other relatives and friends to give him Amazon gift vouchers as birthday and Christmas presents. Encourage him to add to the pot by doing odd jobs for you and your neighbours. Put a thermometer-style graph on the fridge and turn earning an iPad 3 into a game. It might be an iPad 4 by the time he reaches his goal, but it should be a good experience, and it will be more satisfying when he finally gets what he wants.Of course, by that time, he might have changed his mind, but Amazon provides thousands of alternative products.Finally, one of the problems with buying tablets, smartphones and other emerging products is that you may be stepping onto an upgrade treadmill. It's not like buying a bike or a watch, which might last for 10 or 20 years or more. Some people have already bought all three iPads to date, and I expect them to buy the next few versions as well. Even users who don't upgrade are generally spending money on apps and content, and sooner or later they will have to have the sealed-in batteries replaced. (Obviously, these problems are not specific to Apple, or to tablets. He'll need a new Xbox one day.)I am sure that, like any parent, you will try to think of ways to give your son an iPad 3, if you can. But what will happen when all his friends have an iPad 4 or iPad 5, et cetera? Technically, the iPad 3 will still do the same stuff just as well as it does today. Emotionally, it may not.
Up until now, artificial reality objects have suffered from a disconnect. Much like an actor on a green-screen set, or a weatherman pointing at a map he can't see, the mix of the unreal and the player's body can be unsatisfying.The PS2 Eyetoy let users play with a virtual monkey – but when there's no physical link, the game quickly becomes an exercise in pointing at a monkey that doesn't exist and trying to please said monkey in accordance with a variety of seemingly arbitrary rules. It's all a bit weird, really.It's like Harry Potter, yeah, but for kidsEnter Wonderbook. The majority of AR codes have been flat things printed on stickers or cards that project a 3D image into footage of the real world when viewed through a certain program.Wonderbook is a physical hard-backed book, covered in codes, that lets the player touch something while they play and view their actions onscreen through the PlayStation Eye camera. It's a controller for the medium, in other words – a physical link to the computer.Sony's big tie-in with Wonderbook is Book of Spells, a clearly hard-fought link with the Harry Potter series and written, in part at least, by J K Rowling herself.As well as a game that teaches the player a variety of spells through waving the Move controller in a certain pattern (making a "Z" shape, for example, has fireballs arc from the end of your onscreen wand) it's a gentle exploration of the universe – set in Hogwarts 200 years prior to the event of the novels, it deals with the origins of popular spells through storybook techniques.While a narrator that sounds a lot like David Tenant – but who, crucially, isn't David Tenant – reads from words subtitled on screen, the characters in the book come to life.Paper dragons crawl out of the pages and fly around. 3D images of equipment are projected onto the book and can be rotated by the viewer to get a proper look – dragonhide gloves, for example, or ancient statues. Even during puppet-show cutscenes, the entire paper stage can be viewed from any angle. It's charming stuff.Making the virtual physicalThe book behaves like a real book – as you'd hope, really. The pages are turned to advance play (there are five chapters with four spells apiece, with each chapter lasting around half an hour) and if the book is "damaged" in game, the player must fix it.That aforementioned dragon can burst free and set the book on fire, so players must first pat it out and then sweep soot off it. In every interaction, the player's hands interact smoothly with the book and the wand, and there's rarely a disparity which sees the virtual items overlaying real ones.Playing with the physical items and watching their virtual counterparts is fantastic. Sony has nailed the link between the physical and digital worlds in a way that's not been done before, even by more complex devices like the Kinect, and it shows.The weight of the book coupled with the vibration of the wand and the visual uplink provides constant feedback to the player in a way that's sorely lacking elsewhere in the world of artificial reality.The intended audience for all this is, of course, kids. Aside from the Harry Potter connection, much of what's happening is fairly basic in a way that will engage younger players but see older ones looking for more – and it's not clear whether Wonderbook can offer them what they're looking for. Whether it means to or not is an entirely different matter.Anything aside from wizards, then?Information about other titles is thin on the ground at time of writing – presumably because Sony is keen to focus on its boy wizard tie-in to get units off shelves this Christmas. Diggs Nightcrawler, a fairytale detective from the series of eponymous kids' books, is getting his own title and Gamescom saw the announcement of both the BBC and Disney offering IPs for the platform, with the Beeb putting forward an interactive version of its popular documentary Walking With Dinosaurs.Although there have been hints that Marvel and DC may provide downloadable comics that would sync up with the hardware, it's hard to see how game elements could improve reading them and stand alongside AAA comic titles such as Arkham City.While the book is an excellent piece of kit, as is the software that supports it, ideas for how to exploit it past the initial Potter-themed release don't spring to mind. Even though the strong release title will see the Wonderbook in many more houses than it otherwise would be keeping the market interested is going to be a challenge.That the book is an old medium being dragged into a new age – while other media, such as smartphones, tablets and e-readers such as the Kindle – are fast replacing it. Wonderbook is an exercise in nostalgia aimed at an audience who don't have the experiences needed to trigger the memories of when books were the primary means of engaging young imaginations.Or, perhaps rather more smartly, it's aimed at their parents. The low price point (£30 - £40 for the Wonderbook bundled with Book of Spells, though you'll have to supply your own Move controller for the wand) is a draw, certainly.As is the intuitive nature of play, which would let younger or older people inexperienced with traditional controls enjoy the game much in the same way as the Wii. But crucially, neither of those groups own Playstation 3 consoles – which may prove to be a problem.While Sony will no doubt offer bundle packs of console, book, Move controllers and game come December, the price might be too high for families who already own, for example, a Wii.Trying to establish the PS3 as a family console this late into its lifecycle is, perhaps, not the best idea. That shouldn't stop you buying the Wonderbook come Christmas if you know anyone under the age of 12 with a fixation on the Potterverse who has even limited access to a PS3 – this is an incredible toy for them to engage with the fiction on an entirely new level. Even playing this early build three months before release has made that clear.Hiring JK Rowling to write your game can't be cheap, and following a disappointing year of PS Vita sales thanks to a lack of solid games means that Sony must be pinning a lot on the success of this plastic-and-cardboard add-on.Although it seems like a one-trick pony, that might be all they need – and as far as their audience is concerned, it's the best possible trick they could have pulled.
