At this time of year it's no surprise that much of the feast of gadgetry laid before us tends to be more fun than productive. Games consoles and robot dinosaurs are, after all, more engaging than dull PDAs or wireless routers. We can buy the latter in the other 11 months of the year, but now's the time to make merry when opening our wallets. Or so we're led to believe.Unsurprisingly in Japan – the home of so many of our coveted tech baubles – the rush to buy gadgets aimed at filling every waking moment with stimulation is no different, despite the supposed absence of a Christmas season. This year, two of the hottest tickets are mobile digital television and the perennial handheld games console.Combining the two in some style is Sony's festive edition PlayStation Portable (PSP)Deep Red 1-Segpack: it comes with a mini TV digi-box dongle and a 1GB Memory Stick. Echoing the current Wii shortage, the ¥29,800 (£132) bundle was already sold out in most retailers ahead of its release last week.Nintendo tilts at the crownNaturally, fierce rival Nintendo is also gearing up for another tilt at the handheld crown with its DS Lite. The market leader already has a digital tuner, so the next step is to feed it movies downloaded from the internet - something Sony has yet to tackle in any major way with the PSP.In March next year, the Nintendo-backedDSvisionservice goes live with a selection of 300 television shows, films and odds and ends - including comics and e-books tailored for the relatively low-power handheld.Although downloads are likely to be cheap (DVD rental in Japan typically costs about £1.50 a week), a ¥3,890 (£17) outlay is compulsory upfront for a USB dongle, microSD card and adapter. The reason? In spite of the gadget's onboard Wi-Fi, all downloads must come through a PC. Still, 16 movies on a 2GB card might sway those who can be bothered with the clumsy process. Neither DSvision nor the PSP digital TV tuner is scheduled to become available outside Japan.As you may suspect, mobile digital TV in Japan isn't confined to out-and-out entertainers like games machines. The ubiquitous mobile phone also gets a chunky slice of the increasingly juicy 1-seg pie - Japan's digital broadcasting service.Sharp, the undisputed leader in digi-TV handsets, recently sold its 5 millionth phone capable of picking up the low-bandwidth version of terrestrial digital broadcasts.Surprisingly mature viewersAccording to market research, almost half of the 10-million-strong band of 1-seg users in Japan are in their 40s and 50s, which is somewhat surprising for such a new technology. For once, though, it's how the technology is used - rather than dazzling tech specs - that are the driving force here.In that typically Japanese way, it seems almost all 1-seg TV viewing, whether on a phone or other device, is done in the office or on public transport at either end of the working day. Moreover, 75% of respondents to the survey by analyst Macromill reported using 1-seg to catch up on the news – not something most Japanese under 40 take much interest in.If they're intent on skipping the news, one thing those younger members of society might use their phones for is, oddly enough, to study for a bona fide degree. In early 2006, Cyber University in Fukuoka opened with a prospectus consisting entirely of BA degrees delivered online to students' home computers.Almost two years and 2,000 enrolled students later, the private college has pushed the envelope that little bit further by introducing a course taught through multimedia lectures streamed to mobile phones. The unit on Egyptian history, which counts towards a degree in World Heritage, consists of the sound of a lecturer's voice accompanied by appropriate slideshows.Should that prove as dull as it sounds, there's a PC version available with streaming video of the Prof in full flow. Anyone hoping to soak up the mobile version, however, needs to own a phone from Softbank Mobile, Japan's third-largest mobile provider, as customers of other networks are locked out. Softbank's parent company, by the way, just happens to own Cyber University.
Blogs and sites such as Amazon and IMDb contain lots of reviews, but no-one has the time or energy to find and read more than a small fraction. The obvious solution is to get a computer to do it.Summizeis the latest effort. According toTechCrunch:Summize harvests all of this opinion and boils it down to a single heat map that it calls a "snip." This is a horizontal bar with colors ranging from red (wretched) to yellow (so-so) to green (great). It attempts to capture the collective sentiment about any given product at a glance.The site rapidly discovered this wasn't such a good idea forcolourblindusers.Summize might seem familiar to people who use Omgili, which has a similar coding system, but doesn't look as good. Another major site in this field is Metacritic. Here's a comparison of searches for Halo 3 onSummize,OmgiliandMetacritic.Where Summize scores is that you can play around and select like, dislike and disagree on, or "discover" someone such asBob Dylan(who?).It might even be useful if you fancied buying something such as adigital cameraorMP3 player.
It's been brewing for a while, but today we are officially launching our new weekly podcast from the hi-tech digital ninjas that are the Guardian's technology team.Each week you'll be able to listen to news, interviews and unfettered opinions, all hosted by the inimitableAleks Krotoski.We're kicking things off with a look back on 2007, with panellistsCharles Arthur,Jemima KissandBobbie Johnsonraking over the coals of some of the year's biggest hits and misses.Was the iPhone all it cracked up to be? Have you had enough of Facebook? Were you underwhelmed by Vista, excited by Halo 3 or outraged by discgate? All that and more in just half an hour of aural goodness.In our next episode - available over Christmas week - you'll be able to hear our thoughts on what 2008 has in store, and come the new year, fresh episodes will be available to download every Tuesday. We'll start by taking you around CES, Macworld, Silicon Valley and Britain's tech scene.It's our first pass, so expect things to get better - but feel free to send your comments, thoughts and suggestions to tech@guardian.co.uk
In the light of yet another load of lost disks, and peoples' feedback about the lack of expertise within the UK government when it comes to data processing, here's Joel Spolsky on what it's like writing in-house software. (Update:given comments below, and Spolsky's own content, "bespoke" might be a better word, because this is custom software. So where you see "in-house" below, think "bespoke".)Theentire pieceis one of three on his site, from a talk he gave to his alma mater, Yale University's computer science department. They're all worthreadingforthemselves. In case you're thinking "who?", Spolsky has the reputation of being the guy who had got thelowest-ever F-word countin an internal meeting with Bill Gates (back when Bill made Gordon Ramsay look a bit tame), and wrote a piece for us recently about howGoogle can't rest on its Ajax-y laurels.Now, here's what he has to say on in-house software. All you in-house programmers out there, does this chime?New York was the first place I got to see what most computer programmers do for a living. It's this scary thing called "in house software". It's terrifying. You never want to do in house software. You're a programmer for a big corporation that makes, oh, I don't know, aluminum cans, and there's nothing quite available off the shelf which does the exact kind of aluminum can processing that they need, so they have these in-house programmers, or they hire companies like Accenture and IBM to send them overpriced programmers, to write this software. And there are two reasons this is so frightening: one, because it's not a very fulfilling career if you're a programmer, for a list of reasons which I'll enumerate in a moment, but two, it's frightening because this is what probably 80% of programming jobs are like, and if you're not very, very careful when you graduate, you might find yourself working on in-house software, by accident, and let me tell you, it can drain the life out of you.Click through for the rest...OK, so, why does it suck to be an in house programmer.Number one. You never get to do things the right way. You always have to do things the expedient way. It costs so much money to hire these programmers — typically a company like Accenture or IBM would charge $300 an hour for the services of some recent Yale PoliSci [Political Science] grad who took a 6 week course in dot net programming, and who is earning $47,000 a year and hoping that it'll provide enough experience to get into business school — anyway, it costs so much to hire these programmers that you're not going to allowed to build things with Ruby on Rails no matter how cool Ruby is and no matter how spiffy the Ajax is going to be.You're going into Visual Studio, you're going to click on the wizard, you're going to drag the little Grid control onto the page, you're going to hook it up to the database, and presto, you're done. It's good enough. Get out of there and onto the next thing.That's the second reason these jobs suck: as soon as your program gets good enough, you have to stop working on it. Once the core functionality is there, the main problem is solved, there is absolutely no return-on-investment, no business reason to make the software any better. So all of these in house programs look like a dog's breakfast: because it's just not worth a penny to make them look nice. Forget any pride in workmanship or craftsmanship you learned in [your computer science course]. You're going to churn out embarrassing junk, and then, you're going to rush off to patch up last year's embarrassing junk which is starting to break down because it wasn't done right in the first place, twenty-seven years of that and you get a gold watch. Oh, and they don't give gold watches any more. 27 years and you get carpal tunnel syndrome. Now, at a product company, for example, if you're a software developer working on a software product or even an online product like Google or Facebook, the better you make the product, the better it sells. The key point about in-house development is that once it's "good enough," you stop.So - is that your experience? And could that be behind the problems at HMRC and the Driver Licensing Agency?
After my story this weekend onFacebook 'whales'- those inveterate social networkers who have gathered more than 1,000 friends on the site - the New York Times is running a number about how researchers are digging into Facebook.Amid the slightly drearystory of tapping into socnets for sociological investigation, there's an interesting snippet about what people perceive as the publicly acceptable number of Facebook friends to have:S. Shyam Sundar, a professor and founder of the Media Effects Research Laboratory at Penn State, has led students in several Facebook studies exploring identity. One involved the creation of mock Facebook profiles. Researchers learned that while people perceive someone who has a high number of friends as popular, attractive and self-confident, people who accumulate "too many" friends (about 800 or more) are seen as insecure.Phew. I've still got a way to go.Valleywag takes the note as achance to rag on Jason Calacanis("Maholo CEO Jason Calacanis has 2,842 friends", they helpfully explain) but the search for Britain's biggest Facebooker continues.At the weekend I pointed towards Hugh MacLeod, the cartoonist and marketing whizz who blogs atGapingvoid.com, as one of the leading British users of the site (aside from celebs like Russell Brand, who racks up friends faster than notches on his bedpost). Since then I've been given an as-yet-unconfirmed report of a student with 1,430 friends - but surely there's somebody who can beat that?
The Escapistis running a controversial article about the natural dissolution of a guild in the virtual world EvE Online, describing how social influence can build - and destroy - communities. It describes "the failure cascade" phenomenon, a tipping point which results in the demise of a social group through stresses that lead to more failure, and so on until it falls apart.From the text:the failure cascade is the inverse of a network effect. Websites like MySpace define their value by the people that use the service just as guilds define their quality by their members. As bad events cause players to leave or become inactive, the quality drop leads others to do the same in a spiral that rarely stabilizes, until no one is left.Social effects have been observed in games before, notably documented byNick Yee's analysis of EverQuest which describes the mass emigration of groups from one virtual world to another.
Trend-spotters and futurologists have become the evangelists of the modern business world. Spend more than 10 minutes listening to their breezy uplift about what is around the corner, however, and two questions begin to well up inside you - how come they know this stuff, and how does one go about separating the wheat from the chaff? Built into the discipline, after all, is a tendency to exaggerate the shock of the new: it helps to drum up business. And by the time their prognostications have failed to materialise, it is safe to predict that most of them will have scarpered.No matter. The business of short-range futurology - that hybrid of science and intuition that reads the runes of business and consumer trends in an effort to predict what will whistle its way into the mainstream within the next 12 to 18 months - is now in high demand. So what do the crystal-ball gazers reckon will be the top 10 trends of 2008?The rise of N11If 2007 was the year in which chatter about the possibilities posed by China and India (bludgeoned into the portmanteau "Chindia" by one ambitious analyst) reached a crescendo, 2008 may be the year in which N11 arrives on the lips of the cognoscenti. The term N11 was coined in a recent report by Goldman Sachs, and refers to the up-and-coming "Next 11" countries who are snapping at the heels of India, China, Russia and Brazil as investment opportunities - Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, South Korea, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, Turkey and Vietnam. Over the past three years, economic growth across Goldman Sachs's N11 has averaged 5.9%, the strongest in 15 years and more than double the 2.3% average growth of Old Europe. Marian Salzman, an energetic New York trend-spotter at the ad agency JWT, who was one of the first to talk up "Chindia" in 2007, now says that she is "watching N11 with interest". And where the money goes, there is a good chance that cultural fascination will follow.Peer-to-peer lendingJeremy Gutsche, a Toronto-based trend-spotter who runs the websiteTrendhunter.com, is a good example of a new breed of trend-spotter who collects insights by cultivating an online community of trend-watchers around the world. In keeping with the egalitarian ethos of the web, Gutsche argues that one of the key financial trends of 2008 will be the growth of person-to-person lending exchanges in which borrowers and lenders come together directly on the web and cut out the banks. Some of these lending operations use an eBay-like auction in which the lender who is willing to provide the lowest interest rate gets the borrower's loan; others are for people who already know one another but who want someone to help formalise the loan arrangement. A good example of the latter is CircleLending, an American firm in which Richard Branson's Virgin USA recently acquired a majority stake. Much the same model of "peer-to-peer" lending is slowly working its way into the charitable sector. Outfits such asKiva.org, for example, put potential "social investors" together with small businesses in the developing world, who promise to send back regular email updates on how the business is doing.Social networking grows upNext year will see online social networking cease to be the preserve of the young. According to data recently released by the European Interactive Advertising Association, 18% of European over-55s now visit a social networking site at least once a month, not far behind the "digital generation" of 16- to 34-year-olds, where 28% access such sites. The past year has seen a 12% jump in these so-called silver surfers, and new social networking forums such as MyChumsClub and Saga Zone are appearing to accommodate older users.Online social networking is maturing in other ways, too. Following concerns that office-bound staff were spending too much of their day on social networking sites such as Facebook - a recent survey concluded that office workers in the UK spend company time worth &pound;130m each day browsing online - many British firms are now mounting crackdowns against their use. As people get used to juggling a multiplicity of new roles and new rules, says London-based trend-spotter Tamar Kasriel, the result will be to fuel confusion about how personal the personal computer is when it's at work. Twitchiness among employers, says Kasriel, is largely responsible for the latest internet abbreviation, NSFW, or "not suitable for work", which bored office workers are increasingly using to preface any material they forward to their friends.Reverse knowledge migrationAnother solid basis for futurological speculation is to follow the flow of people. Paul Saffo, a respected California-based forecaster, argues that the next few years will see the beginnings of a "reverse knowledge migration" in which, as well as bright and well-educated workers coming from the developing world to the west, people will start to move in the opposite direction. This new global class of "cyber-gypsies", says Saffo, will not only include American and European Asians returning "home", but also highly educated, non-Asian Americans and Europeans going off to make their fortunes in places such as China. The trend, he argues, will soon move from a source of sociological curiosity to a source of alarm for governments and businesses. Companies, universities and thinktanks in Europe and America, he warns, who often smugly assumed that they would be a magnet for the world's talent, are going to discover that this is no longer the case.Handmade on the netFor some years now, one staple of futurological speculation has been the quest for authenticity in what seems like an anonymous and artificial world. Witness, for example, the young fashionistas who self-consciously reclaim dreary leisure activities - everything from bingo to choir practice, from quiz nights to knitting - that would have bored even their parents rigid. A new twist on all this, says Reinier Evers of the Amsterdam firmTrendwatching.com, is the sprouting of internet-based ventures that purvey handmade and highly traditional fare. In Switzerland, for example, Netgranny (netgranny.ch) is a collective comprised of 15 cheerful-looking grannies who knit socks on demand and sell them online. Customers can choose their favourite granny by picture, pick the colour of their socks, or opt for a granny "surprise" design. It takes two weeks for a granny to knit a pair of socks; at &euro;26 (&pound;19) apiece, including delivery, they make an excellent idea for a Christmas gift.Something very similar is being touted by the Danish companyMormor.nu, which sells traditional handmade baby and children's wear online.Mormor.nuis Danish for "Grandma.now". All its products are handmade from pure wool, alpaca or cotton. Old knitting and crochet techniques and patterns have been revived, while the colours and materials have been updated. For a dash of extra authenticity, the company's workers are as steeped in tradition as its products; the youngest member of staff is 68. Likewise, Etsy (etsy.com) is an online marketplace for handmade goods that features more than 26,000 vendors from across the world and sells everything from scented soy candles to a tennis-ball chair. It is only two years old, but so far more than 1m items have been sold and 300,000 people have joined as members.Clubbing togetherIf at first his or her predictions don't come to pass, the seasoned futurologist can simply hunker down and wait. Nearly a decade ago, for example, the American futurologist Jeremy Rifkin argued that we were all moving into "the age of access" - from an economy in which it was good to own stuff into one in which people would prefer to rent it. Nothing much happened, and people quickly moved on, but just recently the idea is beginning to look more plausible. For those who want to take out a time-share in a dog, for example, 2007 saw the launch in California of a "shared pet ownership" company, FlexPetz; the firm is fast expanding, and is now opening a branch in London. Meanwhile, a new Germany company called L&uuml;tte-Leihen is renting out baby clothes to parents of fast-growing young children; several companies, such as Bag, Borrow or Steal in America and Be a Fashionista in the UK, are renting out designer handbags; and the Dutch company Rent-a-Garden is leasing out sculptures and potted plants to those who want to give their back gardens a much needed summertime makeover.Sharing the costs, Salzman points out, is becoming increasingly popular in many different retail sectors. The inexorable rise of "fractional luxury", for example, is giving not-quite-wealthy-enough people the opportunity to buy a time-share in anything from a racehorse to a jumbo jet. Outfits such asPartialOwner.comandFractionallife.comare extending the partial-ownership model to everything from homes to luxury cars and restaurants. Art lovers, too, can now buy into syndicates to purchase artwork. ARTvest in Glasgow, for example, was set up last year to enable people to pool their funds and get a foothold in the expensive market for contemporary art. Sharing the costs can be fun, too. Young women in Argentina and elsewhere, Salzman says, are holding clothes-swapping parties in order to share out the costs of getting hold of the latest fashion gear.The new vicarious consumptionAmbitious futurologists need credible buzzwords, but good ones are in perilously short supply. One option is to take an old trend off the peg, dust it down a bit and give it a whole new twist. The idea of "vicarious consumption" was first coined 100 years ago by the economist Thorstein Veblen to describe the thrill rich people get when they buy their butler a lovely new uniform. Nowadays, reckons Evers, it is making a comeback in a whole new form. Just as book reviews have become a substitute among many of us for reading books, Evers says, our enthusiasm for endless product reviews is becoming a way through which we can vicariously experience almost anything through the eyes (and sometimes ears) of people who have already been there. Sites dedicated to reading reviews on other people's experiences, such asiliketotallyloveit.comandballofdirt.com, offer a heady mixture of entertainment, voyeurism and exhibitionism, and are already quietly attracting millions on the web.DIY educationThe rise of blogging and self-broadcasting sites such as YouTube as an alternative to TV, says Gutsche, has brought with it a burgeoning demand among people to learn new skills, not from professional educators but from their peers. A good example, he says, is the proliferation of virtual cooking classes on YouTube, in which people persuade each other to experiment with their favourite recipes. Then there are the home videos that take people through the easiest way to unlock or otherwise manipulate their iPhones or other gadgets. The "education" on offer at such sites does not have to be improving.Willitblend.comb, for example, spoofs the growth of DIY education videos by showing viewers how to granulate their iPhones or iPods in a blender. Then there is the popularity of bizarre videos demonstrating that if, for example, you shove a packet of Mentos mints into a bottle of Diet Coke, the whole thing explodes - the YouTube equivalent, it would appear, of the school chemistry experiment.Digital housecleaningOne consequence of the matrix of social networking sites such as Facebook and Second Life that are colonising the web is that our private selves are soon going to be on display as never before. In an age of "digital individualism", in which many of us work so hard to create and customise our identities on the net, it is ironic that all this information ends up stored on an anonymous bank of computer servers, to be cooled by some bored warehouse caretaker. While there is a much greater acceptance among young people of living life in the glare of the net, says Salzman, the lust for digital exhibitionism will soon wither when they come to start looking for a job. With admissions offices and human resources departments increasingly using the web to vet prospective candidates - two-thirds of companies readily admit to keeping tabs on employees by checking social networking sites, according to the British recruitment agency Poolio - a good chunk of the incriminating material whirling around the cybersphere will somehow have to be expunged. MySpace pages will be cleaned up and mass "Facebook suicides" will soon become the norm as young people try to agree a bond of forgetting by deactivating their profiles in unison. Companies will spring up like Reputation Defender, an American firm that promises to search out and destroy all inaccurate, inappropriate, hurtful and slanderous information that exists on its clients.Virtual identity managersAnother consequence of the public display of ourselves on the net is that many of us are going to end up hiring professional stand-ins. By 2011, reckon the researchers at technology advice firm Gartner, 80% of internet users and major companies will have avatars, or digital replicas of themselves, for online work and play. Kasriel predicts that this will give rise to a new cadre of independent advisers - what she calls "holistic identity managers" - whose job it will be to garden the internet profiles of business people and keep them on the straight and narrow. Very soon, she believes, it will come as no surprise at all when we learn that high-ranking executives are not writing and updating their own profiles but paying someone else to do it for them. Already, sites such asFakeWebcam.comallow paying people to pre-record videos of themselves and play them on a loop as if they were visible on their webcam. The aesthetically challenged might even think about hiring more attractive stand-ins as well as scriptwriters. For those who can afford it, smile - it's not you on candid camera.&middot;James Harkin's book Big Ideas: The Essential Guide to the Latest Thinking will be published in February by Atlantic Books.
T-Mobile is pooling its mobile phone masts with rival operator 3, to bring high-speed wireless broadband to more of the country. The deal, to be announced today, will be seen by many in the industry as a precursor to T-Mobile, owned by Deutsche Telekom, buying out Britain's newest and smallest network.The move comes as rival Orange, which is in network-sharing negotiations with Vodafone, today announces it has become the first UK network to offer programming from pay-TV group Setanta.Mobile phone customers who pay &pound;5 a month will get access to Setanta Sports 1, Setanta Sports 2 and Setanta Golf. Orange already provides Sky's TV service, so anyone willing to shell out for both will have access to every televised match of the Barclays Premier League. In the auction of Premier League rights, Sky got 92 games a year while Setanta picked up 46.Setanta, bankrolled by investors including Goldman Sachs, also has US PGA Golf and the Scottish Premiership. Recently it secured FA Cup matches and England home internationals, from next season, in a &pound;425m deal with ITV.While Orange has focused on services such as mobile TV to try and raise new revenues as core voice and text prices decline, T-Mobile has concentrated on turning the mobile phone into an internet access device in an attempt to persuade people to do more with their handsets.One drawback is that getting enough network coverage to make internet browsing on a mobile phone as easy as it is on a computer, is an expensive task. O2, Orange and Vodafone launched residential broadband services, using traditional phone lines, to augment their mobile offerings.Both 3 and T-Mobile, however, have  stuck to the promise of wireless broadband. Combining the mobile phone networks of the UK's fourth and fifth-placed operators will help reduce the cost of producing a comprehensive enough network. Both have introduced high-speed 3G networks, with 3's network one of the country's largest - but it still covers only about 90% of the population.The deal is understood to cover the two companies' 3G access networks, consisting of thousands of masts. In the search for cost savings, both have already independently outsourced part of the management of their backbone networks to Ericsson.As well as reducing costs, the deal will prompt speculation that T-Mobile ultimately wants to buy 3 if owner Hutchison Whampoa lowers its price expectations.Deutsche Telekom boss Ren&eacute; Obermann has made no secret of his desire for consolidation. T-Mobile made an approach for O2 but was thwarted by a knock-out offer from Telef&oacute;nica. O2 is now the only UK mobile phone company not involved in plans to share network assets.Regulator Ofcom is expected to examine the deal between T-Mobile and 3.
Sensible World of Soccer arrives on Xbox Live Arcade tomorrow (19th) at 9am. It costs - as if that really matters? - 800 MS points (about 7 quid). The press release mentions online and career modes, although why they bothered with a "helpful tutorial mode" - this is Sensi for chrissakes - is beyond me. I was burnt before with Speedball II on XBLA, but surely they can't muck up SWOS? Can they? We'll find out tomorrow. But if they manage to nail down the essence of what made the 96/97 (gulp) original so great then Sensi could be the Christmas hit of 2007.And let's face it, this time of year is great to be a gamer. Sure, nowadays most of us buy games when time or our wallets allow, but the festive season always brings back memories of childhood gaming goodness: the days when games were restricted to special occasions and hype was confined to the playground or magazines. Or, as you get older, a time when you got a few days off work to actually play the damn things. And so it was for my finest gaming Christmas - Ocarina of Time in 1998. The game, in typical Nintendo fashion, had been in short supply after release and that just made the festive ride around Hyrule Field all the sweeter. The other standout memory is Christmas 1984 and the arrival of the C64. It came with a couple of - in hindsight - really duff games,HunchbackandDaley Thompson's Decathlon. But I loved them both at the time, and not just because it meant I had escaped the threat of getting a BBC Micro instead. Oh go on then, it's only a week to go after all - what are your favourite Christmas gaming memories?
Last week, the Video Appeals Committee overturned the BBFC's decision to refuse a rating for both the original and re-cut versions of Rockstar's Manhunt 2 (morehere). But, with the bit well and truly between its teeth, the classification board is applying for a judicial review of the decision. From the press release:The BBFC is contesting the VAC judgement because in the Board's view, it is based on an approach to harm which is an incorrect interpretation of the Video Recordings Act. The VAC judgement, if allowed to stand, would have fundamental implications with regard to all the Board's decisions, including those turning upon questions of unacceptable levels of violence.You may remember that David Cooke, director of the BBFC, spoke of the game's "bleakness and callousness of tone". However, Fred Hasson CEO ofTIGAtold the VAC panel that he was, "surprised at how tame it is compared to some very graphical scenes I've seen in other games which have received certification." Although, of course, the head honcho of a developer's association cannot be viewed as a genuinely disinterested party. However, these views were echoed by psychologist, Guy Cumberbatch, who opined, "In my own limited experience of playing Manhunt 2, it's fairly sanitised as a work compared with what you might expect in a film."So, what does the BBFC mean when it states that the decision is based on, "an approach to harm which is an incorrect interpretation of the Video Recordings Act". It's difficult to comment on this without seeing the VAC conclusion, but 'harm' is an ambiguous concept, which was treated so vaguely in the original 1984 act that a 1994 update sought to clarify the term. This now appears as section 4A(1):The designated authority shall, in making any determination as to the suitability of a video work, have special regard (among the other relevant factors) to any harm that may be caused to potential viewers or, through their behaviour, to society by the manner in which the work deals with --(a) criminal behaviour; (b) illegal drugs; (c) violent behaviour or incidents; (d) horrific behaviour or incidents; or (e) human sexual activity.The BBFC could be insinuating that the VAC has overturned the 'ban' due to a perceived interpretation of harm as violence against society, and from that perception was unwilling to support the BBFC's decision - connections between game and real-life violence are contentious, after all. But the BBFC's interpretation of harm includes the psychological effects on the viewer themselves. All pure speculation at this stage though. It is to be hoped that the BBFC clarifies its objection over the coming days.
One of the attractions of the web is that it shows you things you can't see, read or hear anywhere else. That's the appeal ofThe Smoking Gun, founded in 1997. It became a web-wide hit for publishing police mug shots of celebrities such as50 CentandParis Hilton, and it frequently reproduces documents from court cases. If you ever wanted to read complete records ofthe testimony of Michael Jackson's alleged sex abuse victims, for example, The Smoking Gun has published them.Among the site's notable scalps are California's "gubernator" Arnold Schwarzenegger and the bestselling author James Frey. TSG, as it is known to its friends, dug up theorgy interviewthat Schwarzenegger gave adult magazine Oui in the 1970s. It exposed Frey for beingeconomical with the truthin his memoir, A Million Little Pieces. He said he'd been arrested a dozen times, but TSG was only able to discover a few police mug shots.Good old-fashioned journalismTSG is based on old-fashioned journalism and America's Freedom of Information Act, and is presented with a 1940s-style typewriter design ethic. William Bastone, the site's co-founder and editor, spent 15 years on the Village Voice, where he covered organised crime and corruption. Many of the documents on the site have been obtained via Freedom of Information requests to law enforcement agencies, and from court records. Everything is guaranteed "100% authentic".Newspapers can get the same records, of course, but TSG publishes them as images. Seeing the original document, even on screen, is more powerful than reading a transcribed print version. And that is even more true when the document is a handwritten suicide note.Even if they had the guts to do this, no newspaper has the space, and no TV station has the time.TSG now has four main sections. The core is the archive of muck-raking journalism, with headlines such as Senate Aide In Kiddie Sex Bust. The main support acts are Arresting Images and Backstage.David Bowie looking coolArresting Images is the collection of police mug shots. It hasDavid Bowie looking cool,Hugh Grant looking guilty, andBill Gates looking amused. There are sections for sports stars (Deion Sanders, Jennifer Capriati), movie stars (Jane Fonda, Mel Gibson), musicians (Johnny Cash, Jimi Hendrix) and gangsters (Lucky Luciano, Benjamin "Bugsy" Siegel), among others. The old ones are the best.Backstage reproduces more than 200contract ridersof the sort touring divas and rock bands demand of their producers. Often it's cases of beer, flowers and towels, but we learn that Eric Clapton travelled with a table football game, and the Rolling Stones packed their own snooker table. Top of David Bowie's list was a 12-cup Mr Coffee machine. Luciano Pavarotti specified no noise and no smells.The latest section is a collection ofold newsreel clipsshowing everything from a Nazi rocket test to 1948 sweater girls and dogs doing tricks. This section provides a link to the Court TV cable channel. Court TV bought TSG in December 2000, enabling the site's tiny salaried staff to work on it full-time.Long may they continue to expose and entertain.
BBC News has a little piece,Weblogs rack up a decade of posts, which says: "The word 'weblog' celebrates the 10th anniversary of it being coined on 17 December 1997." Wired offersTop 10 Tips for New Bloggers From Original Blogger Jorn Barger, Barger being the creator ofRobot Wisdom.We already celebrated 10 years of blogging, back in April (Blogs turn 10), but it's always nice to get two bites at the cherry.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
A couple of days late, here are my choices for the games of the year. I'm still counting up your votes, so I'm just going to bash out my five favourites from the last twelve months, regardless of platform - that way I can spend the rest of the afternoon massaging the official figures before posting the first of the official Gamesblog Games of the Year results tomorrow. I'm joking about the massaging bit.Anyway, my favourite games of the year were:SolaRola (mobile)There have been some excellent mobile titles this year with several publishers willing to jump off the rickety 3D bandwagon to provide addictive experiences that work on phones withoutpretending to be console games, which is a really, really boring idea (though one publisher assures me that 3D games sell better - a truly depressing thought as they're usuallyawful). SolaRola is a cute, imaginative platform/puzzler, bursting with clever innovative touches while also nodding furiously at LocoRoco and its band of merry fat aliens. Please, if you haven't downloaded this game, try the demohere. End of public service announcement.Call of Duty 4The latest in the series doesn't just shift the goal posts for hardcore first-person shooters, it loads them into a grenade launcher and fires them into a neighbouring state. This is a perfectly constructed game, a game that's been lovingly developed by an experienced team at the height of its considerable powers. It doesn't do anything really new (apart from the well-constructed 'rank up' element grafted onto the multiplayer mode), it just does everythingright, brilliantly creating an atmosphere of raw tension and imminent violence that surely gets us as close to a battlezone as we ever want to be. The likes of Killzone 2 and Army of Two are really going to have to deliver in the wake of CoD 4's release.Legend of Zelda: Phantom HourglassI have to admit, I've only just started with this game, but it's an absolute delight. Nintendo has perhaps achieved the pinnacle of touchscreen gameplay, marrying a lovely control system to an intrinsic understanding of small screen design and on-the-go gameplay mores.Orange BoxA collection of such generosity, I'm tempted to believe it was the result of some sort of mass mental aberration in the EA boardroom. Half-Life 2, itself an unmissable example of narrative FPS action, together with two extra episodes and of course, Portal - a game of the year in its own right. This is how gamersshouldbe treated.BioshockThere's been a considerable backlash against this title since its release in the summer, but the fact that youhadto play it - and argue about it - lifted Irrational Games' dark masterpiece into the realms of genuine cultural event. Halo 3? Pah, Microsoft effectivelyboughtits way into a thousand hype-filled TV and mainstream magazine articles, promising a bigger opening weekend that Spider-Man 3 and calling in a marketing budget that would shame the GDP of many small countries. But did anyone discuss Halo 3 like they did Bioshock? I mean in terms of key moments, narrative twists, atmosphere, ideas, etc, rather than just if it was any good or not. Love it or hate it (and there was plenty to dislike), Bioshockmeantsomething - it could have been placed on the agenda of the Late Review and wouldn't have looked daft compared to, say, the more avant-garde special effects movies like Pan's Labyrinth. I'm not saying that's something to aim for, but it's something to note.
They are the comical, bizarre and bite-size clips - often the more amateur the better - that spread at the click of a 'send' button to office workers everywhere. The best 'viral videos' gain cult status and are collated on dedicated websites such as BoreMe.com.The top 10 list of 2007's most watched virals on BoreMe is headed by one with more than two million views: Miss South Carolina giving a garbled explanation of why so few Americans can find their country on a world map. Pete Brown, the website's founder, said: 'When articulation is this bad, a viral is not far away. George Bush is usually a victim.'The second most popular, watched 1.3 million times, is 'Chocolate Rain', a   song by amateur singer Tay Zonday, who has a distinctive, deep voice.Third is 'Groovy Dancing Girl', for which Sophie Merry from Dublin filmed herself moving to a slowed down 'Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger' by Daft Punk. She then sped it back up again to match the correct tempo of the tune.The top 10 can be seen in full atboreme.com/2007.
We don't have room toprint all the letters and blog pingbackswe get, but we do on the web. Click through for the whole story - which focuses a lot on passwords and Wikipedia...UNSAFE PASSWORDS?This article by Wendy M. Grossman is very interesting. I ask you an opinion. What do you think about online password managers as Passpack? I seem that the security level is very high, but I am not an expert. Maybe you can write some articles on this type of SaaS [software as a service]. Argo Celani (no post town given) [Maybe we will in the future - Tech. Ed]An interesting article. Maybe you could have mentioned that there is some very good free software available to manage your passwords (e.g KeePass). Some of these programs are so small they can be kept on a USB stick. Mark Osborne, ChelmsfordI'm highly aware that I'm rapidly turning into my parents by writing letters to complain to newspapers, but what exactly was the thought process behind using the picture of the pink keyboard on your [online] article "How secure are your online passwords?"? There's nothing gender-specific in the article itself, and the security concerns laid out are relevant to both genders. It's not an article aimed particularly at women (apart from being written by one). So it's completely incongruous. That's before issues about gender stereotyping and sexism - women only use PINK technology, right? And of course the only thing they'd need to use the internet for would be to shop? - even enter the equation. Seriously, what's going on there? Considering the Guardian has run articles on how there's still sexism rampant in the IT industry (among other industries..), using that picture just ... doesn't make sense. It's re-enforcing all sorts of negative attitudes towards women, which really isn't what I'd expect from the Guardian, of all papers. The Daily Mail, maybe. But from the Guardian, that's just disappointing. On a more positive note, the article itself was great. It's just a shame that you chose to present it like that. Sarah Dobbs, LondonYour article "How secure are your online passwords?" highlights the problems associated with passwords and the acknowledged benefits of using stronger, more varied passwords. To memorise a long list of complex, frequently changing passwords is clearly a daunting task but there is help at hand. mobivault is a utility that downloads to most mobile phones that allows users to store up to 50 passwords and associated usernames and comments in an encrypted database. This database can only be accessed by a single master password chosen by the user. Most people carry their mobile with them at all times and so is a convenient and secure way of using both more complex and more varied passwords without the headache. details at www.mobivault.net Simon Heath,www.mobivault.netGreat article in todays Technology Guardian about passwords. It made me realise that we have a big problem here, with everyone usiing their cats name or their birthday. I've taken the hint and emailed everyone to use IlrtGTs04 for a password in future. No-ones broken into our system yet as far as I know so this came just in time. Jake Gartside, director, Potential Software, HytheFrom the article: "(You can try your favourite password atpajhome.org.uk/crypt/md5/and then search Google for the result.)" Hopefully this isn't a site that is capturing the passwords (and/or the IP address) of the users! How reliable is the site? Quentin Halliday, Los Angeles [It's just Javascript - even if the page is grabbing your IP address and password, there's not much to be done with that - Tech.Ed]WIKIPEDIA POLITICSI'm an "ordinary" Wikipedia editor. It's all very well to focus on a glitch, albeit a major glitch, in the politics, but behind that, the vast majority of us are beavering away trying to create quality articles which readers will both learn from and respect. Not only do we do this in our spare time, but we get no credit either, because all articles are deemed to be collaborative efforts. It can get extremely frustrating at times when you know about, and can support by using external references responsibly, a topic worthy of an encyclopedic article, and someone comes along and just deletes parts of it it unilaterally as not conforming to their own point of view. This can produce an "edit war" which diverts voluntary resources from building a reliable repository of knowledge. That is without all the vandals who insert random obscenities, outrageously intolerant or just unsourced material, all of which has to be dealt with by someone, usually me or someone like me. The Wikipedia model is intentionally brave, as "the encyclopedia that anyone can edit", but nobody in their right mind would suggest that "you can fight your house fire yourself"; accessibility of editing is a major advantage in one sense, but in another, a major criticism. I am not suggesting that editors apply for the position, submitting CVs, but I am suggesting that allowing anonymous unregistered editors is counterproductive, because it limits accountability. There are, of course, mechanisms for warning and even blocking and banning incompetent and consistently biased editors, but because of the policy of "Assuming Good Faith", sanctions are often a last resort and progressive in nature, so that an editor who is blocked for a week can return on the eighth day and continue where they left off, until they rack up blocks until consensus requires their permanent removal. The reported incident is regrettable, but as untypical as the sinking of the Titanic, and I am saddened that readers may get the impression that there is some secret cabal or Bilderberg Group controlling everything. There isn't. Phil Nash (no post town given)&gt;&gt; The disclosures reveal both structural and ethical issues that have divided the participants and observers into rival camps espousing competing interpretations, philosophies, and practices. Whether Wikipedia can achieve a stable and sustainable model remains to be seen. The jury is still out, but there is some ominous handwriting on the wall.http://aggieblue.blogspot.com/2007/12/wikipedia-redux.html&gt;&gt; At the best this is highly unethical; at the worst it's defamatory. Yes yes, First Amendment, actual malice, blah blah. There's also a little thing like journalistic ethics, which is why to this day I refuse to accept the Guardian as a reliable source (this article gives a little more credence to my claim, I'll note).http://wikilaw.blogspot.com/2007/12/wikipedia-haters.html&gt;&gt; But just as a bit of advice - as a legal intern AND "Communications Committee" member, I don't think it's advisable to raise the possibility of your organization sending its lawyer after a columnist who writes a critical article. Which, if one step backs for minute, I hope would be clear is solidly grounded in the facts. It gives a very bad impression amidst a public-relations disaster involving accusations of secret mailing lists and cabals. And it definitely adds to the evidence of Wikipedia as a cult.http://sethf.com/infothought/blog/archives/001289.htmlVISTA SPEED&gt;&gt; For those of you out there unlucky enough to have been stuck with Vista on a recently-purchased computer (or foolish enough to have paid good money to "upgrade" your XP machine) it will no doubt come as a relief to know that your expensive operating system won't suddenly cease to function for no reason whatsoever. Yes, you should have many years of excruciatingly slow, memory-hogging operation ahead. You could, of course, "downgrade" your computer back to XP. The process of doing so sounds like a royal pain in the ass to me, but you'll be rewarded with a much faster and more stable operating system.http://www.semiconscious.org/2007/12/06/lipstick-on-a-pig/IS EMAIL DEAD?&gt;&gt; Not sure about the demise of email... But my inbox is a battlefield. And I am constantly losing.http://mbf.blogs.com/mbf/2007/12/is-email-dead.html&gt;&gt; EVERYone who is in school now thinks e-mail is for old people. (And I reluctantly admit I am one of the "old people") They're texting, facebooking, etc etc, but e-mail? Might as well give them a fountain pen and a bottle of ink.http://prstudies.typepad.com/weblog/2007/12/email-is-for-ol.html&gt;&gt; This trend obviously has ramifications for us "fossils". I must really now get that Blackberry or iPhone with the QWERTY keyboard (I can't stand text messaging on a "normal" mobile).http://theprlab.wordpress.com/2007/12/07/email-is-old-school/WII DO OR DON'TAlthough a worthwhile article, Jack Schofield makes the now de rigueur yet wholly unfounded proclamation: "In hardware terms, the Wii is little more than a souped-up GameCube, plus its revolutionary motion-sensitive controller." Other than the aforementioned "souped-up" CPU, Wii has many additional hardware components elevating well above that inaccurate characterization: built-in Wifi making it internet-functional, Blue-Tooth, motorized higher capacity 5.25" DVD drive, more RAM with SD card expansion slot, 2 USB connectors, 480p video. And of course, the camera/blue tooth motion sensitive Wiimotes. On the system software front, everything is on a higher evolutionary plane, making for a true Next-Gen apparatus. I think it's high-time Tech observers acknowledged these facts, even though the current incarnation of Wii is not "hi-Def". Christian de la Pointe (no post town given)DATING ON PHONESVictor Keegan suggests that dating is moving from the PC to the mobile (December 6th). Well, it's already out there, in the form of flirting. More lighthearted than dating, with a different promise, Flirtomatic's service saw more than 150,000 registrations by mobile in the last year. I'd agree that video dating by mobile does sound exciting, but you'd have to consider basic ergonomics. The most comfortable way to film yourself with a camera phone is to hold it at waist height – although you run the risk of filming up your nose. Holding the camera in front of your face is better, but you feel like an idiot. And location-based dating is a logical step, but the issue is currently the price of getting location based data – at between 6p and 7p per look-up for the service provider, it's not yet cost-effective enough to be viable. Mark Curtis, CEO, FlirtomaticLESS APPLEIt is very annoying that the Open University, which teaches computing, will not support the Apple Macintosh. To use their teaching material on DVD-ROM you have to connect to their server. That was possible for a brief time by downloading FirstClass client which did run on the Mac. But they do not support the latest version of FirstClass that runs on the new Leopard operating system. So the Open University remains out-of-bounds to Macintosh users. Warren Newman, LondonIF NOT OLPC..I read Kate Bevan's piece in the Technology Guardian about the One Laptop Per Child project with interest last Thursday, and felt that I should also bring Computer Aid International to your attention. The charity has provided over 10,000 PCs to schools and universities in developing countries around the world, proving that there is a viable alternative to OLPC already available and making a difference. Louise Richards, CEO of Computer Aid, agrees that the scheme is too expensive to make any real impact on the countries it aims to help, and [thinks] PC re-use facilitated by Computer Aid is the more responsible option. Kate Solomon, PR, ComputeraidGOVERNMENT ITPeter Berrie (Letters, Dec. 6) makes a good point about the lack of basic IT competencies within HMRC, but in mentioning Perl and Awk, he hints at a deeper problem. These utilities are part of the standard toolkit of IT professionals who work with Unix or Linux systems, but their counterparts in organisations dominated by Windows are not so fortunate. Windows does not have the rich set of data-processing tools offered by Unix, so the powerful shell scripting techniques described by Peter Berrie are simply impossible if you're tied to Windows. Perhaps HMRC might have avoided the Child Support database disaster if its IT staff had been able to use a more suitable operating system. Dr David Harper, CambridgeCOPYRIGHT EXTENSIONI must take issue with some of the points raised by Victor Keegan (How long should copyright last, November 29). He imagines a situation in which architects are to be sued for being inspired by other buildings or computers users for lifting an idea from Wikipedia. There is no copyright in ideas, only in the specific reuse of a work of literature, music or art. This was conclusively proven in the recent case brought by the authors of The Holy Blood and Holy Grail against Dan Brown. Licensing societies do not take over rights from creators. They act as their agents and redistriubute any monies to them. I should know. I was a director of one for seventeen years. John Davies, London
Recently I postedBubble 2.0, the video, a very funny song byRichter Scales. However, if you click the YouTube link now you'll find it's no longer available. It's been taken down by YouTube because a photographer,Lane Hartwell, got upset about one of her pictures being used for about a second without payment or credit.The photograh was "borrowed" from Wired magazine and its use is incidental. Thousands of alternatives could easily be inserted in its place, and no doubt many of them would make the video better, not worse. I'm surprised that Richter Scales hasn't simply replaced it.The law may be enough of an ass that Hartwell's lawyer is right, and if her target was a major music corporation, legal action might even be worth the effort. But suing an amateur a capella vocal group is only slightly above suing your local church choir. (Update: In a comment, below, Hartwell says: "At no point has there been any talk of filing a lawsuit on my behalf.") As it is, she's simply made herself a target for comment in the blogosphere. See, for example, TechCrunch's Michael Arrington (Misunderstanding Copyright Law And Ruining Everyone's Fun) and Matthew Ingram of The Globe and Mail, Toronto (Why Lane Hartwell is wrong, on his personal blog), and some of the comments to their posts.Richter Scalessays:Some folks have left comments saying we should acknowledge all the people who created the images we used in the video. Good point. We will go through the video and cite every source, and wherever possible, we will credit the original photographer.If you have seen the video, there are a lot of them. I hope they also credit the writers, layout artists, printers, caterers, cleaners, grocers, bus drivers and all the other people without whom the creative arts could barely survive. Then they can run the credits at high speed, like they do in the movies, and they may even be shorter than the original video.This is a good system because if everyone is credited, it's generally the same as crediting nobody, and Lane Hartwell will get the credit she's due. I guess that won't stop x million web users thinking she's a jerk, but that's a problem she's made for herself.By the way, if you missed the video, you can still watch it onTechCrunch, thanks to Daily Motion. TechCrunch tends to take a robust attitude. See, for example,Being Stupid And Litigious Is No Way To Go Through Life.Update: There's some good advice on attribution from Jonathan Bailey at Blog Herald:How To Provide Attribution in the Blogging World.
Q:Has anyone solved the problem of not being able to see anything on the screen of digital cameras in bright daylight? I am even thinking of reverting to a viewfinder camera.A:LCD screens not only have a problem with sun, but can be hard to view from an angle. Check before you buy. Although many digital cameras have ditched the old-fashioned optical viewfinder, plenty have retained it, so you may have that to fall back on. Otherwise the best solution may be an anti-glare protector. You can buy pop-up shades for many models, while Boxwave makes a range of washable, stick-on anti-glare covers (from around &pound;4 a pack).Q:Where can I find a radio that can be used while swimming?A:There are many waterproof radios on the market, including inexpensive models such as the Design Go (&pound;10, from Amazon). Or you could opt for a waterproof MP3 player - Dolphin makes one for swimmers, with 1GB of memory, for &pound;70, while Otterbox is known for its waterproof iPod cases (around &pound;35). It may also be worth buying a decent pair of underwater headphones, such as those from Aquapac (&pound;25). Whatever you go for, check the small print: 'water-resistant' is not the same as waterproof.
TelevisionConfrontation of the year:Vic Mackey and Shane (The Shield)At the end of the last series, The Shield's Vic Mackey reduced to a black, blue and red pulp the guy he thought bumped off his colleague Lem. No wonder Shane took a while to pluck up the courage to confess to Vic, that, er, actually, terrible misunderstanding and all that, but it had been him all along. Vic's dawning rage was a thing of Shakespearian intensity to behold as the two men locked horns in the deserted patch of urban wasteland that is Farmington. Amazingly, Shane held his own.DSCookery show of the year:The Roadkill ChefAmid the Nigellas and Gordons clogging up the schedules like batter came this January gem. Fergus Drennan, the chef who considers himself "vegetarian", in that the only meat he eats is that which he finds dead in the roads - squirrels, badgers, etc. The wrinkled noses of the citizens of Sandwich, Kent, as Drennan tried to persuade them of the merits of squashed hedgehog pie were a priceless tableau of middle England squeamishness.DSThey Think It's All Over Award:Paul Merson's ToothCouchbound football fans of a Saturday afternoon indulge in The Jeff Stelling Soccer Saturday Drinking Game, in which they must imbibe shots of Jägermeister as the Sky Sports host and his panel utter cliches as the results come in. However, even the rulemakers of the game were confounded last month as, mid-report, ex-Arsenal striker and pundit Paul Merson's front tooth fell out, on air, to his eternal sheepishness. Should it ever happen again, down the bottle in one.DSBest Supporting Character:Murray HewittIn comedy, supporting players brought in to bring up the funny quota can often usurp the lead performer. Larry Sanders had Hank Kingsley, Seinfeld had George Costanza, now The Flight Of The Conchords has Murray. It's all about Murray. Narrowly beating fellow co-star Kristen Schaal's adorable and terrifying stalker Mel, Rhys Darby's turn as sweet natured, dim but enthusiastic Murray is exemplary, hysterical stuff. Be it baring his soul in the song Leggy Blonde ("I like pie") or his band meeting rollcall etiquette ("Murray... present") Murray nails every line. Even the posters in his office are hilarious - "New Zealand... It's not part of Australia." The Conchords just wouldn't fly without old Ginger Balls.PO'NThe Grace Jones Award for Best Chatshow Guest Of The Year:Janice Dickinson on Jonathan RossBack in July, few of us had heard of Dickinson. Then she burst onto Ross' set, laid herself out on his desk and invited him to have sex with her. "I'm going to kill you!" she later barked before declaring "My penis has fallen out!" Jawdropping appraisals of her sexual relationships with Mick Jagger and Sylvester Stallone followed. Moments later, she was riding off stage on her bewildered host's back. Did any of this really happen or was it all just a preposterous dream?SDServes Them Right Award:GMTV, Blue Peter, EtcIn 2007 popular telly's fraudulent, money grubbing practices were finally exposed. Five's Brainteaser, Ant & Dec, GMTV, even Blue Peter received fines for a range of offences from producing fake winners to competitions to charging premium phone-in rates for competitions viewers had no hope of winning. It's to be hoped tightly regulated programming becomes the new norm. If you think this will happen, call the number on your screen now.DSBest Slacker Comedy Award:Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!Where else on TV would you get David Cross as a porn star eunuch, and John C Reilly as a distressed cable presenter? Tim Heidecker and Eric Wareheim's 10-minute skit shows may only have been shown on Bravo andAdultSwim.co.uk, but its bizarre takes on local cable TV and disturbing cameos from the famous and the washed up make it a worthy contender to Adam and Joe's slacker crown.WDThe Early Bird Award:Omar, The WireWho could forget The Wire's Omar taking a leisurely breakfast stroll through the mean streets of Baltimore in his silk pyjamas after discovering his Honey Nut Cheerios stash was light?RVThe Jim Davidson Award For Casual Homophobia:Ricky HattonIn the first televised press conferences for their December 8 superbout, Ricky Hatton knew he had to outdo primo trash talker Floyd Mayweather. As Mayweather attempted to distract Hatton during his address of his adoring public, Hatton snapped "Floyd, will you stop touching my dick, you fucking poof?" forcing an embarrassed Sky anchorman to apologise. This bon mot was followed by Mayweather reportedly informing Hatton "I wish I was in prison with you. I'd make you my bitch."JDThe Boris Johnson Award For Cultural Sensitivity:Simon CowellIn the immediate wake of the Virginia Tech massacre, American Idol contestant Chris Richardson gave an irrelevant tribute to the dead - a cutaway followed to an eye-rolling Simon Cowell, evil dream wrecker and most sarcastic man in England. The complaints poured in and Cowell was forced to explain he was actually sneering at the contestant's nasal voice and not dead college students who Richardson counted as some of his best friends.JDBest "AAAGH, I'm Not Listening" Moment:The SopranosThe final episode of the Sopranos meant many things to many people. To others - perhaps now only just catching up to speed with the series - it meant six months of running out of rooms, avoiding magazine articles and TV ads for the box set, in fear of discovering how it ended before you had a chance to find out how it got there. Those who spoiled it for others - sleep uneasily in your beds.JRWalk Of Shame Award:Mark BannermanVoted out of the jungle first, forced to watch footage of his nauseating flirting with Cerys Matthews and informed that his girlfriend had buggered off home in disgust: Bannerman must have felt pretty crap at this point. Thing is, ITV had already paid for the champagne and fireworks and, well, it's a shame to waste it, right? And so as firecrackers exploded all around him, Bannerman walked off the set and into the arms of, erm, nobody.TJBest Use Of Patois In The Second World War:Armstrong and MillerThe return of the pair to sketch show duties from various advertising commitments was one of the TV surprises of the year. Better still, they had a genuine gem in their roster of sketches. Namely, their pipe-smoking air aces: two pilots, condemned to fight the heroic battles of the second world war, using the moronic syntax of 2007. It was fine ironic juxtaposition. Whatever, they're all dressed up as pilots and that, and I'm like, "this is pretty funny".JRDocumentary Most Likely To Mess With Your Mind Award:The TrapThe government base all their policies on a special sum made up by that bloke out of A Beautiful Mind. "The Man" is trying to get us all hooked on happy pills so we won't notice that everything's rubbish. Sounds a bit stupid, but presented with a load of archive footage and Adam Curtis' chilling voiceover, this analysis of how the world works all seemed so convincing.SDBest Celebutart Interview:The Late Show With David LettermanIn which one on-air grilling went so off-message, it actually made Paris Hilton a compelling screen presence. She intended to talk about her new perfume and film. All Dave asked her about was prison. "I don't really want to talk about it," she demurs, to which Dave says: "This is where you and I are different, because [that's] all I wanna talk about."ARBest Crowd Member:Never Mind The BuzzcocksThere are some subjects about which you simply do not make jokes - including, as Buzzcocks host Simon Amstell discovered, Chantelle. When he read out extracts of her autobiography her boyfriend Preston, of The Ordinary Boys, flounced off the show. Thankfully, a look-alike was promptly discovered in the studio audience. He took his place on the panel and for one night, like Chantelle, lived the dream.DSThe Hanso Foundation Delivery Award:HeroesAs Lost fans will tell you, there's a big difference between going on a magical mystery tour and being taken for a ride by someone who's ditched the map. A big "Yatta!" then for Heroes, which more than delivered on its promise this year. Could they save the cheerleader? Yes, they could. Job done.RVDiversity Award:South ParkRandy reaches the Bonus Letters round of Wheel Of Fortune: "People Who Annoy You". Up come the letters "N_GGERS". Randy blurts out the word in his head - and gets it wrong. "Like anyone thought it was naggers," he protests.DSFilmGet Your Sexy On Award:McLovin, Superbad2007: a terrible year for the Romeo. But beyond the soiled rap sheets of such decrepit Don Juans as Big Brother's Ziggy and Blake Fielder-Civil were the righteous exploits of a 25 year-old Hawaiian organ donor called McLovin. The glaringly fake ID of Superbad's pin-nosed king-nerd Fogell (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), McLovin was both cinema's best running gag of 2007 and the perfect put-down for the year's other shoddy lotharios. Was it just me shouting "I am McLovin!" at Marc Bannerman on I'm A Celebrity last month?AMServices To Global Paranoia Levels:The Bourne UltimatumIt was a good year for being spied on. We had Jamie Bell's Hallam Foe perving over Edinburgh, Shia LaBeouf curtain-twitching in Disturbia, and the Stasi eavesdropping it old school in The Lives Of Others. Most worrying of all though was the CIA's all-seeing, all-hearing, compassion-free techno-spookery as portrayed in the Bourne Ultimatum. Say the wrong word on your mobile these days and you could end up in a pool of blood in Waterloo Station by lunchtime - especially if you're a Guardian reporrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr...SRShonkiest Hotel:Hostel 2Eli Roth's shrill protestation that his torture-porn splatter flick franchise was actually a black comedy inspired by Abu Ghraib gained some currency with this gruesome sequel. The sharper-minded sadism tourist however, might wonder where his cash was going. You'd think for the kind of money that changed hands here, the torture facilities might be more than a damp industrial dungeon with rusty tools, flickering lightbulbs and a gurning Lurch character manning the door. And be a bit more Four Seasons, maybe.DWWorst Use Of A Soundtrack:Across The UniverseThe cinematic equivalent of the Queen musical We Will Rock You, Julie Taymor's appropriation of the Beatles' back catalogue was a brutal abuse of British pop, with characters named Jude, Lucy and Prudence embroiled in the 1960s peace movement. Lurching from song to song with jawdropping literalism - climaxing in a flesh-crawling Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds - Across The Universe was a moptop opera that longed to be the new Hair. Embarrassingly, it was.DWMost Predictable Ending:ControlAnton Corbijn's coffee-table tragedy was apparently the best film of the year, but you could hardly call it a suspense thriller - except in the most literal sense. The world and its mother knew that Ian Curtis was going to hang himself at the end, didn't they? And given Control's dead-straight A-Z structure, by halfway through you were just waiting for Sam Riley to get the rope out. By a process of elimination, it was equally inevitable that Atmosphere would swell up over the end credits. Where's David Lynch when you need him?SRMost Dignified Comeback:Michelle Pfeiffer In StardustThere's a protocol for female stars of a certain age returning to the screen. The rule is to reappear looking miraculously younger than when you left, then deny all rumours that you've had "work" and put it down to wheatgrass juice and meditation. But Michelle Pfeiffer gamely bucked the trend in this scattershot panto fantasy by becoming more and more haggard as the film progressed. Every time her wicked witch used her magic powers, new wrinkles appeared, her hair lankened and her boobs sagged. Her gin-pickled co-star Peter O'Toole looked positively fresh by comparison.SRBest Cinematic Robots:ElectromaWhat would you want from electronic servants? A dreamy drive through mid-century cinema, accompanied by some little-heard pop'n'soul classics, or Michael Bay and a massive toy franchise battering your multiplex choices into submission? Unlike Transformers, Daft Punk's Electroma lacked dialogue, stars and a happy ending, yet the film made you feel less like a box-office automaton and more like a sentient cinemagoer. It was the only robot flick of 2007 that made you more human.ARBorat Award For Naked Wrestling:Viggo Mortensen, Eastern PromisesBorat's triumph in last year's Guide Awards has obviously made waves. For the past year, across Hollywood, studio execs have been saying to the pitchers, "Yes, but where's the nude man-grappling?" Robert Zemeckis could only offer an animated Ray Winstone in the buff for Beowulf. Zack Snyder promised to remove any hint of trouser from the wardrobe of 300. But Viggo Mortensen threw kit and caution to the wind to give us a gory lesson in the perils of naked combat in a London steam room - and boy did it look painful. Hats off. Everything off.SRWorst Use Of British Comedy Talent:Run Fat Boy RunBritish stars used to get a walk-on part in Friends, but since the show's demise, poor Simon Pegg had to make do with an entire movie directed by The One Who Played Ross. If Shaun Of The Dead and Hot Fuzz reinvented the Britcom, David Schwimmer's Run Fat Boy Run took it back to the dark ages, a twee marathon-based romance replete with the obligatory sweary old ladies, shots of the Gherkin and the inevitable David Walliams cameo.DWThe Please God Make It Stop Award:Eddie Murphy In Norbit/Mel BSo which are you more disgusted by? Murphy's horrifically offensive, supremely unfunny, face-meltingly bad "comedy" that glorifies outdated stereotypes involving fat, black shrill-voiced mammies? Or his intentional procreation with a certain loudmouthed former Spicer that unleashed upon the world potentially his scariest creative project yet? It's a tough call.AHBest Newcomer:Thomas Turgoose, This Is EnglandA chubby, 12-year-old kid with a shaved head, DM boots and braces walks into a corner shop and barks at the owner, "Give us a hundred fags and twenty cans of lager, now!" with all the menace and swagger of De Niro in Mean Streets. This was Thomas Turgoose in Shane Meadows' This Is England. Turgoose had no acting experience and attention deficit disorder. Meadows got him to quit junk food then corralled him into one of the most striking movie performances of the year.SDLeast Depressing Documentary:SickoCoffee is evil (Black Gold), war is evil (Iraq In Fragments), democracy is evil (Taking Liberties), and oil is evil (A Crude Awakening), but thanks to Michael Moore, we learned that the NHS isn't nearly as bad as the US's system. So buck up!SRGoriest Mutilation:GrindhouseTry not to think of it as losing a leg, more as gaining a gun. Rose McGowan overcame her zombie-inflicted dismemberment with pride in Planet Terror, but the most savage maiming of the year befell Grindhouse itself. Having been promised for months by Tarantino and Rodriguez that their horror double-bill would be the super-freakin' coolest thing ever, or something, it was mercilessly chopped in half, having bombed in the US. Tarantino's ego got off lightly with a severe bruising.SRMedal For Outstanding Bravery In These Troubled Times:Adam SandlerPost-Syriana, Hollywood's fearless liberals have been cashing - sorry, weighing - in on the War On Terror, with The Kingdom, Lions For Lambs, Rendition, etc. But war profiteer of the year must be that Chomsky of the multiplex, Adam Sandler. In Reign Over Me he carried America's pain as a man rendered terminally infantile by the trauma of 9/11, then in I Now Pronounce You Chuck And Larry he pretended to be gay, which was OK because he was a widowed New York fireman - post-9/11 shorthand for "true American hero". What next? Sandler as an Iraqi war orphan?SRDodgiest History Award:Elizabeth: The Golden AgeHistory - it's like so BORING. All that old stuff and things. So thank God Shekhar Kapur spiced up the really dead old and out-of-date story of Elizabeth I by turning the balding, manky-toothed 55-year-old into an athletic warrior shampoo model, leading her troops into battle. Meanwhile, Clive Owen's Walter Raleigh was basically a 16th-century James Bond. Why not have him locate the Spanish Armada on his satnav and dispatch them with a Taser?SRBiggest Ker-Ching Weekend:Halo 3Spider-Man 3 blew previous record holder Pirates of The Caribbean: At World's End ($135.6m) out of the water with a pretty impressive $151.1m - only to be zapped in the money stakes by a videogame threequel: Halo 3 on XBox scored $170m, with something like a million people logging on to Xbox Live over the first 24 hours.RVMusicLeast Likely Rock'n'Roll Offshoot:The PunkistanisNever mind the burkas, here come the punkistanis! Inspired by a fictional outfit in Muslim punk novel The Taqwacores, bands from Boston to Lahore reminded us that rock'n'roll's primary purpose was to give the disenfranchised a voice and, like, stick it to The Man. What the Kominas and Secret Trial Five (top tracks: Hey, Hey, Guantánamo Bay, Emo-hurram) et al lacked in tunes they made up for in spirit - proving that there's nothing more punk than being Islamic at the disco.MMMusical Whore Of The Year:Lethal BizzleWill rap with any two-bit indie band for food! Runner up: Mark RonsonSRichBest "You Mean It's Not The Hold Steady?" Moment:Bruce SpringsteenA great comeback single made New Jersey's other famous Boss look pretty good again. Reunited with the E Street band after a long time making folk records, Springsteen's Radio Nowhere made him sound young even as the world made him feel old.JRMost Unlikely Musical Comeback:WorldbeatDamon Albarn rode the Africa Express to Glastonbury but little Afrobeat influence was detected on his The Good, The Bad & The Queen record, despite the presence of Tony Allen. Instead it was left to preppy New Yorkers Vampire Weekend to play highlife guitar and drop lyrical references to Peter Gabriel. Fellow Brooklyn hipsters Yeasayer went one further, channelling Paul Simon's Boy In The Bubble, borrowing Sting's fretless bass and dressing like Aztec acid punks at the 1989 Glastonbury CND festival. Time for The Strokes to dig out those Johnny Clegg & Savuka albums.SRichBest Musical Accessory:Mockney AccentFrom Kate Nash to Jack Peñate, 2007 was the year that phrases such as Nash's Foundations lyric "You said I must eat so many lemons, 'cos I am so bittahh" entered the Guide's dictionary of Mockney Slang, along with the definition "Shut up you stupid posh oiks
and sod off back to drama school".TJMost Unglamorous Place Immortalised In Song:Good Shoes - MordenIn the grand digestive tract that is the London Underground, Morden is the colon, a sad little bunch of bricks sat right down the southernmost end of the Northern line. For a brief moment this year, it gained some small wisp of pop-cultural import by spawning wry indie cherubs Good Shoes. Then they went and spoiled it by writing a song about how it was full of pound shops and drug dealers. Sorry, Morden.LPBest Tribute Band:Lez ZeppelinWhile 2007 saw an unprecedented number of dreary bands reforming, the most talked about reunion was that of Led Zeppelin. Those who didn't fancy entering a bleedin' lottery to get their gig tickets, however, embraced the parallel universe genius of Lez Zeppelin, the sass-stacked all woman band who toured the world, slayed it, and recorded an album with Led Zep's producer Eddie Kramer. We know who John Bonham would have been rooting for.LCpFastest Move From Underground Hit To 'Never Want To Hear It Again As Long As I Live':Gossip - Standing In The Way Of ControlTo be fair it's doubtful that any song could have withstood 12 months of being aural shorthand for "teen cool" among lazy advertisers and TV producers. Coupled with the queasy spectacle of fashion mags patronising their token lesbian mate, this riotous collision of punk and disco obesity outstayed its welcome after about six weeks. See also: indie hit Young Folks.JQBest Blog By A Non-Human:Ghostface Killah DollYou could spend your time reading the witless ramblings of blogging idiots, or you could watch the exciting adventures of a doll that wears real 14ct gold jewellery and a plush Hefneresque robe. What scrapes can Ghostface Killah of the Wu-Tang Clan's plastic representative on Earth get up to? As you're not going to buy your own - they're $499 each - vicarious doll action is probably as close as you'll get.AEMost Stamina:Prince for O2 seasonTwenty-one nights of diminutive sex-funkery. And he played all the hits, too!STGraceless Winners Award:Klaxons' Mercury Music Prize Acceptance SpeechKlaxons: "We'd like to (sniiifff) thank the Guide for giving us (sniiiff f) this Graceless Winners award... although we totally deserve it, because we're TALENTED ARTISTS BLESSED WITH GENIUS. IN FACT, WE DESERVE TO (gurrrrnnn) WIN THE BEST BLOG AWARD TOO AND THE BEST COOKERY SHOW AWARD TOO! BECAUSE WE'RE BETTER THAN EVERYONE! (gurrrnnssnniiifff)."TJThis Year's No 1 In An Alternate Universe Award:Battles - AtlasIn a year dominated by contrived trends, it was somewhat heartwarming to see Battles' seven-minute epic Atlas stomping its way over all kinds of dancefloors. The first genuine math rock pop hit, it's managed to rack up more Last.fm plays in the last six months than the biggest songs by Britney Spears and Kylie. Searingly improbable on paper, but from its glam rock marching beat absurdity to the sing-song chipmunk vocals, there really is something for everyone tucked away in there.DMMost Mismatched Scrap:Zane Lowe v Nick CaveZane Lowe: "So Nick, with this album, with Grinderman, you've put on this fantastic persona, kinda like Ziggy Stardust..." Nick Cave: "No. You're wrong. Really, you haven't understood it at all. What I'm doing is sincere." And so on, and so on. Bruce Willis might have fought a plane in the latest Die Hard film, but that scrap was nothing compared to this.TJAward For Genre Killing:Never Mind The Panpipes CompilationFancy hearing the Fratellis' Chelsea Dagger reimagined as hotel lobby muzak? No? Note to 2008: no more indie music for a while, please.TJExtras!Best Facebook Groups:SleevefaceFacebook groups may have been invented for students to keep in touch and campaign, but they've served a bigger purpose - getting call centre workers sacked. Here are some of 2007's best... Sleeveface; I Work At Argos And Can't Wait To Leave Because It's Shit; Get George Lamb Off 6 Music; I've Been To Kettering; And Just Like Gazza Left Drunk, Disgraced & ViolentWDBiggest Diva:Shirley BasseyThe minute she walked in the joint, you could see she wasn't going to wallow in the mud and dysentery like the rest of us plebs, thank you very much. &#163;3,000 diamante-encrusted customised wellies, and a group of lackies following her around, ready to roll out a 12ft red carpet on cue!STLily Allen Award For Most Deranged Celebrity Blog Of The Year:Brian MayThe Complete History Of The Universe book he penned with Sir Patrick Moore was but a footnote in the year's creative output for Brian May. Not previously known as a controversial figure, his Bri's Soapbox blog coaxed out the rebel within. The shaggy axeman condemned journalists as "the filthiest scum of the Earth", called fox hunters "insensitive cruel bastards" and, most controversially of all, complimented Ben Elton. Rock stars - must they always go too far?JDBest Use Of Billy Idol's Hair:Rhydian, The X FactorWhile most singers go for a more obvious 'do, classically trained reality TV star The Rhyddler realised the merit of pop punk's greatest icon and channelled his determined spirit through his follicles. As long as Rhydian has his Idol-esque bleached blonde spikes, his voice won't fail him. Just don't cut his hair.STThe P Doherty Grotney Achievement Award:Blake Fielder-CivilLast year no one could challenge Potty Pete's rep for making the London rock scene look like a grim DVD extra from Nil By Mouth. Then up popped Blake Fielder-Civil, a man who sounds like he should play flute in The Coldstream Guards, but is in fact a trilby-topped, class-A habitué and womanish house-husband, who kicked a barman senseless, then tried to buy off the witnesses. Does Debrett's know about this guy?ARThe Joan Crawford Parenting Skills Award:Alec BaldwinIf it's true that little girls end up marrying men just like their daddies, then little Ireland Baldwin has some emotional fun times ahead. Displaying all the peacekeeping skills of a suicide bomber, Alec Baldwin's infamous dad-to-daughter voicemail message included the parental gems "I'm going to straighten your ass out" and "You're a rude, thoughtless little pig". But credit where it's due - the runner up prize must surely go to mommy Kim Basinger, for allegedly leaking the tape on to the internet. Two words kid: legal emancipation ...AHCaner Of The Year:Keith RichardsHow do you retain your spot in the pantheon of Satan's own rock'n'rollers when there's a new generation leeching the blood from their fans with syringes and using it to paint crappy paintings? Here's a good one: why not claim to have snorted the incinerated corpse of your dad, and then, after your publicist has issued a denial saying it was "a joke", insist that, no really, you actually did snort the incinerated corpse of your dad?LPMost Resilient Hair:Amy WinehouseHer Blake might have abandoned her, gig goers might boo her for being so late on stage, and the media might lurch from biggest groupies to most vicious detractors, but Amy can always rely on her hair. Constructed out of the best weave Dalston has to offer, there's even rumours that certain substances are kept in it. Although, of course, we couldn't possibly comment on that.LCThe Oh My God I Miss You Award Goes To ...Smoking in public placesFreezing your tits off outside while smoking twice as much in half the time may sound like fun, but in reality it's as hideous a side effect of the smoking ban as the enticing aroma of sweat, piss and vomit that now prevails in pubs and clubs since they took away the all powerful, natural room freshener that was cigarette smoke. Brilliant.AHMost Pointless Protest:Bring back Wispa campaignIraq Body Count puts civilian deaths at approximately 80,000. The gap between rich and poor has widened after a decade of Labour government. The planet is about to explode in a ball of burning lava. And Britain's youth are on stage at Glastonbury, revealing a banner asking that we unite to bring back the Wispa bar. Good work! We'll see you next year on the campaign trail for Dermot O'Leary to wear bigger trousers.TJSwiftest Jailbirds:Lohan and RichieParis Hilton may have grabbed headlines for her 23 day stint in chokey, but the real prison story was the utterly pathetic sentences given to her bubble-brained chums Lindsay Lohan and Nicole Richie, for DUI. While Lohan was banged up for a pithy 84 minutes, Richie got away with a mere 82. Just imagine, no time to sample the gourmet treats on offer, use the bogs or make firm friends with Babs, the friendly husband killer in the bunk below. Poor, poor famous people.LCpThe Bono Vox Headpiece Award For Stupidest Court Case:Red Hot Chili Peppers v CalifornicationAlthough Bruce Springsteen getting sued over the nonpurchase of a horse was the early favourite, a late bid by Californian drab funkists Red Hot Chili Peppers managed to nick this gong. The wrinkly rockers sued the makers of TV show Californication for naming their show after the band's 1999 album. "For some TV show to come along and steal our identity is not right," claimed Anthony Kiedis, who should know about theft, having spent the last 20 years stealing our time with his rubbish music.WDContributorsLauren Cochrane, Leonie Cooper, James Donaghy, Will Dean, Sam Delaney, Andrew Emery, Andrea Hubert, Andrew Male, David McNamee, Malik Meer, Phelim O'Neill, Tim Jonze, Louis Pattison, Justin Quirk, Alex Rayner, John Robinson, Sam Richards, Steve Rose, David Stubbs, Sian Thatcher, Richard Vine, Damon Wise
With Halo 3, Super Mario Galaxy and the Orange Box in the last three months alone, 2007 is nothing less than a vintage year for videogames. It also saw Nintendo popping back up as market leader, despite Xbox 360 having one of the most incredible software lineups ever seen. Sony's PS3, meanwhile, failed to launch in a way few would have predicted. Console brand-loyalty aside, here are the best games from the past year.10The Legend Of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass Nintendo DSNintendo's traditionally exacting production values applied here to a pocket-sized Zelda outing set on a cartoon ocean covered in islands to discover and explore. Princess Zelda is for some reason reborn into the body of a lady pirate, but apart from that tiny deviation, it's sweet business as usual.9Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock PS2, Wii, Xbox 360 & PS3This time with a weightier, wireless guitar to allow you more freedom to rock your living room, Guitar Hero III brings the noise as well as a considerable degree of charm. This one features 70 rawk tracks (mainly non-cover versions) and some nifty new on and offline multiplayer options.8Flow PS3That PS3's only excusive on this list is a download rather than a full-priced game speaks volumes for poor old Sony's release schedule. Fl0w provides an affecting HD and surround sound experience as you float carnivorous amoebae round a monochromatic primordial soup.7Mario vs Donkey Kong 2 Nintendo DSSequel to a puzzle game that is still remembered years after its release, this has you guiding tiny robot Marios out of a series of increasingly fiendish and brightly coloured traps. Feverishly addictive in every single one of the right ways.6Final Fantasy XII PS2The latest in a long, glorious line, XII's biggest innovation is its massively less stilted and more enjoyable combat system. The huge plot, complex but neatly handled character development system and stunning views get the job done.5BioShock PC, Xbox 360The first art deco video game, here applied to a decaying steam punk underwater city. Liberal references to Ayn Rand underline its vision of a failed utopia and its eloquently constructed and pervasive atmosphere of dread make this the year's creepiest release.4Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 PC, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360Long title, but the silkiest squad-based shooter ever, giving you effortless control over your fire team and explosive supporting ordnance, through some testing, diverse and well-devised missions.3Super Mario Galaxy WiiDespite awesome sales figures for the Wii, Nintendo's startlingly successful oddity has been short of decent games. This one is beyond decent, taking Mario's ultra-refined brand of platforming into space for a romp to discover 121 power stars. It's staggeringly great.2Halo 3 XboxThe supposedly closing episode of the series that defined the Xbox sees Master Chief saving the Earth from the combined threats of the Covenant and the Flood. Then there's the multiplayer mode that Xbox Live was designed for - woohoo!1The Orange Box PC, PS3, Xbox 360Comprising five near-classic games in one (orange) box, this is possibly the best value for money of any game yet released. Half-Life 2, its two follow-up episodes, Team Fortress and puzzler Portals - not a lemon among them, just perfectly honed shooting action
Knol -- an exampleGoogle, the web's dominant search and advertising company, has announced Knol ( "which stands for a unit of knowledge") as an alternative to Wikipedia. Udi Manber's officialGoogle Blog postsays:There are millions of people who possess useful knowledge that they would love to share, and there are billions of people who can benefit from it. We believe that many do not share that knowledge today simply because it is not easy enough to do that. The challenge posed to us by Larry, Sergey and Eric was to find a way to help people share their knowledge. This is our main goal.This amounts to the claim that Wikipedia (andCitizendium) and sites such asAbout.comandSquidooare not doing the job properly. Otherwise Google could simply buy a promising site, the way it bought Blogger, YouTube, Picasa, Google Earth, Writely etc.Google says:A knol on a particular topic is meant to be the first thing someone who searches for this topic for the first time will want to read. The goal is for knols to cover all topics, from scientific concepts, to medical information, from geographical and historical, to entertainment, from product information, to how-to-fix-it instructions. Google will not serve as an editor in any way, and will not bless any content. All editorial responsibilities and control will rest with the authors. We hope that knols will include the opinions and points of view of the authors who will put their reputation on the line. Anyone will be free to write. For many topics, there will likely be competing knols on the same subject. Competition of ideas is a good thing.This contrasts with Wikipedia, where the original contribution is basically anonymous then gradually gets replaced by thousands of edits. In theory, these are supposed to improve the original. As a matter of observation, they often make it worse.As well as being an attack on Wikipedia, Knol represents an attack on the media industry in general. Writers don't need to deal with pesky publishing companies, editors etc, they can justdo their own thingand have it hosted by Google. Knol authors can also have Google ads on their pages and get "substantial revenue share from the proceeds of those ads," says Google, which is not the case with Wikipedia. (So get working on those spam pages now! And aim for popularity, rather than accuracy!)Google is already accumulating vast quantities of personal information about people (search, mail, chat, documents, maps), it's digitising the world's books, and it's branching out into new areas such as radio and TV advertising and mobile phones. With Gbase and Google Checkout, it has the potential to threaten sites such as Craigslist and Amazon, though so far that's been a flop.Some people are now wondering, like search expertDanny Sullivan, "Is this Google going a step too far?" He asks: "does hosting content turn [Google] into a competitor with other content providers and set up an unfair advantage in gaining traffic that might otherwise flow to them?"TechCrunch has postedGoogle Knol: A Step Too Far?to allow people to vote. At the time of writing, 1,711 say Yes and 1,745 say No. What's your view?
Last Christmaslast-christmas.comYou may be living under the illusion that the only artists ever to perform the classic Wham! festive single were four crazy kids from the 1980s called George, Andrew, Pepsi and Shirley, but my how wrong you'd be. This website has discovered that Michael's pleas to give his heart to someone special have a universal appeal that spans generations, countries and musical genres and have unearthed no less than 200 cover versions, from accordion-based instrumentals to minimalist electro to the somewhat obligatory reggae version - all here in full mp3 glory. Meanwhile, the authors of the site wait in expectation for their own yuletide wish to come true: a duet of Last Christmas by Christina Aguilera and William Shatner. Maybe next year.Love Earthwww.loveearth.com/ukLaunched to tie in with the BBC's natural history movie, Earth, this website has developed a life beyond the short span of its cinema release. As well as some awe-inspiring imagery (pictured) from wildlife photographer of the year Ben Osborne, there's some incredible video footage, a blog written by the film-makers, in-depth articles on endangered species and heroes of the natural history world, plus postcards from various celebrities (and Graham Norton) about their favourite corners of planet Earth. Best of all is the tracking section, which is tagging the movements of elephants, turtles and whales as they go about their animal business and linking it all up to Google Maps.What we learned on the web this week&middot;Not everyoneis happy to meet Santatinyurl.com/2qefaz&middot;The lawsof a toddlertinyurl.com/2z4t5r&middot;The strangestsights on Google Earthtinyurl.com/2ldzr4&middot;How to fighta beartinyurl.com/2qd4k4&middot;Our grinch nameis Grimwhiner Poutyshortstinyurl.com/2mpp56&middot;The 20 bestipod utilitiestinyurl.com/yoke7j&middot;What to buythe crazy cat lady in your lifekittywigs.com&middot;On the 12thday of kitschmas my true love gave to me... a Jesus thongtinyurl.com/3dub7&middot;Songs that soundgood when you're hammeredtinyurl.com/yspa9c&middot;What the OCmansion looks like from the airtinyurl.com/h8tum&middot;The lost artof the BBC continuity announcertinyurl.com/yrpgyf&middot;Finally: one utensil to rule them allspork.org&middot;The most shockingthings found inside a dog's stomachtinyurl.com/26x6rcFed By Birdsfedbybirds.comOddities including strange creatures, complicated clothes, outrageous old hairdos (pictured) and forgotten books.Blog RollCabinet Of Wonderscabinet-of-wonders.blogspot.com18th-century technology, Dodo DNA, and bizarre string animations.Fleas And Circusesfleascircuses.blogspot.comA most welcome look into the microscopic world of educated and trained fleas.Curious Expeditionscuriousexpeditions.orgA world of castles, beards, taxidermy, shipwrecks and the greatest small mammal ever: The Extraordinary Snouter.The Proceedings Of The Athanasius Kircher Societykirchersociety.orgFish-powered vehicles, the lawn chair balloonist and alternative alphabets.What Is It?puzzlephotos.blogspot.comWhere to discuss and identify a weekly collection of puzzling and mysterious objects.
Last week I showed how easy it was to change your browser to Firefox, a customisable, personalisable (mmm, such attractive words) web browser that offers much more control over your web life than the standard, bundled applications Internet Explorer (IE) and Safari, for Windows and Mac platforms respectively.A little history might interest you: Firefox is the work of the Mozilla Foundation, which was founded years ago (in digital time) as part of an attempt to "kill" the first universally successful web browser, Mosaic (Mozilla is a portmanteau word derived from "Mosaic Killer"). The Mozilla design led to Netscape, the most popular browser of the late 90s, which was in turn killed by IE, the browser Microsoft cobbled together from bits of - you've guessed it - Mosaic source code. This internecine cannibalism led to all kinds of lawsuits and the ultimate demise of Netscape. Mozilla itself stayed alive, however, and three years ago came up with Firefox, the Third Way. There are others: Opera is carving out a niche on hand-held and gaming platforms, while various Gecko-based browsers follow the Firefox protocols. I don't dismiss them, but we are concentrating here on the big alternative.We looked last week at changing Themes via Firefox's Tools-Add-Ons menu. (If you missed it, take a look atguardian.co.uk/technology/series/dorktalk). Themes are all very well, but it is extensions that offer the real powerhouse possibilities. Some allow extraordinary control over tabbing, searching and selection, others remodel the toolbars with special features and form-fillers ("Groowe" and iMacros are personal favourites). Still others incorporate the features of popular bookmark sites (I use deli.cio.us and Stumbleupon, both of which have many official and unofficial Firefox extensions), while yet others allow you to modify the way you use your chosen social network or picture site. Dive in and search. Go to Tools-Add-ons, click the jigsaw puzzle icon, and the Get Extensions link at the bottom right of the small window.One question I'm often asked by friends is, "How do I download videos off YouTube, so I can access them directly on my PC, media player or phone?" The answer is to use one of several Firefox extensions devised exactly for that purpose. YouTube tries every now and again to disable these by altering its technical specifications, which is silly - serious copyright thieves will always be able to hijack video from an online site; it's only the harmless average user who is hampered. YT should take note of the excellent Videojug site (videojug.com), which allows complete, simple and intuitive video downloading in three formats. If you do decide to use a Firefox extension for YouTube movie acquisition (and naturally you would want to do so only with legal, public domain material), you will find the movie is downloaded as a flash file, or .flv - there are plenty of utilities that then allow you to convert to a format with which your computer or hand-held device is happy.Extensions are immensely powerful: they are free, typically take up no more than 200 or so kilobytes of memory and are constantly being updated and improved. What's more, they are multiplatform - it doesn't matter whether you're running Windows, Mac or Linux, the same extensions will function; they also work in other gecko browsers such as Flock, Camino, K-Meleon, IceWeasel, etc. Or at least they should do, if properly scripted by their authors.If you like this new kind of browsing experience, you might want to download the whole Mozilla suite, which goes under the endearing name of Seamonkey. Or you can do it in bits, adding the stand-alone apps Thunderbird and Sunbird for mail and calendars.By using Firefox and other Mozilla elements, you are opening up your browsing experience, supporting Open Source as a principle and putting yourself on the path to understanding further those byways of the web of which the big corporations seem often to prefer you to remain in ignorance. It's off-road browsing in a vehicle pimped to the max. What could be more fun?&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
"Each time I log on I have 28 friend requests," says Hugh MacLeod, looking at his computer screen. "I don't go around looking for friends, but it seems kind of rude to say no to somebody."From his home in Cumbria, the cartoonist and blogger manages a mini-empire of relationships through Facebook, the hugely popular social networking site. He has more than 1,200 virtual friends, with dozens of new requests every time he switches on the site, making him probably the most popular Facebook user - and by extension the biggest social networker - in Britain."It's very useful," he says. "Instead of talking to six people around a coffee table, I'm talking to thousands."Facebook, which has swept universities and workplaces around the country, is one of Britain's most popular social networks in a country obsessed with the concept. While researchers say most people maintain about 150 relationships using such websites, MacLeod is part of a burgeoning group nicknamed "Facebook whales" by employees at the Silicon Valley company.In Britain, there are just a handful of whales - people who have strung together more than 1,000 virtual friends - predominantly celebrities who have been contacted by eager fans, and often employ people to administer their entries. Stand-up comedian Jimmy Carr has reached the Facebook-imposed limit of 5,000 friends, while fellow comic Russell Brand is at 4,900.Actor, presenter and Guardian columnist Stephen Fry was forced to go into hiding on the site after being inundated with friend requests. He now channels his fans towards a "proxy group" which numbers almost 11,500.Even though he is not a celebrity, MacLeod says his online life is getting hard to manage."I don't pay attention to the news feed about what my friends are doing," he says. Clicking on his homepage, he explains how the personalised news has turned into a confusing babble."Most of it is full of people I know who are making friends with other people. Here's some guy I've never met before in the flesh. Somebody else has just loaded some pictures on to the site: I don't even know who she is."This week a survey by the media regulator Ofcom showed that British surfers are insatiable users of social networking sites such as Facebook, MySpace and Bebo.One in four Britons log on to such websites at least 23 times each month, making the UK the most digital nation in Europe and second only to Canada among the world's most enthusiastic makers of virtual friendships.This year London became the biggest city on Facebook, and more than 1.8 million people now identify it as their primary geographic network - about a quarter of London's official real world population.Businesses, too, are increasingly finding that their workers are gathering in ad hoc groups on the site."It's a bit like an electronic smoking room, but one that's spread across the whole company," says Giles Deards, a spokesman for BT, where about 8,000 workers are registered on the company's Facebook network. The group was set up by employees rather than corporate bosses, but workers are not blocked from logging on to social networking sites while in the office."It's not an official network; it was set up by staff to discuss issues. We've had some surprisingly liberal conversations on there, but that's because people have taken an adult and responsible approach to it."Compared with some organisations on the site, however, BT is a Facebook minnow. A third of the 79,000 employees at the software group Microsoft are registered with the social networking service, while IBM boasts 27,000 members. In Britain, one of the biggest networks belongs to the BBC, where 11,400 employees - more than half of all the corporation's permanent or contracted staff - have joined."There is no centralised 'policy' about Facebook in the BBC," says Richard Sambrook, director of global news at the corporation and an internet evangelist inside the BBC. "There was some early discomfort about the amount of time they must be spending on it, but that seems to have settled down now."What do we get out of it? Beyond what everyone else gets out of it you can see some programmes trying to reach out to new audiences on Facebook asking for feedback, input, inviting them to help steer programmes and so on."While a large following may be a benefit for organisations, they can prove to be a burden for highly connected individuals, says MacLeod. Still, he says he enjoys letting the people on his list know he is thinking of them."The thing I like is that it tells me there are eight people who are having birthdays in the next three days - little things like that are great," he says. "But really what you say doesn't matter, it's the social action that's important. It's like chimpanzees picking ticks off each other's backs."
Microsoft faced the prospect of another protracted battle with the European commission yesterday after the Norwegian maker of a web browser accused it of abusing its dominant position by tying in Internet Explorer to its near-ubiquitous Windows operating system.Bruised by its defeat three months ago, the world's leading software company was again charged with depriving consumers of genuine choice and preventing interoperability with rival systems.The Oslo-based Opera Software said it had filed a complaint to the commission and urged the world's most powerful anti-trust regulator to uphold the "clear" principles laid down by the court of first instance in ruling that bundling Microsoft's MediaPlayer audio and visual software into Windows was illegal.The complaint poses an acute dilemma for the commission, which confirmed it had received it and would study it carefully. The commission could be forced to devote time and energy to another drawn-out legal row with Microsoft while Neelie Kroes, competition commissioner, has refused to draw a line under the case and vowed to reduce the company's 85% market share in operating systems.Opera, which also accused Microsoft of hindering interoperability by not following accepted web standards, urged Kroes to "unbundle" Internet Explorer and/or carry alternative browsers pre-installed on the desktop.It also requested the commission should force Microsoft to "follow open and fundamental standards" as it claimed to do instead of "stifling" them, allegedly foisting technologically inferior systems on consumers and exposing them to security risks.A Microsoft spokesman said Internet Explorer had been part of Windows for more than 10 years and supported many web standards, while users could set as default any browser they wished, including Opera, and PC manufacturers could pre-install these.Jon von Tetzchner, Opera's chief executive, said the complaint was "on behalf of consumers who are tired of having a monopolist make choices for them".The European Committee for Interoperable Systems,  whose members include Nokia, RedHat and IBM as well as Opera, strongly endorsed the complaint.
MondayCooking Mama: over one million servedCommodore at 25Tuesday360 movies to goApple legend loves TetrisGT5 Prologue impresses Famitsu?All Wii want for ChristmasPa Rappa creators returnWednesdayGames of the yearMore games industry sleaze?w00t FTWThursdayGames of the Year: GregLadies who gameWhat does the success of Assassin's Creed mean?FridayGames of the Year - Part 2
In this space last week I noted that a loans site wassneaking a connection to itself- which would up its ranking on Google - into HTML served to happy bloggers who used its "test" to check their blog's "readability" (providing they didn't hack the code).Now my attention has been drawn to another site doing precisely the same, in exactly the same way: you're asked to do a "what (film) rating would your blog get?", for which you get some cut-and-paste HTML - and it includes a link to the same site.And once again, there's no obvious connection to the main site - which is,ostensibly, a dating site. (Whether anyone actually uses it I can't tell. It looks so random it's hard to imagine that it would have any usefulness.)What's interesting is that the directory where the "test" is hosted has the same suffix as the previous one (it's in /bb/ relative to the root). Is this perhaps part of a campaign by this loans site to get people to stick its code all over the web?I wrote alonger piece about thislast week; what's strange is that the /bb/ directory seems to appear out of nowhere, isn't linked from the front, yet uses some of the Google tracking data from the main site. And in the light of our front-page piece this week ("Is Google a Grinch or a good guy?") - pointing out how Google will downgrades sites it thinks have bought links - this "organic" method will be the most Google-proof.I've left a request for clarification at the justsayhi site, but don't hold out a lot of hope for them answering. Neither of the other two sites (criticsrant and cashadvance1500) did.But if you can apply some search-fu to the question of whether there are tons of sites out there with /bb/ directories hosting silly "rating" memes, tell us below. (My own quick efforts just turn up lots of stuff about Big Brother and BB King. I don't think they're behind it.)
Coming soon - The Guardian's weekly technology podcast with Aleks Krotoski.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yes, it's that time of the year again - the "The Best Of Year X" get wheeled out. And we're no different here on the gamesblog, asGregandKeithhave mentioned already. So without further ado, I'll expand on my own list of top gaming picks from the past twelve months. But don't expect the normal list; I'm not a normal girl.Best (commercial) PC GameI'll start out with a crowd pleaser. Without a doubt, Portal wins hands down. While I'm with DennisChow on throwing a line to theWikigame, I recognise that its greatest flaw is it complication. Portal is an indie game at heart; a simple, perfect and compelling piece of interactive theatre (yes I am that pretentious) which proves that games need not be overly-designed. Portal is a blank slate and we - bear with me - are its actors.Best (free) PC gameThe honour must go toLine Rider, the Vib Ribbon/Roller Coaster Tycoon-alike which made creating outrageously ridiculous tracks with a simple digital pencil utterly compelling and compulsive.Best Wii gameI was so anxiously awaiting the latest Mario game that I was actually dreading loading it into the machine. What if it was terrible? What if they'd sold out? What if it was as awkward as Super Mario Sunshine, as transparent as Paper Mario? But it wasn't. It was a return to form, using the facilities which the Wii has so successfully brought to the mainstream. Marvellous.Best XBox gameAssassin's Creed takes this one for innovations for the control system. While it didn't make it any easier for a non-gamer to come to grips with the knobs, buttons and whistles of the mighty white input device, with their controller layout the developers challenged players - and possibly other developers - to rethink the interaction between player and character.Best PS3 gameI'm afraid the only commercial thing that turned my PS3 on this year was Singstar. Yes, it was that bad a year. But 2008 holds promise.However, kudos to Sony for releasingflOwvia their online service, and bringing a simple, yet convincing flash game to a much wider audience for peanuts a pop. Not only does thisengaging metamorphosis simulationdelight and compel, but technologically it takes into account the player's ability andautomatically adjusts the difficulty setting. It started out as a thesis project and became a proof of concept and an excellent game. More power to the relationship between industry and academia. Even better, if you don't want to pay the peanuts for it, you can alwaysplay it for free.Best Online GameIt's not often we get to talk about kids' games on the terribly grown-up gamesblog, but my vote for this year's notable online game is Club Penguin, built for kids under the age of 14. The online gaming community may have gone public in 2005, but it probably came to many people's attentions this year when the Walt Disney Company (already known for its forays into this space with Toontown and Virtual Magic Kingdom) dropped a cool buncha-million on its developers. The successful service had already grown from a secure and entertaining space for kids into athriving online world. As the first taste of online worlds for many kids, a whole lot of online game developers are watching with very keen eyes, thinking about the games they'll make for this cohort as they grow up.Most Anticipated GameIn the "traditional" gaming sphere, Little Big Planet should bring social networking to the games masses in a way that MySpace brought profile pimping to the emo set. Let's get those complainer gamers to put their money where their mouths are! No more gnashing about the terrible releases; if you don't like it, DIY!I'm also looking forward to seeing what Raph Koster does withAreae, the games-meets-social-virtual-world project. It could provide the playful platform that gamers demand while - like LBP above - offering community activities for those who don't want to game. A compelling idea with atalented and thoughtful creativeat the helm.Biggest DisappointmentThe Alternate Reality Game circuit. Not only have the mainstream games attracted too few players to cement interest beyond a core gaming set AND been unabashedly marketing vehicles, but Mind Candy, the only company that was supporting itself with enough cash to make things interesting, and therefore had the potential to transcend the filthy lucre of corporates, has decided to leave ARGs behind to focus elsewhere. Boo.And justbecause I mentioned ARGs, I have to include...Best Board GameI fell forIcehousethis year. This little pyramid game with its infinite variations, challenged me to think about what gamescouldbe if only we ignored the traditional mechanics which sell console products down at our local games emporia. For this I must thank Jim, whose tutelage in all things board geekery has led me down the path of such greats asCarcassone,RoboRallyandSamurai.Finally,Best Playful Web ProductHas to beFacebook. While I have fallen off the FB boat with too much work and too little time, its example of playful interactivitywill infiltrate gaming over the forthcoming yearsbecause, after all, itsmainstreamandgames still aren't.
Britney Spears on her own forms a useful control group for internet searches. Let me explain: if you're using a search engine to try to find out how many times some phrase is mentioned - let's say it's "downgrading to Tiger" or "downgrade to Tiger" - then to cross-check your numbers, see how many times the phrase "downgrading to Britney Spears" appears. That's because it'll tell you the baseline of chance hits for that phrase. (It's zero.)Why was I looking up "downgrading to Tiger"? Because I'm considering it. And it's clear from the search that plenty of other people, having upgraded to Apple's latest version of OS X, codenamed Leopard, are doing the same.The trouble out there was summed up best by a note from the ur-blogger Dave Winer: he moved back to the Mac a year or two ago and lapped up Leopard. But he says he's not enjoying it (tinyurl.com/2ghovf). He mentioned this to a friend, who replied dismally: "It's like Windows". As in crashes, stalls, freezes. That must have hurt in Cupertino.Apple sent me a copy of Leopard, but unlike previous upgrades, which I installed at once, I held off this one until the 10.5.1 update appeared. Then I did an "upgrade install", leaving my disk as it was and relying on the OS to overwrite all the old system files with the new ones. (For those saying "you should have wiped the machine clean first!", upgrade installation is what I've done every time in the past.)Now, Leopard has some nice cosmetic improvements. But my system sometimes freezes inexplicably after I've disconnected it from a network or after it wakes up. It's unpredictably slower. Sure, my computer is three years old, but Leopard should run fast enough on it without occasionally pausing for what seems like geological epochs. And whereas five years ago I could go weeks between reboots, now I'm lucky if it's days. These weren't problems I had with the previous incarnation, Tiger; hence my consideration of a downgrade, like so many users. Other people have found all sorts of problems, not just the security flaws or frustrating behaviour of the Spaces virtual desktops program.Why has this happened? Why has Apple, which got it so right by contrast in previous versions, missed the goal here? Leopard was delayed by nearly six months because of the work needed on the version of OS X for the iPhone. Its release - right at the end of October - suggested that its engineers were fighting to hit a deadline.Despite its selling more and more computers, Apple's financial future depends increasingly on the iPhone and iPods. It has hit a software bottleneck.In trying to produce two high-quality software products whose deadlines were (in software terms) so close, and both of which needed so much attention to detail, it discovered the same problems that all software projects do: you can't make working code happen faster by throwing more people at it. Deadlines get missed. The "proper" release is always the one that comes with the after-release update.One of the problems as I see it is Apple's very limited beta testing of Leopard. Some people faced a "blue screen of death" on installation, because of third-party plugins. Apple held its nose at them - but the reality is that as Mac ownership continues to grow, there will be more people like that, and wider beta testing is needed to iron out bugs before they reach the paying public. Leopard is a big, black mark on Apple's record. I doubt even Britney will want it.
Doctoring spywareMy PC was infected with W32.Myzor.FK, so I purchased Spyware Doctor. This seems to have cured the problem, but my PC is phenomenally slow. Is there likely to be something still remaining? Is Spyware Doctor worth keeping or should I try something else?John UttleyJS:W32.Myzor.FK@yf is part of an attempt to sell you a fake anti-spyware program - there are lots - and it also tries to steal passwords. You should change yours. Many free programs are able to remove it, including Lavasoft's Ad-Aware and AVG AntiSpyware (formerly Ewido). To double-check your PC, download a new free antivirus program, reboot your computer in Safe Mode and run it, then reboot and  run it again.You could also try one of the online scanners, such as Trend Micro's Housecall or Kaspersky Online (kaspersky.com/virusscanner).PC Tool's Spyware Doctor is a well-respected program, and a cut-down version is included in the Google Pack software. It can be a resource hog, but as you've bought it, it's not worth paying for Webroot's SpySweeper as well.Unfortunately, the free versions of AVG AntiSpyware and SuperAntiSpyware don't provide continuous real-time monitoring. If you feel you need this, I'd suggest using Windows Defender (formerly Giant AntiSpyware), and running Spyware Doctor from time to time to double-check it.Bugged by pops and clicksI've been using my hi-fi turntable to transfer vinyl to CD, but it faithfully reproduces all the clicks and crackles of my well-played collection. I've tried the Wave Editor tools in both Roxio (3 through 9) and Nero but they still leave a recording that is decidedly "vintage".John PalmerJS:There are a lot of programs that will automatically remove clicks and crackles from digitised files. However, the results can be extremely variable, and many people complain they also take some of the life out of recordings. The best you can do is try a few and see what suits your needs best.At the moment, Acoustica's Spin It Again 2.1 (acoustica.com/spinitagain) is well-regarded when it comes to delivering good results economically - it's $34.95 (&pound;17) - without much effort. An alternative was Steinberg's Clean Plus 5, most recently sold by Pinnacle, but it seems to have been discontinued.Diamond Cut Audio Restoration Tools (diamondcut.com) are also worth considering, and Diamond Cut Millennium is available online for $55. (The full Diamond Cut 7 costs $159.)Serious restoration might well involve several passes, and Sonic Foundry's Noise Reduction ($399) includes four separate plug-ins: Noise Reduction, Click and Crackle Removal, Vinyl Restoration and Clipped Peak Restoration. There's also Brian Davies's Click Repair, which is available for $40 Australian (&pound;17), direct from the author (tinyurl.com/yuac76).If you want to do the job using free software, Clive Backham has an excellent guide to digitising vinyl (tinyurl.com/j58o) that covers the main software options. Backham also wrote Wave Repair to "ease many of the tasks that are required during restoration of music recorded from vinyl records, and which are often difficult using general purpose tools".Obviously it would be better not to have too many clicks and crackles to start with. Check your stylus and make sure your deck is set up correctly. You should also clean your records. Specialist products include the Disc Doctor's Miracle Record Cleaner (discdoc.com), which may be available in the UK fromvinylcare.co.uk, and carbon fibre brushes.A PC for PhotoshopSince I bought a camera producing RAW images and became more adventurous with Photoshop, I have outrun the capacity of my old PC, although it has 4GB of memory. Most of the available quad-core machines seem to be designed for gamers, which is not what I require.Martin McNicolJS:Almost any modern dual-core PC should be fine for Photoshop, which uses up to 2GB of memory on 32-bit systems, and mainly does two-dimensional graphics. You don't need a gaming machine designed to provide high frame rates with 3D graphics.For good performance with Photoshop, it's best to have a fast processor and a very fast hard drive, although a fast 2D graphics card should help. Moving to a 64-bit version of Windows XP or Vista (or Mac OS 10.5) would also speed up the program in use, but you might have a few problems getting drivers for peripherals.Sadly, even the latest Adobe Creative Suite 3 is still 32-bit, and the major benefits will not emerge until it's a 64-bit application, and has been optimised for multi-core processors.Adobe has a technical note, Optimise performance of Photoshop (CS2 on Windows), attinyurl.com/2rvjs2. Following Adobe's advice could speed things up a bit, and therefore make your need for a new PC less urgent.HomePlug or DS2?You recommended HomePlug as a way of creating a home network over the mains wiring. Could you advise whether to go for the American HomePlug or for the European DS2 200Mbps standards. I gather that BT and Sky have announced some sort of scheme to provide Freeview/Sky over the National Grid using DS2. My interest is in establishing a private computer network in my block of flats rather than in watching television!Peter DavisJS:HomePlug 1.0 is the de facto standard used by most products, which are based on Intellon chips. These are usually 14Mbps, which is fast enough for home networking, or have been extended to the "turbo" 85Mbps.However, products using the later 200Mbps HomePlug AV standard are now widely available. DS2 Powerline technology, which uses chips from a Spanish company (ds2.es), starts at 200Mbps, and 400Mbps has been demonstrated.The problem is that the different systems may not live together, as some people who have installed BT Vision using the DS2-based Comtrend mains adaptors have found (tinyurl.com/338gfw). HomePlug 1.0 and AV are designed to co-exist. However, the safest approach is not to mix different speeds (14, 85, 200) or different technologies (HomePlug 1.0, HomePlug AV, DS2), if possible.The IEEE is now voting on a draft standard for powerline communications through the P1901 working group (grouper.ieee.org/groups/1901). In November, a merged proposal from the HomePlug Powerline Alliance and the Japanese Consumer Electronics Powerline Communication Alliance (behind Panasonic's HD Power Line Communications) beat the one from the Universal Powerline Association (behind DS2) by 28 votes to 13. It now needs 75% of the vote taken on December 11. Since HomePlug AV is backed by Cisco, Comcast, General Electric and Intel, it should win through.Under the circumstances, 200Mbps HomePlug AV products seem the most likely to be closest to standard, but it's a case of overkill for sharing a DSL connection.&middot; Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Speech recognition - enabling computers to transcribe the human voice into readable words - has been tomorrow's technology for so long you could be forgiven for thinking it would never come. And there has always been the problem of how useful it would be when it did arrive if it was anything less than perfect. Things are now changing. Speech technology does routine tasks effectively, and can also do anything from choosing which button to press at a call centre to enabling medics to dictate notes while doing an examination. Anything, it seems, is better than doctors reading back from their own handwriting.It is a bold person who would dictate a message to anywhere public, such as a blog, without editing it first. But one area where speech recognition is very useful is dictating notes to yourself to remind you of things to do, or simply recording those random yet pertinent thoughts that occur to you during the day that might otherwise be forgotten. That would certainly change my life for the better.I have been testing two products recently that enable you to ring a number (obtainable from their websites), dictate a short message into a mobile phone and have the result emailed to you later so you don't forget.Spinvox.com, a UK-based company, has been making most of the running, but this week it has been joined by a US start-up, reQall.com, which was almost suspiciously successful in recording the first few stanzas of Hamlet's "To be or not to be" soliloquy - even down to the choice of "heir" rather than "air" in the phrase "that flesh is heir to".That's smart. Whether it was the result of improved artificial intelligence, links to a search engine or even a human doing the checking I don't know, but it was certainly impressive. Admittedly, I was speaking slowly and distinctly. The faster I spoke, the less effective the software was and sometimes the email did not arrive at all - maybe due to teething problems.There was a similar high degree of accuracy when I dictated the start of a story in the Observer to Spinvox, though it cut off after two or three sentences, unlike reQall, which goes on a bit longer. Both of them were much less effective in a noisy taxi with lots of background interference, but the gist of the dictation was still there. The point is that if you are dictating notes to be read later by yourself or a colleague who is familiar with your style, a few mistakes won't matter. But if it is going straight out for public display without checking it could be disastrous.Being able to record snippets of information during the day opens up all sorts of interesting prospects. It is a painless way of writing a diary or even recording all the important moments of your life (which can be searched at a later date). reQall comes with an online calendar so you can easily trace back what you said on a particular day. If, when you sign up for one of these services, you choose a dedicated email address (say, Googlemail, which has almost unlimited capacity) then you would not only have a backup, but a custom-built archive of all your thoughts. This would provide some form of insurance against the probability that in 20 years time the company you have chosen for the story of your life will have passed on to another world.Services such as Spinvox and reQall will also come up against a new generation of sophisticated "This is your life" sites such as the Oxford start-upMiomi.com, which enables you to archive speech, audio and video through a timeline embracing global events stretching back over many years. It hasn't completely got its act together yet, but is brimful with potential.It has been said that pretty soon we will be able to store a record of our lives in something the size of a sugar cube. If nothing else, this will give people who are living longer and longer a chance to spend the last part of their lives reliving the earlier part.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Eat your head off, Damien HirstWho would have thought that with just a spinning mirror and a standard graphics card, you could create a 3D face and even a Star Wars X-Wing fighter? And how soon can we have a TV with this?Fight seven signs of Photoshop!You too can smooth away the appearance of wrinkles (surely "wrinkles"? - Ed.) using software. In the long term, though, the anti-ageing creams might be as cheap as a proper licence from Adobe.I'm flying over nowWhat things would be like if real life were Second Life - or vice versa. It'd be good news for the makers of trolleys, though.
Mario &amp; Sonic At The Olympic GamesWii, &pound;39.99, cert 3+,  Sega, 4/5Once deadly rivals, Sonic and Mario were always likely to kiss and make up after Sega left the console-building rat-race. Sure enough, they have, against the backdrop of an officially licensed 2008 Olympics game. And they've brought their mates - Wario, Luigi, Peach, Amy, Knuckles et al.As you'd imagine, Mario &amp; Sonic At The Olympic Games is much like Daley Thompson's Decathlon updated for the Wii, with countless pleasingly diverse events (including rowing, diving, swimming, trampolining and archery), each with a quirky system that will have you gesturing wildly. The more arcane ones require practice before you master the controls, and little attempt is made at a coherent single-player game. Hardcore gamers will, no doubt, turn their noses skywards when they see it, but its infectious and addictive nature, particularly when played against others, renders it classic post-pub, party-time Wii fare.Steve BoxerKane &amp; Lynch: Dead MenPS3/XBox 360, &pound;49.99, cert 18+,  IO/Eidos, 2/5Inspired by the movies of Michael Mann and developed by the team behind Hitman, Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men should be a lot more interesting. This third-person shooter suffers from fiddly controls, drab graphics and callous difficulty spikes. The unsympathetic characters don't help, but the gameplay is the problem. Some of the action borders on the sadistic, with waves of assailants giving you little chance to breathe.  The inconsistent cover system that sees you sticking to some walls and not others is another problem. These flaws just make the occasional glimpses of potential all the more frustrating.The highly original multiplayer mode redeems things slightly. You start as a member of a heist team; the twist comes when you get killed. At this point you join the police and attempt to stop the break-in. If you stay alive during the heist there's always the risk that a fellow gang member may decide to take you out and escape with the loot. Tense and inventive, the multiplayer mode is the only reason to play an otherwise disappointing action game.Greg HowsonResident Evil: The Umbrella ChroniclesWii, &pound;39.99, cert 18+ Capcom/Nintendo, 3/5Those expecting the first Resident Evil story on Wii must make do with this first-person hybrid instead. Revisiting key locations from previous episodes (but disappointingly not the excellent RE4), there's a good variety of fast and shambling enemies to stab or shoot. Your Wiimote does both jobs well, but headshots remain fiddly, making the bosses even more of a challenge.Graphically impressive and loaded with excellent cutscenes and plot twists, the gameplay soon becomes repetitive like all lightgun titles. Although thoroughness is rewarded with hidden pathways and bonus items galore, true fans of this enduring series may want to save their pennies for RE5.Mike Anderiesz
Ordnance Survey, bless it, is worried that the growing use of satellite navigation systems means that we're losing our map-reading skills. Which is a classic case of begging the question: who said our map-reading skills were any good in the first place?Satnav is filling a gap, not pushing map-reading out of the door as you go around a sharp corner. There was never a time when people said "and then we'll pass a place of worship with a spire ... oh, there it is ..." Satnav fills a very necessary gap, especially if you don't have someone to do the map-reading for you.At present, a brace of satnavs is clamouring for our attention, though, naturally, with calm voices. The only surprise is that the shop displays don't say "turn back at the earliest opportunity and buy me" when you walk past.Sony's NV-U92T is yet another arrival. It's got a big 4.8 inch screen and can hook into traffic congestion messages if you subscribe. Intriguingly, you can use gestures - such as swiping a finger over the display - to go to the nearest car park or petrol station. Well, in theory. It's a nice idea, but I can't think that it would actually be used very often; you'd be more likely to use it by mistake, and wonder what on earth you'd done.The first thing you get when you turn it on is a splash screen in which you have to agree not to use it while you're driving. Now, I may be being picky, but isn't that sort of the idea of GPS products?The manual, too, is dreadful. I couldn't get the sound to work, and the manual offered no clues how to fix this. It was also difficult to enter postcodes, because the letters and numbers were on different screens. And I never quite wrapped my head around the internal map that the device has of its own functions. That is, if you're seeing the map, what do you push to choose a new destination?There are lots of things for satnavs to get wrong, and none I've ever tried has quite got it right. Do you attach them to the windscreen or the dashboard? Either carries the risk that it will fall off when you go over a speed bump too quickly. The NV-U92T uses a suction cup with a sticky gel layer - it fell off once.The most discouraging thing about satnavs, though, is the thing they do best: telling you how long it's going to take you to get there. This is accurate to the minute; slow down and you'll see your expected arrival time recede into the distance. Curses. It was never like this with a paper map.Pros:Big screen, gesture control, traffic congestion messagesCons:Mediocre manual, complex address entrysony.co.uk
Yes, if you don't want to know what you've searched for, and don't want anyone else to. This week the fourth-largest search engine,Ask.com- formerly Ask Jeeves - announced the launch of AskEraser, which it happily says will throw away what you've searched for. It's thus positioning itself as the polar opposite to Google's "history" service, available if you take up a free login with the search site, which will show you what searches you've conducted in the past.Except it won't. Ask actually relies on Google to generate lots of the ads that come up alongside its search results, and any searches done on Ask get passed on to Google, which rolls them up into its ever-increasing database. Doug Leeds of Ask admitted to the New York Times that AskEraser can't promise you anonymity, but would "greatly increase" privacy protection.However, if that's the sort of privacy protection you're looking for, then you could almost just use Google, or Yahoo, or Microsoft's search engines - which between them have 91.1% of the US market (with Google having 58.5%). If you don't create a profile with them, they'll have just as good - or vague - an idea as AskEraser of where you've been.Is Ask just jumping onto a bandwagon started by Facebook users' protests about the Beacon facility that followed them around the web and alerted people to all the gifts they'd bought? Perhaps. Barry Diller's IAC spent $1.85bn to buy Ask in 2005, when the company had about 4% of search share. Now, it has a 4.7% share in the US - hardly stunning growth.Clearly, Ask needs some secret sauce, of any kind. A recent survey found that about 8% of Americans care enough about their online privacy to take steps to protect it. So there's room for Ask to grow. But AskEraser is an idea rivals could implement. "I don't think it will be a market differentiator," the independent researcher Larry Ponemon told the New York Times. Ask's search for the secret sauce must go on, it seems.
Crowd control always presents a problem for the military and police. How do you keep people away from a site without direct physical confrontation, when someone is almost sure to get hurt? Tear gas has variable effects and depends on wind; rubber bullets have killed. But what about a system that inflicts pain at a distance, without contact?That's the idea behind the Active Denial System now being tested by the US military. It is designed to cause excruciating pain without injury by projecting a beam of energy about two metres across. Victims describe the sensation as like a giant hairdryer on maximum heat, and no human can withstand it for more than a few seconds. It's certainly effective, but the report of how a test subject received second-degree burns raises doubts over how harmless it is.The system, informally known as the "pain ray", works by producing a beam of short-wavelength microwaves that only penetrate about 0.4mm into the skin, rapidly heating the epidermis. Tests have shown that the beam will not cause cancer, infertility or damaged eyeballs. Heating skin to 55C causes intolerable pain, but no injury - any higher could be hazardous.The US Air Force says over-exposure shouldn't occur: "While the intensity of the beam varies with range, the safety margin and effects calculations have taken the maximum beam intensity into account. The repel effect will be virtually identical at short or long ranges until the effects dissipate beyond the system's effective range." Dr Juergen Altmann, physicist with the Bochum Verification project, isn't convinced. His calculations suggest a dangerously narrow safety margin.Safety concernsIn April, the system underwent field testing to determine its effectiveness in different situations. A report on a testing accident was obtained recently by Wired journalist Sharon Weinberger using the Freedom of Information Act. In one scenario the beam was to be used to prevent "Red Force" players from setting up an improvised explosive device "at a very far distance". (The maximum range is classified, but thought to be about 750 metres.)Earlier that day it had been used successfully at 75% power level and three-second duration. According to the report: "ADS Operator P4 set power to 100% for four-second duration, so as to be effective at the longer range." A problem prevented the test from taking place - the system's magnet requires supercooling and can be temperamental in hot weather. The commander decided to move on to the next scenario, which would test the beam by driving away Red Forces attempting to carry out surveillance at much closer range.Unfortunately, the crew forgot to change the settings. When the system was fired, "Red Forces Role Player P3 immediately knew that he had received a stronger than usual shot from the ADS; he gave the quit signal and left the field." The quit signal, raising one hand, has been used throughout Active Denial trials to indicate that a subject wishes to end testing.The description of the injuries has been censored from the report: all we can see is that they are covered by 11 numbered points. An Air Force statement says: "the injury was classified as a second degree burn," a type characterised by blistering. Local newspapers reported that the airman suffered burns on both legs and spent two days in the Joseph M Still Burn Centre in Augusta, Georgia. The official report puts the injury cost at $17,748.Clearly the safeguards do not prevent operator error. "This document confirms my analysis that the intensity and dose to the target subjects is left to the discretion of the operator," says Dr Altmann. "Not only can he or she re-trigger on the same person without giving appropriate cooling time, but also the strength of the beam and duration can be changed during action. Both lead to the possibility of second- and third-degree burn injury, which becomes life-threatening if more than 20% to 50% of body surface is affected."Classified informationSteve Wright of Leeds Metropolitan University expresses similar concerns. "If this means that these parameters do not have automatic safety overrides in place, there is the option of using this weapon to facilitate maiming injuries or punitive incapacitation - and this was at four seconds. We do not know what injuries would emerge for longer than this because US authorities have seen fit to heavily censor the biomedical information from the public record."If the system were used in Iraq, Wright believes safety considerations might be overlooked. "In the fear-filled conditions of a live and hostile confrontation, the natural temptation would be to turn the weapon up to full power to be certain that people taken down by it stayed down."Altmann agrees that foreign use could be more dangerous. "In tests with their own personnel the US military are certainly relatively cautious," he says. "It is not difficult to imagine, on the other hand, what can happen in an occupied country."Moreover, reports from previous tests show that reflections of the beam can cause hotspots more than twice as strong as the main beam. Software designed to check mobile phone signal strength has been used to predict where these might appear, but it is not part of the system.Proponents argue that it is better to risk causing a few minor burns than to use live ammunition, often the only alternative. Opponents are worried that if Active Denial is deployed, it could be the start of a new form of high-tech oppression. "One day the manufacturer will sell it, perhaps to security forces of allies with less sensitive tendencies," says Wright. "Can one imagine this weapon being turned on democratic forces in Pakistan, for example, and the authorities using restraint?"
The memorial websites where bereaved people can virtually visit loved ones - viewing pictures, videos and recorded messages, lighting virtual candles, and even leaving comments - now have their own code of conduct. This follows some embarrassing episodes in which a tribute on the sitegonetoosoon.co.ukfor a boy named Ryan featured an advert for Ryanair, and another case where a memorial for a woman named Sheila had an accompanying advert linked to Sheila's Wheels car insurance.The voluntary code, atthememorialcode.org, offers five principles to the making and running of such sites - such as that the tribute creator should have the right to privacy and be allowed to grieve and remember without hindrance, and that both initial and recurring costs should be clearly displayed, along with full contact details for the service provider.Jonathan Davis, who founded the memorial sitemuchloved.comafter the death of his brother Philip in 1995, has been campaigning since June for the code to protect site users from unwanted attention and hidden charges. He created it with four other memorial organisations - missyou.org.uk, tributetimes.co.uk, thelastrespect.com and remembered-forever.org. According to muchloved.com, a charity memorial website, 80% of their users are female and a quarter of their tributes are for people aged over 50."Bereaved individuals are very vulnerable and often they'll try to find something beneficial to help them through the grieving process," says Denise Kantor, the media consultant for bereavement agency Cruse, which offers free information and advice to adults and children affected by a death. "Nowadays, a memorial website is a common place to grieve - a lot of people are doing it and find the support these websites offer them very helpful."But the sites have to pay their way, and that has led to the problems. Ad-supported sites run the risk of offence if the wrong contextual ad is used; those that rely on fees and donations can't be sure that a single payment now will keep the site running for the future."People who grieve online are often leaving themselves open to abuse from strangers and companies that are hoping to cash in on the bereaved," says Sophia Dixon, who deleted a tribute to her mother Gladys on gonetoosoon.co.uk after the advertising controversy. "I tried contacting the site organisers but they don't supply an email address, only a phone number which costs &pound;1 per minute".
Data-mashers and amateur mapmakers will soon be able to get hold of the government's most commercially valuable single database. The Ordnance Survey mapping agency will today announce the first release of a product allowing non-profit making organisations to display their own data on OS maps for free. Until now, charities and private individuals republishing OS data have been required to negotiate licences if they want to stay on the right side of the law.Ordnance Survey's OpenSpace product is a "slippy map" interface, a piece of software that allows users to place any kind of information with a geographic reference over a map displayed on the web. Maps available through the service range from the 1:1m outline of Great Britain, up to street level (1:10,000). "It provides you with all the necessary functionality to interact with a map such as panning, zooming and adding markers and polygons," the agency says. Users will need no special knowledge of geographic information system software.OS says it expects users to include "neo-geographers" who see the web as the best way to deliver or collect geographic information, and other web developers who see geographic information as a way of improving their applications.OpenSpace appears to offer a way out of some of the most vociferous disputes at the heart of the free data campaign - the obstacles faced by individuals and non-profit organisations wanting to re-use data produced by quasi-commercial government agencies.Last summer, a report commissioned by the Cabinet Office identified such difficulties as a barrier to the knowledge economy. The Power of Information review said that "by virtue of their status as individuals or organisations wishing only to experiment, not build final products ready for market, they often do not have the resources to pay for expensive data".The review found that government organisations "have found it difficult to engage with small numbers of individual developers". It called on the government to make data freely available for non-profit uses, and singled out OpenSpace by urging its launch by the end of the year.OS says it has met that deadline: "We are delivering what we said we would deliver." However, tomorrow's "alpha launch" is to a small group of web developers; general release is scheduled for next year.Initial reaction was mixed. Andrew Hudson-Smith of University College London, whose Virtual London project foundered on the difficulty of licensing OS data, said: "It is good news, but perhaps too little too late. Users and developers will initially be sceptical as the OS needs a serious public relations drive to get back all those users - and more importantly, developers - who have lost faith in them over the past couple of years."OpenSpace may also encounter grumbles from commercial businesses paying licence fees for the same data. The Power of Information review found that consumers already licensing mapping data "strongly objected to the idea of similar information being given away for free to others, even on a non-commercial basis".Ordnance Survey said: "As the national mapping agency, we want to maximise the use of geographic information and serve the web developer community alongside our other customers and business partners. We are genuinely excited to see what the developer community can do with the data."&middot; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Pink-facedI'm aware that I'm rapidly turning into my parents by writing letters to complain to newspapers, but what was the thought process behind using the picture of the pink keyboard on your article How secure are your online passwords? (December 6,tinyurl.com/2ugpt7)? There's nothing gender- specific in the article itself, and the security concerns are relevant to both genders. It's not an article aimed particularly at women (apart from being written by one). That's before issues about gender stereotyping and sexism - women only use pink technology, right? On a more positive note, the article itself was great. It's just a shame you chose to present it like that.Sarah Dobbs,London&middot; It made me realise that we have a big problem here, with everyone using their cat's name or their birthday. I've taken the hint and emailed everyone to use IlrtGTs04 for a password in future. No-one's broken into our system yet - as far as I know.Jake Gartside,HytheOperating at speedFor those of you unlucky enough to have been stuck with Vista on a recently purchased computer (or foolish enough to have paid good money to "upgrade" your XP machine) it will no doubt come as a relief to know that your expensive operating system won't suddenly cease to function for no reason whatsoever (Microsoft to ease draconian activation procedure, December 6). Yes, you should have many years of excruciatingly slow, memory-hogging operation ahead. You could, of course, downgrade your computer to XP. The process of doing so sounds like a royal pain in the ass, but you'll be rewarded with a faster and more stable operating system.semiconscious.orgFarewell, emailNot sure about the demise of email, but my inbox is a battlefield (Digital generation dismisses email as 'for old people', December 6) - and I am constantly losing.mbf.blogs.com&middot; Everyone who is in school now thinks email is for old people. And I reluctantly admit I am one of the "old people". They're texting, Facebooking, etc etc, but email? Might as well give them a fountain pen and a bottle of ink.prstudies.typepad.com/weblogWriting on the Wiki wallWhether Wikipedia can achieve a stable and sustainable model remains to be seen (Seth Finkelstein, December 6). The jury is out, but there is some ominous writing on the wall.aggieblue.blogspot.comOLPC too expensiveI read Kate Bevan's piece about the One Laptop Per Child project with interest (Newly Asked Questions, November 29) and felt that I should bring Computer Aid International to your attention. The charity has provided more than 10,000 PCs to schools and universities in developing countries, proving that there is a viable alternative to OLPC. Louise Richards, CEO, agrees that the scheme is too expensive to make any real impact on the countries it aims to help.Kate Solomon,ComputeraidBad luck, Windows usersPeter Berrie (Letters, December 6) makes a good point about the lack of basic IT competencies within HMRC, but in mentioning Perl and awk, he hints at a deeper problem. These utilities are part of the standard toolkit of IT professionals who work with Unix or Linux systems, but their counterparts in organisations dominated by Windows are not so fortunate. Windows does not have the data-processing tools offered by Unix, so the powerful shell-scripting techniques he describes are impossible if you're tied to Windows. Perhaps HMRC might have avoided the Child Support database disaster if its IT staff had been able to use a more suitable OS.Dr David Harper,Cambridge&middot; Read all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Programmers got an early Christmas present last Friday when the long-awaited version 2.0 of the Ruby on Rails web development framework was finally released (tinyurl.com/yo4nan). This evolutionary upgrade to an increasingly popular technology could lead to simpler, faster websites with better mobile interfaces and a greater ability to swap data - good news for all those programmers, but even better news for users of the web.Ruby on Rails (rubyonrails.com), often called just "Rails", is an open source software project that provides the infrastructure needed to build dynamic, database-driven websites easily and quickly. Rails is written in the Ruby programming language and has undergone an explosion of popularity among web developers since version 1.0 was launched two years ago, with its proponents claiming tenfold productivity increases over more traditional approaches based on Java and PHP. So far it's been used to build several high-profile websites including Twitter and YellowPages.com, and is now being adopted by organisations such as  the BBC and LinkedIn.Keeping things simpleMany of its converts have been won over by its opinionated philosophy. One Rails mantra, "convention over configuration", encourages developers to conform to certain best-practice assumptions about how their application will work, rather than configuring the framework to accommodate it. Another, "don't repeat yourself", recommends distilling each design decision into a single authoritative piece of code or data rather than duplicating it at the cost of clarity. While this intentionally dictatorial environment makes some programmers uncomfortable, others find that it frees them to spend their time concentrating on the interesting and fun parts of their applications.David Heinemeier Hansson (loudthinking.com), the creator of Rails, says that the focus of version 2.0 is an application style called "representational state transfer", or REST. "These principles are nothing new," he says. "They've been around for years, but most web developers just didn't seem to care. Now the REST approach is leading us to all kinds of simplifications that benefit both programmers and users."So-called RESTful applications treat every important piece of information as a resource that can be independently viewed, updated or deleted in a standard way via its own unique URL. While more traditional web applications might offer many arbitrary actions - "add person A to group B", for example - RESTful apps achieve the same results while only allowing the creation or modification of resources: "create a membership". This uniformity, and the focus on diverse resources instead of diverse actions, helps to simplify the design of applications."It's a deceptively simple idea," says Hansson, "but one that can initially be hard to wrap your head around. Once it clicks for you, though, you'll never look at web application development in quite the same way again. The old way will seem rather antiquated, complicated and nowhere near as aesthetically pleasing."Programmer benefits aside, the REST style also makes it easier for websites to share and exchange data, something that's becoming increasingly important as we move our address books, bank accounts and social lives online. Because all RESTful applications have a similar structure and make their resources available via URLs, it's easy for one web application to retrieve and update the information held inside another, so more sites will be able to provide APIs and participate in mash-ups. Rails 2.0 also makes it easy for sites to serve up this information in different formats as required; a particular resource can be made available as an RSS or Atom feed, a CSV or XML file, or even a dedicated iPhone-only web page.This spirit of openness is evident in the development of Rails itself, which accepts daily contributions of code from thousands of volunteers. "I actually tend to find the most rewarding progress to be the cumulative effect of thousands of tiny improvements," says Hansson. "That's what sets Rails apart from many of the also-rans. Yes, we've had the pleasure of popularising tons of major improvements to web application development, but the secret sauce is really the thousands of little things that the vast network of contributors have decided to care about."Increasingly commercialThe popularity of Rails has spawned imitators in other programming languages - it's already been ported to JavaScript (tinyurl.com/3xwb3p) and PHP (akelos.org), and programmers at the BBC have recently developed Perl on Rails (tinyurl.com/29djbv). Its mainstream adoption is likely to be boosted further by its inclusion in the Mac's latest Leopard OS.Hansson points to a "natural cultural allegiance" between Rails developers and Apple users: "We appreciate the same things. We find happiness and passion in things that are beautiful, tastefully executed and help us get the job done faster. The fact that Leopard ships with Rails is only a natural extension of that cultural bond."With this increase in attention, Rails is undeniably becoming more commercial - a fact Hansson doesn't mind at all. "I have absolutely no problem with commercialism. What good is it to enjoy doing Ruby on Rails if you have to return to the Java or .Net mines every morning to slog through another day? We want people to be happy doing real work, making a real living."
It's been an extraordinary year for videogames. Bioshock, Halo 3, Orange Box, Call of Duty 4, Super Mario Galaxy... a banquet of such obscene riches that the most decadent gluttons of ancient Rome would hang their heads in shame. Nevertheless, Christmas can bring considerable disappointment if Santa doesn't bring any games. Or worse, Need for Speed: ProStreet.Luckily, this has also been a staggering year for freebie Flash games. If, for example, you miss out on Valve's Orange Box collection, which includes the brilliant mind-bending puzzler Portal, check out Portal: The Flash Version (tinyurl.com/2u6m2j) - a lovely 2D take on the game by two indie coders. If it's shooting action you're lacking, try The Last Stand (tinyurl.com/2mjwxy), a relentless zombie blaster with decent visuals and a generous stocking-full of deadly weapons. Even music games like Guitar Hero have their browser equivalents. Super Crazy Guitar Maniac Deluxe 2 (tinyurl.com/2crol8) is a keyboard-based rhythm action romp with 14 songs and a huge online following.The Flash scene has also propagated its own fads and genres, often based around gameplay found in larger retail releases. This year saw dozens of "tower defence" titles, in which the player protects a citadel from encroaching invaders. This would be a mere snippet of a major real-time strategy title such as Warcraft, but in the Flash realm, coders have modified the idea into a style in its own right. My favourite  is Onslaught (onslaught.playr.co.uk).Elsewhere, one of last year's big Flash titles, Line Rider - a snowy level design challenge in which you drew ski slopes then let a physics-enhanced sledge plummet down them - has started a new craze for sandbox experiences. Free Rider is an utterly enthralling BMX version where you design a track then race along it collecting stars. An even better sequel has just been released, and can be found attinyurl.com/2u4knu.The visually accomplished Stackopolis, where you place blocks on an isometric grid according to an increasingly complicated blueprint, is much more fun than it sounds. I also love another physics-based challenge, Ramps (tinyurl.com/2vvnu9). If none of these do it for you, check out aggregation sites likeNewgrounds.comandKongregate.com, or play any of Ferry Halim's beautiful relaxing experiences onferryhalim.com/orisinal.For darker tastes, the website of US cartoon channel Adult Swim (adultswim.com/games) has several stylish and hilariously tasteless games available. Frankly, if you don't feel your festive season would be enhanced by the gruesome Dickensian platformer, Orphan Feast, you deserve to be gameless this Christmas. Bah humbug.
Tiscali topsA survey of customer satisfaction with eight large UK broadband providers by JD Power has put Tiscali top and BT bottom, but with very little difference (42 index points) between them.tinyurl.com/2dbdpdBe watchedO2's Be broadband has launched a home monitoring service based on  Wi-Fi cameras.tinyurl.com/2efzuuWorldTV freeWorldTV "enables users to create, manage and operate their own personalised  television station on the web for free".worldtv.comiPlayer with stuffingThe BBC will launch its iPlayer, which lets users catch up on a week's BBC TV, on Christmas Day.bbc.co.uk/iplayerGlobal eyesFrance 24's multimedia website The Observers, now in beta, is based on combining user-generated content with professional editing and presentation.observers.france24.com/enYouTube winnersYouTube has announced the top 20 in its Project: Direct short film competition, won by Brazil's Adriana Falcao.tinyurl.com/2fybh7A sporting challengeInfront Sports &amp; Media and France's F4 have started beta testing Empire of Sports, a massive multiplayer online game ahead of an early-2008 launch.empireofsports.comTry the TrocGamerbase has opened a Dell XPS-based gaming centre in the HMV store at the Trocadero in central London.tinyurl.com/3d78b3
That our computers have seduced us has long been a truism. Now, thanks to the ever-inventive internet mafia, it is becoming a literal truth. Russian cyber-crooks have reportedly unleashed a software robot, or bot, that poses as a would-be paramour in sex chatrooms. It entices randy gentlemen to reveal personal information, such as their address or birthday, or even to submit photographs of themselves. The information can then be used to break into bank accounts or carry out other forms of fraud.It was probably inevitable. As one of Tony Soprano's sidekicks observed in a classic episode of the TV series, the two most resilient sectors of the economy are organised crime and "certain aspects of showbusiness". The aspects, that is, known as the world's oldest profession - now mixing it with the world's newest technologies.CyberLover, as the dirty-mouthed bot is called, is quite a sophisticated piece of software. It can take on a number of different guises depending on the proclivities of its target, according to security experts at the software company PC Tools. It can play the role of a romantic lover, for instance, or masquerade as a sexual predator (tinyurl.com/33xqf6).The slutbot plies its trade with a true robotic efficiency. The virtual minx is able to carry out 10 seductions over half an hour. It never even has to stop for a shower. In some cases, it coaxes its targets to visit a personal site, where a virus is downloaded onto their computers. It certainly gives a whole new, high-tech twist to sexually transmitted diseases, anyway.What's most remarkable is that the ruse seems to work. People have a hard time distinguishing the slutbot from a real human, according to PC Tools.That may qualify CyberLover as one of the first successful examples of an artificial intelligence. After all, the most famous criterion for distinguishing a true AI, developed by the computer pioneer Alan Turing in 1950, is its ability to have a conversation with a person without giving away the fact that it's a machine. Then again, the slutbot has a big advantage over other AI wannabes. Once men enter into a state of sexual arousal, their intelligence drops precipitously. Tricking the besotted is no big feat.Up to now, CyberLover has limited its trick-turning to Russian chatrooms. Security experts believe, however, that the bot may go global as early as February. So the next time you're flirting online, remember that to the usual warnings - that the other "person" might in reality be your boy/girlfriend, or not the sex you thought they were - you must now add another: your hot lover may be nothing more than cold-hearted code.It's also worth keeping in mind that CyberLover is not the only naughty bot in circulation. In fact, horny-minded software seems to be emerging as the tech world's Next Big Thing.Earlier this month, the technology news site The Register revealed that a virtual Santa Claus distributed through Microsoft's Windows Live Messenger service was having smutty conversations with kids. At one point, in an exchange about eating pizza, the rogue Claus said: "It's fun to talk about oral sex, but I want to chat about something else." It also had a tendency to use the term "dirty bastard" when provoked (tinyurl.com/2u8kts).Once the news broke, Microsoft first tried to blame it on the kids, accusing them of "pushing this thing to make it do things it wasn't supposed to do". But the company soon came to its senses and announced that it was terminating its overly jolly Saint Nick (tinyurl.com/2jfw89).It explained that it had made an attempt at "the removal of language from the agent's automated script", but wasn't confident that the cure had worked. Apparently, once a bot starts thinking indecent thoughts, it can never be made fit for decent company again. Its mind stays in the virtual gutter.I probably shouldn't admit this, but I'm kind of disappointed that the Microsoft Santa is gone. It would have been fun to listen in on a chat between Santabot and CyberLover.&middot; Nicholas Carr's new book is The big switch: rewiring the world, from Edison to Google. He blogs atroughtype.com
The other day I found myself in a sports centre with a lot of time to kill while I waited for someone. There in the foyer was an internet kiosk. Great, I thought, waste some time on the net! It was just a browser with a keyboard. OK, no problem. But the browser was locked down: you could only view the pages it had loaded, or pages linking from them. You couldn't enter a URL. At that moment the browser was showing the fantastic benefits of recent investment in the sports centre. Borrrrring!Most importantly, you couldn't use the search box in any page (which otherwise might have thrown up a Google result, or outbound link).Huh. Unless I could find a way to break out of the kiosk's limited pages onto the wider internet, it looked like I'd have to find some other way to pass the time.From Beeb to GuardianThen I noticed that the main page also had little links to theBBC's "latest news" page- just the links, but you could follow them to land on the BBC's site.Now, how could I get from there to the Guardian to see what was going on at theTechnology blog? (Go ahead, try. Remember, you're not allowed to use any search boxes or search engines such as Google. And because you're pretending to be using a public kiosk, you don't trust it with your username or password for any sites; you can only get to pages that any passing person would.)While I went back and forth on the BBC site, playing a sort of web Breakout, I considered how the internet has changed in the past decade or so.Years ago, the paradigm was all about trapping people on your site. There were in essence two species of site: "portals" (which tried to get people to go there by linking out to everywhere else, the ur-portal of course being Yahoo!) and "destinations", which tried to be an internet black hole, offering no way out and aiming to keep you there until you clicked on an ad in sheer frustration.No way outThe classic destination wasDeja News, a would-be commercial service that started up in 1995 aiming to archive all the Usenet newsgroup discussions, and to offer a searchable archive. I once did a similar experiment to my web kiosk one on Deja News and discovered that you simply couldn't get out; its walls were thickly coated with internal links. It simply didn't offer any "outward-going link love", as we'd call it today.Deja News was bought by Google, which rolled it into itsGoogle Groupsoffering. And Google, as we know, is a portal.The thing is this: the fewer "destinations" you have on the web, and the more places that (in whatever way) act as portals, the more interconnected it all is. Which has to be a good thing, because it means that the "connectedness" algorithms that search engines use to determine your ranking in results will be more efficient. Ultimately, search triumphs when everyone is connected to everyone via the fewest intermediate links.I'd love to say that I've found all sorts of scientific research that validate these assertions, but unless I've been looking in completely the wrong place, or in the wrong way, I can't find anything examining interconnectedness and the way it is changing. But changing it is - and the sites that got me to the Guardian from the BBC are doing it.Escape routeSo, the solution to my challenge. The BBC now offers links at the bottom of every story that let you submit them toDelicious,Digg,Reddit,FacebookorStumbleUpon.Now, all it requires is that you have an account - but if you go to Digg, you can follow a link to the front page. Then you can browse the archives. I followed through until I found something from theHuffington Post, which I happen to know links to the Guardian. I read a couple of pieces there and then followed a link from the "links - news sources" part of the front page to move on to the Guardian - where, knowing that the finish line was almost in sight (click the "blogs" link in the top navigation bar, choose "Sci/Tech", choose "Technology"), I paused to read some more articles, chosen by serendipity.The clue? These days, social networks and aggregation sites provide the web's backbone, the core that links everything to everything else. The rise of social networking makes a huge difference; you only have to look at thegraph of Digg storiesat Neoformix to see that interconnectedness is growing.So, in answer to those who worry that the web is becoming Balkanized - that we're only listening to opinions we like, or people we already agree with - I say: try navigating without your search and location bars. This will take you to more interesting places than you might expect.If I hadn't set myself a place to go, I could have ended up anywhere. Which is how, in the modern web, it ought to be - not scrabbling around for a link to the outside world, as I all too frequently found myself doing back in the 1990s.
At the end of October a ton of spam emails apparently pushing the would-be presidential candidate Ron Paul started dropping into peoples' inboxes in the US.On his orders? One would have to think, judging by the negative reactions, that everybody in his campaign would know it's a bad idea.Now, SecureWorks has trailed in depth where those spam emails came from, with a fascinating insight to theinner workings of a botnet.Many of those machines being a bot were infected viaa well-known "iframe affiliate" malware install site, where the site owner gets paid by different botnet owners for spreading their malware. A trojan is installed by the exploit kit which regularly requests a remote configuration file containing URLs of additional malware to download and install.The short story? It's a Russian-controlled botnet, running about 3,000 bots, with an email database 3.4 gigabytes in size containing 162,211,647 addresses (though many of those will be redundant or dead). The controller is written in Python.But at the end of the fascinating investigation, who paid to send the spams?With the facts above, we are left asking the question, "who paid to have the Ron Paul spam sent and how did they connect with the spammer, "nenastnyj?" The evidence shows that despite being capable of sending upwards of 200 million messages a day, nenastnyj is not one of the major spammers of the world, and seems to focus on spamming as an affiliate for larger "kingpin" operations. The Ron Paul spam was very much a "one-off" job among the other tasks in the Reactor interface. It almost seems as though there may have been some pre-established relationship between the sponsor of the spam and nenastnyj.
Ubisoft has revised its financial targets upwards in response to the success of Assassin's Creed. According to the clearly delighted publisher, the game has recorded worldwide sales of more than two and a half million in its first four weeks on the shelves - apparently making it the fastest-selling new video game intellectual property in the US ever (more infohere). Having previously predicted sales of around three million copies in 2007/8, excited accountants have now upped expectations to five million.Why is this happening? What does the success of this fascinating yet flawed title say about the videogame industry? I think it says one of the following:Hype worksUbisoft has spent millions on marketing Assassin's Creed. There have been TV ads, of course, but also major print campaigns, including a huge four-page supplement surrounding the Friday Guardian's Film and Music supplement a week before launch. But the company's budget is actually modest compared to big-hitters like Microsoft.No, with this game it's been about slowly building buzz. Developer interviews, official behind-the-scenes video blogs, expo appearances - a year of gradually disseminating information. Or lack of information. It could be that the company's masterstroke was tohintfrom the very beginning that the game's apparent Holy Land setting did not tell the whole story. Through teaser trailers at E3 and X06, we saw glimpses of futuristic scenes, there were rumours of time travel, genetic memory, all well stage-managed and artfully perpetuated by Ubisoft's marketing machine.I travelled to Montreal twice to see the game. The last time I went over, I spoke to producer Jade Raymond about the campaign - she said it was all tightly controlled by marketing; the development team would have given everything away much earlier. Somehow Ubisoft learned something vital, something quite alien to the in-yer-face, blast-'em-with-USPs games industry: teasing works. Speaking of Jade, she actually became an object of hype in her own right. A young woman becoming the face of a major project - the internet grappled with it, a misogynistic fringe group belittled it, but they were more than happy to write about it.Scores don't matterCreed has doneokay. It has a Metacritic score of 82, which means mostly favourable reviews. But amid the praise lavished on the title for its stunning visuals, amazing recreation of a historical environment, sense of freedom and involving story, there have been numerous references to its repetitive central gameplay motive, the befuddled combat system, the arduously long cut-scenes. In other words, this isn't a game that's piling on sales simply because of overwhelming critical acclaim - some key sources have marked Creed in the seventies. It could be argued, in fact, that this title is an important exhibit in the 'do reviews really matter?' debate. Alternatively, it might mean that review readers are a sophisticated bunch who've taken both the plaudits and the criticisms into account and decided to give it a try - en masse.Original titlescansellIf you look at the Christmas videogame charts for the last five years you'll find that less than 10 percent of top ten titles are originals. The festive release lists are stuffed with sequels, annual updates and movie tie-ins. This is all about security - videogame publishers stand to make as much over Christmas as they do in the rest of the year combined. Very few companies are willing to take a risk on an unknown quantity.The success of Assassin's Creed suggests that this timidity may have cost the industry millions. It seems that, fed an interesting concept, the publicwilltake a gamble on a new franchise. Of course, not every original game will be backed up by such an extensive marketing campaign. Not all original titles will have the imaginative scope of Ubisoft's project. But then, most titles won't need to sell anywhere near five million copies to make a handsome revenue.Graphics are as important as publishing think they areThe one thing no-one argues about is that Assassin's Creed looks stunning. The evocations of Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem are minutely detailed, writhing with character and cleverly constructed to offer a paradise of acrobatic free-running possibilities. The crowd system, too, is a sometimes awe-inspiring success, with hundreds of seemingly unique characters lining the streets, shoving, chatting, reacting... For PS3 owners it has provided the first real 'wow' moments of the high-def era. And it has been suitably rewarded.I'm hoping, though, that the key lesson taken from the success of Assassin's Creed isn't that style really does win out over substance. It is a lesson that could shape the videogame industry in the high-def era, where visual clarity has transformed into a mainstream cultural concern. Now perhaps more than ever, it is very easy for the medium to become the message.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
