Friday's edition of Chaterbox
FIFA 09 is better than PES 2009 in almost every way – online options, presentation – apart from where it matters most - on the pitch. PES still plays a slicker, smoother and more realistic game of football. And that's why I plough through the ludicrous menu screens and horrendous user interface to set up an – often laggy - online game of PES.And then there is 2v2. Playing with a friend against 2 other players is fantastic in PES when it works, but setting this up is a real faff. For a start there is no obvious way to see who else wants a 2v2 game bar using the appalling interface to try and publicise your player game to the lobby. Whoever designed the menus and user journey involved in setting up an online game on PES 2009 should be barred from going anywhere near PES 2010. Or at least forced to take a good look at FIFA 09 to see how it should be done.FIFA isn't perfect – online leagues are great but it would be better if there was less scrolling needed to see standings and stats – but it is streets ahead of PES' amateurish attempts.  And now FIFA has added another interesting feature to its roster –Ultimate Team. This downloadable extra – it costs about 8UKP – is out now for PS3 and Xbox 360 and lets players create a fantasy team by collecting virtual cards in the game. The press release takes up the story in typically hyperbolic fashion:Write your own legend with FIFA 09 Ultimate Team. Create yourself in game, line up alongside your heroes and captain your squad to glory. Customize everything from players and stadiums to the kits and badges, creating the world's next great football club. Compete offline and online to earn more valuable cards or trawl the market for the ones needed to complete a winning team. Climb the league table or compete in knockout tournaments for the most coveted trophies.I'm downloading tonight so have not had a chance to try it yet. Personally I'd rather it allowed you to create an "ultimate team" from any era so I could have Matt Le Tissier, Mike Channon and Kevin Keegan in my dream Southampton FC team. But that's probably just me. Anyway, it will be interesting to see what Ultimate Team adds to FIFA 09's already generous batch of online modes.  Will it drag people away from the – generally marvellous – 10v10 games? And more importantly, will it tempt any PES players over to FIFA?
When Barbra ­Streisand discovered in 2003 that an aerial ­photograph of her California beach house was among 12,000 on the internet as part of a ­collection by Kenneth Adelman and Pictopia, she did what any celebrity would:hit them with a $50m lawsuit.But in trying to suppress the images, she caused a different outcome. ­Outrage at her legal actions led to almost half a million people visiting the ­Pictopia site and viewing – and copying – the photos within a month.The effect of perversely publicising something you are trying to keep secret (especially via the law courts) was dubbed the"Streisand effect"by Mike Masnick of Techdirt.com, who noted how ineffectual lawsuits were at preventing spread in the virtual world.The problem for anyone trying to suppress information is that the internet is the world's biggest and most efficient copying machine. Put a ­document on to a connected machine and it will propagate. The irony of the internet is that when you want to be famous you can't, but if you find ­yourself in the spotlight and want to erase ­yourself, you cannot. The ­evidence ­lingers.When people find content which they think should not be suppressed, they will copy it and put it on the net. The replication becomes impossible to hold back because any time a web server gains a new file and is queried by the search engines' "spiders" – which go out looking to see what has changed on the web – the cache of the web is updated, with the location of the new file. As soon as it crosses national boundaries removal of a file becomes a full-time job. The real enemy of ­censorship is digitisation.That has frustrated many ­organisations: when MI6 wanted to remove a list of its agents from the site cryptome.org, it wasfrustratedby the site's American owner. The Church of Scientology has beensimilarly frustratedin its efforts to keep secret its "briefings". When the British-based Internet Watch Foundation tried toban the digitised cover of the German rock band Scorpions' Virgin Killer albumfrom the net, its attempts led to wider circulation of the image than would ever have happened otherwise.
Some will see it as the portal to an Orwellian nightmare, while others will despair at the scenes of Hogarthian debauchery it occasionally throws up. But most of the people who visit Google's newStreet View servicewill probably do so to discover if they have won a place in online posterity - or to decide whether they can put off repointing the house until next year.The new mapping application, which was launched in the UK yesterday, allows users to savour 360-degree views of 25 cities from Southampton to Aberdeen through their computers and mobile phones.Street View UK is the culmination of a year-long project that saw a fleet of specially modified cars beetling along 22,369 miles of roads and snapping away at their surroundings.Although the images include millions of residential addresses, people and cars, Google insists that they will respect individual privacy and that "in almost all cases" it will remove pictures deemed to breach privacy or display inappropriate content.Ed Parsons, who luxuriates in the title of "geospatial technologist" at Google, said: "Street View has been hugely popular with our users in Europe and worldwide and we're thrilled it's now available in the UK ... enabling users to see street-level panoramas of major city roads and look up and print out useful driving directions."He said the Information Commissioner's Office had been consulted about privacy concerns - as were police. "We recognise that there have been concerns about [privacy] and we think we have addressed those concerns," he said."We have spoken to Scotland Yard and, from a crime point of view, they are happy with it, there are no issues there."The many people caught on a cigarette break outside their offices might disagree.And the man slumped outside a pub in Hoxton Square, north London, might feel he has not been preserved at his absolute best. He seems to have just been sick and is being comforted by a friend who appears to be wearing reindeer antlers on his head.Google has developed sophisticated technology to automatically blur human faces and car number plates to guarantee privacy. If anything, the software may be over-zealous in its devotion to anonymity: in one picture of a red-brick house in Leeds, the head of a not particularly distinctive floor mop has been obscured. At the bottom of each photograph is a link which people - and, presumably, sentient cleaning utensils - can follow to "report a concern" to Google."We have got 99.9% of it right," Parsons said. "But sometimes it does not work completely."Those who do not wish to be featured or who want their home to be taken off the photographic database can register their objections by filling in an online form.Although Parsons said that the images on Street View are the same as the ones people would see if they walked or drove through the area in question, he added: "If people do not want their homes featured we will take them down, or cut them out of the image."We have a dedicated team whose job is to look at these pictures if there are any concerns. It is something that happens very rarely but nevertheless it is very important for us to have this tool so that if there are any concerns the pictures can be easily removed."He said no government buildings or ministerial properties visible from public roads had been left out of the database.This means that 10 Downing Street is not visible, nor is Buckingham Palace - although it can be glimpsed through the trees in Birdcage Walk.Parsons said this was because of a technical fault with that car, rather than any deliberate intention to accord Her Majesty more privacy than the rest of us. It hopes to put Buckingham Palace on to Street View in the near future.VisitBritain, which has assisted Google in the project, suggested that the "showcase" might boost tourism.Many of the images that make up the vast mosaic were taken last summer and, viewed today, they give a glimpse of an already vanished British high street.The Woolworths open for business in a sunny Shirley High Street in Southampton is a bittersweet reminder of former economic glories, as is the Zavvi store in Oxford Street, London.
Microsoft assembled a small collection ofSurface computersin a London hotel yesterday, so I went along to have a play. It's one of those things that you can't really judge from pictures and videos, and that includes its physical presence, as well as the feeling on manipulating things using touch.Having tried it, I recommend you try it. There are not many around in the UK -- well,yesterday was the UK launch-- but if you get the chance, it is worth making an effort.Microsoft was using a shallow pool as the "attract mode", and the screen image looks and behaves like water, in a graphical way. Touch the surface with your finger, and it sends out realistic-looking ripples. But you can also put your whole arm across the surface, like a barrier, so there are ripples on one side and not on the other. Or you can use a book, or other object. It doesn't require skin.In fact, although the Surface is touch-driven, it doesn't actually use touch at all. It uses infra-red photography. It can "see" things that are still above the surface of the 30-inch screen, so if you touch it, it knows which side you're sitting. And although it does a brilliant impression of being pressure sensitive, it isn't: it just works on the fact that your finger contact area increases as you press harder.The Surface can also "read" small discs, like poker chips, that tell it to create particular effects. One example is a "gravity" disc, which makes things fall to the bottom of the screen. Turning the disc around makes "gravity" work in a different direction. Microsoft's Dave Brown also showed me a "lighting" disc, which lets you change the direction of the lighting on something.Because it uses cameras, the Surface can do a certain amount of image recognition, such as recognising pens and mobile phones. But this depends on it having a database of objects, which the Surface I tried did not have.Inside the somewhat blocky coffee table form factor, there's a 2GHz Core 2 Duo PC with 2GB of memory and an ATI X1650 graphics card running Windows Vista Business (PDF), so what you can do with the Surface depends entirely on what people write for it. There are obvious applications, such as Microsoft Virtual Earth: you start with a globe that you can rotate, and home in on your own back yard. There's a Grand Piano-type application, where you can play virtual keys. You can sort and edit photos, and use it as a media player. You can play games or gamble all your money away. Tens of millions of people already know how to write programs for the Surface, and I'm sure a few of those will come up with some brilliant applications.One thing you can't do, however, is touch-type on a virtual keyboard for email and web browsing. You have to adapt by holding your fingers just above the surface, because each touch produces a letter. If you want to do a lot of typing, it's better to use a Bluetooth keyboard.Microsoft sees potential sales in markets such as hotels, casinos, banks, mobile phone shops and other retailers, the health industries, and so on. Users includeHarrah'sand AT&amp;T, and Barclays has put one in its branch near Piccadilly Circus. The obvious drawbacks are finding somewhere to put it (42.5 x 27 inches, 180 or 198 pounds), and the £8,500* or so price.Even at this price, a Surface would be a fabulous toy for the seriously rich, and I can imagine Premier League footballers lining up to buy them. And if the sales volume climbs, the price should come down, and one day, the rest of us might be able to afford one.And when you're not using it for computing,you can still put your coffee and biscuits on it. I know.* Price corrected from £11,000, which might have meant dollars.
Thelaunch of Google's new Street View mapping service in the UKhasupset some, delighted others and given the rest of us the opportunity to spend our lunch-hour bemoaning the state of our windows or to wander new streets online.Although a swoop in on theGuardian's new King's Cross HQyields little of human interest, we notice that pictures of the old offices in Farringdon reveal the odd familiar face entering and leaving the building.One subeditor, caught for posterity bounding out of the back gate (that's him in the white shirt - and no, his face doesn't always look like that), is rather pleased to have been immortalised."It's a bit like a time capsule," he says.Not everyone, however, is so thrilled about the existence, uses — andpossible abuses— of the technology. Some argue we are already exposed totoo much day-to-day surveillance, while others fear the images will help steer burglars to rich pickings. At least one Google employee, meanwhile, has already exploited itsromantic potential.What do you make of Street View - harmless fun or sugar-coated Orwellian nightmare? And what are the most arresting images you've turned up so far?
At the annual Pwn2Own at the CanSecWest security conference in Vancouver, Charlie Miller hacked Apple's Safari browser in seconds (below), but the others didn't last significantly longer. AsRyan Naraine says at ZD Net:A security researcher named "Nils" (he declined to provide his full name) performed a clean drive-by download attack against the world's most widely used browser to take full control of a Sony Vaio machine running Windows 7.He won a cash prize and got to keep the hardware.  Details of the vulnerability, which was described by contest sponsor TippingPoint ZDI as a "brilliant IE8 bug!" are being kept under wraps.Nils also pwned Safari and, later, Firefox, winning a total of $15,000 plus two computers. Not a bad day's work.Heise Onlinesays Nils is "a 25 year old computer science student at the University of Oldenburg in Germany".Apple's Safari was first to fall because Charlie Miller's name was first out of the hat. If Nils had gone first, he might well have hit Safari first, but that would have been down to the MacBook being more attractive than the Sony Viao: he could have pwned whichever he liked, but the MacBook had already gone.So, this year, nobody really gets any bragging rights -- you can be pwned whichever browser and operating system you use -- except maybe Google Chrome.And as theDVLabs reportsays: "Will Nils produce a Chrome exploit tomorrow, turning his trifecta into a clean sweap of all browsers? Stay tuned!"
Lord Carteris at the cutting edge of decisions on the multiplatform future of "Digital Britain", so what does he think of the latest shiny much-hyped new media company Twitter? Twitter-holic Guardian News &amp; Media director of digital content Emily Bell, interviewing Carter at the MediaGuardian Changing Media Summit, asked him if he was on Twitter. "No," said the Lord, adding that Digital Britain had one. "I have no real desire to be. I couldn't compete," he quipped, referring to the Twitter-tastic Guardian management.
Google has launched its controversialStreet View mapping servicein the UK, with web and mobile phone users able to see 360-degree views of 25 cities from Southampton to Aberdeen.The company has spent almost a year collecting images, with a fleet of specially modified cars crawling along 22,369 miles of British roads, and the resultant images provide a snapshot of a bygone era before the recession hit the British high street.Many of the pictures were taken last summer - although the unseasonally wet weather played havoc with Google's camera cars - and show stores that have since gone bust, includingWoolworths. Even household goods retailerThe Pieris still open for business on London's Tottenham Court Road in the world of Street View as is Zavvi just down the road.TheZavvi storeon Oxford Street is boarded up on Street View, but judging by the utter lack of traffic on what is one of London's busiest roads, that is more to do with the fact that the picture was taken on a Sunday than the image being a record of the company's more recent collapse.As well as the logistical challenges of taking tens of millions of individual pictures along Britain's roads, Street View has also suffered intense criticism from privacy campaigners since it launched in the US two years ago. An American couple even went as far as to sue Google over invasion of privacy althoughthey subsequently lost the case."We recognise that people do have some concerns in terms of privacy," said Google's geospatial technologist Ed Parsons. "But this is the sort of level of detail you would get from driving down a road, the sort of picture you would see in an estate agent's window."Speaking at the MediaGuardian Changing Media Summit,Google UK's new head Matt Brittinsaid the company has had discussions with the Metropolitan police "and they have said it actually helps track and monitor crime."To try to meet concerns about privacy, Street View only contains imagery that is already visible from public roads - as a result 10 Downing Street is not visible. Buckingham Palace is also not on Street View, although it can be glimpsed through the trees on Birdcage Walk. Parsons said this is because of a technical fault with that car, rather than any deliberate intention to give the Queen more privacy than the rest of us. It hopes to put Buckingham Palace into Street View in the near future.Street View also features technology that automaticallyblurs both faces and licence plates."We have got 99.9% of it right," Parsons said. "But sometimes it does not work completely."As a result every single photo contains a "Report a concern" link. Anyone who believes they can be identified in a photo, or who wants their property removed from a picture can single out particular areas to be blanked out. When Google updates its photos, these blank spaces will remain.As a result of these changes, theInformation Commissioner's Office, which had been investigating complaints about Street View, last year cleared the service for launch in the UK."Although it is possible that in certain limited circumstances an image may allow identification of an individual, it is clear that Google is keen to capture images of streets and not individuals," the watchdog said at the time.The Daily Mail has been particularly vociferous in its attack on Google,branding it a "burglar's charter". In fact the Daily Mail's owner DMGT owns estate agents website Find A Property, which is one of Street View's key partners and has already integrated the maps into its service, allowing prospective buyers to check out the local area before committing themselves.Google has also teamed up withFancyapint.co.ukwhich uses Street View to help drinkers find their local pubs. "You can also use it the next day to find out where the Hell you have been," quipped the site's co-founder Gordon Butler.The service went online late last night and already software developers have been using its open-source architecture to build new applications. There is already a programme thatlinks together Street View photos into a virtual driving programmewhich could be useful for trainee taxi drivers.Street View launched in the US in May 2007 and is already available in Japan, Australia, New Zealand, France, Spain and Italy.Hidden within the Street View imagery in the UK will be well-known children's story book character "Wally" wearing his trademark blue trousers, red and white striped hat and jumper and walking stick.The cities covered by Street View UK are: London, Edinburgh, Leeds, Bradford, Cambridge, Cardiff, Belfast, Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool, Oxford, Sheffield, Nottingham, Derby, Bristol, Coventry, Glasgow, Aberdeen, Swansea, York, Newcastle, Dundee, Southampton, Norwich and Scunthorpe.
Microsoft has now releasedInternet Explorer 8in advance of the version that will appear in Windows 7. It's already in use, because people have been able to download the RC1 release candidate version, but it should achieve rapid adoption. Whether it will be good enough to reverse IE's decline in market share -- roughly, from 85% to 70% -- remains to be seen.Since IE8 represents another big step forward in Microsoft's support for web standards, it should be supported and recommended by web sites. But it will be interesting to see how many of them support IE8'sinnovative features, such as Web Slices and Accelerators.Microsoft Live Search, eBay, Yahoo, Wikipedia, Amazon and Facebook are among the sites that have already produced Accelerators to provide rapid access to content.For ordinary users, the most important benefits include InPrivate browsing, the SmartScreen security filter, visual previews in search suggestions, colour-coded tab grouping, and running different tabs in different threads. That means if one browser window crashes, it shouldn't bring down the whole browser. Either way, IE8 now has automatic crash recovery without you having to add, say, IE7Pro.Microsoft is likely to promote IE8's security features, which include anti-phishing, some defence against attempts at malware installation, a Cross Site Scripting (XSS) filter, Domain Highlighting (to expose deceptive URLs) and Data Execution Detection (DEP). Microsoft says: "Internet Explorer 8 offers the best security protections among leading browsers: a study released today by NSS Labs indicates that Internet Explorer 8 blocks two to four times as many malicious sites as other browsers on the market today."According to this independent but Microsoft-sponsored research, IE8 RC1 was 69% effective at stopping malware before it did any damage, ahead of Firefox 3.07 (30%), Safari 3 (24%) and Chrome (16%).IE8's speed is likely to provoke debate. It's certainly faster than IE6 and IE7, and it feels snappier than Firefox. But it may not be faster than newer browsers that don't have as many features and add-ons, such as Google's Chrome and Apple's Safari.IE8 is definitely not as fast at running JavaScript -- often used for writing online applications -- but Microsoft has targeted IE8 at everyday dowloads. On its own tests with 25 top sites, Microsoft reckons IE8 is generally slightly quicker than Chrome 1.0 and Firefox 3.05. However, it accepts that such tests are complicated, and has published a paper about it: Measuring Browser Performance (PDF). This explains Microsoft's approach, and encourages users to make their own tests.It's not clear whether or not Microsoft will push the IE8 download: it may just wait and see how it goes. IE8 is certainly an advance on IE7 -- which is more than two years old -- and the antique IE6. And while plenty of people are perfectly happy with those, IE8's increased security and better standard's compliance mean it would be better for the web if they upgraded.One minor amusement: could Firefox 3 become the top browser? Obviously IE will still have the most users, but they'll be split between three different versions. If it happens, FF3's reign will be brief, but the publicity should be fun.
The head of Google UK, Matt Brittin, today defended the company's 3DStreet View, which records real images of local streets, from accusations that it could breach privacy rules."It is a great product and we have talked to the Information Commissioner's Office about the product, what it does and how we have built privacy [elements] into it," Brittin told the MediaGuardian Changing Media Summit."We have also talked to the Metropolitan police and they have said it actually helps track and monitor crime."Brittin added that companies had to take advantage of new technologies, even in the current market, and that Google at any one time would be running 50 to 200 trials with a view to improving the usability of its homepage.The service allows users to explore 25 cities in the UK.Brittin said the service also included a "report a concern" button that people could use to have images, such as houses, removed from the service.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Capcom is understandably reveling in the success of its latest 'zombie' opus. Having shifted four million copies worldwide, the publisher has now issued a press release, comparing the sales of the title to the performance of current movies and music releases. Noting arecent predictionby analyst firm Verdict Research that UK videogame sales would outstrip those of music and film in 2009, the release goes onto to claim:Resident Evil 5 outsold every item in the UK Singles Chart (Based on physical and digital sales of UK Top 200)Resident Evil 5 outsold U2's chart-topping new album's total sales since release in one weekend (in the UK)Resident Evil 5 grossed more than the top five movies in the UK this weekend - combined (Source: IMDB.com)So what does all this mean?It's an interesting situation, as the game has come in for a certain amount of criticism on forums and throughout the specialist press. There is, after all, little real sense of progression from Resident Evil 4, either in terms of the structure or the unwieldy control system. Of course, the visuals are stunning, but the Majini are Los Ganados with a different ethnic background and some motorcycle riding skills; the end-of-level bosses are the same old mutating freaks, with briefly emerging weakspots; the story is recognisable pulp conspiracy gumph, with the odd 'surprise' character return. It is the very definition of formulaic.And yet many of us - myself very much included- are still enthralled. By contrast, compare Resident Evil with another big franchise that kicked off in 1996, Tomb Raider. It was in that game's fifth installment that the public started to lose interest; the never-changing concept of a sexy archeologist leaping about in grotty tombs seemed stretched and tired. I suppose the difference is, Tomb Raider Chronicles was areallymediocre game, slovenly wallowing in the successes of the past without coming close to replicating them. Resi 5 might not push the envelope but, hell, at least it knows what's inside it.Of course, there are external factors influencing the comparative success of the game. The U2 album is poor, current movies aren'tamazing, and ultimately, both of those media are more convenient to illegally download than games. And as for rival game releases, it's March, for heaven's sake, not much else is out. Wii Fit and Professor Layton are still skulking about in the top five, accompanied by H.A.W.X, a new flight combat sim, and Killzone 2, a PS3 exclusive. At the same time, we have an economic climate in which people are looking for value in their entertainment purchases. Although there's no multiplayer in the boxed Resi 5 (another issue entirely), there's a good twenty hours of single-player/co-op enjoyment - and that's if you're really fast and miss lots of secret stuff.And let's face it Resident Evil is a reliable brand. Apart from the not-very-good Gun Survivor titles and some other minor atrocities, the main throughline of major titles has been excellent. Predictability is an important selling point right now - if you look at the way major consumer service providers are advertising themselves these days, it's not just on price, it's on reliability; people want to know their money is safe, because suddenly everything seems incredibly insecure and vulnerable.So, in some ways, it's not a failing it'sa selling pointthat Resi 5 is effectively Resi 4 on a different continent. And really, like the ultra-formulaic mainstream horror movies that Hollywood churns out every month, Resident Evil 5 is best viewed, not as an artistic statement or a creative endeavour, but as a horror machine, a device formulated to provide the requisite shocks and gross-out moments. Indeed, knowing what's going to happen, being able to predict what Chris Redfield will find behind that door, or down that mine shaft, is part of the fun. Anticipation and delayed confirmation are fundamental tropes of the horror oeuvre.Resident Evil 5 will be grimly, but unrelentingly compelling to most gamers. It has a recipe and follows it with panache. Critics don't necessarily like that, but then that's what critics are there for - to analyse and demand more from entertainment spectacle. It'll be up to Resi 6 to fulfill that role and Capcom knows it. For now, we'll take the endlessly mutating bosses and the ludicrous plotlines, the bad acting and the painstaking inventory management. Because in a world of depressing, often horrifying change, lord help us, if we can't rely on zombies, what have we got left?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Uncharted: Drakes Fortuneis probably my favourite PS3 game. Ok, LittleBigPlanet has a good shout too, but Uncharted was the first PS3 game where I felt the console was starting to show off its potential. Okay, the Tomb Raider-style action was hardly fresh but the game pulled it off with such panache it was hard to grumble. Plus it looked gorgeous. Thelatest screensfor the upcoming sequel – Uncharted 2: Amongst Thieves – show that the sequel will retain the good looks of he original. My only concern is the action focus of most of them. I always thought combat was one of the weaker elements of Uncharted and never as enjoyable as the platforming/exploration stuff. Luckily producer Richard Lemarchandconfirmsthat climbing is as important as combat in Uncharted 2.In short, the climbing part of the traversal system in Uncharted 2 is much more realistic now. Reinforcing the sense of realism that the world of Uncharted has, by making sure that the characters and their actions behave just like you would expect in the real world, has been a key area of focus for us throughout development.  To that end, we've added animations and technology that allow Drake to climb and explore the environment in a much more free-form and organic manner. Drake's movement has expanded by leaps and bounds (Pun intended!) beyond just jumping from handhold to handhold. Drake now freely clambers hand over hand on all sorts of objects like walls, ladders, signposts, monkey bars, ledges, ropes and so on. We added the ability for him to swing on free-hanging ropes across chasms, too.Lemarchand also talks about the importance of weather effects in the new game, particularly snow.One of the things that Uncharted: Drake's Fortune received a lot of praise for was the quality of our water effects. We'd set ourselves a goal to make the water in Uncharted look as good as anything that had ever been seen in a video game, and we collectively spent a lot of time working to make sure that our water looked as realistic as possible, and that it acted very realistically, too.  For Uncharted 2 we've taken that dedication and attention to detail, and applied it to snow and ice - which is really just water with the temperature lowered by fifty degrees! Unfortunately, we hadn't implemented a "freeze all the water in this level" button in our engine, so we had to do it the good old fashioned way - with lots of hard work and the skilful creation of new shaders and visual effects.Uncharted 2 is out later this year. Anyone else here excited? Or did the first game leave you cold?
I have all my worldly research (I'm a PhD student) on an external hard drive. Is there some kind of password-protection program that I could use to protect it?David B RobertsThe most obvious answer is to encrypt the data withTrue Crypt, which is free, open-source software. You could encrypt the whole drive or a partition and access it transparently. You could also look at commercial alternatives such asCD-Lock, which works on most removable storage devices, andFolder Lock.Bearing in mind the cost of replacing your data if it's lost, you should also burn it to CD-R and consider uploading it to an online storage site such as ADrive or Mozy.
I have an archive stored on dozens of floppy disks created on an old Mac circa late 80s/early 90s. I remember that the Mac's floppy drive ran at variable speeds. How would I read these files on to my current PC running Windows XP?Bill FinlayEarly Macs used a non-standard floppy disk format and variable speed drives, so neither PCs nor USB drives can read them now, and modern Macs have not had floppy drives for years. The simplest option is to find someone who still has an old Mac, or buy one on eBay. When Apple changed to PC-style floppies, Macs could handle both 800K and 1.44MB PC-readable floppies with the help of Apple File Exchange.If possible, copy your old floppies to a Mac that can write them to CD. Otherwise you could face the problem that old Macs (which used LocalTalk, SCSI and some odd connectors) can't talk to new Macs or PCs with USB, FireWire and Ethernet ports.An online guide,Working with Macintosh Floppy Disks in the New Millennium, says "you need OS 7.6.1 or earlier to work with 400K MFS disks" and suggests a G2 Mac running that as your best bet.
My Dell Inspiron laptop, which runs Vista Home Premium, has started showing an error message on start­up: "Windows delivery manager has stopped working".John CollinsonYou are probably running Kontiki, a peer-to-peer file-sharing service used by TV companies such as the BBC, Sky and Channel 4 to distribute video. Right-click on the Vista Taskbar and select the Task Manager. Check the tabs to see if you are running KService.exe or Khost.exe in the background.Removing the Kontiki softwareshould solve the problem. However, if you want to keep your TV on-demand service, you will have to reinstall it.Murad James has developed a freeTV On-Demand Monitorthat allows you to control it.
I have a desktop PC in one location and a laptop in another and am having problems keeping the two in phase. ­GoToMyPC sounds useful, but the price is high.Vicki EvesThe simplest solution would be to keep "master copies" of your files on a portable hard drive, then copy the contents to your local PCs for backup. There are lots of USB hard drives designed for portable use, including Western Digital's My Passport series, Seagate's Free­Agent Go drives, Freecom's ToughDrives and Iomega's eGo models. You can use Google's Gmail or similar to keep email in sync.Programs such as GoToMyPC and LogMeIn are useful if you need to access files remotely, and the basic level of LogMeIn is free. (If you want File Sync, you have to pay for LogMeIn Pro.) In the longer term, MicrosoftLive Meshcould be the answer for automated synchronisation across multiple devices, including PCs, Macs and mobile phones. However, at the moment it is still in beta.
Yes, it will. And what better way to demonstrate the most obviously "missing" feature on the iPhone than by booking a flight that would get you Lost? "I'm going to reserve a seat on Oceanic flight 815," said Scott Forstall, the senior vice-president of Apple's iPhone software development, on Tuesday as he showed off the method by which one can highlight text in an email – and from there choose cut, copy or paste. The fact that Oceanic 815 is the one that in the TV series Lost crashes on to the mysterious island where nothing is quite as it seems was not lost on the audience at the company's Cupertino headquarters.But that's not all that is coming in the iPhone 3.0 update, due "this summer" as a free update for existing iPhone owners – which Apple enumerated at 17 million in 80 countries – and a $9.95 (£7) upgrade for the 13 million iPod Touch owners. There will also be voice memos, on-phone subscription to online calen­dars, push notification of emails, voicemails and alerts, plus system-wide search in every application. There will even be picture messaging, which will be enabled for 3G iPhones that went on sale in July 2008, but not the first-generation ones; Apple says the earlier phones lack the correct wireless technology. Peer-to-peer gaming via Bluetooth will be feasible too.However, there will be disappointments for some: there will not be video recording through the iPhone's built-in camera, and there are no plans to provide playback of content that uses Adobe's Flash technology – the lack of which led to Apple beingrapped by the Advertising Standards Authoritylast August. "We have no announcements about [Flash] today," said Phil Schiller, Apple's head of marketing.The next OS version will contain more than 1,000 newly available APIs – essentially, doors to programming resources on the iPhone that outside developers can exploit – and 100 new features, said Forstall, who gave the exposition with Greg Joswiak, the head of iPhone product marketing. Steve Jobs, the company's chief executive, has been on medical leave since January and is not expected back before June.But even without cut and paste, the iPhone and iPod Touch have been doing  well both at attracting new developers to Apple, and generating incremental revenue for it. Joswiak said that there has been 800m downloads of extra applications from the iPhone App Store – an online store for which Apple pre-approves both free and paid-for offerings, and keeps 30% of any sale price. Only 4% of the 25,000 submitted applications have been turned down, and 62% of those writing programs for the iPhone were new to the Apple platform.But, as in the TV program, mysteries remain. Will Apple let the iPhone act as a wireless broadband modem? "It is supported in iPhone 3.0," said Forstall. Now it's up to the mobile networks to decide whether to allow it.
It must have been the first year of desktop Linux when I first played around with it, some time in the late 1990s. In those days we were so primitive we didn't realise that the year of desktop Linux would become an annual celebration. I chose Suse Linux then because it came with two thick printed manuals written in clear, slightly Germanic prose, and it took no more than a month of intermittent work to get the whole thing running to the point where I could read and write emails. All of this was enjoyable, in a rather crossword-puzzling way. There is a peculiar satisfaction to be had from fitting together all the different bits of a Unix command until it does exactly what you want, but of course it has nothing to do with real productivity, or even the experience of using Windows.The real problem though was that in those days there was nothing remotely resembling a proper word-processor on Linux. Instead, there was Star Office, before it became Open Office. When I realised that it was impossible to set it up to have a non-white, non-glare back­ground to type on without also ensuring it printed every sheet of paper with pale yellow ink, I gave up.Since then I have occasionally tried out Unixes in the spirit that one would approach a text-only adventure game. The highlight of these adventures came when I managed to get FreeBSD to play music by compiling my own kernel. This was not a pleasure that belonged in the age of the iPod.Last month I decided to see whether ordinary consumer Linux was useful to normal people. Suse Linux was now up to version 11, and installed beautifully simply, but nothing I could do would persuade it to talk to my printer or USB soundcard. So I tried again with Ubuntu, on both desktop and laptop, and after no more than a week of faffing, I think it's just about OK. Program installation just works. OpenOffice and Firefox are the same programs as I use on Windows anyway. Some things actually work better: it is easier to rotate my screen from landscape to portrait and virtual desktops now work as well as Exposé on a Mac. I think I will soon have synchronisation between desktop and laptop working more quickly and unobtrusively than under Windows.The system is still ragged at the edges. Neither scanning nor printing work as well and simply as they do on Windows. I've got 100GB of music, much of it classical, ripped on to the hard disk, and there seems to be no jukebox program that copes with it elegantly. I can't find anything as powerful and elegant asDitto, the open-source clipboard manager for Windows that I have come to rely on. All that does is store everything you put on the clipboard and let you search it for later use. This becomes indispensable as soon as you understand it.The one indisputable improvement has come on an ageing IBM ThinkPad that I take with me everywhere. Under Windows XP, the window to dial up the&nbsp;3G modem kept popping up and freezing the wireless connection whether or not the modem was plugged in. So I triedXubuntu, a version of Ubuntu that has a lightweight and well-thought-out window manager. It's quicker to start up and even to wake from sleep than XP was, and – astonishingly for any Linux desktop – it's not ugly or obtrusive.The various network connections all work properly and without fuss. The only snag is that the screen grows dark after about 10 minutes even when I am typing, and I have to lean on the special brightness keys to reset it. But these do work after a while. The only Windows program I will miss is Microsoft's excellentOneNote, and that may work under some kind of emulator. I won't be reinstalling Windows, anyway. There'll never be a year of desktop Linux for the ordinary user, because if an ordinary user notices that they are running a program or even an operating system, it has in some profound sense failed. But for people who like playing with their computers, desktop Linux is no longer a text adventure game, unless you want it to be. It is now an undemanding graphical adventure game; and unless you are a serious user of multimedia, Xubuntu at least makes a worthwhile free upgrade to Windows XP.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Analyse thisVoice risk analysis software is even dodgier than Charles Arthur reports (The truth is on the line, 12 March).According to one blogger, the technology for lie detectors is also being marketed as a "love detector" – so even if the Department for Work and Pensions can't prove benefit fraud, at least they can work out whether claimants secretly fancy [the work and pensions secretary] James Purnell.Derrick CameronStoke-on-TrentThe Guardian leaps in on the Nemesysco lie-detector story, and misses; notably, they are apparently too chicken to point out that [DigiLog] is claiming to get 129 dimensions of data from only two actual measurements. This wouldn't even involve the Lacerda/Eriksson paper; it would just involve reading their published statements and the content of the patent they filed.yorksranter.wordpress.comiLife – dead or alive?Having read the article about Apple's iLife suite (Technophile, 12 March), I wonder whether reviewers ever really use all those apps. There is a lot of trouble with some of them. For one, iWeb3 is very bugged. The blog part of it is practically useless. If you look atthis page, you will immediately see the problem: misplaced images; the RSS feed of the blogs does not work properly (also a case of misplaced images); and the FTP transfer is not functioning properly for everyone. When you have more than one site or blog, adding an entry or making a change to one of those will result in damaging an other blog. That is practice, that is reality.The problem with iWeb pops up while working in iWeb on your desktop. If you add a new entry to a blog then several older entries will be misplaced by iWeb in the summary blog page and in the RSS feed. This even happens with a new blog I started in iWeb3 and when I there add a new entry, all my entries in another blog in a totally different site disappear or have misplaced images. I once even got an image from blog A misplaced in blog B!You can follow discussions about the iWeb problemshere.It appears that there was a lot trouble with the previous version of iWeb as well, and Apple hasn't done much about users problems then. I have contacted several iWeb bloggers: some have simply removed all images, so they wouldn't be misplaced; others have reverted to the previous version of iWeb or have continued blogging with RapidWeaver, Wordpress or other. I had no trouble at all with my blog in iWeb2,  and the part of my blogs that was made in iWeb2 is never touched by this bug. Only the stuff that was added in iWeb3 is unstable.It seems that Apple is again trying to shove the problems under the carpet, again leaving behind a lot of disgruntled customers. This could have to do with the changes they want for the future. It seems that with iLife09 several system frameworks were changed as well.In Apple's discussion forums the monitors take the trouble to censure words like "hell" – which appears as **** – when people express their annoyance, so they might as well pay some attention to the very annoying bugs in their own software.Hette LitjensAmsterdamMake no mistake, iLife 09 is a big leap from iLife 08. And it's worth every penny.spangleyed.co.ukDigging open sourceI could have done with this article (Open source apps are no small free beer, 12 March) at the Association for Geographic Information open source day – to convince the naysayers that you don't have to be a maverick archaeology unit to make the switch.archaeogeek.comHere's an illustrative anecdote. Two years ago a Fortune 500 company approached Alfresco (my employer), and ultimately concluded that they were too conservative and open source was too risky to move forward. A week ago the same people contacted me to say that times have changed, and now it's considered too risky to not be using open source due to its potential cost-savings.We may be on the cusp of the next big wave of computing. This time it won't be "personal" computing. It will be social computing. It will be open source.news.cnet.comFree our censusThe "sorry saga" of the efforts to construct a national property gazetteer (The price of un-free data: one-off census address list will cost £12m, 5 March) is even sorrier than you implied. You rightly said that the creation of reusable address lists would have been best tackled "when policy-makers first thought of it". What you failed to say was that this was 40 years ago, when the then ministry of housing and local government supported the development of computerised spatially based information systems for local authorities, including a pilot study with Coventry  to develop a property data system. Much of this work resulted in the publication in 1971 of the General Information System for Planning, a major trigger for action.A lot of pioneering effort ensued, such as ICL's LAMIS system. It was only in recent years that issues such as copyright, commercial pressures, etc started to make gazetteer development so dysfunctional. It is even more recently that local authorities have started to adopt such attitudes. These have been encouraged by the realisation that they are being pushed into paying Royal Mail and OS for address information created and supplied by LAs with "commercial" elements added.Central government has really fumbled this one and only now seems to be trying to retrieve the situation. The costly, single-use census gazetteer is a major embarrassment.Peter ShilsonLeedsPlanes, trains and carsGood article by Charles Arthur until final paragraph (What if the internet was as safe as planes, 12 March). What evidence does Mr Arthur have that Win 7 is more secure, other than Micro$oft's publicity machine?I will bet him that it is still prone to the same number of problems. His basic premise is correct, Windows evolved from a standalone system, and Win7 will make no significant difference.Pete PageBirminghamLetters in allJohn Davies's idea (Letters and blogs, 12 March)is a good one in terms of cost, but the whole point of Wikipedia is that it's quick and easy to contribute information. By making a long-term commitment like seeding necessary, you'd completely lose the casual contributors – people who may have valuable information to add, but don't have time for major involvement. It might finally get rid of the vandalism, though.Jo EmbleyLondonGoodbye Platte?Thank you forall your effortsin helping, nay leading the fight against this insidious company.It's great to see that they have at last stopped their practice in the UK but no doubt there are many others suffering from their devious methods.Once again, sincere thanksDavid CollinsSwindonSearching WolframAs the quotes within the article explain,Wolfram Alphais not a search engine. It's a generalised problem-solving engine that uses all of the information available on the web."It provides extremely impressive and thorough questions asked in many different ways, and it computes answers – it doesn't merely look them up in a big database."This is the distinction between the librarian with an extensive collection, and a genius theoretician with access to that collection.The proof is, as always, in the pudding; so until this goes live we can only speculate based on accurate reporting.Chris BirkeEugene, Oregon• Oh for God's sake! Wolfram is something of a joke in the AI community. Yes he wrote Mathematica. It's a very nice graphical editor. That is all it is. Newton he isn't.And then he got lost in his own ego. Ten years later we had his magnum opus "the universe is automata", which was a load of unscientific rubbish. Now he thinks he's solved NLP? Give me a break.Dr Daniel Winterstein, Winterwell Associates LtdEdinburghIt's criminalMuch as I applaud the efforts of organisations such as the Society for the Policing of Cyberspace and the National e-Crime Prevention Centre (The Judge Dredd of Birmingham, 5 March), I, like many others, am concerned about the lack of co-ordination and resourcing around the policing and reporting of e-crime nationally. The National Hi-Tech Crime Unit, disbanded in 2006, provided a model approach in many respects, particularly in its collaboration with business, but did not provide a central reporting point for less serious e-crime. Without such a facility, it is impossible to accurately determine the nature, scale or seriousness of such offences, which consequently inhibits the effective allocation of resources for crime prevention and detection. The recent removal of the duty on banks to report all fraud to the police can only makes this job more difficult, and perhaps indicates that law enforcement agencies are overwhelmed by the scale of cybercrime. The new PCeU (Police Central e-crime Unit), which is essentially the Metropolitan Police Computer Crime Unit given a national remit, provides some light on the horizon, and should go some way in helping to co-ordinate e-policing. However, it does not have a central reporting point (instead referring complainants to the yet-to-be-formed National Fraud Intelligence Bureau on its website) and the £7m funding provided by the Home Office over three years will not go far. Let's hope that they manage to leverage sufficient funding from business and other interested bodies to really make a difference.Tony Troyvia emailEmail us attech@guardian.co.uk
Diversity is coming back in the world of programming languages. Fourteen years ago, Sun introduced Java, with the mantra "write once, run anywhere", based on the fact that Java's runtime can be installed everywhere from desktop PCs and mobile phones to web servers and mainframes. Java usage soared, thanks to the backing of industry giants such as IBM and Oracle, and at one time it seemed it might be the only language a developer would need – though Microsoft countered Java by developing its own runtime platform, called .NET, able to run several languages, which was also very successful.More than wordsJava is the most popular programming language in the business world, according to statistics such as those from Indeed.com, which tracks job vacancies, but other languages are now growing. One factor is the web. "There is more serious attention being given to JavaScript and its offshoots, because it runs in the browser," says Martin Fowler, chief scientist at ThoughtWorks, which develops business software. Despite its name, JavaScript is a different language from Java. Adobe's Flash plug-in, the most common way to extend web applications with rich graphical effects, runs its own language called ActionScript, based on JavaScript. Apple's success with the Mac and the iPhone is also having an influence, as the primary language for both is Objective-C.It is not just a matter of new platforms driving new languages. "People are getting interested in the idea that they can use different languages to get different benefits," says Ola Bini, also at ThoughtWorks, who introduced sessions on emerging languages at the QCon software development conference in London last week. "The idea that one language is good enough for most tasks is a false notion. I've been in Java for a long time. Most Java developers weren't really happy because most of them were doing web development in a language that is actually very unsuited to it."The recent trend is towards dynamically typed languages, which use inference to reduce the amount of code to be written. Java, C# and C++ are "static typed" languages, whereas JavaScript, Ruby, Python and PHP (used by Facebook) use "dynamic typing". In static languages, the programmer must declare each variable's class (such as string, integer, or list) before the program runs; in dynamic typing, it is assessed as the program runs. Fowler says Ruby is between two and five times more productive than Java. "In static languages, there are all these speed bumps. You can just express yourself more rapidly in languages like Ruby and Python, and that gives you an edge. That edge does make a significant productivity difference."Relying on inference is arguably more error-prone, but developers overcome this by creating tests while programming that verify the correctness of their code. Advocates of dynamic languages also argue that their code is easier to follow, making errors less likely. Dynamic typing causes programming errors if a piece of code is expecting a variable of one type, when in fact it is another type. In static languages, such errors are caught by the compiler before the program runs, which is why some developers regard static typing as safer and more reliable. Also, today's computers have multiple processors, which means that software has to be able to split tasks into several threads that can execute simultaneously if it is to work at the greatest efficiency. "After working with C# threading, I never wanted to do threading again," said Microsoft's Amanda Laucher at QCon, explaining why her company has developed a new language called F# that is optimised for the purpose.Erlangis another example. "Many enterprises are using languages like Erlang to get better concurrency support in their systems," says Bini.Efficiency and productivity are compelling words in hard times. "Our business is growing during the recession," says Wendy Devolder, founder and chief executive of Skills Matter, which offers training in alternative languages such as Ruby and Erlang. Another benefit is that many of these new languages – Ruby, Python, PHP – are open source. "People like the fact that they can contribute and develop better ideas. With a lot of open-source products, although there may not be a formal support contract, there is actually more support because the entire community is helping one another," she adds.Multilingual approachThese trends mean that developers may have to switch languages, or work in several at once. Is that a strain? "I think it is essential that you learn multiple languages," says Ben Summers, a developer and consultant. "Programmers who stick with one programming language for all their career just aren't learning."Jason Standing, a programming contactor, says the pace of change is challenging, particularly in Microsoft's .NET world. "I am having a hard time figuring out where things are moving to because there are all these new features, add-ons and modules, and ways of doing things coming out for languages. You've also got constantly evolving best practice. It's tricky knowing which way to jump next. Sometimes you make a wrong step."Despite growing interest in emerging languages, the dominance of Java and C# is unlikely to be shaken soon. One reason is that many of the alternatives compile to a format that executes on the Java or .NET runtimes, such as Groovy and JRuby, which are dynamic languages for Java, and Iron Ruby, Iron Python and F#, which run on .NET. This enables easy integration and access to rich runtime libraries. "People are not learning new languages to escape from platforms, rather they are trying to find new ways of doing things better on the existing platforms," says Bini.Andrew Barilla, a software engineer at Verizon, loves F# and Python but expects the old stalwarts to remain dominant. "Dynamic languages are like third parties in the American political system. They exist less to win than to affect the issues brought up by the mainstream," he says, observing that Microsoft is adding dynamic features to C# 4.0, the next version. It remains true that programming languages today are more diverse and engaging than at any time since the early days of computing.
A tale of two PCsI have a desktop PC in one location and a laptop in another and amhaving problems keeping the two in phase. ­GoToMyPC sounds useful, but the price is high.Vicki EvesJS:The simplest solution would be to keep "master copies" of your files on a portable hard drive, then copy the contents to your local PCs for backup. There are lots of USB hard drives designed for portable use, including Western Digital's My Passport series, Seagate's Free­Agent Go drives, Freecom's ToughDrives and Iomega's eGo models. You can use Google's Gmail or similar to keep email in sync. Programs such as GoToMyPC and LogMeIn are useful if you need to access files remotely, and the basic level of LogMeIn is free. (If you want File Sync, you have to pay for LogMeIn Pro.) In the longer term,Microsoft Live Meshcould be the answer for automated synchronisation across multiple devices, including PCs, Macs and mobile phones. However, at the moment it is still in beta.Work safeI have all myPhD researchon an external hard drive. Is there some kind of password-protection program that I could use to protect it?David B RobertsJS:The most obvious answer is to encrypt the data withTrue Crypt), which is free, open-source software. You could encrypt the whole drive or a partition and access it transparently. You could also look at commercial alternativesCD-Lock, which works on most removable storage devices, andFolder Lock. You should also burn your data to CD-R and consider uploading it to an online storage site such as ADrive or Mozy.Floppy rescueI have an archivestored on dozens of floppy diskscreated on an old Maccirca late80s/early90s. Irememberthat the Mac's floppy drive ran at variable speeds. How would I read these files on to my current PC running Windows XP?Bill FinlayJS:Early Macs used a non-standard floppy disk format and variable speed drives, so neither PCs nor USB drives can read them now, and modern Macs have not had floppy drives for years. The simplest option is to find someone who still has an old Mac, or buy one on eBay. When Apple changed to PC-style floppies, Macs could handle both 800K and 1.44MB PC-readable floppies with the help of Apple File Exchange. If possible, copy your old floppies to a Mac that can write them to CD. Otherwise you could face the problem that old Macs (which used LocalTalk, SCSI and some odd connectors) can't talk to new Macs or PCs with USB, FireWire and ethernet ports. An online guide,Working with Macintosh Floppy Disks in the New Millenniumsays "you need OS 7.6.1 or earlier to work with 400K MFS disks" and suggests a G2 Mac running that as your best bet.Delivery failureMy Dell Inspiron laptop, which runs Vista Home Premium, has started showing an error message on start­up: "Windows delivery manager has stopped working".John CollinsonJS:You are probably running Kontiki, a peer-to-peer file-sharing service used by TV companies such as the BBC, Sky and Channel 4 to distribute video. Right-click on the Vista Taskbar and select the Task Manager. Check the tabs to see if you are running KService.exe or Khost.exe in the background.Removing the Kontiki softwareshould solve the problem. However, if you want to keep your TV on-demand service, you will have to reinstall it. Murad James has developed a freeTV On-Demand Monitorthat allows you to control it.Backchat• Adobe has fixed zero-day security vulnerabilities inAdobe Reader and Acrobat 9for Windows and Mac. For details,click here.
Were you one of those people who felt that "My PC is being held to ransom" (March 1 2007)? For two years, Technology Guardian has reported on the pop-up biller Micro Bill Systems Ltd and its successor, Platte International Ltd, based in the British Virgin Islands (but with a "management company" in the UK).Now, Platte International (UK) Ltd has shut down, leaving behind it a string of important but unanswered questions. For instance: is there an investigation by HM Revenue and Customs into unpaid VAT by Platte International (BVI)? Why did Platte International cease marketing to the UK? And will the Office of Fair Trading follow the lead of the US and outlaw "pop-up billing"?Demands for paymentThousands of computer owners in the UK were affected by the pop-up billing system of MBS and its successor. The OFT declined to ban it, despite hundreds of "responses" – we suspect predominantly complaints – on the basis that it didn't want to stifle innovation.Liz, from thembsvictims.org.ukforum, has a blunt message for the OFT. "By your lack of timely action, you have discredited consumer protection in this country and exposed consumers to financial loss and great stress," she says. "I believe that, at the very least, you owe them an apology. Then, please, outlaw all such systems so that this never happens again in the UK."A similar but unrelated operation (Movie­land) involving pop-up billing in the US was firmly stopped by the US Federal Trade Commission in August 2006. A legal decision obliged the defendants, ­Digital Enterprises, to enable the removal of the billing software and to pay more than $500,000 for consumer redress.In the UK, there are more immediate worries: are people obliged to honour demands for payment from Oriel Collections, a debt collection company based in Cheltenham, on behalf of Platte International (BVI)? An extra wrinkle is that a number of the debt demands sent by Oriel on Platte BVI's behalf are addressed to "the computer owner" at an address, despite an assurance in a letter to Stephen Byers MP from OFT chief executive John Fingleton that: "We would regard any attempt by Platte to seek payment from a computer owner solely on the basis that they are the computer owner, rather than on the basis that they took out the subscription, as a potential breach of undertakings given to the OFT." Whether that renders the debt unenforceable is unclear.The announcement that Platte's UK operation had shutcame through a written answer in parliamentin response to a question by Martin Horwood, the MP for Cheltenham. MBS – and then Platte – gave undertakings to the OFT after consumer complaints about pop-up bills for pornographic websites. Gareth Thomas, a minister at the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, said: "Platte has now informed the OFT that it would cease trading from 25 February 2009 and that Platte International Ltd (British Virgin Islands) ceased marketing to the UK from 2 February 2009."That revelation caught everyone by surprise. Platte International BVI has apparently stopped buying sponsored links on search engines so that UK consumers will not be led to sites that install its software. But why did Platte end its UK operation? Stanly Hiwat, the Brazil-based chief executive of Platte BVI, didn't answer questions on this matter. In a number of wordy emails, he did confirm that he had cancelled his "management contract" with Platte International (UK) Ltd – the company run by Ashley Bateup, the founder of MBS – and that "the [UK] company was closed down last Feb. 25th as a direct result of that decision".Notably, Hiwat did not respond to questions about VAT. By delivering electronic services to UK consumers from outside the EU, Platte BVI was required to register for VAT if the £67,000 threshold was exceeded. But when people asked for a VAT receipt from Platte BVI, it declined.Hiwat, however, does not seem enamoured of the Guardian's repeated focus on his company's behaviour. "Unfortunately, your records as published have notably and mostly not always been fair, balanced, unbiased, accurate nor correct," he said by email. He further declined to say whether Platte BVI is paying VAT to the UK government and insisted that Platte will "continue to operate a healthy business model that does not antagonise its customers". The OFT may now feel that it has seen enough of pop-up billing's unpleasant effects. Yet in March 2008, it drew back from banning the method as it wanted to strike "the right balance between protecting consumer interests without stifling innovation". At the same time, MBS became Platte International (UK), headed by Bateup, then its chief executive officer.Hiwat's decision comes two years after Ted Kenyon contacted us in February 2007 about a disruptive window – a pop-up bill – appearing on his PC. A £19.99 charge was demanded for access to a pornographic website that offered a three-day free trial for anonymous access, following which charges were made backed by lengthy terms and conditions. The lawyer Simon Briskman of Field Fisher Waterhouse wondered then if the terms were unfair. Removing the software proved impossible; as a result, people felt compelled to pay up. "I'm extremely sympathetic with people suffering from this because it's difficult to do anything other than pay these people off. More effectively, complain to the OFT," Briskman said.QuestiontimeThousands more of the pop-ups, and complaints, followed. In July 2007, BBC Radio 4's You and Yours programme began questioning the company's method – which eventually involved sending letters threatening court action for non-payment. More recently, Platte appointed Oriel Collections Ltd to chase unpaid pop-up bills (adding a further £25). Bateup has since said only that he resigned on 27 February: " ... my decision to resign was not because of any failures of our UK business but rather as a direct result of Platte's decision to cease marketing to the UK market … " Yet it is hard to see how ending marketing to the UK can be seen as anything but a failure for Platte BVI. Meanwhile, Platte BVI and Oriel continue to send out debt letters.Horwood, the MP for Cheltenham, didn't know (until we told him) about the 3,500 contacts made by consumers to Trading Standards regarding MBS and Platte International. "Is the OFT going to be taking action? Have they got any confidence that there isn't going to be another company popping up under a different name but doing effectively the same thing? What powers do we have to stop this?" he asks. "We don't seem to have a very effective regime for managing this … and obviously we should have, preferably at European or if not international level."Horwood now intends to write to Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, for answers. Outlawing pop-up billing, he agrees, seems an "obvious and simple solution". And he's also concerned about the VAT issues first raised by this newspaper. "I might be writing to [the chancellor] Alistair Darling as well to ask if HM Revenue and Customs are collecting all they're entitled to." Although the porn pop-up biller Platte may no longer be marketing here, major issues – and hidden software on your PC – remain.The lowdownHow many complaints have there been to West Yorkshire Trading Standards about Platte International and Micro Bill Systems (MBS)?We don't know. WYTS says there are 1,575 "contacts" about PlatteInternational and 1,957&nbsp;about Micro Bill Systems. Not all are necessarily complaints.Why did Plattestop marketing toUK?No one will say. "Our reasons for this decision and our further intentions are simply related to our original marketing and business model," says Stanly ­Hiwat, chief executive of Platte International (BVI). He would not elaborate.Is HM Revenue and Customs investigating Plattefor ­unpaid VAT?"I have no idea of any past or present investigations, but welcome any proof you have of any such investigations," says Hiwat. HMRC will not confirm or deny any investigations.Why is Oriel Collections Ltd still demanding money on behalf of Platte International?Because Platte International (BVI) hired it. "We will continue to pursue genuine debt for genuine services provided as long as our client requires our service, although all action will be exhausted in the coming weeks," says Adrian Stalley, managing director of operations and finance, Oriel Collections LtdAre internet security companies providing detection and removal for Micro Bill Systems and Platte International software?Prevx Edge will detect and remove Micro Bill Systems and Platte International software.Symantec products will detect and remove Micro Bill Systems and Platte International software.Trend Micro's free online scanner, HouseCall, detects and removes Platte International software. Removal for Micro Bill Systems software may be added.
South by Southwest is not a computer games conference, or so I've been told. The annual festival in Austin, Texas, is supposed to be the folly of web geeks, that brand of brainiacs who make (or want to make) Facebook and Twitter, rather than the breed responsible for Halo or Grand Theft Auto. Yet, sitting in the Austin Convention Centre last weekend, I spotted Halo's Master Chief wandering through the hallway. Later that afternoon, Six to Start, the alternate reality game-makers from Clerkenwell, London, won both the experimental category at the SXSWi awards and the best in show gong.I've been playing The Hat Game, created by Simon Games from Bristol, that takes place around Austin. And over the five days of the conference, I've sat in on scheduled panels that included: "So you want to be a games programmer"; "iPhone: the new gaming platform"; "How to be a successful indie game developer"; and "What games can teach us". For a conference that's not about games, they're making it difficult to think about the web.This year's event took as its starting point last year's denouement: social gaming. After Jane McGonigal's game-themed keynote speech stormed the house last year, the conference in 2009 has gone game crazy; attendees have sat rapt as the local developer and celebrated game guru Warren Spector described collaborative systems; as the fl0w and Flower creator Kellee Santiago talked about collaborative processes; and as the Aurora Feint developer Danielle Cassely postmortemed the social features of her massively multiplayer iPhone game.I blame the weberati's obsession with implementing computer game mechanics into their inherently social and mainstream products. Originally a way to stay above water by making their sites more sticky, developers now recognise the importance of social play in their community development and pour them into the design mix.Of course, part of the attraction is that games are viewed as a way to get rich quick: thanks to the iPhone, the iTunes App Store has become the place to make millions. Literally. Enigmo's creators, Pangea Software, pulled in a cool $1.5m (£1m) in the seven months after they released their Mac port, which they made for an outlay of two weeks at the computer and $0 down. Yes, it's not surprising there's been an iPhone gold rush, and the emphasis on games here has likely been thanks to the popularity of this system.While the big console names didn't raise their voices above a whisper in sunny Texas, preferring instead to wait until next week's Game Developers Conference in San Francisco to make themselves heard, Austin has been the place to be for newbies interested in getting into this space. If next week's gig is about the major players, this week has foreshadowed what GDC attendees will be talking about in 2010. With the global game developer scene contracting – more layoffs were announced this week – there will soon be a boom in small studios seeking ways to continue their trades. Batten your hatches, SXSWi; while you may now be all about the web, you'll be a games conference yet.
SXSW Interactive is well known for being a five-day hothouse for trends, and this year – despite a slightly more sober atmosphere – was no exception. The unofficial theme could have been real-time, from search to conference coverage and socialising. Festival buzz was amplified on big screens through the centre, which scraped SXSWi-related posts from Twitter and folksonomised conversations and party gossip. As in previous years, corridors were still lined with geeks and their laptops, but there was noticeably less lengthy blogging and more time spent on netbooks and phones issuing pithy tweets during sessions. And consequently the convention centre's wireless was flawless all festival, while iPhone users had brought AT&amp;T's mobile network to its knees by the first day.The British contingent was bigger than ever, with more than 35 digital startups promoting themselves on a UK Trade &amp; Investment trip. The Swiss startup Poken was attracting attention: the plastic RFID characters are right at home at a geek conference, where they let owners swap contact details without the need for those old-fashioned business cards, though the product is very rough around the edges.Fish for friendsAnd Facebook's traditional SXSWi appearance unveiled Facebook Connect for the iPhone, along with a slew of popular launch partners. Another footnote in the social networking site's strategy of developer-friendly expansion, the launch means developers can design games that exploit the iPhone's location, combined with allowing users to play against other Facebook friends online.SGN's Agency Wars will appeal to a traditional gaming audience interested in placing real-world clues and tagging those locations, but for its fellow launch partner Playfish, which produces three of the top 10 Facebook games, location is still too niche. The goal is to appeal to a far more mainstream casual gaming audience – and it has an eye on Facebook's 175 million users. The Playfish strategy is that there is far more incentive for users to compete with people they know than with strangers – so expect to be pestered by Facebook friends soon, asking you to find out "who has the biggest brain?".Predictably, location-based services were a major feature this year, with launches that included Foursquare, a social, location-based game by the Dodgeball creator, Dennis Crowley, and a new Facebook application for the location management tool Fire Eagle. While early adopters such as the SXSWers have been exploring location-based services for some time, it is inevitable that more consumer and privacy-friendly versions will start to creep into the mainstream.Tom Coates, who heads up the Fire Eagle project for Yahoo, said there had been a gradual but perceptible shift in the information that the public feel comfortable publishing online. Previously, people were told not to put anything online that could identify them – their name, job or contact information. Now many web users have detailed profiles on social networking sites that often share intimate information."People do have some very reasonable anxieties, but they also have some very irrational ones," says Coates. "We have to give them a range of settings that give them control over their location, but also explain and reassure them."Fire Eagle users can update their location once and set up multiple applications to use that information in different ways. There are already 70 applications that plug into Fire Eagle, including one that shows local jobs, one that updates your location from your BlackBerry and now Friends on Fire for Facebook, which shows you and your friends' location on a map.The new Facebook application exploits another huge area of discussion at SXSWi – plugging services into a users' social network. Coates says he visualises several core data-sets at the centre of developing technologies: the first of these was social networks and the second is location. "Some will argue that people are very pliable, and that technology manipulates them, but that's not the way I understand the world. I believe there is an under­lying human nature that is not optimised or expressed, and that technology can give them tools to extend their abilities."Social relationships are just one set of data that has become core to many services online, but location could similarly transform "virtually every service"; from displaying emails sent by people in your own office to Flickr photos from your home town. Coates describes Flickr as "a microcosm of the internet" because of the multiple axes to navigate the more than 3bn photos on the site.Lighting the wayWhile many social networks are competing on complex features, Coates says the rise of Twitter demonstrates the value of paring services down to their simplest functionality. The popularity of smartphones is pushing that trend, demanding simplified versions of services.The web – whether mobile or desk-based – will continue to evolve as "the best and most powerful interface" for managing all the information in our lives, from professional and social relationships to the data consumption of our homes, and even new tools that track our blood pressure or heart rate. Real-time updates and location services will be accepted as essential, switching the lights on in your house just before you walk up the front path, for example, or sending you an alert if your front door is opened while you're out.
I spent an agreeable half hour in my local Sainsbury's last week. Not shopping but scanning. For some years, some smartphones have been able to read barcodes on products from cola cans to newspapers, but it always seemed like a technology looking for something to do. It is ­almost two years sinceI last tried it outon a Nokia N95. So when I discovered that an on-loan T-Mobile phone embracing Google's Android operating system had a barcode reader, I thought I would give it another go. Some ­industry ­experts think barcodes have reached a tipping point and are about to take off in the west as they have done in Japan, where more than 70% of subscribers use them. I scanned lots of products simply by clicking on the phone's barcode application, which produces a box with a line through it. After pointing the box at the barcode, it suddenly latches on to it without any need to click and connects to the internet to download data. This is mostly mundane. I clicked on one barcode and up came Old Jamaica ginger beer. Great, but I could find that out simply by looking at the can. It could have had more data, but the manufacturers have chosen not to exploit it.Does this mean barcodes are dead? Not at all. The reason is they are now changing from being producer-led to consumer-led. The best example is ShopSavvy, which won Google's Android Developer Challenge. Having scanned a conventional barcode, it not only searches for the best prices for the same product on the internet but is able to use the phone's GPS function to discover nearby stores with a better price. That could prove popular with recession-conscious shoppers. If you search for ShopSavvy onsearch.twitter.com, you can get up-to-date information about current bargains even if you don't have a barcode reader. I described it as a "conventional" barcode because they are often regarded as yesterday's technology, having been overtaken by so-called 2D or QR (quick response) barcodes of a kind that have gone ballistic in Japan. As Mobile Entertainment reports this month, they are even on tombstones over there, ­enabling relatives to call up photos and other information about the deceased. Instead of having straight lines of various thicknesses, QR codes are small squares – with lots of data contained in even tinier black squares inside – which, when scanned, take your phone directly to a website or link.For years I have thought that QR codes could help sustain newspapers and magazines, as you would be able to scan a code at the end of an article to link you directly with an update on it, a video clip or a relevant advert on the web. The Sun tried it over a year ago, and it attracted 11,000 people within a month. This was despite the hassle of downloading the software rather than having a one-click operation with the software already embedded in the phone – as happens with the Nokia and Android models. One of the reasons barcodes haven't taken off in the UK is that, whereas in Japan the dominant operator in effect imposed a standard, here different companies are peddling their own in the forlorn hope of sweeping all competitors aside. How many times have we heard that before?Barcode technology is not standing still. Scientists in Australia at Edith Cowan University claim to have developed "dense" barcodes with the capacity to store data for images, ringtones and even video within the barcode itself. So you could point your phone at a dense barcode on, say, the sports pages and "download" a video of a goal to your phone without even going near the internet. Phew. There is a (printed) magazine in Japan called Tada Gets that is composed overwhelmingly of QR codes in various shapes and colours that link to items on the web through your phone. It reverses the paradigm that gives newspaper owners so many sleepless nights. Instead of the web feeding off papers for nothing, punters pay for a ­magazine that battens off the web. Discuss.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
As the global financial malaise bites, most of us will have to make do with our existing IT gear for longer. On the other hand, it's difficult to be productive on a slow PC, buckling underneath years of accumulated digital detritus and resource-hungry new software.This is where Symantec's Norton Utilities 14 for Windows XP and Vista promise to make your PC "as good as new", boost performance and solve common problems. NU14 has pedigree in geek circles spanning decades: named after Peter Norton, the pink-shirted super-nerd with a steady "I can fix it" gaze who graced the packaging for years, NU used to be the techie's tool suite.I had the perfect computer to test NU14 on: the kids' Sony Vaio laptop, with about four years of rough usage on the clock. Its 2.2GHz Intel Celeron processor should have more life left in it, but a meagre 256MB of system memory means the XP operating system hasn't got much room to stretch its legs.In fact, the laptop behaved like a tranquilised sloth and the kids complained that they couldn't even do their homework on it. So on to it went NU14. Once it's up and running, you're presented with a menu screen to access the different applications used to optimise and monitor the PC.At first glance, there are lots of tools, but you soon discover that most are shortcuts to built-on Windows ones, like the file system defragmenter. Others appear to have been purchased and bundled into NU14 by Symantec, instead of being developed by it. And where are all the low-level tools for poking around Windows? The Clean Your Disks tool overwrites empty disk space, to prevent recovery of deleted files, and removes temporary files left by applications, but that's it. Documentation for NU14 is contained in a PDF file on the installation CD; that and the online help could be a great deal more comprehensive.To get an idea of how the laptop performed, I ran the Performance Test by PassMark in NU14. The score of 165 was pretty awful, so I ran all the optimisation features of NU14: clean and defragment the registry, remove unnecessary startup programs and change the status of Windows services, or applications that run in the background.Doing that and defragmenting the drive on the laptop was painfully slow, taking several hours. Expecting to see a substantial improvement, I ran Performance Test again and got a score of 174. The laptop was a little faster to start up, but not faster to use.Frankly, this makes NU14 a disappointing buy for £40. Peter Norton must be glad that Symantec has removed his likeness from the packaging, because NU14 is nothing to write home about.I managed to bump up the Performance Test score to 210 however, and make the laptop if not exactly snappy, usable. How? By buying another 512MB of memory, which can be had for £10-£15. Now why didn't NU14 tell me to do that?Pros:easy to useCons:performance improvement negligible, pricey, poorly documented, many tools already available in Windowssymantec.co.uk
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday March 23 2009We said in the report below that the BioWeatherMap project had been nicknamed Google Flu. To clarify, there is no connection between DIYbio, the organisation that runs BioWeatherMap, and GoogleMeredith Patterson is not your typical genetic scientist. Her laboratory is based in the dining room of her San Francisco apartment. She uses a plastic salad spinner as a centrifuge and Ziploc plastic bags as airtight containers for her samples. But the genetically modified organism (GMO) she is attempting to create on a budget of less than $500 (£350) could provide a breakthrough in food safety.The 31-year-old ex-computer programmer and now biohacker is working on modifying jellyfish genes and adding them to yoghurt to detect the toxic chemical melamine, which was found in baby milk in China last year after causing a number of deaths, and kidney damage to thousands of infants. Her idea is to engineer yoghurt so that in the presence of the toxin it turns fluorescent green, warning the producer that the food is contaminated. If her experiment is successful, she will release the design into the public domain."I haven't had a huge amount of success so far," says Patterson. "But science is often about failing until you get it right." She has decided to invest in an electro­porator she found on eBay for $150, which should speed things up. "It's actually not that hard. It's a bit like making yoghurt. And if there's material left over from the experiment, I can eat it," she says.Evolving communityPatterson is just one of dozens of citizen scientists setting up their own gene laboratories in the hope of inventing new and useful organisms. A community is evolving to take advantage of low-cost, off-the-shelf genetic parts and increasing knowledge in biological engineering. International competitions such as the International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) and io9 Mad Science contest have already produced a number of stars, with practical innovations in medicine, agriculture and biocomputing.However, Helen Wallace of GeneWatch in the UK thinks biohacking could be dangerous. "It is increasingly easy to order genes by mail," she says. "Something like smallpox is hard to get, but there are other organisms that could become harmful. If you change a living organism's properties, you could also change its interactions with the environment or the human body." She adds: "Scientists are notorious for not seeing the unintended consequences."Reshma Shetty is part of the team behind Ginkgo Bioworks, a Massachusetts-based company aiming to make DIY biotechnology a reality. She says: "Nowadays, biotechnology is like a medieval guild. Firstly, you have to get a PhD, but if you want to practise you then need venture capital, otherwise you don't have the tools." Ginkgo aims to make the process easier by offering off-the-shelf biological components and a third-party service for rapid prototyping. "This will take power away from patent owners like Monsanto and pave the way for more people to have a positive impact," she says.Ginkgo has already constructed GMOs that release the odour of bananas, turn red or glow in the dark, and is developing a host of new organisms that will all be in the public domain. "They're not harmful pathogens," she says. "Complex organisms make use of the same components to do all this incredible stuff without any harmful chemicals … In 10 years, all sorts of new stuff will have been done."Jim Thomas, of the environmental thinktank ETC Group, says: "The risk is we have limited knowledge of how these things work. GM crops have out-crossed [bred with non-GM plants] after we were told they wouldn't. GM bacteria for transforming crops into biofuels have been shown to damage soil. Where is the oversight?"MacKenzie Cowell is a founding member of Boston-based DIYbio, which provides tools and advice to biohackers. In May they will co-ordinate the first "Flash Lab", sending out 1,000 volunteers to take swabs from pedestrian crossing buttons around Boston. The data will be analysed to produce a BioWeatherMap of bacteria roaming the city.Outbreak"We think we'll pick up all sorts of surprising stuff," says Cowell. "I was sick for three days with the symptoms of salmonella last year, before finding out there had been an outbreak in New York where I was staying." This inspired him to start the project, which has been nicknamed "Google Flu". "We hope to get out and do these once a month," he says, "but it could happen far more frequently."Benefits may come from increased access and transparency in science, but sometimes the authorities have difficulty recognising it. In 2004, the art professor Steve Kurtz was arrested as a suspected bioterrorist because Petri dishes with bacteria in them were found at his home in New York state, after his wife had died of a heart attack. Last year Victor Deeb, a retired chemist, had his basement laboratory taken apart by US environmental officials after a fire in the apartment upstairs. He was trying to make safe surface coatings for food containers using chemicals less hazardous than those found in household cleaners.In Britain, regulations are far stricter. Chris French, a lecturer at Edinburgh University and local biological safety officer, says: "There's very little that can be done at a home address … GMOs are very strictly regulated by the Health and Safety Executive – and for sound reasons. Working with living things which can potentially escape and grow offers potential hazards."Surgical tasksThis hasn't stopped UK university teams from developing a host of useful biological innovations over the last few years. One of the winners of last year's iGEM competition was Bristol University's Bacto-Builders project, using teams ofE. colibacteria to perform surgical tasks that single organisms would find impossible. Its project is moving forward in collaboration with the TiGEM genetics laboratory in Italy."We are in the nascent stages of some kind of DIY biotechnology network in the UK," says Kim de Mora, a biology PhD student at Edinburgh University. "But … it's going to be hard to set up a garage industry because of the regulations."De Mora was part of a team that developed an arsenic detector for contaminated water in Bangladesh.E. colibacteria were modified using BioBrick components to produce a warning signal in the presence of arsenic. If their working prototype is developed into a commercial product, it will be much cheaper than existing technologies. "The real potential of biotechnology will explode in the UK after people are given access at home," predicts De Mora.In the meantime, iGEM's global Registry of Standard Biological Parts is doubling the size of its catalogue of organic building blocks every year. Within the next decade, millions upon millions of new synthetic organisms are sure to be created. The question is: who will be allowed to create them? At the moment, it looks like the future of biotechnology could be more diverse and volatile than anyone had imagined.• This article was amended on Tuesday March 24 2009 to correct a quote from Jim Thomas. He said GM bacteria used for making biofuels, rather than GM biofuels had been shown to damage soil.
When my editor woke me from my hungover bed in Austin to ask for 300 quick words on the spirit of this year's SXSWi, I balked at the word limit. Three hundred words? Frankly, I could do it in seven: the last days of Sodom and Gomorrah. I don't care what you tell your boss; SXSWi is not a business conference. Sure, the BBQ joints and bars do a roaring trade, but for everyone else, it's a five-day party - the Spring Break of social media, the Cancun of coding.And that's what makes it the perfect bellwether for the dotcom sector's mood. Last year, when the livin' was still easy for startups and layoff carnage was unimaginable, every night boasted a dozen must-go parties, all with free beer, skiploads of food and all the Guitar Hero you could eat. Alongside the American success stories, the Brits were out in force - covered in Last.fm stickers and drinking Moo.com-sponsored booze. The mood was jolly, the confidence high and the drunkenness good-natured. This year, without doubt, we are witnessing The End of the Fun. The drunkenness is still here, but it's much less subsidised and far less good-natured.In 2007, the big story was the arrival of Twitter; last year, Sarah Lacy's keynote with Mark Zuckerberg had everyone talking. Sure, Twitter was hot, largely because it facilitated easier partying, and the Lacy-Zuckerberg keynote was a talking point because of the bizarre online mob furore it prompted, but this was still real substance: a genuinely game-changing technology and a keynote discussion between a BusinessWeek reporter and the CEO of Facebook.This year, the only buzz is how hammered everyone is getting, who drunkenly "made out" with who and who showed up to their panel still wasted from the night before. If your boss wouldn't give you a party pass to Texas this year, take it from me - you were one of the lucky ones. This is an industry drinking to forget how screwed it is; and it's not pretty to watch.
Just when you thought the public sector IT scene had gone all wiki and web 2.0, along comes the chance to stage a grand, old-fashioned, big bucks, big contract project fiasco. The setting is the new national identity system being built by the Identity and Passport Service to support biometric ID cards and passports. Early next month, the service will place two contracts adding up to around &pound;800m to get the programme under way.Connoisseurs of government IT cockups will recall that this sector has form. A decade ago, the old passport agency was responsible for an archetypal project disaster when it imposed new IT systems against a rigid deadline on staff alienated by reorganisation and an office already struggling with a new requirement to issue millions of passports to children.When news of delays got out, anxious travellers besieged passport offices - provoking another surge of applications. The agency was reduced to ordering 1,200 umbrellas for applicants queueing in the rain. (Typically, the umbrellas arrived too late, languished in some Petty France basement for a while and were eventually given to charity.)Lessons have been learned, as they say. The systems installed in 1999 turned out to work well in the end - most of the mistakes were ones of implementation and politics. Given the massive political profile of the ID card, the Identity and Passport Service chiefs will do their damnedest not to repeat them.To reduce the risk, the programme will not be given to a single prime contractor but split into discrete deals. In the biggest, CSC and Fujitsu are shortlisted for a 10-year, &pound;500m contract to supply basic passport systems. A separate &pound;300m contract to supply the National Biometric Information Service, which will store fingerprints and facial images, is being contested by IBM and Thales. The winners are expected to be announced in the first two weeks of April. The card itself will be produced by another supplier under a separate, shorter-term contract to be awarded later this year. Splitting the contracts in this way at a stroke removes the most immediate threat - of an incoming Conservative government cancelling the whole thing. Although the Tories could indeed cancel the card, the underlying systems and biometrics will be needed anyway to meet international passport standards and the whole infrastructure can be kept on tick-over if a future government decides it wants cards after all.As for more run-of-the-mill project management risks, the ID team says it has some ideas up its sleeve. One is to require contractors to agree an acceptable code of behaviour under a "partnering handbook" that will form part of the contract. The idea here is to avoid the kind of breakdown in relationships that led to Fujitsu's departure from the NHS national programme for IT.To avoid being taken for a ride by contractors, the agency is also reversing the trend of "hollowing out" in the government's in-house IT capacity, by hiring up to 100 project staff this year, on top of 150 last year. Here, history is on its side: in the current economic climate, many technical high flyers will see a career in the ID service as more attractive than one in the city.None of these measures, however, can remove the biggest systemic flaw. History has shown that implementing big IT-based programmes is difficult enough even when stakeholders all wish for success. Here, a significant number of stakeholders actively want the scheme to fail. I'm not predicting disaster, just noting that each unhappy IT programme is interesting in its own way. I'm expecting this one to be interesting.
A single spoken word takes three breaths and a great deal of willpower for Geoffrey Roberts: like thousands of people, he has cerebral palsy, which also makes his speech nearly unintelligible to those who do not know him. His limited speech is a source of great frustration for his otherwise nimble mind.That is why a technology being developed at Barnsley Hospital and Sheffield University is nothing short of revolutionary for people like him. The Voice Input Voice Output Communication Aid (Vivoca) uses speech recognition technology to translate severely distorted words into clear sentences. It can also communicate entire sentences having heard only one or two key words.The aid consists of a handheld computer and a wireless Bluetooth headset. Users will also be able to choose from a range of male and female recorded voices and regional dialects. Voices in the bank already include the Barnsley poet Ian McMillan and the Yorkshire BBC newsreader Christa Ackroyd. People who are slowly losing their speech - through Parkinson's or motor neurone disease, for instance - can record their voice before it has completely deteriorated.Roberts, 37, uses a wheelchair and lives with his mother and carer, Joan, in Barnsley. He is one of several people testing out the gadget. "The Vivoca has given me a chance to be taken seriously," he says. "In my own way I have always been a chatterbox but with the help of Vivoca I can talk with less physical effort, which makes life a lot easier."Joan adds: "People are so impatient, and just walk away from him when he's trying to talk. Now he can actually have a conversation."At the click of a button, the pocket-sized device can also give automated commands and responses to common questions.At Sheffield University, Professor Mark Hawley, who helped design the aid, says it is one of the most exciting developments in years for people with severe dysarthria (imperfect speech due to damage to the nervous system). "We've found a way of making synthetic speech sound like a real person. We're hoping to get it running on mobile phones too."Professor Phil Green, head of computer science at the university, says: "There are no other devices out there equivalent to this. It's getting nearer completion and is just having its first field trials with the disabled population."It will be another two years before the aid is available on the NHS, and is one of a number of technologies being developed by the National Institute of Health Research's Invention for Innovation scheme.• This article was amended on Saturday 28 March 2009. The report above said the speech aid Vivoca is being developed under a government-funded scheme called Devices for Dignity. In fact the funding for the project came from the National Institute of Health Research's Invention for Innovation scheme. This has been corrected.
Slimmer DellDell has announced the Adamo as the world's thinnest laptop, with UK prices starting at &pound;1,649.Longer lasting laptop batteriesBoston-Power has launched some quick-charging Sonata lithium ion laptop batteries that are said to last three years.iTunes alternativePeople who use the Songbird open music player can now download MP3s from 7digital.com's library of 6m songs.All-day computingAsus says it is preparing to launch the Eee PC 1000HE netbook with "up to 9.5 hours of battery life".Talk to the webIBM's India Research Lab has proposed a Hyperspeech Transport Protocol (HSTP) that will enable people to talk to the web.Skip itMySkip.com is "a virtual skip where you can either rummage or dispose of useful items that might otherwise end up in landfill".Age Concern onlineThis week, Age Concern is running events to help older people to learn about online social networking. Call 0800 100 900 quoting "myfriends".Vipre PC RescueSunbelt Software has released a command line scanner to help clean up PCs that are too infected with malware to run properly.
Wait for the catherine wheels!In this Chinese town, they can't afford (or don't want to bother with) fireworks, so they throw molten metal at a wall to get the same effect. But don't worry - they've got a sheepskin for protection.Did you once play Batman too?What if Superman were remade in India and had dance numbers? You don't have to imagine it, because here is the Man of Steel. Somewhat molten steel, judging by that straining belt around his middle.She's a size 00 - Hornby gaugeUnveiled in Japan this week: a "fashion robot". Dah-ling, she weighs 43 kilos! She's on an oil diet right away!• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Last week a US court received a retrial request when it was revealed that juror Johnathan Powell had been sharing details of the $12.6m case via Twitter. Powell's comments included tweeting, within hours of the verdict, "I just gave away TWELVE MILLION DOLLARS of somebody else's money!"Meanwhile rapper Sean "Diddy" Combs recently blessed his 189,634 online followers with the message, "For all those just tuning in. I'm 6 and half hrs in on a 36 hour tantric sex session. Welcome."Inspired by such digital over-sharing we went in search of Twitter's most inappropriate tweeters.During a funeral@Mylittlegeodude: At a funeral ... :(@beth10lol: at a funeral but i dont know the person so i am playing on the computer on twitter right now what about you guysIn court@rosemaryninja: I'm in court. Anyone know a good oscars live-tweet i can follow?@RaymondFoxchase: I'm in court. Some odd guy has shot somebuffalos, we can't have any of that ;)In the office@lelesworld: I'm in the office now ... boneheads galore. It's so sad how stupid people can be. I surprised they can even dial a phone.@AlroWooler: hates the stupid cow that sits opposite me at work, I soooo badly want to get away from her nastyness!!!!!!!!!!!!At a wedding@anishb: is feeling royally out of place. Is at a wedding reception wearing jeans and sneakers ...@DCCOX: Wondering why I agreed to be a "plus one" at a wedding ... I don't even know these people!With a patient@LisaT24: Got a patient with both thighs fractured. The deformity is quite a sight.@ankurjain84: Told a patient's family that she has small cell carcinoma of the lung ... ouch@aletha301: Pray! I'm sitting with a patient in a tiny room untilmidnight. I have to watch her bc she's suicidal :(
In the annual Pwn2Own at the CanSecWest security conference in Vancouver, fully patched machines are set up, and you can win one by being first to hack it (rules). Last year, Charlie Miller hacked theMacBook Airin about two minutes. This year, as he'd warned beforehand, he pwned a fully patched MacBook in a few seconds, by exploiting a security vulnerability in Apple's Safari browser, asRyan Naraine reports at ZD Net.The drive-by attack also won Miller a $10,000 prize.Given Safari's security record, it's not exactly a surprise to see the Mac being first to fall again, though it must be embarrassing for Apple to see its machines get pwned so much more easily than Vista PCs.Miller's predictionsbefore the event were as follows:Safari: hacked by 4 different people.  Easy pickin's as usual.Android: hacked by 1 person.  Not too tough but no one owns one.IE8, Firefox: Survive unscathed. The bugs to exploit equation is too hard for $5k.iPhone, Symbian: Survive due to non-executable heap.Blackberry, Windows Mobile, Chrome: I don't know enough to say anything intelligent.  That said, they're probably hard/obscure and so surviveI don't expect Chrome to survive, but we'll see....
IBMis understood to be in talks with rivalSun Microsystemsover an $8bn takeover that would bring together two of America's biggest computing firms.It would also see the rather buttoned-up East Coast style of IBM, based north-east of New York in Armonk, softened by the more entrepreneurial attitude to business of Sun, based in Santa Clara, California.While neither side would comment today, IBM is believed to have offered as much as $6.5bn in cash for Sun, which has almost $1.5bn in cash on its balance sheet giving the whole deal a value of $8bn.Shares in Sun, which have plunged in the past year in part because of its reliance on financial services clients, leapt as much as 80% on the news. Shares in IBM, meanwhile, were marked slightly lower on fears that it could be squandering its cash pile on a company that does not have an obvious cultural fit.While the two sides may run their businesses in different ways, the deal would help IBM bolster its position in the market for the servers that companies use to run their corporate IT networks and are found in the world's data centres. Earlier this week rival Cisco announced that it would be entering the server market, in direct competition with IBM, which is the world's biggest maker of servers."A Sun acquisition would give IBM control over much of the hardware and software running in legacy and modern data centres," explained Jeff Goldberg, senior analyst with Boston-based consulting firm Celent.A deal would also strengthen IBM's position as companies turn to the internet for the delivery of products and services.Sun has been one of the drivers of the development of open standards for web computing and developed the Java programming language which is now used worldwide. As such, it has been an ally for IBM in the battle against Microsoft, although it has struggled to make major financial returns on some of its inventions."Sun's growth strategy of appealing to developers throughopen source software– Open Solaris, MySQL, NetBeans, GlassFish – and hoping they will then turn to Sun for servers and storage won't work in a global recession," explained John Rymer, an analyst at Forrester research house. "The strategy depended on the rise of a new wave of internet businesses and expansion of the internet offerings of telcos and existing large service providers. In a global recession, neither camp is growing at the rates Sun needs. So, for Sun, the game is over and it has to sell."News of the talks could also flush out other bidders such as Hewlett-Packard, which has looked at a deal with Sun in the past.
In the late 1960s, Bushnell studied electrical engineering at the University of Utah, where he came across Steve Russell's seminal Spacewar on the PDP-1 mainframe and even Willie Higinbotham's Tennis For Two, an oscilloscope game devised in the 1950s.Enthused by these early attempts at videogames, and having run a (mechanical) arcade while a student, Bushnell created the first arcade games machine, Computer Space, in 1971. Manufactured by Nutting Associates, Computer Space's complexity proved baffling, and it wasn't a success.But in 1972, Bushnell and Ted Dabney, along with programmer Al Alcorn, formed Atari, where their first effort, Pong – inspired by a tennis game on the first console, Ralph Baer's Magnavox Odyssey – was the first commercially successful videogame. Here, he recounts the story of those early days.Steve Boxer: I'd like to take you back a bit – you're known as the father of the games industry. But where did it all start for you? You had access to a DEC PDP-1 and Spacewar at university?Nolan Bushnell:Yes. I sort of stand on the shoulders of a guy named Steve Russell, who programmed the PDP-1 in, I think, 1962. I played the game when I was in college, and I thought: "Hey, there's a business here if I can drop the cost." So I did, and it worked.SB: Then you created Computer Space, which was the first coin-op games machine?NB:That's correct. I was actually the manager of the games department of an amusement park when I was at college, so I understood the coin-op side of the games business very well. That was an easy place to enter, because you didn't have to drive costs down so much. In the consumer marketplace, costs become even more draconian.SB: But you weren't entirely happy with its success? There was a sense that it was perhaps too complex and people were baffled by it?NB:No question about it. I like to say that all my friends loved it, but all my friends were engineers.SB: What were those days like? How much drive did you have to have, and how obsessed did you have to be to even turn it into a product and get it on sale?NB:It was very, very difficult. Everything was very hard. A lot of people don't realise that a video screen sucks data at a massive rate. And the logic in those days was just mind-numbingly slow. So you really had to perform tricks to get the information out fast enough. Processors in those days had clock speeds of 200,000Hz – 2kHz; not even a Megahertz, let alone a Gigahertz.SB: What was the story behind Pong and the Atari 2600? Had you already had the idea for a home console? Had you had many dealings with Ralph Baer at that stage?NB:Not really – we were in a situation where we had created a whole bunch of paper designs, and the ping-pong game is sort of a standard. In fact, the very first game, even before Steve Russell, was an oscilloscope tennis game by a guy called Willie Higginbotham. We played one of those on the university machine, and seeing the Magnavox kind of reminded me of it. So I said: "This is not a very fun game – let's make it better," never thinking that would be a commercial success. We felt that it would be a good training exercise, because it was so simple. We turned it into a game for the first time, because the essence of Pong is the way the paddle works – where you hit the ball on the paddle determines the angle at which it comes off. That little tweak turned it from a non-game into a game, and I've always felt that that innovation that Al did was the thing that made Pong really special.SB: But Ralph Baer threatened to sue you for ripping him off when Pong was a success?NB:I never thought that Ralph's attacks were worth anything. But, you know, I'm a businessman and I took the attitude that if I can license something for less than what it would cost to litigate, why not do it. Ralph talks a lot about us licensing it, but I got a paid-up licence for 0.006%. That's what we call a garbage licence.Bushnell on the Atari yearsAfter getting Pong into the arcades, and making a hard-wired home console version of the game, Bushnell turned his attentions to the Atari Video Computer System, later to become known as the 2600, which proved to be the first console that could be described as a runaway success.But the whole process was tricky for Bushnell, who struggled to raise the cash to design and manufacture the 2600. To such an extent that when Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak approached him, wanting Atari to make and sell what would be their first Apple computer, he turned their proposal down.In 1976, Bushnell sold Atari to Warner Communications for $28m; the 2600 came out in 1977. But Bushnell constantly clashed with the new management, and was forced off the board in 1978. As he walked away from the industry he effectively founded – devoting his energies to the Chuck E. Cheese restaurant chain – Atari proceeded to dominate the fledgling games industry. Until it crashed, spectacularly, in 1984.SB: Did you know that Pong and then the 2600 would be such a huge success, and would effectively spawn what is now the games industry in the process?NB:You know, it's interesting. I saw it as being a multi-million-dollar business. I didn't see it as being quite as explosive a success as it turned out to be. You know, when you're building something, you know all of the trade-offs, and I always felt that the 2600 was – in that gaming space – kind of a stepping-stone, and that maybe it would be on the market for two or three years. After I sold the company to Warner, I said: "Well, we've got to get started on the next version." And they were horrified. I think that one of the big mistakes that happened was that the 2600 was pushed too hard, too far, and there wasn't a gentle transition to the newer technology.SB: Atari had a golden period when it dominated the industry, then everything went wrong in the early to-mid 1980s, with things like the notorious ET landfill fiasco. How involved with the company were you then, and how bad a period was that for you?NB:I left the company in 1978, and I really had massive, massive disagreements with how Warner was running the company. I really saw that they were going to totally screw it up. The only thing that I was wrong about is that it took them two years longer than I thought it would.SB: What are your favourite games from your time at Atari?NB:I always loved both Breakout and Asteroids – I thought they were really good games. There was another game called Tempest that I thought was really cool, and it represented a really hard technology. It's probably one of the only colour-vector screens that was used in the computer graphics field at that time.SB: What's your biggest regret?NB:Selling Atari when I did – I think that's my biggest regret. And I probably should have gotten back heavily into the games business in the late Eighties. But I was operating under this theory at the time that the way to have an interesting life was to reinvent yourself every five or six years. So I did Chuck E. Cheese and things in automobile navigation. It's made for a very interesting life, but I feel I had some core skill-sets in the games business that I sort of allowed to lie fallow.SB: Can you tell us about what happened whenJobs andWozniak approached, wanting you to turn their computer designs into a product, and you turned them down?NB:You've got to understand that Atari was very underfunded all the way along – the venture-capital community and financial community didn't get the fact that games were a business. We were using every bit of capital that we had just to keep up with the growth. We were internally funded and growing as fast we could, limited by our capital. So, to take on anything else that would alienate any of that capital just didn't make sense at the time. I recognised that we were going to be able to – at some point in time – get into the computer business, which we ultimately did once we had access to Warner's capital.We had some really powerful technology – Atari always was a technology-driven company, and we were very keen on keeping the technological edge on everything. There's a whole bunch of things that we innovated. We made the first computer that did stamps or sprites, we did screen-mapping for the very first time, and a lot of stuff like that. We had some of the most sophisticated sound-creating systems, and were instrumental in MIDI.SB: Were you impressed by Jobs and Wozniak at the time?NB:The two Steves were young and excited, but I was not convinced that they were ready for the bruising business world. &nbsp;I introduced them to Don Valentine, who brought in Mike Markala, who provided the business skills for their first years in business. &nbsp;I think much of their early success was because of Mike. &nbsp;Jobs has grown into a truly great CEO – if it would have happened anyway is anyone's guess.Nolan on retro and modern gamesA debate constantly rages in the games world, about whether today's flashy, complex 3D games are actually any better than the blocky-looking but supremely playable efforts introduced in the early days (and particularly on the Atari 2600).Many maintain that games like Pong, Space Invaders, Breakout, Asteroids, Missile Command, Joust and so on possessed a purity that has been lost on the 21st century, and they point to the enduring popularity of retro games on, for example, the Xbox Live Arcade and mobile phones.We sounded out Bushnell's views on this debate, and encouraged him to nominate some seminal efforts that had an enduring impact on the evolution of games.SB: Now that games have become 3D and often complex, are there any out there that float your boat?NB:I'm a big believer in the Wii. I love the physicality of the Wii controller, and how you can get the feeling of throwing a bowling ball or swinging a golf club. Those are the kinds of games I really like. I would be playing first-person shooters with my kid, except that those are games in which you have to have such fast circuits. My kids just whack me, so it's no fun – I hate to lose. I like games where you can use stealth and guile. As you get older, it's like the difference between playing squash and racketball. Squash is an older man's game, because if you're stealthy and wily, you can beat a better-co-ordinated and stronger, younger person.SB: How do modern games stack up against games like Breakout? There's still a great love of retro games, which many feel have a purity and simplicity that has been lost. Where do you stand on that argument?NB:I believe that in games, when you're talking about pitting my wits and my brain against your wits and your brain, that simplicity of the game becomes a dominant factor. In some cases, that simplicity is actually helpful. For example, you never see world-class chess players playing with anything other than a standard chess set. There are beautiful glass and marble sets you can buy, but it doesn't help the game. The essence of the game is best played with zero ambiguity. Occasionally, there can be so much time spent on the graphics that it actually introduces a little bit of ambiguity. So the simple, classic games, where we didn't have those graphics to fall back on, had to be really well-tuned, and the response times had to be honed. We focused more on gameplay than I think people do today. I've played some games where I thought the controller wasn't working right. But it wasn't the controller – it was the way the software was interrogating the controller. You get an extra 50ms lag and it really screws the game up.SB: What for you has been the single biggest advance in the pretty much 40-year history of the games industry?NB:I think there are two or three what I would call monumental points, where I thought: "Wow, this is really, really good." One of them came from id Software. I think that what they were able to coax out of the PC in those [Wolfenstein and Doom] days was truly remarkable – it represented a big leap. It actually made a couple of leaps. Not only was it instrumental in giving a 3D experience that was believable and understandable, but it also introduced network. And the third trifecta on that was it was the first time authoring tools were given to the public so that you could create your own levels. I really think Carmack and those guys made a tour de force. That's one.Another game that's on my top-10 list is Myst. You had such a wonderful feeling of being there – I feel that I've been to those islands, and I have probably as much of a feeling for those islands as I do for the Hawaiian islands. I feel like I've visited them both.Bushnell on the present and future of the games industryBushnell has clearly maintained a close watch on the games industry over the decades and, indeed, has a measure of involvement in it these days, through his company uWink, which allows people to play games while eating in restaurants, and NeoEdge, which finances the creation of casual games using various methods of advertising.He's quick to stress the social side of gaming (perhaps neglected now that consoles have taken over from the arcades) and has a vision of where the next crop of consoles might go. And he's optimistic about the latest incarnation of Atari, whose games development is now overseen by industry guru Phil Harrison, a high-profile signing from Sony Computer Entertainment.SB: Do you think it's a shame that the arcades are now deserted?NB:Any business that does not innovate will fail over time. And for some reason, the differential between what you can play at home and what you can play in an arcade has become very small. What we do at uWink is really focus on the social nature. People can buy a bottle of gin and drink it at home for about a buck a drink, whereas they are willing to go to a bar and pay 12 bucks for the same cocktail. The difference is that man needs to be social. So I believe that there is a strong demand for games that are social, and we've been able to prove it. I'm talking about really simple games, yet people want them.SB: Can you talk us through uWink? That's your main project these days, isn't it?NB:I'm working on two or three things, but uWink is my main focus. I'm also chairman of the board of NeoEdge, which is a very interesting way of monetising casual games. I actually think that, if you look at the numbers, there are only about 15 million people in the United States who play console games. But there are 150 million people who play casual games. But the thing about that big marketplace is how do you monetise it? Some people pay $20 to download a game, but the vast majority want to have them for free or advertiser-supported. So we've created all kinds of ways to facilitate advertiser-support for casual games, which means that the quality of the casual games will increase – and they already have, because of some of our innovations.SB: And you're involved in a company which lets people play skill-games against each other and win vouchers for a lottery draw?NB:That is correct, and this is a way to keep games social. People love to compete – and competition is more fun when there's a little bit of skin on the game. Giving prizes is a good way for our sponsors to reach the kind of people that they want to sell their products to.SB: Where can you see consoles going in the future – how will the console companies differentiate their machines when games are purely downloaded?NB:I believe the differentiation will become less console-centric and much more network-centric. I think all the real activity is moving to the network. There's a funny thing that's happening, in that as the power of the consoles' processors lets you approach photo-realism, you lose your market differentiation. If I say: "My photo-realism is better than your photo-realism," you'd say: "I don't care." I almost feel like the consoles are going to be relatively stuck where they are if they're just going to talk about manipulating more polygons than you can. It will be much more a war based on innovation, as it should be.SB: Do you still keep an eye on the modern Atari? The licence pinged around the industry for a while, but the current incarnation, with Phil Harrison, seems to have more credibility than it has for ages?NB:Phil Harrison is a very smart man, and he knows the games business. I really hope he can put some of the lustre back on it. The big problem with any of the games software companies is working out what they stand for, and for many years, Atari didn't stand for anything – it was doing me-toos, movie licences and things like that. I believe Atari should stand for technical innovation, and doing things a little differently – and I hope that's the direction they take.SB: Will Wright was the last person to be awarded a BAFTA Fellowship. Have you spoken to him about?NB:No, I haven't. But Will and I are friends. I've appreciated his work for years and years.SB: Games are now very much part of popular culture: do you feel vindicated now that pretty much everybody is playing games?NB:Well, I don't know if it's called vindication, but I appreciate the fact that technology and games are a big part of life. I think like any proud father, you're happy when your children do well.
Apple is quite low-key with its announcements and tech sites aren't usually that interested in what the company has to say, so you may have missed yesterday's revelations regarding the upgraded iPhone operating system. Everyone's going on about cut and paste (my copy of Word has been doing that for ages!), but what are thereally importantadditions that 3.0 brings? I'll tell you. They are the additions to do with games.So to save you the bother of surfing endless Mac blogs, each more fawning and hyperbolic than the last, here's a quick run down of the seven vital game-related functions...Micro-transactionsThis is the biggie - the one that all the developers and publishers wanted. It means that players will be able to buy extra weapons, levels and pixie boots from within iPhone games, opening up a hugely promising new profit stream, sorry I meant, 'range of innovative customisation concepts'. As with Xbox 360 and PS3 titles, iPhone games can now become entertainment platforms, seducing the gamer for many months with downloadable extras.In some ways this is a good thing. You'll get to extend your favourite titles with new missions, modes and personalised junk - it's a model that's worked brilliantly for console titles like Burnout Paradise and, of course, GTA IV. Already, EA has revealed that the iPhone version of Sims 3 will let users buy various household decorations for 99 cents a pop. "We are working on a game now based onThe Doglicense and I could see the micropayments working for that with people being able to purchase new breeds, dog toys etc," says Pete Scott, CTO of mobile publisher,Connect2Media. "However I think you do need to be careful in terms of the fine line between adding value and exploiting gamers, something which has always been important to us."As Scott implies, a concern is that publishers will begin to charge for performance-enhancing elements such as better weapons and faster cars. There's resistance to this in the West, but when packaged properly it has worked in other regions. Over in Korea and China, for example, EA and NeoWiz are running FIFA Online, a multiplayer version of the footie sim series, in which gamers can buy upgrades to the players' abilities. It's been a massive success with around five million regular players.Would we go for that model here? Maybe, if there was no subscription fee involved. But wait, what's this...Subscription feesWith iPhone 3.0, developers will be able to run subscription-based games, opening up the possibility of MMORPGs like World of Warcraft, or simulations like Sports Interactive's Football Manager Live. If these titles are based in a persistent online world, then iPhone 3.0 has another treat in store...Push notificationsApparently some of the 1,000 or so new APIs made available by Apple open up key elements of the handset's functionality to developers. Push notifications will allow a game to message the phone owner, even if they're not currently playing.Speaking to Pocket Gamer yesterday, Tag Games MD Paul Farley gave the example of his own title Car Jack Streets, a GTA-style gangster shooter which works around a real-time clock. Imagine that, in the game world, you're due to whack some mook at 4pm; with the old iPhone OS, you would have missed your chance if you didn't boot the game up in time, but with iPhone 3.0, Car Jack Streets could send you a handy mook whacking message. Which may well surprise the other attendees at your afternoon sales meeting.Peer-to-Peer wireless gamingIt seems iPhone 3.0 will enable local wireless networking via both Wi-Fiandbluetooth, allowing you to quickly an easily invite that chap opposite you on the train to a quick game of iPoker, or whatever. The system will also work for more basic features, like virtual gifts and swaps: as Scott suggests,  "maybe exchanging customized 'heroes' characters in the next iteration of theGo! Go! Rescuefranchise could be fun as could customizing and exchanging gifts in The Dog".Gaming peripheralsEasier access to Bluetooth functionality also means that gamers may be able to use peripherals with their iPhone games, perhaps a wireless controller like theZeemoteJS1. Of course, touchscreen was meant to render that whole joypad thing obsolete, but there you go.Accessing your musicGames will now be able to access your music library, allowing you to set your own custom soundtracks - apparently Sims 3 will support this function. There's also the chance we'll see more advanced implementation, perhaps rhythm action and music entertainment titles that use your own songlist creatively and interactively. At the very least, we could get an iPhone version of the Xbox 360 title, Lips. With elements like MMS and video also unlocked to developers, you could create your own pop video, then send it to people you don't like.In-game chatThe ability to actually converse with other players has ironically been largely absent in the mobile gaming arena so far, but iPhone 3.0 supports the feature. San Fransico-based publisherngmocoshowed off its multiplayer shooterLiveFireat the Apple event, and this has voice comms included.
In 2007 it was the emergence of Twitter, in 2008 it wasSarah 2.0and Zuck, but when it comes to this year's South By Southwest Interactive conference in Austin, there can surely only be one defining moment: the moment whenMichael Smithate so many spicy tacos that he went blind.Michael claims, of course, that it was an allergic reaction to the weapons-grade chilies in the self-described "nuclear tacos" at Brush Square Park that robbed him of his sight, but  even allowing for that, there's no escaping the fact that pure greed was Michael's real undoing. I mean, if there's a clearer, moreRound The Twist, parable for what happens when one's eyes are bigger than one's stomach, then I can't see it. And neither, for 20 minutes at least, could Michael.More importantly, the fact that one of my friends going temporarily – and hilariously – blind for less than half an hour is my big takeaway from a five day technology conference, tells you all that you need to know about this year's SXSWi. There's no point mincing words – compared to previous years, the whole event was an epic anticlimax.To be fair, even at the best of times the event is one big "kool kids' happening" – one for theJulia Allisons(present!),Meghan Ashas(present!)Kevin Roses(present!),Pete Cashmores(present!) of web 2.0, rather than the workaday CEOs and serious reporters. AsMahalo's Jason Calacanis replied when I asked if he was attending – "No SXSW for me,  I got work to do!" On the same subject, Techcrunch's Michael Arrington just snorted in disgust. Truly "South By" can only be considered "work" for those of us whose job is getting drunk and writing about it.And yet, even the cool kids are usually good for at least one neato social tool – a Twitter, a Dodgeball, a Facebook, a Digg – or one epic party that we'll all still be buzzing about when 2010 rolls around. But not this year. Even the parties that were virtually identical to last year – the nightly late, late Pure Volume after-party, the Gawker shindig, the Facebook and Tumblr parties – seemed to lack most of the fun that defined them in previous years.SXSW 09 felt like a pale imitation of past glories, like someone had tried to retweet last year's event but had fucked up the punctuation. There were too many panels happening at the same time, and almost none worth seeing. The parties were too short, and too rammed – Gawker's was reduced to just two hours and the free bar stopped after 90 minutes, Pure Volume forced you to queue twice, once to get a pass and the second time to actually enter the venue – and for good measure, they'd ruined the venue too, turning a third of it over to wrist-banded "VIPs" (of whom there were about eight), and fencing off the only indoor toilets in the process.There's something slightly depressing about having to bribe a random start-up CEO to give you his wristband in exchange for a plug in your column so that your friends don't have to queue for half an hour to piss in a fetid porta-potty in a plastroturfed Guantanamo Bay-style fenced off hell-pit. But, needs must – as I was saying to the CEO of the exciting an innovative start-up,Fliggo. (I really must Google them to find out what they do.)And yet, and yet … it wasn't all bad news. Saturday night's Happy Cog karaoke competition away from the main drag started weird but turned out great, with free beer all night and various new media types belting out covers of Turning Japanese andCome Sail Awaywhile rocking out with samurai swords and inflatable guitars. The extraordinary rendition of Bohemian Rhapsody by the competition winners and runners up – plus a gaggle of drunken Brits who crashed the stage – really has to be YouTubed to be believed. Free drink all night and a "who gives a shit who's here" sing-along is hard to beat.Back at the conference-proper, thecore conversations– SXSW's sop to people who had proposed topics that didn't fit into the organisers vision of what constitutes a fully-fledged panel – offered some real gems. In a conference room at the Hilton ex-Valleywag "party correspondent" Megan McCarthy's conversation on surviving internet scandal saw the likes of Zoe "Girl With A One Track Mind" Margolis and former US reality TV show contestantIrene McGeejoining an open-floor chat about what to do when unexpected infamy comes knocking. In a small room upstairs at the convention centre,Andrew "Meow" HydeandHeather Caprilead a conversation on "happiness in start-ups", an economically apposite discussion of simple things that founders can do to make work a bit more enjoyable for their staff. Takeaway points: comfortable chairs and delicious, delicious cakes.The one stand-out event for me though came on Sunday and was about as user-generated as it's possible to be. A group of Brits, lead by the guys fromSchool of Everything,FixMyStreetand various other web nerds, used a combination of foul and fair means to hijack an empty room at the convention centre, blag microphones and a big screen and put on an impromptu panel called "not another social media panel". The agenda was simple: a discussion on any aspect of social media that wasn't properly represented in the main programme. Explicitly banned, for example, was the clichéd discussion on how Twitter – and Twitter's ilk – can be monetised. Even the panelists themselves were user-generated, with anyone in the audience allowed to vote off a speaker and take to the stage themselves. About 20 minutes in, I took exception to the snobby anti-American direction the debate was taking and suddenly found myself taking the place ofLloyd Davis, who moments earlier had Twittered asnide remarkabout this very column. Eat my shorts, Lloyd.The discussiontwisted and turned, veering away from social media and towards the Daily Mail, freedom of the press, the 7 July bombings, British pride (I recall at one point describing Britain as the caddie to America's golf club of terror) and waterboarding (which we all agreed should certainly be monitised). At the start of the panel there were maybe five or six of us in the room. By the end – thanks to buzz on (sorry) Twitter – it was standing room only and the tag we chose to flag posts from the room –#kebab– was "trending" on Twitter search as one of the most talked-about phrases of the hour.So, what can we learn from all this? A few things. Firstly that SXSWi has jumped what the cool kids used to call "the shark". Secondly that, when faced with a conference that has got too big for its cowboy boots and an economy that has killed the appetite or budget for truly epic parties,  people either choose to stay at home or to seek out small pockets of likeminded folk and create their own fun.None of this is surprising, of course, as it all fits neatly into what social media has taught us – that the moment a service or community gets too big, too mainstream or too commercialised, the early adopters declare it "over" and move on to the next cool, niche thing. And it's why I really hope that next year one or two of those early adopters will organise – and I mean that in the loosest sense – a user-generated unofficial fringe conference to sit alongside the main event. Ideally it will be a bit nerdier and more businessy, and a lot more fun, than SXSW and will have plenty of space for unofficial "core conversations" and a great product launch or two. If they pull it off, the organisers will be hailed as trailblazers and heroes. If they don't, I probably won't be the only one sitting SXSW 2010 out.But then again, if social media has taught us anything else, it's that no matter how much fun that fringe conference turns out to be, it still won't be nearly half as entertaining as looking at the photos of Michael beingblinded by Mexican food.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
The technology industry is abuzz following a report by the Wall Street Journal saying that IBM, the computer industry behemoth often known as "Big Blue", is in talks to buy the struggling Sun Microsystems for more than $6.5bn in cash.Both companies have officially declined to comment on the suggestion, which analysts think would be a powerful boost for IBM in the finance and telecommunications markets, where Sun is especially strong but which have seen dramatic falls in capital expenditure due to the credit crunch.The news came after markets had closed, but is expected to boost Sun's share price, currently languishing at around $5, to about $8. Even if the deal is all-cash, it would represent a 100% premium on Sun's market capitalisation at the market close on Tuesday, when the share price was at the same level as it was in 1996.Sun's value peaked with the dotcom boom in 2001, but has been sliding since and fell sharply with the rest of the Nasdaq technology-oriented stocks last autumn. IBM's has remained steady as the company has in the past few years focussed increasingly on selling services rather than hardware; it sold off its PC-making division to the Chinese company Lenovo in December 2004, perceiving that the loss-making division was unlikely to move back into profit in the long term.IBM and Sun have a common cause in pushing "open source" software based on the Linux operating system and similar products. Sun last yearbought the Swedish open source database maker MySQLfor roughly $1bn, but has found it difficult to make the spending pay off. Last December it announced a $209m loss for its second quarter, and announced last November that it was cutting its staff by up to 6,000 people - about 15% of its workforce.Industry gossip suggests though that the desire for the sale may come more from Sun than from IBM. Sun is reported to have approached both Dell and Hewlett Packard to see whether they woudl be interested in the acquisition; both have declined. Dell is struggling with financial problems of its own, while HP has a growing services division, strengthened by its decision to acquire Electronic Data Systems last year for $13bn, as well as its own line of servers, based on Microsoft's Windows operating systems, which have generated strong profit growth in the past few years.IBM has struggled for position in the important server market - which often brings in lucrative service contracts, because servers are needed to keep companies' internal and external computer operations functioning. The research firm IDC said that IBM had 31.4% of the server market last year, while HP had 29.5%, and Dell 11.6% - just ahead of Sun, with 10.6%.Server contracts alsotend to be highly concentrated. The head of Microsoft Research, Rick Rashid, said recently that around 20% of all the servers sold around the world each year are now being bought by a small handful of internet companies - specifically, Microsoft, Google, Yahoo and Amazon. For IBM to get any of those contracts would immediately ramp its profit level.For IBM, the immediate benefits of buying Sun would be to have its well-regarded Sun servers and the MySQL database, which provides back-end functionality for a huge number of online operations, including airline reservation systems and even the mighty Google. But whether it can turn those into a profitable business – as Sun has so far struggled to do in the present economic climate – is a different question.
Google has promoted Matt Brittin, the former Trinity Mirror executive who has spent just two years at the company, to run its UK operation.The move follows the announcement that Dennis Woodside, the managing director across the UK, Ireland and Benelux regions, has taken the role of vice-president of the Americas to replace Tim Armstrong, who left last week to head up AOL.Brittin, who represented Great Britain in rowing at the 1988 Olympics and has won several World Championship medals, will become director of UK operations.He joined Google in January 2007from Trinity Mirror where he was director of strategy and digital, with responsibility for the company's direct sales organisation that deals directly with major advertisers.At Google, Brittin handled the search giant's relationship with advertisers. The new expanded role sees Brittin take responsibility for all operations, including overseeing Google's vast income from its sales sourced through relationships with agencies on behalf of their clients."We are working very hard with UK partners and customers to take advantage of online opportunities, particularly at this time," said Brittin.Brittin's promotion does not affect Mark Howe, the former managing director of sales house IDS, who runs Google UK's ad agency relationships. Howe reports to Brittin.Brittin will not run the Ireland and Benelux operations, which will be overseen by their country managers.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The Wall Street Journalis reporting that IBM is in talks to buy Sun Microsystems, which has been having a difficult time since the dot.com bust. However, this doesn't mean IBM wants to buy Sun: it may just be the best buyer Sun can find. The Journal story says: "In recent months, Sun has approached a number of large tech companies in the hopes of being acquired, said people familiar with the matter." HP and Dell are reportedly not interested.There is some logic to an IBM deal. The Journal says:The two companies have a common interest in that both make computer systems for corporate customers that aren't reliant on Microsoft Corp.'s Windows software, and their product lines are less dependant than rivals' on Intel Corp.'s microprocessor technologies. The two companies are also strong supporters of open-source Linux and Java software.Financially, however, Sun's strategy has turned out to be a disaster, and as the WSJ notes: "Sun shares have plummeted over the past year, battered by its reliance on sales of high-end machines and customers in the financial sector, which experienced the economic slump earlier than other parts of the economy."But there are problems with such a deal. One is that Sun wouldn't provide much that IBM wants, apart from turnover. IBM has been reducing its reliance on hardware, getting rid of its PC, storage and printer businesses. Buying Sun would get it another processor and an incompatible hardware business.Another problem is that while Sun used to have some valuable software -- including the Solaris version of Unix and Java -- it has been making this open source. IBM, the original Evil Empire, is still a huge supplier of proprietary software, especially in the mainframe business it still dominates. IBM only likes open source in so far as it can make money from it (seeIBM likes Open Source when it suits them, not when it costs) and invests in its own version of Unix (AIX). It doesn't have a Linux distro, and it might not be keen on getting personally involved with shipping GPL software.Finally, there could be regulatory issues. Sun has been one of IBM's fiercer competitors in the data centre, and they have overlapping products competing for the same customers. IBM buying Sun would obviously not increase competition, it would reduce it. However, Sun going out of business would reduce it anyway, and if the choice ever did come down to "IBM or nothing" then presumably it would be IBM.However, at the moment, the official news from Sun is: "As a matter of policy we do not comment on market rumours about our company," while IBM says: "We have no comment to make on this report."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
The number of geeks at SXSW, close to Dell's headquarters in Texas, proved too hard to resist, and it previewed a couple ofAdamolaptops at the event. This is Dell's attempt to create what it called "brand lust" with a machine that people desire, even if they don't actually buy it.Michael Tatelman, Dell's vice president of global consumer sales and marketing, toldAP:"This is a bit more experiential than just a story about a PC. The craftsmanship of this product is more like a fine watch or jewelry," Tatelman said. "I'd like to think that someone getting a gift of a pearl Adamo for an anniversary would be ... proud to get that kind of gift."The AP story says: "Tatelman seemed unfazed by the challenge of launching a luxury brand in a brutal financial environment. Dell's outlook for Adamo sales is 'very modest,' Tatelman said, and added that a primary goal is to broaden people's perception of Dell from its value-conscious roots."Dell sells roughly 40 million PCs a year, so the Adamo is never going to make any impact in terms of units. Still, if it sells 400,000 (or 1% of Dell sales) at $2,000 each that's an $800 million business.*Obviously Dell is moving its product mix upmarket, as we have already seen with the XPS and Studio ranges, and the Adamo is coming in on top of those. This should have the effect of increasing Dell's average selling price, and therefore its profitability. Of course, if the total PC market goes down, as predicted, it's not going to make a lot of difference. But it's unlikely Dell was expecting today's economic climate when the design effort started.When the full specs are in, the Adamo will be widely compared with Apple's MacBook Air. At the moment, it looks as though Adamo is heavier (4lbs v 3lbs) and slower (1.2GHz v 1.6GHz). You can also get an Air cheaper, with a very slow hard drive, since the Adamo price includes a 128GB SSD. But I don't think it matters, because I can't really see anyone choosing between the two machines. People who want Mac OS X aren't going to buy the Dell, and people who want a portable Windows machine can already buy better products than the Air.Update: The specification includes the following, with UK prices starting at £1,649:13.4-inch 16:9 HD display; Draft-Wireless N; Bluetooth 2.1; Mobile Broadband option; up to 5+ hours of battery life (preliminary); 2 USB ports, 1 USB/eSATA combo port, DisplayPort, RJ-45 port; 64-bit Windows Vista Home Premium SP1.It will start shipping worldwide on 26 March.Dell has photos on Flickr athttp://www.flickr.com/photos/dellphotos#* Corrected from a version based on Dell's quarterly, instead of its annual, shipment rate. D'oh.
It might not sound much. But to the 17 million owners of Apple iPhones worldwide – and to 13m owners of their non-phone siblings, the iPod Touch – it's a big thing: the next version of its software, to be released "this summer", will allow them to cut, copy and paste content between pages.And what better way to demonstrate the most obviously "missing" feature on the iPhone than by booking a flight that would get you Lost? "I'm going to reserve a seat on Oceanic flight 815," said Scott Forstall, the head of Apple's iPhone software development, as he showed off the method by which one can highlight text in an email – double-tapping on a word – and from there choose cut, copy or paste the text.The joke – that Oceanic 815 is the flight which crashlands on the mysterious island in the TV series Lost – wasn't missed by the audience as Apple previewed the third version of its iPhone operating software, unveiled on Tuesday at its headquarters in Cupertino.Apple announced that it is radically expanding the facilities that will be available to the thousands of developers and companies writing applications for the iPhone. "What's interesting is that most of those applications [that were] shown would be virtually impossible for developers to create on other platforms," noted Michael Gartenberg, a consumer analyst for the market research company Interpret.That poses a challenge to smartphone rivals such as Microsoft – whose Windows Mobile has stuttered in functionality compared to the iPhone, despite having larger sales and a longer history – Research in Motion, makers of the BlackBerry, and the handheld maker Palm. All have announced similar plans to Apple's App Store, but whether they can make them successful is a different story.The event was led by Scott Forstall, the head of iPhone software development, and Greg Joswiak, head of iPhone product marketing. Steve Jobs, the company's chief executive, remains on medical leave: he is not expected back before June.As well as cut and paste, the next version of the software – which will be free to iPhone owners, but cost iPod Touch owners $9.95 – will let them do system-wide searching, record voice memos, play games or interact wirelessly with nearby iPhone or iPod Touches, subscribe to online calendars, and possibly – depending on the mobile networks' agreement – use their phones as wireless broadband modems.The new software will also let companies that write applications that run on the iPhone sell content "within" their applications, rather than having to buy it separately from the iPhone App Store, the Apple-controlled online shop. That opens up the possibility of paid-for content such as ebooks, suggested Forstall.Owners of the 3G iPhone, released last July, will be able to send picture messages – a standard phone function that has been missing previously. Owners of the older version, first sold in June 2007, will not benefit because it does not contain the necessary radio hardware, Apple said.Other additions include "push" notification, so that instant messaging programs can in effect run in the background and alert the user when a new message arrives.Apple has also added maps that will enable the device to be used as a satnav, with turn-by-turn navigation - though only companies which have their own licensed mapping direction system (such as satnav makers) will be able to use it.Not everyone will be satisfied. Video recording has not been enabled via the iPhone's camera; nor have video calls. Apple's executives were evasive too about the possibility of being able to type onto the iPhone's screen via full-sized keyboards connected via the Bluetooth wireless system. That would enable truly mobile working - but it might not be allowed by the new system."Apple chose to implement well rather than do a lot," commented Ian Fogg of Forrester Research about the update. "Right choice in my opinion. If we'd had all this earlier [it] would be less well executed."Apple said that there have been more than 800 million downloads from the App Store, which has 25,000 free and paid-for applications, and that it had been effective in attracting people to it: 62% of the developers submitting products to be sold there were new to the company's platform.&#183;This article was amended on Wednesday March 18 2009. Ian Fogg works for Forrester, not Jupiter, Research. This has been corrected.
We get the insider scoop from the SXSWi program director,Shawn O'Keefe. He tells us how the event is focusing around core conversation and online friendships and about the SXSWi web awards.We look at casual gaming - one of the big trends on this year's programme. Jemima speaks to one of the big players in the area,Sebastien de Halleux, CEO of Playfish.Kevin Marks, the open social developer advocate at Google Social, tells us about Friend Connect, which builds on open standards so that you can make any website into a social website in five minutes by adding a little bit of Java script.And we hear fromDave Haynesfrom Soundcloud, one of the finalists of the SXSWi Web Awards.PlusMr Not safe for work,Paul Carr, reports on the best sessions – and the best parties.
Google today entered the latest stage in a four-year legal battle against luxury brand Louis Vuitton which accuses the US internet giant of selling trademark search terms relating to its products to rivals.Google's lawyers are at the European Court of Justice today as part of a hearing relating to an appeal the search company lodged afterLVMH won a case in France against Google in 2005.LVMH, which makes high-end products including luggage and handbags, argues that Google should not be allowed to sell key search terms - such as Vuitton - to the highest bidder. Both sides will put their case to the hearing today, which will not see an outcome to the legal wrangle. No outcome is expected for months.The result, argues LVMH, is that when users search on key trademark terms relating to LVMH, rival products and even counterfeits appear."Google's advertisement activities have given companies which sell fake products unprecedented visibility beyond their wildest dreams," Louis Vuitton lawyer Patrice de Cande told the court, according to a Bloomberg report.Bridal service CNRRH and travel company Viaticum, which also launched legal action against Google, are participating in the hearing today."Google makes money not by reason of the nature of the keyword, but by someone clicking on the keyword," Google lawyer Alexandra Neri countered. "The decision to click or not to click belongs to who? Clearly to the internet user."The European legal battle is vital for Google, which has allowed companies to bid for rivals' key words in the US for some time, and introduced the practice in the UK and Ireland last May.A number of UK brands have said they will not indulge in the practice, while lastminute.com has criticised Google's policy.Google has faced litigation in the United States over its policy and courts in California and New York have given conflicting decisions.As Google's breakneck growth slows innovations, such as freeing up bidding restrictions on trademark wordsand allowing sectors such as gambling to advertise, have been seen as ways of boosting revenue from maturing markets.In June last year Google succeeded ingaining a hearing for an appealat the ECJ over the LVMH case.The ECJ's ruling will lead to a decision across the 27-nation region on whether companies can block search engines from using trademarked words for searches or, as a minimum, it is likely Google will have to create a uniform policy on keywords and trademarks."We are pleased that the European Court of Justice has arranged to hear important issues about Google's AdWords service much sooner than some observers expected," said a spokesman for Google today."AdWords helps users find the information they are looking for and provides advertisers with an efficient way to reach their audiences. Google believes that it has not infringed the claimants' trademark rights and we look forward to the outcome of the cases."In June last year, a French court ordered auction site eBay to pay £30m to LVMH forallowing online auctions of fake copies of its goods.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
A group of mates stumble back home after a long, merry Friday night at the pub. "Hey, let's play SingStar," someone drawls as the drinks cabinet is raided for that bottle of ouzo brought back from a Greek island hopping trip in 2002. "We need some new songs," declares someone else, "Let's get on the SingStore!"It can only be this sort of scenario - surely played out every week, all over the globe - that explains the top ten list of most downloaded SingStar tracks. Since the PS3 launch of Sony's karaoke sim in December 2007, four million extra songs have been purchased online. And, brace yourself, this is what we've mostly opted for...10 American Pie - Don McLean9 Baby One More Time - Britney Spears8 Take On Me - A-ha7 Eye Of The Tiger - Survivor6 Girls Just Wanna Have Fun - Cyndi Lauper5 Torn - Natalie Imbruglia4 Suspicious Minds - Elvis Presley3 Just Like A Pill - P!nk2 Final Countdown - Europe1 Total Eclipse Of The Heart - Bonnie TylerSo what can we learn from this line-up? The fact that 50% of the chart comprises of eighties hits would seem to suggest that the greatest downloaders of SingStar tracks are nostalgic thirty-somethings. Either that, or eighties pop music - with its combination of bombastic choruses and idiotic lyrics - is just better for karaoke than anything produced before or since.It's also interesting that the vocalist gender split is 50/50, which would seem to suggest that PlayStation karaoke is very much a unisex activity - although it's a dangerous assumption that players go with their own gender when selecting tracks. How many of Gamesblog's male readers have belted out that lung-busting Tyler classic at two in the morning?On the subject of Total Eclipse, what is it about that song that makes it such a PlayStation karaoke gem? Of course, the Cadburys advert has no doubt raised its profile over the last year, but I expect it would have topped the chart without the endorsement of a drumming gorilla.No, I know why it's at the top. In many ways, the song is like a videogame level. It starts off slowly and quietly, building the setting, introducing you to the central themes. Then the pressure begins to mount up, leading to the mini-boss of the middle section, where the drums come in. After this, a brief period of calm, before the climatic explosion - "We're living in a powder keg and giving off sparks!" - a vocal boss battle of epic proportions, requiring several special moves across the vocal register.And then calm again, as the song ebbs away on a tide of bitter lament, a love affair shrouded in darkness and unspoken anguish, like Solid Snake skulking away from another ostensibly successful mission, his soul sullied, his head bowed.
Phew: for a while, we thought that the Wii was becoming a victim of its success as a console with family appeal, and that it might drown in a mire of horseriding simulators. Sega, though, has other ideas, first with the truly filthy House of the Dead: Overkill and now with MadWorld.Make no mistake: MadWorld is top-shelf stuff, to be kept under lock and key and only extracted when you can hear the kids snoring. It's also the most innovative Wii game since Super Mario Galaxy. You play Jack Cayman, sent into Varrigan City after it is taken over by terrorists and turned into the setting for a Running Man-style TV show called Death Watch, in which the contestants kill each other imaginatively. So MadWorld is all about ultra-violent combos, using all manner of convenient death-dealing kit. You may, for example, immobilise an enemy by shoving a tyre over his head, then embed a street sign in his eye and toss him onto a "rose bush" of metal spikes.Each level is simply structured: hit points targets and you open up new weapons (Jack has a chainsaw built into his right arm), challenges and eventually a boss-battle; lose three lives and you have to start the level again. The violence is over the top, Tom and Jerry-style, and frequently laugh-out-loud funny – you can, for example, play human darts or stuff ninjas into fireworks tubes. The posterised, Sin City-esque black and white graphics (which become progressively awash with red blood) mean there's no mistaking any of it for real life. But that won't appease our self-appointed moral ­arbiters.
