My partner is very keen on having a tablet with Wi-Fi and I've decided to buy him one for his birthday. We are both very concerned about Apple's disgraceful practices in China and therefore I do not want to purchase an iPad, although the price of the iPad 2 and performance is similar to what I'd be looking for. However, I am very aware that jumping on the bandwagon can mean purchasing an alternative (Samsung, Amazon Kindle Fire etc) that may not be any better ethically but has just managed to escape media attention. Do you have any suggestions for a trying-to-be-ethical consumer? Is there such a thing as an ethical tablet?Name withheldI don't think any tablet is "ethical" in the purest sense, and it's not even possible to decide which tablet might be considered least harmful. There are far too many things to consider, and we don't know enough about any of them. Nor, depressingly, do most of the companies that make and sell them.The problems extend far beyond the factories where mobile phones, tablets and PCs are assembled. The supply chain extends to thousands of small factories that supply components, and to the companies supplying raw materials. This includes minerals mined in the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, where occupational hazards may include rape and murder. (The Enough Project has rated IT suppliers for their use ofConflict Minerals.)Once all these shiny gizmos have been shipped from the factory, there are many other considerations. How long will they last? Can they be upgraded or repaired? How will they be disposed of? Does the manufacturer support a recycling scheme? (Electronic waste is now a major global problem.)From this point of view, smartphones, tablets and some laptops are a disaster. They have sealed-in batteries and some are designed to make them hard to open, let alone upgrade. Products that should last five years may be junked after 18 months or so, either because the user has a "free" upgrade or they are cost too much to repair. The current gadget boom could soon result in the world's most expensive landfill.When it comes to the ethical treatment of factory workers, Apple's brand name has suffered the worst effects, for two reasons. First, Apple was implicated in a spate of suicides at Foxconn's largest factory at Shenzhen. Second, The New York Times published a damning indictment of the company,In China, Human Costs Are Built Into an iPad. I think this article, which quoted former Apple managers, finally prompted Apple to start taking the problems seriously. Apple joined the US-based Fair Labor Association (FLA), and chief executive Tim Cook made a highly-publicised visit to the factory.Apple has also come in for criticism because of its very high profits – it has more than $100bn (£62) in the bank – and because of its high-end brand marketing. It might very well be that people work in worse conditions in the small factories producing "white box" (unbranded or off-brand) tablets, but they are making products that sell at very low prices on razor-thin margins. The point is that factory workers assembling Apple products are getting a very small share of the total. Apple could and can afford to do better.There are other reasons whyApple workers are under stress, even if working conditions appear to be as good as or better than those on other production lines. One is that the vast majority of Apple products are made by one company, Foxconn, where most computer companies have larger ranges made by perhaps half a dozen different contract manufacturers. (Apple also uses Quanta and Pegatron.) The sheer size of the Foxconn operation – factories with 300,000 to 500,000 workers – leads to logistical problems bussing workers around and feeding them, and military-style policing.Another problem is Apple's big-bang approach to marketing, with a rapid replacement of models. Foxconn workers have to assemble millions of units as quickly as possible so that there will be supplies for queuing fans. This leads to enforced overtime, and may encourage Foxconn's use of "interns": young vocational students who are supposedly doing work placements but are reportedly "de facto workers on the production line"(PDF).Other factors include Apple's products being more difficult to make, according to Foxconn, and Apple's insistence on secrecy.The result is very high staff turnover. In 2010,according to SACOM(the Hong Kong-based Students and Scholars Against Corporate Misbehavior), 220,000 of the 420,000 workers in Shenzhen had joined Foxconn within the past six months, and the turnover rate is about 35% per year, according to the Shenzhen Federation of Trade Unions. There are always thousands of jobs going at Foxconn because thousands of workers quit. That's not a good sign.You could certainly avoid buying any products assembled by Foxconn, which is thought to produce almost 40% of China's exports of technology products. However, as mentioned, I can find no substantial evidence that Chinese workers at rival contract manufacturers – Quanta, Compal, Wistron, Pegatron, Inventec and so on – are treated significantly better. It's a price-driven market, and many companies will cut a corner to save 10p. When you're making tens of millions of units, those pennies add up.Only the companies that use contract manufacturers can change that. The New York Times article quoted a former Apple executive saying: "Suppliers would change everything tomorrow if Apple told them they didn't have another choice." Companies setting up their own factories with their own employees, as Sony did, might be even better, but the economic trends are strongly against that.In general, Hewlett-Packard seems to be the best of a bad bunch. In 2004, HP's Bonnie Nixon-Gardiner helped create the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC) to set out basic labour and environmental standards for contract manufacturers, following the FLA model. In 2005, she went to inspect Foxconn's factory in Shenzhen, according toBusiness Week, and set up a system to inspect hundreds of factories owned by HP's main suppliers.HP made by far the best response to theMake IT Faircampaign in 2008, is the highest-scoring company inThe Greenpeace Guide to Greener Electronics, and gets a green light on conflict minerals. However, HP's TouchPad tablet flopped, and it probably won't have an iPad competitor until Microsoft releases Windows 8 late this year.You could consider a Samsung tablet, because Samsung is a major component supplier: indeed, Samsung is the largest supplier of iPad parts, and the target of numerous Apple lawsuits. It is now the leading "anti-Apple", which is not to claim that its contract workers are any better off.At this point, I sympathise with those protesting against Apple, or even boycotting its products. However, a boycott is unlikely to have much impact given Apple's rapidly increasing sales.Also, I wouldn't necessarily rule out buying an iPad. There are other questions to consider, including the ease of use, software availability, expected product life and resale value. It seems to me that a product that is used a lot, and used for a long time, has more value than one that is used less or is rapidly discarded. A Samsung Galaxy might be better or worse than an iPad from this point of view (for example, is your partner an Android phone user? What apps does he need?), but the issues are worth considering.There are other ways to try to improve working conditions in China. This includes supporting organisations such as Make IT Fair,GoodElectronics, SACOM,SOMO(Stichting Onderzoek Multinationale Ondernemingen: The Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations) and their campaigns. It's OK to put pressure on Apple, but the whole consumer electronics industry needs to clean up its act.
Codemasters has always been skilled at coming into an ailing sports genre and totally reviving it. The Warwickshire-based developer made the tennis sim enjoyable again via its nineties Pete Sampras titles, then brought offroad racing into the mainstream with the brilliantly accessible Colin McRae Rally titles. Then, in 2008 it won the license for F1.Sony had given it up. Selling barely half a million of its final title, the PlayStation giant pulled out of the sport. Codemasters took it on, shook it up, pushed its "be the driver, live the life" philosophy, promising to convey every nuance of the F1 competitor's experience. F1 2010 sold 2.5m copies, and in 2011, it was the best-selling third-party racing game of the year.Now the publisher has signed a new multi-year deal with the F1 organisation and is working on its third sim in the series. Naturally, F1 2012 will have all the latest drivers, teams and races, and naturally, Codemasters is keen to stress that this is the least of what players can expect. The company is not saying much just yet, but here are the foundations of the game, due for release in September.First, while F1 2011 concentrated on improving the multiplayer mode, it seems the 2012 will be all about evolving the lone experience. "We're putting time into expanding the career mode and several other single-player modes," says creative director Stephen Hood. "We've carried out a lot of research and many people do just play it in single-player."Accessibility and rewarding casual players is important. I want to get more people who used to be into F1 or watch it occasionally, who don't know the rules, the complexities of it, and get them into the game. It comes across as an intimidating sport and the TV commentators do a great job of explaining these things to viewers on the race days – we need to capture that."Part of this will be via a new introductory mode based around the sport's young driver tests, held toward the end of every season (Abu Dhabi has hosted the last few). This is where the teams leave one car and some race engineers behind for a day and give up-and-coming young drivers a chance to try out an F1 car, often for the first time."It's interesting how the teams go about working with those guys, telling them about the controls and what is required of them," says Hood, "It's not about going out and smashing the fastest lap, it's about being consistent, not damaging the car, getting used to the basics. We want to use that as our tutorial at the start of the game."Here players will learn about the intricacies of F1 driving – the use of the apex and the racing line, etc – but tests will also be timed, so more experienced players can also compete for the best scores. Performing well unlocks contract offers from racing teams during the career mode – the better your performance, the better the teams making contact. Interestingly, players willhaveto complete at least a couple of tests before going into the main game modes.What? Why? Well, because this section is used as a kind of set-up sequence allowing players to configure the camera, the controller and other game settings to their requirements. "We want it to be part of the story rather than giving you a load of option screens," says Hood. "We've turned it into an interactive sequence. I think we've got it sorted in terms of the amount of time you have to spend with it."Elsewhere, the development team is doing new stuff with the weather and lighting, and there are "significant" changes to the underlying physics engine. One aim is to make the game more intuitive to play via the joypad, which is how most people experience it. Codemasters has also changed the tests that drivers need to complete in order to earn vehicle upgrades. There was a feeling that these tasks became repetitive over a whole career, so now they're more varied – but it's still about achieving certain standards so that the team trusts you with fresh hardware.Hood also wants the game to look a lot sleeker from the moment it boots up. "There are a lot of sports games out now – most obviously from EA – that have very sexy user interfaces. They might not always be easy to navigate for the new player, but there's a certain standard they've achieved, and I don't think the F1 games have got there so far. There's more we can play on with the history, the logos, the teams, the look of the cars – we're changing the UI dramatically for this season."And what else? They're not saying yet, but Hood is keen to stress that the F1 license is an ongoing project – they have grand plans: "There are so many things we want to put into our F1 games that we've been trying to do since 2010. We want to build it around the whole world of Formula One, the kinds of things the commentators go on about: upgrading the cars, beating your team mate, the strategy of the different teams. That's all part of the sport, and we're trying to replicate that."Codemasters has also revealed that, alongside this year's iteration of its console Formula One series,andthe forthcoming F1 Online team management sim, it will be releasing a third F1 title aimed at families and casual gamers. The publisher would not say anymore, but it is likely this is a reference to the Wii U F1 gamementioned by CEO Rod Cousenslast August. This version is likely to use the forthcoming console's tablet style controller as an F1 steering wheel complete with driving computer. It is due out this Christmas.One key thing F1 fans may be able to look forward to in the future – especially in light of the multi-year license extension – is a consistent driver profile, which they can carry through subsequent iterations of the main F1 2012 game. Perhaps the aim is a driving RPG, a Formula One Mass Effect in which decisions and achievements carry on through the years. And on top of that, there is the Racenet community, and the launch next month of F1 Online, a browser-based team management sim with top-down visuals that may remind veteran gamers of another great Codemasters license, Micro Machines.This great British survivor has been somewhat pushed to the side of the industry by heavyweight rivals over the past few years. But with Dirt Showdown on the way, a new Grid title surely in the making and a range of F1 titles, it is playing to its strengths once again. It is pushing back.
Codemasters has revealed that it will be launching a new online community hub compatible with all its future titles. Named Racenet, the service provides every player with their own driver profile that can be used across all titles.This profile captures all each user's in-game accomplishments, allowing friends to easily compare scores and times. Player stats will be displayed online in graphical form via a dedicated website, and will also be accessible in-game.Racenet is set to offer its own challenges and tasks to players, offering rewards in the form of badges and trophies, as well as unlocking extra content in games. There will also be special challenges that unite the whole community in mass rewarding-earning tasks.One example is a fuel challenge which requires huge groups of players to use enough petrol to drain a whole virtual fuel tanker within a set time limit. If that is achieved, everyone who takes part gets a reward.The service will launch in beta form on 1 May, via the demo of forthcoming stunt racer, Dirt: Showdown. Players will need to sign up to Racenet before being able to play the downloadable demo – they'll then unlock the Racenet content by completing the single-payer portion of the release.Also, the complete version of Dirt: Showdown, set for release at the end of May, will feature specific Racenet challenges which will unlock exclusive liveries.The service does of course, bare similarities to EA's Autolog and Activision's Call of Duty: Elite programme. It will however, be voluntary and free. More information is set to hit in the next few days.Finally, the company is undergoing a re-branding process. From now on, games will feature a new Codemasters Racing logo, emphasising the UK publisher's decision to concentrate solely on driving titles.
Nokiahas announced the departure of its head of sales as the struggling mobile phone maker, beset by competition from Apple and Samsung and an under-par new product launch, slumped to a loss of €1.3bn (£1.1bn).The Finnish telecoms group said Colin Giles was leaving to be closer to his family, as sales fell to €7.4bn in the first three months of 2012 compared with €10.4bn in the same period last year. The operating loss of €1.3bn compared with a profit of €439m in 2011.Nokia's chief executive, Stephen Elop, said the business was working its way through a significant company transition in an industry environment that continued to evolve and shift quickly.Nokia's smartphone sales have faltered after Elop moved its devices off its home-grown Symbian operating system last year to the untried Windows Phone software owned by Microsoft. As a consequence, sales of Symbian-based phones are declining rapidly while uptake of Nokia's new Windows-based phone, the Lumia, has disappointed.Elop admitted on Thursday that the Lumia launch had not proceeded as planned in some markets,including the UK."We have launched four Lumia devices ahead of schedule to encouraging awards and popular acclaim," he said. "The actual sales results have been mixed. We exceeded expectations in markets including the United States, but establishing momentum in certain markets including the UK has been more challenging."According to Nokia, sales of handsets fell 32% in Europe in the first quarter, to 15.8m units, while China recorded a slump of 62% to 9.2m. Worldwide, handset sales fell 24% to 82.7m compared with the corresponding period in 2011.The company said Giles would not be replaced in a move that it saw as reducing a layer of sales management. Nokia said the operating loss was comprised of €1.1bn of restructuring charges relating to a joint venture with Germany's Siemens to make telecoms equipment, with a further €260m loss caused by competition and the fact that the first quarter is traditionally a quiet sales period.Squeezed at both ends of a fiercely competitive sector, Nokia is struggling to compete at the lower end of the market withChinese manufacturers such as Huaweilaunching products based on Google's Android system.Research in Motion, maker of the BlackBerry, and Motorola are among the manufacturerswho have also been caught out by the emergence of Chinese competitors.At the upper end, Apple's iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy, which uses the Android operating system, have pulled far ahead of Nokia in a market that the Finnish firm once dominated. Nokia's share of the smartphone market has fallen from 40% a few years ago to 10%.This week Nokia's debt was downgraded to one notch above "junk" status by the Moody's credit rating agency, which cited a severe decline in mobile phone sales.Adding that it was putting the firm on a negative outlook, Moody's expressed also doubts over Nokia's ability to recover ground lost to faster-moving rivals. The agency said: "Moody's believes that the structural challenges facing Nokia's mobile phones segment many not be easy to address."The Moody's downgrade followed aprofit warning last week, in which Nokia forecast that it would lose money in the first half of its financial year, blaming fierce competition for smartphone sales in developing markets such as India, China and the Middle East.
Sony has  announced God of War: Ascension, the latest title in its blockbusting swords-n-sorcery – or, more accurately, swords-n-butchery – series.Due out on PS3 but with no release date set, the title will be a prequel to the God of War trilogy, following hack-happy Spartan warrior Kratos before he starts a war with the Gods of Ancient Greece. This game will apparently be all about the origins of Kratos "as he takes his first steps on a now legendary quest for freedom," promises the press release.Apart from the above teaser trailer, leaked line this morning, there's no other information just yet. Sony is expected to reveal much more at this year's E3 video game show in Los Angeles in June.
A selection of 18 new apps for you today:Timeline World War 2 with Dan SnowTV historian Dan Snow has taken to the App Store for this project, which focuses on the second world war. It includes a zoomable timeline of more than 2,000 events during the war, more than 100 British Pathe newsreel videos to watch, and a dynamic map.iPadYahoo! Connected TVYo dawg! They put apps in your phone so you can control apps on your connected TV. It's enough to make your head spin. Yes, Yahoo has launched an official Android app for its connected TV platform, meaning anyone who owns compatible tellies can control their TV apps from their, er, Android app.AndroidLego Super Hero Movie MakerNow, this is rather fun. If you own Lego's range of DC Universe Super Heroes (Batman, Superman etc), this official app wants to help you make a stop-motion movie with them. It includes title cards, colour filters and the ability to save the resulting films to your iPhone for sharing.iPhoneSky Cloud WiFiSky has launched its new Cloud WiFi app for Android and iOS, which helps customers of its home broadband service to get online for free on their mobile devices at Cloud Wi-Fi hotspots around the UK.Android / iPhone / iPadTotal War BattlesSega's latest iOS game is based on its Total War franchise, with an all-new game designed for touchscreens. The setting is medieval Japan, with real-time battles and more than 10-hours of campaign gameplay.iPhone / iPadCharlie Bit Me!!!This would definitely count as a sign of the times: enormously-popular YouTube video Charlie Bit My Finger now has an official app, with Talking Tom Cat-style talkback features, mini-games and a photo-sharing aspect too. The link above is for Android but here's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneWikipediaIf you own a BlackBerry PlayBook you can visit Wikipedia in its browser, obviously. But if you have a craving for a native app, the Wikimedia Foundation has just released one.BlackBerry PlayBookLondon Travel LiveGetting around the capital? This app aims to bring all the travel info you'll need into one place, including tube status, bus routes, BorisBike hiring details, traffic data and the ability to pin much of this to the home screen.Windows PhoneFabricLondon club Fabric has launched its own iPhone and iPad app, offering events listings, ticket-buying, blog posts, and streams of audio recorded at the club itself.iPhone / iPadHear It, Note It! - The Aural iQ GameMusic puzzle game Hear It, Note It aims to test players' musical notation skills: "Listen to the notes, remember them and then write them with the simple drag and drop interface." Music students in particular may find it useful and fun.iPhone / iPadPenny Finds Her BraveHere's a lovely-looking book-app that aims to teach children that they are brave. That means 24 pages of interactivity and animation, and a built-in "bravery scanner" to convince your child of their bravery. Oh, and it also works as a night-light as they fall asleep, for good measure.iPadNational Parks by National GeographicThinking of wandering around some of the US' national parks in the near future? National Geographic has the app for you, offering maps, points of interest, photo galleries and tips, and lots of personalisation features.iPhoneSea Odyssey - Giant SpectacularLiverpool's Sea Odyssey event is commemorating the 100th anniversary of the sinking of the Titanic this month, as three giants visit the city on 20-22 April. The official app offers photo-sharing, a guide to the route the giants will take, and the story behind the street theatre. It's the work of developer Apposing.iPhoneKayakAnother big website coming to BlackBerry PlayBook is Kayak.com, offering its app for finding flights, hotels and car rental, as well as tracking flights and organising trips.BlackBerry PlayBookDragon's Lair ComicsFamous looks-beautiful not-actually-that-much-fun-to-play game Dragon's Lair has been reimagined as a digital comic for iOS, promising "swordplay, sorcery, dragons, and damsels…plus a pinch of humor".iPhone / iPadTwizgrid - Media Browser for TwitterThe latest attempt to find a new way to browse Twitter comes from AJP Apps, and focuses on pictures. "Discover remarkable Twitter visual content by searching for keywords; view images shared by specific people; or simply browse the beautifully curated albums," explains its App Stroe listing, although standard Twitter features are supported too.iPhone / iPadTuneUp MobileTuneUp Mobile is the latest music recognition app looking to provide an alternative to Shazam, identifying songs that you hear playing, then showing lyrics, iTunes purchasing links and letting you share details to social networks.iPhoneEuropean Health Insurance CardEven the European Commission is making apps nowadays. This one is a guide on how to use the European Health Insurance Card, including emergency numbers, and what to do if you lose it. Be warned though: "Card cannot be generated or downloaded for use."iPhone
Activision has announced a new James Bond game. Due out this autumn on Xbox 360 and PS3, 007 Legends features a new story that ties together six Bond movies, including the forthcoming Skyfall.It's being developed byEurocom, the UK studio previously responsible for the decent GoldenEye 007: Reloaded title.Naturally, the game will feature loads of signature Bond gadgets as well as familiar weapons, fast cars, and exotic locations. Alongside the main campaign the title will also feature a new set of single-player Mi6 Ops Missions, a sort of spec-ops mode first seen in GoldenEye: Reloaded. These tasks will also allow players to take part as Bond's allies as well as his enemies.Local four-player split-screen and online multiplayer modes complete the package. These options will apparently include stealth and investigation elements as well as standard TDM and CTF derivatives.Of course, Activision hasn't yet revealed the other five films to be condensed into this James Bond grab bag. We can expect more news to be stored on microfilm and smuggled into E3 this June.For now though, if it was up to you ... which movies would you cram in?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHold the phone: message on mandset M&amp;A finally sinks in &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:The surprise revelation that Oracle considered buying RIMM and Palm as a way to enter the smartphone business already seems like a window to another era. The recent travails of Palm, LG,  HTC and RIM may have effectively closed the door on any major M&amp;A moves in the industry.The difficulty of buying and integrating a mobile handset vendor started becoming obvious way back in the mists of time, when Philips and Lucent tried merging their mobile phone operations. The result was a $2.5 B platinum turkey that has by now been mercifully forgotten. Most of the resulting phones were so clunky only a Dutchman could love them - pale imitations of vintage Ericsson models.He makes the very good point that there hasn't been a single successful handset merger or takeover: "the phone market simply shifts too rapidly for any such maneouvre to work." Can anyone offer even one counterexample?The Prisoner's Dilemma and the folly of keeping technology adoption secret &gt;&gt; tecosystemsAs anyone who's been briefed by a vendor is aware, the one thing that is in every briefing deck is a slide full of customer logos. While the slides used with the press may only contain the customer logos that are allowed to be there, the ones used with analysts frequently contain all the relevant customers, public or private. The secret usage history is safe, then, only from the press and from the businesses themselves...It seems increasingly clear, however, that whatever the expected returns, the costs of this practice outweigh them. Here are three reasons to consider dropping the policy of secrecy regarding technology usage.Don't let software patents stop us standing on the shoulders of giants &gt;&gt; Jonathan ZittrainFrom the Guardian's Battle for the internet series:The most enduring front in the battle over code may end up over something even more foundational than an operating system. Up next are software languages and APIs, the raw material from which our digital edifices are built. Arguments continued this week in the case of Oracle v Google, in which Oracle claims that the Sun programming language is itself copyrighted, as are the ways in which software can be written to expect to run in some version of Java. If Oracle wins, projects like GNU will be in danger: simply rewriting Unix from scratch as GNU wouldn't free the Platonic programming language behind Unix of copyright limitations. If a language itself can be copyrighted - and Oracle and Google, in otherwise solemn briefing, engage on whether Game of Thrones's Dothraki or Avatar's Na'vi can be so protected - then anyone speaking or writing in Dothraki or Na'vi would have to answer to those works' creators.The Teletext Museum - An Evening with Ceefax 1982 &gt;&gt; Mike BrownTransport yourself back to 1982. Wow, the news was so much more bite-sized then. Not like now.IKEA puts away your TV cables, tech credentials &gt;&gt; EngadgetFrustrated with cable spaghetti ruining the otherwise sharp lines of its TV storage units, the Scandinavian firm has taken it one step further, and built the TV right in to the furniture. Yup, "Uppleva" is an all-in-one TV and stand with storage built in co-operation with China's TCL Multimedia. Not only that, it also incorporates a Blu-ray / DVD player and surround sound (with wireless sub woofer.) Details on the TV itself are sparse, but there's a brace of USB inputs and four HDMI ports (so you can re-add in some wires), plus FM radio and internet connectivity, but beyond that we're left guessing.(The Swedish translation of its name is "experience".)Intel/Microsoft aim to push down iPad global market share under 50% by mid-2013 &gt;&gt; DigitimesBased on current progress of development, there will be 32 Windows 8 tablet PCs launched by Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Lenovo, Acer, Asustek Computer and Toshiba by the end of 2012, the sources indicated.In particular, Lenovo and Acer plan to launch Windows 8 tablet PCs priced at US$300-1,000, with entry-level models to be sold at below US$300 for competition with Android tablet PCs and models offered by China-based white-box vendors, and models at over US$300 to challenge iPad, including the new iPad and a next-generation iPad, the sources claimed.And yet they only expect to push the iPad share below 50%? Sweepstake on the proportions between iPad/Windows 8/Android for Q1 2013, please, in the comments. (Note: Digitimes links go behind a paywall after a few days.)Notebook makers hit hard in pre-Ivy Bridge lull &gt;&gt; The RegisterTaiwanese ODMs which produce notebooks for some of the world's biggest brands including Acer, Dell, HP and Lenovo are set to see shipments fall by up to 20% in April as the transition to Intel's much anticipated Ivy Bridge platform takes hold.The new chips are set to land later in the month, but large scale shipments of notebooks based on the processors are not likely until the end of the quarter, according to Digitimes.But expected to rise in May and June. You know what this means? New laptops in May.How Google was tripped up by a bad search &gt;&gt; ComputerworldOctober 2011:In the end it was a search that let Google down.The company suffered a setback in its patent dispute with Oracle last week when a U.S. judge denied Google's request to keep an internal Google email out of the case record. The email, written by a Google engineer, could suggest to a jury that Google knew it needed a license to use Sun's - now Oracle's - Java technology in Android.Interesting backdrop to the trial now in process: the email at issue is known as the "Lindholm email", about alternatives to Java, in which Lindholm says "We conclude that we need to negotiate a license [sic] for Java under the terms we need." Google wanted the email kept out of the trial; Oracle fought, and won, to have it included.Our Culture of Exclusion &gt;&gt; Ryan FundukOn the hey-have-a-drink-it's-a-conference-about-programming-sorta culture:It's sort of like high school is repeating itself. We have an isolated population, and within it we've got the cool kids making life (real life, this time) difficult, frustrating and miserable for people who don't deserve to be walked all over.Consider for a moment that while you might love binge drinking - and listen, I've done my share in the past... so I know it can be a blast - not everyone is into it, and it has nothing to do with code.Social search: dead on arrival? Or on life support? (And can it still be resuscitated?) &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandYou're walking down a busy street in New York City, and suddenly you have a craving for a chocolate muffin. You pull out your iPhone, type in "chocolate muffin New York" - and the magic of search kicks in. Your mobile device's GPS tracker locates you instantly, finds a list of bakeries and coffee-houses nearby that sell muffins, and presents them for you to select from.Beside (or beneath) each result is an icon. A starry icon, which in a universally understood language, rates the result as 'Great', 'Not so hot' and 'Terrible' - through the simple expedient of yellow colored stars.You pick the 5-star rated bakery, get directions to it from Google Maps, and arrive at the store. You bite into the muffin and the delighted grin you wore as you stepped in turns into a wry grimace of dismay.It tastes awful!Ludicrous scenario, but the general point is hammered home: "social" search (Facebook Likes, Twitter followers, Google+ followers) is already being manipulated by SEO experts so that it simply isn't trustworthy. Which implies that real "human" search will remain more trustworthy, though that conclusion is carefully avoided.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Google and Twitter cannot "act like a policeman" of content on their networks, the attorney general has said in his strongest intervention yet on regulation of the internet.Dominic Grieve described as an "common sense" a suggestion by the MPs and peers that privacy injunctions should routinely be served on internet companies, as well as newspapers and broadcasters."That certainly seems to me an interesting suggestion. The interesting question is seems to me is, if this should be done on a more routine basis, then that seems to have some force. It is very wise; it's a suggestion of ordinary common sense," Grieve told the Guardian.Grieve added that social networks must "act responsibly" and obey the law of the land, but said that "excessive regulation" of cyberspace could pose a threat to civil liberties online."If a breach [of a court order] is brought to their attention then they will take action. But they can't act as a policeman on their network; I don't think that's necessarily helpful. They do need to act responsibly and clearly need to abide by the laws of the land," said Grieve.His intervention comes aftera cross-party committee of MPs and peers urged the government to force Google to remove material banned by courts if it is not prepared to do so voluntarily.The report, published last month by the privacy and injunctions committee, also urged Grieve to be more willing to take action against people who breach injunctions online, as happened with Ryan Giggs over his alleged affair with a reality TV star.Grieve said he did not believe that the Giggs injunction was an example of a "conspiracy to undermine the courts", but added that he would intervene in civil cases if his action served a "wider public interest"."Normally an injunction obtained by one party is enforced by that party. I have the ability to step in but it is one that should be exercised sparingly. For example, where there is a wider public interest issue that goes beyond the privacy issue of individual," he added."Or if there is a concerted effort to undermine the authority of court, or if person granted was unable to take action themselves. As a general rule I should be wary of stepping in."The blunt reality is that somebody who tweets is likely to find themselves in contempt by the party who obtained the order … It is only a matter of time before that happens if people continue behaving this way."
It's Thursday, how about a chat about games?
Google chief executive Larry Page spent nearly an hour in a federal courtroom Wednesday deflecting questions about his role in a copyright dispute over some of the technology in his company's Android software for smartphones.In one remarkable exchange, he said that Android is "important, but not critical" to the search giant. That is surprising given the efforts that Google has poured into the mobile software, and the$12.5bn that it has spent to buy Motorola Mobility, a handset maker with a raft of patents relating to mobile phones which could defend Android from rival mobile challengers such as Apple and Microsoft.The taciturn Page often looked uncomfortable on the witness stand as he sparred with David Boies – a tenacious lawyer who made headlines for grilling former Microsoft chief executive Bill Gates in an antitrust lawsuit filed by the US government in 1990s.Boies is backIn this trial, Boies is working for business software maker Oracle, which accused Google of building its Android software by stealing pieces of the technology from Java, a programming platform that Oracle now owns.Page said Android was very important, but disputed the notion that it was critical. He then said that he would not be surprised if Google's board was told that Android is critical to the company.The Google co-founder, dressed in a gray suit and wearing a tie, said that the Internet search giant moved to create its own smartphone software seven years ago because the technology at the time made it difficult for consumers to use its online services on mobile phones."We'd been really frustrated in getting our technology out to people," Page said.Oracle, which is based in Redwood Shores, California, is seeking hundreds of millions in damages and royalties for Google's future use of Android, which powers more than 300m smartphones and tablet computers.High stakesIn a measure of the trial's high stakes, Oracle has already called two multibillionaire executives to the witness stand. Oracle's own chief executive, Larry Ellison, 67, appeared Tuesday, as did Page, 39, for a brief round of questioning before his Wednesday return for more extensive interrogations.Page looked like he wished he could have stayed in Google's Mountain View headquarters on Wednesday. During his time on the stand, he rarely looked at Boies and frequently said he couldn't remember seeing some of the internal Google documents that Oracle is using to build its case.Page's foggy memory seemed to exasperate Boies, perhaps because the haze may have worked to Google's advantage.Boies' attempts to display exhibits containing inside information about Google were blocked by US District Judge William Alsup because Page said he couldn't recall seeing them. Although it's unclear what was in the exhibits, it was clear Google's own lawyers didn't want the contents to be exposed in a public courtroom.Some of the evidence currently being kept under court seal is believed to include disclosures about how much money Google has made from Android since the software hit the market in 2008 – a financial nugget that Google has never revealed.Although Google gives away the software to mobile device makers, Android brings in revenue from digital advertising and sales of mobile applications that run on the system.Page said in a financial results call in October 2011 that Google's mobile revenues were at an "annual run rate" of $2.5bn, but that includes revenues from Apple's iPhone handsets - on which Goldman Sachs estimates Google has to repay 75% of revenues.In his testimony, he said that Google would have preferred to have entered into a business partnership with Sun Microsystems, which developed Java and which Oracle acquired in 2010.Such a partnership would have saved Google time in its efforts to bring its software to market, Page said, but the companies could not come to terms on an agreement. Instead, Google opted to use what he referred to as the "free part" of Java.Google did nothing wrong, he insisted. "We were very careful about what information we used and what we did not use," Page said.Android purchaseBoies spent much of his interrogation trying to prove Page and other Google executives realised that the company probably would have to pay a licensing fee to use elements of Java as far back as 2005. That's when Page orchestrated the deal to buy the Silicon Valley startup that hatched Android and brought in Android founder Andy Rubin to oversee an effort to make Google's online search engine, advertising and other services more accessible on mobile phones.When shown emails from Rubin and others mentioning the need to license some of Java during 2005 and 2006, Page linked the references to Google's attempts to build Android in a partnership with Sun Microsystems, Java's owner at that time. Oracle entered the picture in 2010 when it bought Sun Microsystems for $7.3bn.Page later elaborated on Google's discussions with Sun, under more cordial questioning from one of his company's lawyers. "We really wanted to use Sun's technology," Page said. "It would have saved us a lot of time and trouble to use Sun's technology. When we weren't able to have our business partnership, we went down our own path."Oracle's case hinges on whether Android infringes on 37 copyrights for "application programming interfaces," or APIs, that provide the blueprints for making much of Java work effectively. Other major companies, including IBM Corp, have licensed some of Java's APIs, but Google hasn't one of the few things that Boies was able to get Page to confirm during his testimony Wednesday.Google contends the Java APIs aren't covered under US copyright law because they aren't a form of creative expression.Email trailBut various Google emails presented in the trial so far have included internal recommendations to work out a licence for some elements of Java. One August 2010 email from Google engineer Tim Lindholm to Rubin - sent just weeks before Oracle formally sued, but after it had threatened to - mentions being asked by Page and Google's other co-founder, Sergey Brin, to review possible alternatives to Java. Lindholm advised Rubin all the other choices "suck" and urged him to negotiate a license for Java.When Boies asked about Lindholm's email in Wednesday, Page wouldn't acknowledge telling Lindholm to look into the issue, let along knowing him. Page did point out that Lindholm's email had misspelled Brin's first name as "Sergei."In an apparent attempt to cast Google's stance on Java as hypocritical, Boies asked Page if his company copyrighted the APIs that run its services. "I am not sure," Page responded. "I think things are copyrighted by default, but I am not a lawyer."Boies then asked Page if Google might use copyrights to prevent an outsider from improperly using its technology. "Google is a company based on intellectual property," Page said. "That's one of the major intellectual property protections."Page left the courtroom smiling, but still didn't look completely relaxed. Maybe that's because the judge told him that Oracle would probably call him back to testify before the trial is over.
The government is coming under cross-party pressure from within the coalition to stay the extradition of a Sheffield student who founded a website sharing links to TV shows, and to review the US extradition treaty in the wake of the case.The home secretary Theresa Maysigned an extradition orderlast month for Richard O'Dwyer, 23, to be sent to the US,&nbsp;where he faces 10 years in high-security prison.O'Dwyer founded a website, tvshack.net, in 2007, which acted as a search engine for people to find out where they could watch and in some cases download popular TV shows, typically programmes not yet available outside America. Some of the links led to legal sources, others to unauthorised sites.The president of the Liberal Democrats, Tim Farron, called on Theresa May to review her decision to approve the "ludicrous" extradition, while Conservative backbenchers said extraditions such as O'Dwyer's serve as "a thorn in the side of the special relationship".O'Dwyer's site did not directly store, offer, or copy any of the programmes it listed, but rather linked to other sites which had done so, in a similar manner to how Google and other search engines display results.US authorities allege that O'Dwyer made around £147,000 from advertising displayed on the site during its three-year life. His defence lawyers contend that linking to other content is not illegal under UK law, and point out that the CPS did not pursue charges against O'Dwyer.Farron said: "While it's important to protect artists and copyright there is a question about just who is responsible for any breach [in this case] anyway."It is ludicrous and the government needs to take a very strong stand on protecting civil liberties."He said he hoped his Lib Dem colleagues would bring pressure to bear on Theresa May. "One assumes that until he's on a plane she has the power to rescind it."Farron pointed to the contrast between the Abu Qatada case, where someone with a clear case to answer could not be extradited for years: "Whereas here somebody who doesn't have a case to answer is whisked through quickly."Richard's mother, Julia O'Dwyer, is a nurse for the terminally ill who is campaigning for her son and others in a similar position.She said: "You're punished before you even go to trial. You're put through the nightmare of extradition, and if you are sent to the US, you're immediately thrown in jail, where they wear you down pre-trial until you take a plea bargain, whether you're guilty or not – 98% of people don't get to trial in America. You can only get a fair trial if you can pay for it, and that's millions of pounds."Since then, Julia says she spends "all day, every day" working on the case, except when she needs to go into work."As soon as I get up in the morning, I'm on the computer, and I stay there until nine or ten'o'clock at night. I have to force myself to do anything else," she says. "Our lawyers have got a lot of cases, I've only got one. Anything might help."The US justice department claims jurisdiction over all .com and .net webpages, whether or not they are created by US nationals or hosted in America, giving it domain over millions of overseas sites.Conservative backbencher Dominic Raab, a prominent civil liberties campaigner said he struggled to see the difference between O'Dwyer's actions and those of major search engines."If what Richard O'Dwyer has done is illegal under UK law, surely many of the other search engines would be guilty too," he said. "Each new case like this creates a thorn in the side of the special relationship. We want strong extradition rules for terrorists and others, but when people see laws used against an enterprising 23-year-old, they lose faith."Former shadow home secretary David Davis has also spoken out in favour of O'Dwyer, and attended a campaigning event at Sheffield Hallam University for the student.Julia says there is a network of relatives who support each other in their extradition battles. Janis Sharp, the mother of Gary McKinnon, who faces extradition for alleged hacking attacks on the Pentagon, often sends over links and useful information."We didn't know anything about extradition. That's something for terrorists and murderers, fugitives who've fled their country after a crime," Julia explains. "There's not a single hint of support from the home office or US embassy, so we help each other."Julia says she devotes her time to fighting the extradition – she campaigns onTwitter, herblog, and on apetitionwhich has garnered more than 21,000 signatures – in a bid to keep a normal life for her son, who is still studying at Sheffield Hallam University."It's a really destructive process to be involved in," she says. "Richard's trying to carry on as normal, and I'm trying to make sure he can do. I wouldn't say it's a normal life. It takes over."Sir Menzies Campell, who is carrying out a review of extradition policy for Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg, refused to comment on current cases but said the UK extradition treaty needed more stringent controls."One of the ways to test the legitimacy of applications for extradition like this one would be for guidelines to be laid down, probably by the Lord Chief Justice himself, about the degree of connection between a person in the UK and the impact on the US," he said. "In many states in Americas, the doctrine on extrajudicial jurisdiction is very well developed and should always be a factor to be taken into account in any decision to extradite."
50m downloads and a$180m acquisition by Zyngalater, hit mobile game Draw Something is getting even more social with its latest update.The drawing game now lets players save their scribbles and share them on Facebook and Twitter on iOS – the Android version will get the feature soon – while attaching short messages of up to 100 characters to their pictures when submitted for friends to guess."I look at these as features that are about reinforcing the social relationships," says Dan Porter, formerly chief executive of Draw Something developer OMGPOP, and now installed as vice president and general manager of Zynga Mobile New York.If there's an explanation for why Draw Something got so popular so quickly, it's that focus on communication rather than competitive gameplay.The fun doesn't come from beating friends or collecting points and trophies: it comes from the bond you already have with the people you play with, and how that manifests itself in the drawings.Draw Something remains a phenomenon, having added 15m downloads between 22 March when OMGPOP was acquired, and 4 April when the 50m milestone was announced. Itcurrently has 36.4m monthly active usersaccording to Facebook app metrics site AppData.That said, the new features may be needed to reignite some players' interest in the game: AppData also shows that Draw Something's daily active users have fallen from 14.6m at its peak in late March to 12.1m on 18 April.Porter says he's not taking the game's growth for granted. "I'm like everybody else: I think I could wake up the next day and nobody could be playing the game!" he says.It's still too early to tell whether Draw Something has legs for the long term, but Porter thinks what will keep it fresh is the people you play with, rather than specific features."The game is very dynamic based on who you're playing, and it can be so personal, which is why I think it will continue to connect people," he says. "Those connections are something that contributes to the longevity."Making Draw Something more social rather than more gamey has clearly been the first priority for the Draw Something team in the weeks following the acquisition. Has there been pressure to ramp up the gaming elements, though?"I'm not averse to that," he says, suggesting that the method would be less about increasing the competitive elements, and more about pitting players – together – against more abstract goals."You might get to level 10 where you only have 60 seconds to guess, and at level 10 plus X you might have another thing that makes it harder, and your goal is to get with your partner to level 25 or something," he says."The funny thing is that I've only heard that request from men: I've never, ever heard from women that they want a competitive mode. It always interests me who asks the question, and what population of players they represent."Zynga will be hoping that the new update reverses the recent decline in Draw Something's daily active users (Source: AppData)Porter also thinks that if Draw Something had been played against the clock from the start, it would have been a very different game: "Very slapdash, it wouldn't have been so relaxing… it's very chilled, very zen, but if you're watching the clock you feel like you're on a game show."Talking about TV, what aboutpre-acquisition rumoursthat Draw Something might be turned into a television format?I can see how it'd work, and it goes beyond just a pair of contestants on a Draw Something game show drawing words for one another. The power would come from the audience scribbling along on their phones, and for their drawings to somehow be integrated into the show.Porter says that TV remains a possibility for Draw Something. "We feel like it's a game, but it's also a media property. We want to find ways for people to engage with it and enjoy it on multiple different platforms," he says.And the play-along aspect? "Everybody in Hollywood and in sports is already thinking about second-screen, and it's one of those things that hasn't been totally tapped open. And I don't think there's ever been a [hit] game show that's started as a digital or board game. That's something that interests a lot of people."In the meantime, there is plenty of work to do with the game itself. Asked about next steps beyond the new social features, Porter says localisation is a big focus, aided by Zynga's resources in that area."Right now, the game is entirely in English, including all the directions. There's no doubt that if you were German or Korean, the game would be more fun to play in your native language," he says."Zynga has a large team that are experts in that, and we've been working really closely with them to give native speakers a version of the app, especially in Asia."Another benefit of being within Zynga is rolling out Draw Something for more Android devices, taking advantage of its porting and testing resources, according to Porter.What about other platforms like Windows Phone and BlackBerry? Porter says he's open to the idea of taking the game to any device with a touchscreen, but iOS and Android remain the focus for now."We're on two pretty big, exciting platforms that have a lot of runway, and we have a very supportive relationship with Apple and Google, so…"In other words, it's a question of scale, and for now that continued growth is likely to come fastest on iOS and Android, and under Zynga's auspices. Porter's description of how he feels about Draw Something's mainstream appeal is telling, though."Anyone who makes any product wants to reach as many people as possible. Even a small indie artist wants to sell as many albums as Lady Gaga, even if they don't want to make music that sounds like her. You want to reach people."
Copying songs, films or images from the internet without permission is illegal under Britain's copyright laws, which would be draconian were it not for the fact that they are so frequently flouted and with so little comeback. The principle, though, is straightforward: unless a copyright owner has given permission for content to be shared – whether via YouTube or the photo-sharing site Flickr – copying, even for private use, is illegal.Which is why, more than 10 years after the iPod was launched, it is still in law not permissible to rip songs from a CD on to a computer or digital music player. The only legal exemption is the so-called "time shifting" exemption, which allows people to record television programmes for personal use.So draconian is the existing law that a parody song, such as the viral online hit Newport State of Mind,can be taken down, because, in this case, the writers of the original Empire State of Mind don't approve.Ministers intend to relax the rules once theHargreaves review into intellectual propertyis implemented, which would give Britons the same freedoms from copyright actions as their American and German counterparts, but consultation into how to do so finished only last month.However, few people worry about the reality of the law: although there is a growing recognition that copying media, and in particular music, can harm creators, the true barriers to piracy are technological. Most people are too confused by "torrent" illegal download sites, and so prefer legal alternatives. At the same time, despite various efforts to force internet providers to send warning letters, or agree to other stiffer measures, the truth is that it is not economic for media companies to pursue small copyright infringers. British copyright law and internet copyright reality remain some distance apart.
A casual observer could be forgiven for thinking that major media firms hate technology. They certainly fear it. Since Jack Valenti, the legendary film industry lobbyist, said in 1982 that the VCR was like the Boston Strangler, preparing to murder the innocents of Hollywood, they have viewed such advances as a Godzilla creature rising from the sea to threaten their existence.In the past 30 years in the US, they have lobbied for 15 pieces of legislation aimed at tightening their grip on their content, as technology has moved ever faster to prise their fingers open.In this seemingly never-ending battle, 18 January 2012 was a defining date, a day when the internet hit back. Mike Masnick, founder ofTechDirtand one of Silicon Valley's most well-connected bloggers, remembers running through the corridors of the Senate in Washington, laptop open, desperately trying to find a Wi-Fi signal.Around him was chaos. Amid a cacophony of phones, political interns were struggling to keep up with the calls and emails from angry people across the US and the world claiming Hollywood-backed legislation was about to break the internet and end its open culture forever. In an unprecedented day of action, Wikipedia and Reddit, a social news website, hadgone offline in a protestorganised by their communities of editors, and backed by thousands of other sites, large and small. Google had blacked out its logo in protest. Students around the world were bitching on Twitter that they couldn't get their homework done without Wikipedia. EvenKim Kardashian came out swinging.One senator's office that Masnick visited calculated they had taken 3,000 calls. Within hours of the unprecedented assault,Sopa, the Stop Online Piracy Act, was dead and a sister act, Pipa, a neat acronym for the tortuously titled Protect IP Act (Preventing Real Online Threats to Economic Creativity and Theft of Intellectual Property Act)was sunk too. In Europe, the action buoyed up opponents of Acta, the US-backed international copyright treaty that has sparked protests across the continent. Countries including Bulgaria, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and Slovakia have all refused to sign, arguing that Acta endangers freedom of speech and privacy, and thebill has stalled. But for how long? "The industry has this down cold," Masnick says. The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), Valenti's old stomping ground and one of the most powerful lobbying bodies in Washington, has emerged bruised from the battle, but few doubt it will rally.There is widespread anger among leading media companies about the way the Sopa fight played out. The protest had many voices but there was no doubting whom the media executives blamed – Silicon Valley in general and Google in particular. President Barack Obama had "thrown in his lot with Silicon Valley paymasters",according to Rupert Murdoch, whose News Corp empire includes the Fox studios. "Piracy leader is Google who streams movies free, sells advts around them," Murdoch wrote on Twitter. "No wonder pouring millions into lobbying."But trying to blame Google or even to cast this as a battle between Silicon Valley and Hollywood is to misrepresent a major shift in the media landscape, say those pushing for a more open internet.Elizabeth Stark, a free culture advocate who has been campaigning for a relaxation of copyright law for years, says the Sopa battle will be seen as a landmark in a much wider debate about the open nature of the internet compared with the closed, copyright-protected world from before the digital age."This wasn't Google v Hollywood," says Stark, a visiting fellow at theYale Information Society Project. "This was 15 million internet users v Hollywood. That's what they don't get. I think they think we can just get a few executives and put them in a room and call those people 'the internet'. Well, now they know that's not going to work." That said, Stark doubts that this battle is over. The losing side is rallying its troops. The media giant Viacom, owner of Paramount Pictures and Comedy Network, has reanimated a$1bn (£630m)suit against Google's YouTube, which it accuses of allowing users to use its copyright material from shows such as South Park and The Colbert Report. No legislation in the US is likely before November's election. But as Wikileaks showed, the US has alreadypushed for Sopa-style legislation in Spainand in the tech community, few doubt that Sopa will be revived.After the act was shelved, Cary Sherman, chief executive of the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), which represents music labels,wrote a blistering article in the New York Timesattacking Wikipedia and Google for spreading misinformation in order to cause a "digital tsunami" that "raised questions about how the democratic process functions in the digital age".Sherman wrote: "The hyperbolic mistruths, presented on the home pages of some of the world's most popular websites, amounted to an abuse of trust and a misuse of power. When Wikipedia and Google purport to be neutral sources of information, but then exploit their stature to present information that is not only not neutral but affirmatively incomplete and misleading, they are duping their users into accepting as truth what are merely self-serving political declarations." Wikipedia's co-founder Jimmy Wales says the RIAA is missing the point. "They are irrelevant at this point. I don't care what they have to say. Someone is so far out of touch with what is going on in Washington, with the public and with their own industry."For decades, the media industry has tightened its hold on copyright material. There are valid arguments for protecting the rights of content creators, but it is now clear that applying these rules to the digital age isn't going to work – not least because those now affected by copyright rules are not just other companies but ordinary people. "The public think it's gone too far," said Wales. "It's just possible that we may be at a point where we can stop the march forward of this ridiculousness."The internet has changed the world so much that current legislation is not adequate, said Wales. "Go back 50 years and copyright was an industrial regulation that most people had no contact with," he said. "It was pretty difficult to find yourself in a position where you had committed a felony." Now the US istrying to extradite Richard O'Dwyer, a 23-year-old UK-based computer science student, on copyright infringement charges. "When, 50 years ago, could a kid sitting in his basement in the UK commit a crime in the US? It's disturbing."What are the legitimate limits to copyright? What's the ethical norm for copying? "None of that is clear yet. It's going to take time to work that out," said Wales. Until 18 January, the debate within legislatures had been about extension and enforcement of the current rules. Now he hopes there may be time for a bigger debate. "We also need to bring back into discussion serious issues about the length of copyright, which has been extended again and again for no good purpose. We need to talk about what constitutes fair use, what kind of copying can the public do without getting into trouble." If, for example, someone uploads a video of their child's birthday party and then finds it has been deleted because a copyrighted song is playing in the background, "that's not piracy. That's how we use our music these days," says Wales. "A lot of what people want to do now is not legal but should be legal. We can say that and still be against full-scale piracy."Wales said he had never heard of Megaupload, the online file sharing site at the centre of an international criminal investigation, before it was shut down, but had friends who used it. "It was people who lived outside the US who said they would have bought such and such but they don't sell it here," he says. "If there's some great show that they are not showing over here, they are very tempted. We can morally disapprove, but that's the way people are." Megaupload was charging a subscription to people who wanted a lot of content. "Why should you pay these assholes money when you could pay the people who actually made it some money?" said Wales. If the media industry addressed the needs of its audience, there would be less piracy, he believes.Stark points to astudy by Musiksverige(Music Sweden), an industry association, that found music piracy in Sweden fell significantly after the introduction of Spotify, a streaming music service. "It shows what we have said all along: people want to reward artists for their work."Alexis Ohanian, Reddit's co-founder, agrees. "I'm hopeful right now. These are not soundbite issues, they are complicated. If you look at the work that Reddit's community did investigating Sopa, you can see that there is a lot of thought going into these issues in the community. Like a lot of rights, I think we took our right to a life online for granted until it was challenged. I think we are on guard now."Media execs are on guard too. Many look to the music industry and fear they may be next. Since the peer-to-peer filesharing site Napster emerged in 1999, music sales in the US have dropped 53%, from $14.6bn to $6.9bn in 2010. The digital world is a lot less lucrative than selling DVDs.Last year the movie industry made $30bn at the box office worldwide. Ed Epstein, author of The Hollywood Economist, calculates box office revenue accounts for just 10% of a hit movie's money. The rest comes from cable and satellite channels, pay-per-view TV, video rentals, DVD sales and digital downloads. All that extra cash comes from sources that Hollywood once railed against, and pressed Washington to crack down on.But this time Epstein believes the industry may be right to be worried.As the music industry has shown, digital sales are worth a fraction of physical sales. There are already signs that the movie industry is changing.There was a new player in town at the Sundance film festival this year, one who had financed 17 of the movies on show. That player was you. Kickstarter, a three-year-old website that hosts crowdsourced fundraising for creative projects, had funded 17 films at Sundance, about 10% of the total, and had another 33 films at the South by Southwest festival in March. The company is now a significant player in independent film, allowing cinematic hopefuls to take their case right to the people. It's just the beginning of a major change in the industry, says Kickstarter's co-founder Yancey Strickler."I think we are at a point where we are asking whether you really need a film industry for a film to be made or a music industry to make music. People can now speak directly to their audiences," he said. "And the demands of an audience are very different to the demands of an industry. An industry wants to know about merchandising tie-ins with McDonalds – that's not necessarily what the audience is looking for, or what the artist is concerned with."Strickler was at Sundance this year, where a number of Kickstarter-financed films were offered distribution deals. But many people were also rejecting deals they saw as disadvantageous."Going straight to the web, or video on demand, or doing a deal with independent cinemas – these are all viable options now," said Strickler. "Look at the success of thatJoseph Kony video. This is just the beginning."• Explore the seven-day special series on theBattle for the internet
Washington looks set to wave through new cybersecurity legislation next week that opponents fear will wipe out decades of privacy protections at a stroke.The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act(Cispa)will be discussed in the House of Representatives next week and already has the support of 100 House members.It will be the first such bill to go to a vote since the collapse of the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) in January after global protests and a concerted campaign by internet giants such as Google, Wikipedia and Twitter.The author of the new bill,Mike Rogers, the Republican chair of the House intelligence committee, has said it is aimed at tracking the nefarious activities of hackers, terrorists and foreign states, especially China. But its critics charge the bill will affect ordinary citizens and overturn the privacy protections they now enjoy.Opponents fear the way it is currently drafted will open up ordinary citizens to unprecedented scrutiny. The bill uses the wording: "Notwithstanding any other provision of law," a phrase that if it became law would trump all existing legislation, according to critics.In one section, the bill defines "efforts to degrade, disrupt or destroy" a network as an area that would trigger a Cispa investigation. Opponents argue something as simple as downloading a large file – a movie for example – could potentially be defined as an effort to "degrade" a network.The bill also exempts companies from any liability for handing over private information."As it stands the bill allows companies to turn over private information to the government and for them to use it for any purpose that they see fit, all without a warrant," said Michelle Richardson, with the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). "For 40 years we have had legislation about wiretapping that protects people. This would overturn that and make a cyber exception."Privacy advocates are especially concerned about what they see as the overly broad language of the bill. As people increasingly use services like Skype and other internet telephony services, Twitter and Facebook to communicate, advocates fear the bill is a land grab that would give US authorities unprecedented access to private information while removing a citizen's legal protection.The White House has called for the bill to be tightened. In a statement, national security council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said any legislation should include "robust safeguards to preserve the privacy and civil liberties of our citizens".But Richardson said with wide support in the House, the bill could still pass. "The Senate has already said it is looking at this bill as it drafts its own legislation. There is a real danger it will be rushed through," she said."Our concern is not about what the bill is aiming to do, it's about the way it is crafted," said Rainey Reitman, activism director at the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), a digital-rights organisation.She said the EFF has three main concerns with the bill:• First, there is a lack of any standard for the type of information that can be collected.• Second, all the information will go to the national security agency, the US defense department's online intelligence arm. In 2010, the NSA was found guilty of conducting surveillance programmes without warrants.• Third, there is no clarity in the bill as to what the information will be used for. "It should be used for cybersecurity purposes only, but the bill doesn't say that," Reitman said.Rogers claims Google has been supportive of Cispa, but the search giant has not commented. He has amended the bill, most recently taking out references to theft of intellectual property. Sopa, the last bill to try and tackle such theft, was scrapped after a global revolt. He added an amendment allowing people and companies to sue the US government if it violates the terms of use for the information.The homeland security department was also given a greater role in collecting information, although critics noted that information would still be passed to the NSA.Richardson called the changes "cosmetic" and said the fundamental issues remained. She said: "This bill is simply too broadly defined and overturns vital protections."The EFF, ACLU and others have been attempting tocoordinate a revoltagainst Cispa similar to the one that overthrew Sopa, but so far the campaign has not gathered the same momentum. Rogers has said the privacy protests are"like turbulence on the way down to landing"for the bill.• Explore the seven-day special series on theBattle for the internet
Google co-founder Sergey Brin has hit back at critics of hisexclusive comments to the Guardian about the importance of the open web, and emphasised that he thinks "government filtering of political dissent" poses the biggest threat to internet freedom.His words echo those of Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the web,who told the Guardian this weekthat the UK government's plans for internet surveillance were dangerous.Writing on his personal account on the Google+ network, Brin said that his remarks "got particularly distorted in the secondary coverage" by rehashed versions of his discussion "in a way that distracts from my central tenets".Brin comes from a family who fled antisemitism in the Soviet Union. In his blogpost he reiterates the point made in the original article  that he thinks governments, rather than individual companies, pose the biggest and most immediate threat to everyone's freedoms online."Today, the primary threat by far to internet freedom is government filtering of political dissent," he wrote. "This has been far more effective than I ever imagined possible across a number of nations. In addition, other countries such as the US have come close to adopting very similar techniques in order to combat piracy and other vices. I believe these efforts have been misguided and dangerous."His warning comes just hours after Berners-Lee said that the UK government's plans for monitoring of internet use and digital communications would be a "destruction of human rights" and would make highly sensitive personal information vulnerable to theft or unauthorised release. Berners-Lee called the plans "very dangerous" and said "the most important thing is to stop the bill as it is at the moment."Brin's comments to the Guardian on Monday have been referenced hundreds of times across the web as his warnings openeda week-long examination by the paper of the struggle for openness on the internet.But despite his emphasis in the article on the threats posed by countries such as China, Saudi Arabia and Iran to censor and restrict internet use, much of the coverage elsewhere concentrated on his concerns that on an internet dominated by Facebook – which restricts access from outside to its content – Google could not have been set up with the success it has had, and that "walled gardens" around Apple's apps makes it hard to access their content."To clarify, I certainly do not think this issue is on a par with government based censorship," Brin wrote in his follow-up. "Moreover, I have much admiration for two of the companies we discussed – Apple and Facebook."He said he has "always admired Apple products" and that he wrote the post on an Apple computer. He also praises Facebook for its role in aiding political expression, saying it "has been instrumental to the Arab Spring. Both [Apple and Facebook] have made key contributions to the free flow of information around the world."But he reiterates his concern that the Google that he and Larry Page founded in 1998 could be set up and access sites "without asking anyone for permission" – and notes that internet directory Yahoo, auction site eBay and payments service PayPal did the same thing. "Today, starting such a service would entail navigating a number of new tollbooths and gatekeepers," Brin noted.He signed off by re-emphasising the risk from government suppression: "Regardless of how you feel about digital ecosystems or about Google, please do not take the free and open internet for granted from government intervention. To the extent that free flow of information threatens the powerful, those in power will seek to suppress it."
It seems that every day there's another patent lawsuit in the tech world:Yahoo set off alarm bells when it sued Facebook last month, claiming the social network had violated 10 of its patents. Weeks later, Facebook fired back, declaring that 10 of its own patents were infringed by Yahoo.Apple and Samsung have patent lawsuits over mobile devices filed against each other in countries around the world.Guitar Apprentice sued Ubisoftover its Rocksmith technology earlier this month for patent infringement on a "media system and method of progressive musical instruction".But Twitter says it wants to stop all of this.In a blogpost on the company website on Tuesday, the microblogging platform announced that it has struck a new agreement with its employees that will give legal rights to engineers and designers who develop a patent while working for Twitter.The argument, according to Adam Messinger, vice-president for engineering at Twitter, is that it would diminish the potential of a patent being used for offensive litigation."Typically, engineers and designers sign an agreement with their company that irrevocably gives that company any patents filed related to the employee's work,"he wrote.The company then has control over the patents and can use them however they want, which may include selling them to others.With the IPA (Innovator's Patent Agreement) employees can be assured that their patents will only be used as a shield rather than as a weapon.The IPA, which can be read in full over atGitHub, will be retroactively enacted for any patent under the Twitter umbrella.But will it work? Some patent laywers were somewhat skeptical."The question is really one of whether it's an effective mechanism when it's done unilaterally," Paul Gardner, academic director for thePatent Resources Group, told the Guardian.He said: "My personal opinion is that it would likely be of questionable value because it's unilateral. It would require the entire technology community to engage with them to discourage companies fighting with one another over patent rights in general – especially that part of the community known as patent trolls."But influential venture capitalist and blogger Fred Wilsonweighed in a little more optimistically."I like to call this move the 'Twitter Patent Hack' because I think what they have done is very clever and is likely to have a material change in the way patents are used to foster and/or hinder innovation, as the case may be," he wrote.Few will argue against the point that patent trolling has gotten out of hand. But it remains to be seen whether others will follow suit just yet.Foursquare's head of engineering Harry Heymann tweeted:I'm a big fan of what twitter is doing with patent assignments. Definitely going to look into doing the same at foursquare.#TwitterIPA&mdash; harryh (@harryh)April 17, 2012But Facebook released a noncommittal statement saying it will review Twitter's new IPA:"We appreciate the spirit of this initiative and look forward to reviewing the materials that Twitter has shared with us."
In the first week of February, Sir Tim Berners-Lee stood in front of a jury in east Texas. His task was daunting: he had to invalidate a set of patents claimed by a company called Eolas and the University of California. If he failed, almost everyone running a website with moving pictures or streaming video would have to pay a stipend to those two for each use.Berners-Lee famously didn't patent the world wide web when he invented it as a method of tying together data from different locations on the internet. The web – confusing though it might seem – is a layer on top of the basic "internet" connection that comes into your home or office or smartphone. When asked in court why  he hadn't patented his idea Berners-Lee said: "The internet was already around. I was taking hypertext" – what we see now on web pages as blue links – "and it was around [as an idea] for a long time too." (That's true: the idea of hypertext to "join" disparate pages was put forward by Ted Nelson in the 1960s.)Berners-Lee added: "All I was doing was putting together bits that had been around for years in a particular combination to meet the needs that I have." The next question was: "Who owns the web?" To which Berners-Lee replied: "We do." All of us, and nobody. He then pointed to the existence in 1991 of a web browser called Viola, which incorporated the idea of interactivity – precisely the same ideas that Eolas and the University of California claimed to have invented in 1993.Berners-Lee's testimony helped win the case: the patent was ruled invalid, to the relief of Google, Amazon and Yahoo, which had all been approached by Eolas, seeking payment, but which had opposed it through the legal system.Although the Eolas case was one of the most wide-ranging patent claims made against the web – and one with enormous potential to interfere with its smooth running, as it would lay developers and website creators open to claims from Eolas and the university – it is far from the only one. Patents are increasingly being seen as a commercial threat to the smallest startups and the largest names on the web. That, in turn, threatens to close down the flowering of apps as a way to connect people with the information that they want.The US patent system is rapidly falling into disrepute over its treatment of software. Patents were envisaged as a means of giving inventors protection from bigger companies that might want to steal their ideas without reward. Allocated by governments, they confer protection over a slice of "intellectual property" if the inventor can show that the invention fulfils two essential requirements: that it is "non-obvious" to someone already knowledgeable about the field it applies to; and that it contains an "inventive step" to achieve its outcome. In return,  inventors get protection for their ideas for a set period (usually 20 years from application) and can sue anyone they think is infringing them. The idea of "lone inventor" patents is a false one, argues Mark Lemley of Stanford Law School.In a paperhe points out that inventions are often "in the air", and sometimes different inventors file the same idea almost simultaneously: "We should be denying patents on the vast majority of the most important inventions, since most seem to involve near-simultaneous invention." While patents were initially applied to physical items, business growth in the last 30 years has led to companies and individuals seeking to win them in the US for software alone. Although software code is protected by copyright, patents have been seen as offering better legal rights. The US Patents and Trademarks Office (USPTO) has issued patents for software, something that has been resisted in Europe, and has led to a transatlantic split in patent practice."Things can be patented in the US that cannot be in Europe," says Alex Frost, partner in the hi-tech and electrical group at the patent attorneys Boult Wade Tennant, which acts in Europe for, among others, Yahoo. "There are significant differences in the legislation. It's unlikely that Europe will go the way of the US in allowing software patenting. What's patentable in the US has been tightened up in the past 10 years; there was a period in the late 1990s when it was like the wild west at the US patents office." Almost anything could get through, because the patent examiners didn't know how and where to look for "prior art" – earlier examples that would make the applied-for patent invalid. That, suggests Frost, gave the USPTO a bad name for some time.The key difference is that in Europe, a patent must have a "technical effect", which roughly translates to something physical happening as a result of its use. So unlocking Apple's iPhone screen – which says "slide to unlock" and indicates a guide for the finger to slide along to unlock the screen – can be patented in Europe, because sliding the finger leads to a clear result: you can then interact with the screen. It's being challenged in a Dutch court. But Amazon's "One Click" method, which reduces the amount of information you have to enter to make an order online, has been turned down repeatedly by the European Patent Office (EPO). The final decision was in July 2011, when an appeal board determined that One Click was, in effect, not inventive enough, given what was known when it was devised.That has led to a transatlantic divide in which patents that would not pass the scrutiny of the EPO have been asserted in the US and become the subject of bitter lawsuits there. The latest case involves Facebook, which is only approaching its eighth birthday. Early in March, after it had said it would make a public offering , it washit by a patent lawsuitfrom, astonishingly, Yahoo, one of the biggest names online. Now under a new chief executive, Scott Thompson, Yahoo wants to benefit from what may be its only advantage over Facebook, which is bigger, more profitable, and faster growing. What Yahoo has is  age – and with it a portfolio of software patents acquired or created during its life.Yahoo is claiming that Facebook infringes 10 of its patents, including a number relating to advertising on the web, a field where it was an early entrant. Facebook said it was "puzzled" by the lawsuit, but quickly made preparations by buying a portfolio of patents from IBM, which it might be able to assert against Yahoo if the case comes to trial, or use as leverage in settlement.The case has stirred up anger in Silicon Valley. "Look at what it is they're suing Facebook over. It's things that nearly all social services use," wrote MG Siegler, a journalist turned venture capitalist. "It's obvious things – things that existed before Yahoo patented them." But as John Lilly, former chief executive of browser company Mozilla, who is also now a venture capitalist, pointed out, companies from Apple to Amazon have been patenting and suing rivals for years. What has made the Yahoo case different is that it is no longer seen as an innovative company. For most companies, being sued by a big rival is actually a mark that you've arrived; while Facebook didn't need the validation, the lawsuit has clearly shown which of the two companies is in the ascendant. Stronger companies hardly ever sue smaller ones, because they don't need to.That's not true of Apple, which has been suing a number of companies making products based on Google's Android mobile software – notably HTC, Samsung and Motorola – in courts in the US, Europe and even Australia, as part of a Steve Jobs-inspired battle to try to block Android's growth in return for what he saw as theft of ideas from the iPhone. But despite filing its first lawsuits almost two years ago, Apple has won only token injunctions against particular phones in some regions. Though it succeeded in blocking Samsung's Galaxy Tab tablet from sale in Australia and Germany, the bigger effect was to make the product's name better known because of media coverage, and so raise demand – hardly the outcome it would have wanted."These are traditional patent disputes," says Frost. "It's nothing different really from Dyson and Hoover arguing about cyclonic vacuum cleaners." But it won't have any effect on the ordinary man in the street, he thinks; nor even the software developer. There's no example of a phone company being wiped out by a patent claim; even BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion, which wound up paying $600m after losing a patent war with NTP in March 2006, went on to greater things. Its latest slump into loss, and falling handset sales – even while its patent resources have grown enormously – is because it has not been able to compete, not because it was litigated out of business.However, for many smaller companies, software patents really can pose an existential threat. Last year a number of British developers began receiving formal letters from a company called Lodsys, which owns a number of patents that it claims cover the use of what are called "in-app purchases", where you buy some extra functionality from inside a program. Lodsys does not make or write software; it exists to make money from the patents it owns. In the lingo, it is a "patent troll", or, more politely, a "non-practising entity". Rather than using the patents to make anything, it subsists by exacting a toll from those it can persuade to pay, either through legal threats or actual lawsuits.For independent developers – often companies with between one and five staff, not owned by any of the giant phone makers – the attention of a patent troll can make them turn away from a territory altogether. That began to happen last year as Lodsys racked up its threats against developers for both Apple and Google's Android mobile operating systems: a number of British developerssimply pulled their apps from saleto US customers of Apple's App Store and Google's Android Market (since renamed Play), rather than face Lodsys patents. Outside the US, the patents are not recognised and cannot be enforced, but any transaction in the US could be targeted."For the small firms targeted by Lodsys, the rational thing to do is to pay the money Lodsys demands, whether or not the target believes he's actually guilty,"says Timothy Lee, who has co-written apaper about the problemsthat software patents now pose to developers. "That's because the legal costs of defending against a patent lawsuit is likely to vastly exceed the amount of money Lodsys is demanding." It's also now impossible for any software developer to find out whether they might be infringing someone else's patents, Lee says, because it's so hard to know what to search for – unlike, say, chemists with a new formula, who can find any patents covering its creation.Christina Mulligan, who co-wrote the paper with Lee, is a postdoctoral associate in law at Yale University. "Patents definitely threaten the open web," she said. "Patent owners have sued other companies for such banalities as using jpeg files and transmitting data typed into websites. By locking up the basic building blocks of the internet and obvious software processes, patents hamper the free flow of information and increase the financial risks associated with simple activities, such as having a website. As we discuss in our paper Scaling the Patent System, software writers and web developers couldn't discover all the patents relevant to their projects if they tried, so they are left at risk of crippling patent lawsuits for any project they do."The money spent on patents – either acquiring them or litigating them – distracts from more productive effort, she says. "Resources that could have gone into research and development go into purchasing patents. Google acquired Motorola Mobility for $12.5bn, after Microsoft and Apple spent $4.5bn to purchase 6,000 patents from Nortel Networks. These billions could have been used to develop new products and inventions."That also stifles future development, Lee adds. "The success of the internet has depended crucially on the existence of open, royalty-free standards, which allows anyone to create and distribute internet software. Free software products like [the free open source browser] Mozilla Firefox and the [free open source] Apache web server have been particularly important for the success of the open web."The threat of software patents to the open web is particularly clear in the case of video. The web is currently transitioning from proprietary Flash-based video to open video standards. The standard favoured by many firms, including Apple and Microsoft, H.264, is patent-encumbered, which makes it difficult for free software projects like Firefox to support it. Google and Mozilla have supported the WebM standard, which has many fewer patent issues."Lee and Mulligan's straightforward financial logic is little comfort to developers who receive letters from Lodsys, which usually demands a flat 2.5% of revenues.One British developer who declined to be named, but who has been targeted by the company, said he had considered going to a company that will use crowdsourcing to find "prior art", which would invalidate Lodsys's patents if presented as part of a lawsuit. Getting that prior art "would cost us about $25,000", he said. The alternative – settling with Lodsys, which could then go on to extract cash from other developers – would be cheaper. Lodsys has not responded to requests for comment from the Guardian.Alex Frost has no consoling words for the developers either. "It isn't the ethos through which patents have existed for the past several hundreds of years," he says. "But as a small software developer, you'll always have this worry in the back of your mind."• Explore the seven-day special series on theBattle for the internet
To the untrained eye it looks like the sort of rust bucket not even the most optimistic secondhand car dealer would dare to offer for sale.But car enthusiasts are expected to bid enthusiastically whenthis particular Austin Mini Se7en De Luxecomes up for auction later this month.The vehicle is believed to be the oldest surviving unrestored Mini and will probably be snapped up by a fan of the make wanting to return it to its former glory.Auctioneers Bonhams say the car was the eighth of its type to roll off the production line at Longbridge in Birmingham in May 1959. It is known to have been owned by one Gladys Hobro of Aldwick, near Bognor Regis, West Sussex, before being bought by David Gallimore in 1986. Gallimore kept it in his garage at Chichester and there are still only 30,041 miles on the clock.John Polson, of Bonhams, said: "This is a wonderful opportunity to buy the car and restore it. Collectors love the fact it has had very little done to it since it was built."The car was made very, very simply without many instruments or equipment."It was designed to be an affordable, family car. The Mini is one of the most important cars of the 20th century. They have always been collectable."Some collectors would want to return her to new, but others would just like to get her going again and keep her in the original condition."It is thought that only three Minis earlier than this one exist, but they have been restored. One is owned by the British Motor Industry Heritage Trust and the other two are in private collections in Japan.The Mini is expected to fetch up to £15,000 when it is auctioned on 30 April in Hendon, north London.
"Simple to learn but hard to master" is how RedLynx describes Trials Evolution, the sequel to Trials HD. They're not kidding. There are many other soundbites they could have used to sum up this game: "Angry Birds meets (old Disney racing game) Pure" and "who needs sleep?" spring to mind.It might seem odd to compare a racing game to that global iPhone addiction, but in terms of addictive quality, the games are hard to separate. Like Angry Birds, there's a big daft sense of humour behind Trials Evolution. Very much like Angry Birds, the game has got that "I'll just have one more go …" quality that can swallow hours whole. And exactly like Angry Birds, it's a simple premise that only takes seconds to pick up.You control a trailbike rider. He moves from left to right in a linear fashion. You've got to get him from the start line to the finish by negotiating a series of obstacles and jumps. That's it. You had more complex objectives on Spectrum games but, as we keep arguing, good gameplay is all you need. As it happens, Trials Evolution has great gameplay and even better scenery. Not only does the appearance make you forget the linear nature of the game, there are moments that will leave you gasping: for example, there's a trial at dusk where your rider leaps against the setting sun and it's simply breathtaking.Where Trials Evolution does differ from Angry Birds is that where the latter requires a certain amount of luck, Trials Evolution is genuinely a game of precision. What makes that all the more remarkable is the simplicity of the controls. The right trigger accelerates. The left trigger is the brake. The left joystick makes your rider lean forward or lean back. That's it, yet it gives an incredible level of nuance.If your rider is in the wrong position, you might be able to rescue him from imminent disaster but chances are he's coming off and hitting a stray mine, face planting against a rock in hilarious style or writhing on the floor in a manner that should suggest agony but looks a lot like he's being pleasured by an invisible Jenna Jameson. The clever bit – oh you addictive game pushers, Ubisoft – is that there are frequent save points and a quick tap of a button will take you back to the last one without messing up your whole race.Your time is also taken at these checkpoints, so you can see where you've shaved off – or lost – a few hundredths of a second. And it's those touches that keep you trying, trying and trying again as you attempt to up your medal score and unlock all the extra content. And then doing it all again on the large number of mini games. And then again on all the unlockable content.There is also, apparently, a vast multiplayer option (which we were unable to test in advance), plus a track designer and the facility to share your creations with the Xbox Live community. We'll maybe come back to all of that at a future date. In the meantime, if you'll excuse me, I'm a second off a gold medal and I think I know just how to get my time down…• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Freedom for most people is something sacred, and many have been willing to sacrifice their lives for it. It is not just another word, for we measure the health of our democracies by the standard of freedom. We use it to measure our happiness and prosperity. Sadly, freedom of information, expression and speech isbeing eroded graduallywithout people paying much attention to it. Freedom of movement is permitted within certain zones,freedom of reading is disappearing, and the right to privacy is dwindling with the increased surveillance of our every move.When the world wide web came into being, it was an unrestricted, free flowing world of creativity, connectivity and close encounters of the internet kind. It was as if the collective consciousness had taken on material (yet virtual!) form and people soon learned to use it to work, play and gather. Today's social and democratic reform is born and bred online where people can freely exchange views and knowledge. Some of us old-school internet freedom fighters understood this value way before the web became such a part of our daily lives. One of them is John Perry Barlow, who in 1996 wrote aDeclaration of the Independence of Cyberspacein a response to an attempt to legalise restrictions on this brand new world. In it he declares: "Governments of the industrial world, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace, the new home of mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us. You have no sovereignty where we gather."Barlow inspired me and others to create the Icelandic Modern Media Initiative (IMMI), a parliamentary proposal unanimously approved by the Icelandic parliament in 2010, tasking the government to make Iceland a safe haven for freedom of information and expression, where privacy online would be as sacred and guarded as it is in the real world. The spirit of IMMI is in stark contrast with the serious attacks we are currently faced with. We have legal monsters likeActa,Sopa, Pipa and nowCispa; we have anti-terrorist acts abused to tear these liberties apart; we have armies of corporate lawyers scrutinising every bit of news prior to it getting out to us before we ever get to know the real stories that should remain in the public domain.And that's just the tip of the iceberg. The US government legally hacks into other nations'parliamentaryprivate social media data because it is stored on servers originating in the US, as in myTwitter case. The infamous EU data retention law is making us all into terrorist subjects by default, and now we have the newest addition in a dangerous cocktail of erosion of civil liberties online with the offline reality: meet the National Defense Authorization Act(NDAA), also known as the Homeland Battlefield Act. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) describes it thus:"For the first time in American history, we have a law authorising the worldwide and indefinite military detention of people captured far from any battlefield. The NDAA has no temporal or geographic limitations. It is completely at odds with our values, violates the constitution, and corrodes our nation's commitment to the rule of law."Since the US department of justice isploughing my private dataand WikiLeaks (whom I volunteered for in 2010 by co-producingCollateral Murder) are defined by the US vice-president as cyberterrorists, I felt under direct threat when NDAA was passed. I have not been able to travel to the US for more than a year under advice from the Icelandic state department. The only way for me to go is on a UN visa (the same kind as Gaddafi and Hussein got when going to the UN) when I plan to attend the UN assembly later this year. Basically what NDAA means is that the US military can put anyone, anywhere under the suspicion of being a terror threat or an associate and detain you for ever, without you having access to a lawyer or a court. So I joined Chris Hedges, Noam Chomsky, Daniel Ellsberg and other activists in&nbsp;suing the United States government&nbsp;to stop the implementation of the NDAA. Naomi Wolf was kind enough to read mytestimonyat a US court last month, since I could not be there in person.The good news is that cyberspace is full ofhacktivistsand our offline world has a growingOccupy movement, inspiring all of us into action, co-creating a different reality in the spirit of a true online and offlinefreedom.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter@commentisfree
A selection of 15 new apps for you today:PocketReading app Read it Later accumulated 4.5m users as a paid app on iOS and Android. Now it's rebranded as Pocket and gone free. The idea remains to save articles, videos and webpages to read later on multiple devices. The company says that more than 200m items have been saved since its launch in 2007.Android / iPhone / iPadSketch Nation StudioThis is a really interesting idea: an iOS app for creating your own games and then selling them on the App Store itself. The idea being to scribble characters and items on paper or on the device (scanning them in using the camera in the former case) and then making games in a variety of genres. Publisher Engineous Games says it will release the best ones as standalone apps, giving the creator 50% of the revenues after Apple's 30% cut.iPhone / iPadMetal Hammer presents: History of MetalLooking for "an all-embracing overview concerning the evolution of hard rocking music"? That's what's promised by Metal Hammer magazine's new iPad app, which digs into 40 years of metal history with articles, video interviews and album reviews – complete with iTunes sample clips and purchase links.iPadKingdom AgeMobile social games publisher Funzio's latest iOS game is Kingdom Age, which styles itself as a "massively multiplayer online action RPG". The setting is medieval: sieges, city-building and hack'n'slash quests, with bags of monsters, buildings and items to uncover.iPhone / iPadEncyclopaedia-BritannicaEncyclopædia Britannica has unveiled a new iOS app providing access to its digital content, as part of its decision to stop making the printed version. It's free to download, with a £1.99 monthly subscription.iPhone / iPadGoal.com iPad EditionGlobal football site Goal.com has a new iPad app, pulling in news, interviews, player profiles and fixtures from the website. It also offers live scores from 10 leagues around the world, offline reading features and a My Teams section for favourite clubs.iPadCollins DictionaryThe Collins Dictionary and Phrasebook has come to Windows Phone, offering 10,000 "most useful" words as well as 2,000 phrases. Each entry has audio from native speakers in languages including English, French and Spanish. Specific words, phrases and categories can be pinned to the Windows Phone home screen too.Windows PhoneDubstep Tebow!It's a match made in SEO hell! Yes, a dubstep music-making app for iPhone that also includes samples of NFL quarterback Tim Tebow – of "Tebowing" meme fame. Also the perfect union of something American that had to be explained to puzzled Brits, and something British that had to be explained to puzzled Americans.iPhoneThe Metropolitan Opera: Met SeasonNew York's Metropolitan Opera has launched a new iPad app to promote its 2012-13 season of concerts, including interviews, video clips and audio samples, as well as links to its e-commerce store and online streaming service.iPadPower Tune-UpFresh out of beta, Bitdefender's Power Tune-Up app aims to tweak Android handsets by removing unnecessary cache and temporary files, monitoring data usage and saving battery life.AndroidTrapsterDriving app Trapster has come to Windows Phone, with features alerting drivers to speed traps, red light and speed cameras, accidents and other hazards on the road.Windows PhoneMonster IslandThe latest Xbox Live-capable game for Windows Phone is Monster Island, a colourful arcade game from Miniclip that gathers 252 levels and 12 monstery heroes to play as.Windows PhonemusicMagpieBritish service musicMagpie has launched an Android version of its app, which helps people scan their unwanted CDs, DVDs and games and then sell them.AndroidFun FoldsFed up with pulling faces using the iOS PhotoBooth app? Try Fun Folds on for size. It gets you to take photos of people, then digitally "pinch" them before saving and/or sharing to social networks.iPhone / iPadDust Bunnies: Secret AgentsPolycot Labs' new book-app includes the ability to enter your child's name (if it's one of the 475 supported) and hear it read out for their character in the story, which concerns a group of rabbit secret agents.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHTML5: A blessing or a curse? &gt;&gt; DevelopFocussed on game developers:Initially heralded as the future of browser gaming and the next step beyond the monopolised world of Flash, HTML5 has since faced criticism for being tough to code with and possessing a string of broken features.The coding platform, the fifth iteration of the HTML standard, was supposed to be a one stop shop for developers looking to create and distribute their game to a multitude of platforms and browsers, but things haven't been plain sailing.Key criticism is over audio implementation; there's a certain amount of wishful sighing for the good old days when you just wrote for Flash. Unfortunately, Windows 8 and tablets mean those aren't coming back.In Facebook deal for Instagram, board was all but out of picture &gt;&gt; WSJ.comOn the morning of Sunday, April 8, Facebook Inc.'s youthful chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, alerted his board of directors that he intended to buy Instagram, the hot photo-sharing service.It was the first the board heard of what, later that day, would become Facebook's largest acquisition ever, according to several people familiar with the matter. Mr. Zuckerberg and his counterpart at Instagram, Kevin Systrom, had already been talking over the deal for three days, these people said.Negotiating mostly on his own, Mr. Zuckerberg had fielded Mr. Systrom's opening number, $2 billion, and whittled it down over several meetings at Mr. Zuckerberg's $7 million five-bedroom home in Palo Alto. Later that Sunday, the two 20-somethings would agree on a sale valued at $1 billion.Facebook is like the early Gates-led Microsoft, only more so.Yahoo CEO: Must be clearer about what we won't do &gt;&gt; paidContentYahoo announced first-quarter results on Tuesday night:We've heard it before, heck, we've said it before. Yahoo has been weighed down for years by way too much product. Thompson's light-bulb moment came after discussions about what it would take to change Yahoo: "Yahoo has been doing too much for too long ... We need to be clearer going forward about what we won't do." How is he going to fix this? Fifty properties that "don't contribute meaningfully" are being shut down. I've been told most of them are outside the U.S. but Yahoo won't confirm that or provide details. Hard to imagine that 50 will be enough but Carol Bartz did give him a head start.Instead Yahoo will focus on the properties that contribute the most engagement and revenue -- news, finance, sports, entertainment and mail. R&amp;D and resources will go to owned-and-operated sites, halting third-party efforts.Among the things that new chief executive Scott Thompson says aren't working is the alliance with Microsoft, which provides search via Bing. That's a big problem for Microsoft.Carriers Warn of Crisis in Mobile Spectrum &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe wireless carriers say that in the next few years they may not have enough of it to meet the exploding demands for mobile data. The result, they ominously warn, may be slower or spotty connections on smartphones and tablets. They imply in carefully couched language that, given the laws of supply and demand, the price of cellphone service will soar.It will affect "the services they're paying for because of the capacity issues," said Ed McFadden, Verizon's vice president for policy communications. "It potentially hinders our ability to meet consumer need."But is there really a crisis? Some scientists and engineers say the companies are playing a game that is more about protecting their businesses from competitors.To which one scientist retorts that their complaints are more like suggesting you'll run out of a colour: the finite spectrum idea dates to the 1920s, but there are much more effective ways of using spectrum.Introducing the Innovator's Patent Agreement &gt;&gt; Twitter blogHowever, we also think a lot about how those patents may be used in the future; we sometimes worry that they may be used to impede the innovation of others. For that reason, we are publishing a draft of the Innovator's Patent Agreement, which we informally call the "IPA".The IPA is a new way to do patent assignment that keeps control in the hands of engineers and designers. It is a commitment from Twitter to our employees that patents can only be used for defensive purposes.That commitment goes with the patents, it says. Laudable. Nathan Myhrvold next?Big news for pull-to-refresh &gt;&gt; Loren Brichter on TwitterLoren Brichter devised Tweetie, later bought by Twitter, and came up with the neat "pull-to-refresh" user interface element. He's pleased about Twitter's announcement on patents.Rickshaw: A JavaScript toolkit for creating interactive time series graphsDescription: Rickshaw is a JavaScript toolkit for creating interactive time series graphs. Looks nifty. Free, open source, MIT licence, developed at Shutterstock.com.Raspberry Pi - Review &gt;&gt; bit-tech.netA thorough review of all aspects of the device, including the software:Even assuming the distribution itself isn't causing problems, a surprising amount of software has yet to be ported to the Pi's ARM11 instruction set architecture. At present, it's impossible to view Flash content, the only version of Firefox available is the archaic 3.6.3 version, and getting Java to work is an exercise in futility.For now, a modicum of Linux know-how is a prerequisite for Pi use.As increasing numbers of developers and hackers get their hands on the boards, however, this will change. We've already heard that Oracle is being drafted in to create a Pi-centric Java VM while Adobe is rumoured to be looking into the possibility of porting an existing ARM build of its Flash Player to the Pi.In short, the Pi promises much - but the software just isn't there yet. For end-users hoping to get going with their new Pis straight out of the box, it could prove a problem - but improved software is on the horizon, and developers from user-friendly and lightweight distributions like Puppy Linux are already working to get their systems up and running on the devices.It's the software that really has to do the job. The hardware is up to it.Six months later, Google Plus still doesn't add up &gt;&gt; ForbesPul Tassi:Fans may love the fact that pictures and videos are featured more prominently on G+ than other sites, but it also makes navigation quite bit more cumbersome. Right now on Twitter, I can view eleven tweets without having to scroll down. On Facebook, there are four stories, complete with photos. Google Plus? My newsfeed home screen is showing me one giant picture from Tom Anderson's recent vacation, which takes up the entire vertical space. To its right? A vast white gulf of sheer nothingness. For those making the "prettiness" argument as to why G+ is superior to Facebook, I just don't see it.Want to know another platform where the screen layout seriously limits the amount of content you can access rapidly? Windows Phone.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The"Tracking the Trackers" projecthas since last Friday asked users of the site to submit anonymised information on the webpages they visit and the tracking files (usually known as "cookies") that those sites place.Since then, more than 300 users have uploaded information on the relationships between more than 16,000 websites and cookies, building one of the most detailed databases ever available on the prevelance of web cookies.The project is still accepting new data, but has published the current top 10 tracking files on the internet, in order to begin investigating what information each tracks, and which companies are behind them. It's given below, with the number of websites that attempted to place the cookie on users' computers:1. doubleclick.net (863 sites)2. quantserve.com (531 sites)3. scorecardresearch.com (507 sites)4. facebook.com (488 sites)5. twitter.com (378 sites)6. google.com (306 sites)7. addthis.com (275 sites)8. adnxs.com (233 sites)9. yieldmanager.com (198 sites)10. imrworldwide.com (188 sites)Some of the most prolific cookies clearly come from well-known internet companies such as Google or Facebook, while others come from their subsidiaries: Doubleclick.net, the most prolific cookie discovered to date, is one of the biggest advertising providers on the internet, and is owned by Google.Others in the top 10 list come from providers who most internet users will never have heard of. The Guardian is investigating who is behind each, what information they track, and for what purposes.The Guardian has encouraged its users to help the investigation by downloading a free application called Collusion, built by Mozilla (the company behind the open-source browser Firefox). It works by showing you the sites you've visited and what tracking devices they set on your computer.Just a few minutes surfing the web can result in a string of company names, products and services unknown outside the worlds of online advertising and analytics, which users were then asked to submit anonymously to the Guardian for research.This anonymous data will eventually be published by the Guardian, to allow any developers and users – rather than just those within the big advertisers – to build a true picture of tracking on the net.The initial findings of the study come as new research from privacy consultancy TRUSTe suggested that UK websites are not doing enough to safeguard their users' privacy. TRUSTe's figures suggested that the average large UK website placed 14 tracking files on each user's computer, most of which were from third parties, usually advertisers.One third of privacy policies revealed user data automatically shared with third parties for commercial purposes, while almost half tracked location data of their users. The typical privacy policy was 2,299 words long – twice a typical's Queen's speech and half the length of the Magna Carta, making them inaccessible for users, TRUSTe warned."Clearly, more work needs to be done to deliver shorter, more accessible privacy notices that can be easily understood by consumers so that they can make informed choices around their personal information," said CEO Chris Babel.• Help our crowdsourcedinvestigation into the "Tracking the Trackers" top 10• Find outhow to submit data to "Tracking the Trackers"• Find outmore about cookies – and how the Guardian uses them
Tim Berners-Lee, the father of the world wide web, has urged internet users to demand their personal data from online giants such as Google and Facebook to usher in a new era of highly personalised computer services "with tremendous potential to help humanity".Berners-Lee, the British born MIT professor who invented the web three decades ago, says that while there has been an explosion of public data made available in recent years, individuals have not yet understood the value to them of the personal data held about them by different web companies.In an interview with the Guardian, Berners-Lee said: "My computer has a great understanding of my state of fitness, of the things I'm eating, of the places I'm at. My phone understands from being in my pocket how much exercise I've been getting and how many stairs I've been walking up and so on."Exploiting such data could provide hugely useful services to individuals, he said, but only if their computers had access to personal data held about them by web companies. "One of the issues of social networking silos is that they have the data and I don't … There are no programmes that I can run on my computer which allow me to use all the data in each of the social networking systems that I use plus all the data in my calendar plus in my running map site, plus the data in my little fitness gadget and so on to really provide an excellent support to me."Berners-Lee, who has been an outspoken defender of the "open internet", said big web companies were beginning to respond to consumer pressure to make users' data more easily recoverable. Google now offers users immediate access to all data it holds on them and Facebook will send users their data, though it may take as long as three months to recover all of it.Once the data outputs from different sites had been standardised, he said, our computers would be able to offer increasingly sophisticated services such as telling us what to read in the morning. "It will know not only what's happening out there but also what I've read already and also what my mood is, and who I'm meeting later on."Berners-Lee has in the past warned that the rise of social-networking "silos" such as Facebook, and  "closed world" apps such as those released by Apple, which cannot be indexed by web search engines, threaten the openness and universality that the architects of the internet saw as central to its design.He said he was still worried about the effect of hugely dominant or monopolistic companies but believed that the greater ability of small companies to innovate meant  it was unlikely that the current web giants would maintain their dominance indefinitely."It's interesting that people throughout the existence of the web have been concerned about monopolies. They were concerned [about] Netscape having complete control over the browser market until suddenly they started worrying that Microsoft had complete control of the browser market. So I think one of the lessons is that things can change very rapidly."Before the web, Gopher [an early alternative to the world wide web] was taking over the whole internet, it seemed, very quickly. I remember in an internet engineering meeting, somebody remarked that it was incredible how quickly it was taking over. One of the wiser people said: 'Well it's funny, it's amazing how quickly people on the internet can pick something up, but it's also amazing how quickly they can drop it.'"He said web users needed to be more conscious that websites that seemed to be permanent fixtures of the online world could disappear within a few years. "Whatever social site, wherever you put your data, you should make sure that you can get it back and get it back in a standard form. And in fact if I were you I would do that regularly, just like you back up your computer … maybe our grandchildren depending on which website we use may or may not be able to see our photos."Berners-Lee said he was concerned by the rise of so-called "native apps" such as those produced for the iPhone and iPad because they were not searchable. "Every time somebody puts a magazine on a phone now and doesn't put it on to a web app [a form of open software] you know we lose a whole lot of information to the general public discourse – I can't link to it, so I can't tweet it, I can't discuss it, I can't like it, I can't hate it."But he said the rapid improvement of web apps, and their ability to offer functionality and slickness previously only available from Apple or Android apps would return more information to the open internet.In a clear dig at Apple's highly restrictive ecosystem he said: "I should be able to pick which applications I use for managing my life, I should be able to pick which content I look at, and I should be able to pick which device I use, which company I use for supplying my internet, and I'd like those to be independent choices."He said he was also concerned about the rise of relatively restrictive smartphones, at the expense of PCs or Macs. "One of the things I like about the computer that I use is that I can write a program on it or I can download a program on to it and run it. That's kind of important to me, and that's also kind of  important to the whole future of the internet … obviously a closed platform is a serious brake on innovation."He is most worried by moves by some makers of laptop operating systems to "lock those down too, because they like the environment of the locked-down phone". He said such limited operating systems could improve security but  "on the other hand this is the end of the road for the general innovative space which is general computers."Berners-Lee was speaking to the Guardian as part of its week-long series on thebattle for control of the internet, examining how states, companies and technological developments are challenging the principles of openness and universal access on which the net was built.Acknowledging growing concerns about online privacy, he said computer users received significant benefits from the vast amount of data that big web companies accumulate about them but that increasingly they would seek to apply limits to how the data could be used."If I go to a shop and I buy some clothes, it's helpful if the clothes shop remembers what size I am because I'm terribly bad at remembering … Instead of preventing people from getting information together we're moving towards a world in which people agree not to use information for particular purposes … so [for instance] making sure that an insurance company, even if its insurance agent happens to be a friend of a friend of yours on Facebook, won't use that information to set your premium."He said the development of a "do not track" protocol, currently being debated by the Federal Trade Commission, would increase web users' confidence that data about them was not being abused – by "flipping a switch" on their browsers they will be able to instruct websites not to track their online behaviour.Of all internet developments, Berners-Lee said those costing him the most sleep were attempts by governments to tighten their control of or spy on the internet, which he said amounted to "a destruction of human rights". He washighly criticalof British government plans to expand surveillance of communication to include emails, social media and Skype, as well as monitoring all web use by individuals.But he also said he was worried by the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act, a proposed US bill that would increase the government's ability to enforce patents and copyright."[It] is threatening the rights of people in America, and effectively rights everywhere, because what happens in America tends to affect people all over the world. Even though the Sopa and Pipa acts were stopped by huge public outcry, it's staggering how quickly the US government has come back with a new, different, threat to the rights of its citizens."•Explore the seven-day special series on theBattle for the internet
It's Wednesday and here's a proper 7am serving of Chatterbox.
Oracle chief executive Larry Ellison has admitted that he wanted to enter into competition with Google's Android software in the smartphone market before deciding instead to sue his potential rival for copyright and patent infringement.Ellison was testifying on the second day of atrialthat sees two high-tech bellwethers pitted against each other.Ellison testified that Oracle considered diversifying beyond its main business of database software and buying a smartphone maker, including Palm and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion.Instead, Palm was bought by Hewlett-Packard for about $1bn (£628m) two years ago, while RIM is trying to recover from mounting losses that have piled up as the BlackBerry has been overrun by Apple's iPhone and handsets running on Android."I had an idea that we could compete with everyone in the smartphone business," Ellison testified under questioning from a Google lawyer. "It was an idea I wanted to explore. We explored it and decided it was a bad idea."Ellison, who ranks among the world's richest people, took the stand after Google sought in opening statements to frame the case as Oracle's response to its own failure to build mobile software.Ellison told a packed federal courtroom in San Francisco that Google was the only corporation he knew of that had not taken one of three types of Java licence, while others ranging from Samsung to Amazon had. "Just because something is open source, doesn't mean you can do whatever you want with it," he testified.Ellison contends that in 2010, he tried to persuade the then Google chief executive Eric Schmidt and current chief executive Larry Page to take on a newer version of Java in Android, and make Android more compatible with industry standards. Those talks proved fruitless.Google says it is not in violation of Oracle's patents, and that Oracle cannot copyright certain parts of Java.Page also took the stand toward the end of Tuesday's session.The trial, which is being heard before a 12-person jury in US district court in San Francisco, is expected to last up to 10 weeks. Its aims is to eastablish whether Google built its widely used Android software by improperly taking some of the technology from Java, a programming platform that Sun Microsystems began developing 20 years ago.Oracle acquired the rights to Java when it bought Sun for $7.3bn in January 2010. Although Oracle has spent more money on other companies, Ellison depicted Java as the company's most cherished prize."Of all the things we have ever purchased, by far the most important we ever purchased was Java," he crowed in typically bombastic style during his 80-minute appearance in the witness stand.There were other times during his testimony, though, when he looked bamboozled. At one point, Google lawyer Robert Van Nest reminded Ellison of all the nice things that he had had to say about Android and Google during an on-stage appearance in 2009, when Oracle was still awaiting regulatory approval to buy Sun.With Sun co-founder Scott McNealy standing by his side, Ellison had assured the crowd that he was excited and flattered about Android's reliance on Java. Ellison hailed his "friends from Google" and said he looked forward to many more mobile devices running on Android.Before Ellison took the stand, Van Nest also tried to persuade the jury that Sun Microsystems had encouraged and endorsed Google's use of Java in Android. That contrasted with opening statements on Monday by Oracle lawyer Michael Jacobs, who focused on emails indicating that Google's top executives knew for years that they should be paying to license some parts of the Java technology that helped create Android.In his counterpoints Tuesday, Van Nest said that most of the emails cited by Oracle's attorneys were sent in 2005 and 2006, when Google and Sun were discussing a partnership to create Android.Those discussions unravelled, Van Nest said, when Sun insisted on charging on Android. Google wanted to give away the software to help get it on as many mobile devices as possible so that it could make money selling digital advertising.Android now powers more than 300m smartphones and tablet computers worldwide. Google hasn't specified how much money it makes from the ads and mobile applications sold on Android-powered devices; there are expectations that it may be forced to reveal a figure during the trial, but the company is fighting to suppress the information from the proceedings.Van Nest told the jury that after it became clear that Google was not going to enter into partnership with Sun, Google spent hundreds of millions of dollars and devoted thousands of engineering hours to create the 15m lines of computer code that guide Android. He said the former Sun chief executive Jonathan Schwartz would testify that he fully supported what Google did with Java.It was not until Ellison failed to figure out how Oracle could penetrate smartphone market, argued Van Nest, that the allegations of copyright and patent infringement surfaced. "They want to share Android's profits without having done a thing to bring that about," Van Nest said.
The government's controversial plans to allow intelligence agencies to monitor the internet use and digital communications of every person in the UK suffered a fresh blow on Tuesday when the inventor of the world wide web warned that the measures were dangerous and should be dropped.Sir Tim Berners-Lee, who serves as an adviser to the government on how to make public data more accessible, says the extension of the state's surveillance powers would be a "destruction of human rights" and would make a huge amount of highly intimate information vulnerable to theft or release by corrupt officials. In an interview with the Guardian, Berners-Lee said: "The amount of control you have over somebody if you can monitor internet activity is amazing."You get to know every detail, you get to know, in a way, more intimate details about their life than any person that they talk to because often people will confide in the internet as they find their way through medical websites … or as an adolescent finds their way through a website about homosexuality, wondering what they are and whether they should talk to people about it."The British computer engineer, who devised the system that allows the creation of websites and links, said that of all the recent developments on the internet, it was moves by governments to control or spy on the internet that "keep me up most at night".The government ran into a storm of criticism earlier this month when it emerged that it was planning to allow GCHQ to monitor all communication on social media, Skype calls and email communication as well as logging every site visited by internet users in Britain.Berners-Lee said: "The idea that we should routinely record information about people is obviously very dangerous. It means that there will be information around which could be stolen, which can be acquired through corrupt officials or corrupt operators, and [could be] used, for example, to blackmail people in the government or people in the military. We open ourselves out, if we store this information, to it being abused."He said that if the government believed it was essential to collect this kind of sensitive data about individuals, it would have to establish a "very strong independent body" which would be able to investigate every use of the surveillance powers to establish whether the target did pose a threat, and whether the intrusion had produced valuable evidence.But he said that since the coalition had not spelled out an oversight regime, or how the data could be safely stored, "the most important thing to do is to stop the bill as it is at the moment".The intervention of the highly respected internet pioneer creates a headache for Theresa May, the home secretary, who has said she plans to press on with introducing the new measures after the Queen's speech next month, despite concerns raised by senior Liberal Democrats. It will add to the woes of ministers mired in damaging battles over unpopular policy proposals on several fronts.Berners-Lee was speaking to the Guardian as part ofa week-long series on the battle for control of the internet, examining how states, companies and technological developments are challenging the principles of openness and universal access on which the net was built.Berners-Lee has been an outspoken defender of the "open internet", warning in 2010 thatweb freedom was under threatfrom the rise of social network "silos" such as Facebook, "closed world" apps such as those released by Apple, and governments' attempts to monitor people's online behaviour.He said he remained concerned about the creation of "strong monopolies" but believed it was unlikely that internet giants such as Facebook and Google would enjoy their dominance indefinitely. "The battle lines are being drawn and things are in a huge state of flux, so it's very difficult to tell, when you look at the world now, what it's going to look like in a few months' time."He said that throughout the history of the internet, people had been concerned about the emergence of apparently dominant giants, but they were vulnerable to smaller companies that could innovate more effectively.In a coded reference to predictions that Facebook could in soon become, in effect, for most people, the internet, he recalled a "wise" colleague who pointed out more than 20 years ago: "It's amazing how quickly people on the internet can pick something up, but it's also amazing how quickly they can drop it."Acknowledging growing concerns about online privacy, he said computer users received significant benefits from the vast amount of data that big web companies accumulate about them, but that increasingly they would seek to apply limits to how the data could be used, as well as demanding access to the data themselves.Although Google now allows users to obtain all the data it holds about them and Facebook provides a similar, slower service, individual users were not yet being allowed to exploit all the information relating to them to make their lives easier. Armed with the information that social networks and other web giants hold about us, he said, computers will be able to "help me run my life, to guess what I need next, to guess what I should read in the morning, because it will know not only what's happening out there but also what I've read already, and also what my mood is, and who I'm meeting later on".Berners-Lee said big web companies would come under more pressure to make personal data more available, and that users might insist that the information was not held by the companies themselves. "Perhaps what you'd want in the future is to have this piece of cloud storage and to say to somebody like ... Google: 'Look, don't store it on your site, store it here. I will control who gets access to it.' That would turn the tables and leave me in control of the data."He was worried by the rise of so-called "native apps" such as those produced for the iPhone and iPad, because they were not searchable. "Every time somebody puts a magazine on a phone now and doesn't put it on to a web app [a form of open software], we lose a whole lot of information to the general public discourse – I can't link to it, so I can't tweet it, I can't discuss it, I can't like it, I can't hate it."But he said the rapid improvement of web apps, and their ability to offer functionality and slickness previously only available from Apple or Android apps, would return more information to the open internet.In a clear dig at Apple's highly restrictive ecosystem, he said: "I should be able to pick which applications I use for managing my life, I should be able to pick which content I look at, and I should be able to pick which device I use, which company I use for supplying my internet, and I'd like those to be independent choices."Berners-Lee, who is speaking at the World Wide Web Conference in Lyon on Wednesday, also warned people against assuming that major websites and social networks would be around for ever. "I think we need to be more conscious that places that seem very secure may in the future disappear. The long-time persistence of all this data … is an issue for all of us if we think that maybe our grandchildren, depending on which website we use, may or may not be able to see our photos."• Explore the seven-day special series on theBattle for the internet
The British people fought wars and went through a great deal of civil strife to construct the form of democracy we currently have. Thus there is nothing wrong with our government seeking to ensure that within its national boundaries activity in cyberspace conforms with its laws. The alternative proposition, that the law of the internet is coterminous with the decisions of the US supreme court, is unacceptable everywhere except the US.The internet of course is magical and wonderful. But we should not have to put up with all the bad stuff in order to benefit from the good. By failing to deal with significant levels of online crime, I'm afraid the high priests of the internet industry, of whom Sergey Brin is most certainly one, have created the situation of which he and they now complain (Web freedom under threat – Google founder, 16 April). It may not be too late to halt or reverse some of the processes Brin is anxious about, but time is running out and laissez-faire will not cut it.John CarrLondon• I recently replaced a defunct mobile phone and, a week in, find that the new phone's default settings included backing up "application data, Wi-Fi passwords and other settings to Google servers". Is Mr Brin a suitably qualified glasshouse stone-thrower, or does the above sit uncomfortably with Google's previous sniffing for Wi-Fi networks while making photographic surveys?Internet freedom must rely upon a sea of small providers rather than disproportionate control by nations or global corporations. I will be looking to remove other Google services from my phone.Mike BrownNewcastle upon Tyne• "Internet freedom" is just a vehicle for transnational corporations such as Google, Amazon, Apple and Facebook to impose their ideology of rightwing libertarianism on the world – strident capitalism, no taxes, no government, no community. They are a threat in the same way as Murdoch has proved to be, but for some reason we talk about them as if they were the post office or the library.Dr Stephen DorrilUniversity of Huddersfield• Ai Weiwei's comments on the power of the internet to achieve freedom (China's censorship can never defeat the internet, 16 April) remind me strongly of the prescience of your former Communist affairs correspondentVictor Zorza(died 1996). I recall the characteristic enthusiasm with which he told me, almost certainly as far back as the 1970s, that he was convinced that fledgling information technology would prove to be a death knell for totalitarian regimes. As your other articles demonstrate, however, this is not quite so straightforward a matter, given the partially successful attempts at censorship in today's authoritarian countries. But the general conclusion still holds, as Ai Weiwei suggests. Once the monopoly of information slips out of the hands of the rulers of such countries, political consequences are bound to follow sooner or later.Peter RolandBognor Regis, West Sussex• Russia's alarming restrictions on internet freedom, including the imprisonment of pro-democracy bloggers (Nervous Kremlin seeks to take back control, 16 April), are inconsistent with its membership of the UN Human Rights Council. When he first became president in 1999, Vladimir Putin promised to defend freedom of speech. When he returns to the post next month, Putin would do well to honour his word – and that of his country.Hillel C NeuerExecutive director,UN Watch, Geneva• Reyour editorial(14 April), New South Wales police have set up asocial media community engagement project called Eyewatch. Each of our 80 local area commands has a Facebook page. Each day, police publish local crime issues and crime prevention tips. We are now formulating neighbourhood watch closed Facebook groups across the state so communities can be in touch with police whenever they want to. Our pages have attracted 93,000 fans and over 30m page impressions. Crime is being solved; communities and police are working together to identify problems and create community solutions. This programme – applying the Peelian principles to the 21st century – could be easily adopted in the UK.Chief Inspector Josh MaxwellManager,Project Eyewatch
I love the novelThe Jehovah Contract, and I'd like everyone else to love it, too. I have lent it out at least six times over the years. Printed books let us do that. I couldn't do it with most commercial ebooks; it's not "allowed". And if I felt like telling the publishers to take their evil rule and stuff it, the software in e-readers hasdigital restrictions management– malicious features that restrict reading, so it simply won't allow it. And the books are encrypted in such a way to force you to use that malicious software.Many other habits that readers are accustomed to are "not allowed" for ebooks. With the Amazon "Kindle", to take one example, userscan't buy a book anonymously. Kindle books are typically available from Amazon only, and Amazon doesn't accept cash so users must identify themselves. Thus Amazon knows exactly which books each user has read. In a country like Britain, where you can beprosecuted for possessing a forbidden book, this is more than hypothetically Orwellian.Furthermore, you can't sell the ebook after you've read it (if Amazon has its way, the used book stores in which I've passed many an afternoon will be history). You can't give it to a friend either, because according to Amazon you never really owned it – Amazon requires users to sign an end user license agreement (EULA) that says so. You can't even be sure it will still be in your machine tomorrow: in 2009, people reading 1984 in the "Kindle" had anOrwellian experience: their ebooks vanished right before their eyes, following a dispute with a publisher, as Amazon used a malicious software feature called a "back door" to remotely delete them (virtual book-burning; is that what "Kindle" means?).  But don't worry, Amazon promised never to do this again, except by order of the state.With software, the users control the program (making such softwarelibre, or free) or the program controls its users (non-libre). Amazon's ebook policies imitate the distribution policies of non-libre software, but that's not the only relationship between the two. The&nbsp;malicious features described above&nbsp;are imposed on users through software that is not libre. If a libre program had features like those, some users skilled at programming would remove them, then provide the corrected version to all&nbsp;the other users. Users can't change non-libre software, which makes itan ideal instrumentfor exercising power over the public.Any one of these encroachments on our freedom is reason aplenty to sayno. If these policies were limited to Amazon, we'd bypass them, butthe other ebook dealers' policies are roughly similar.  What worries me most is the prospect of losing the option of printed books. The Guardian has announced"digital-only reads": in other words, books available only at the price of freedom.  I will not read any book at that price.  Five years from now, will unauthorized copies be the only ethically acceptable copies for most books?It doesn't have to be that way. It would be easy to sell ebooks in stores for cash using a documented standard format. Digital music is still sold that way, on CDs, even though the music industry is aggressively encouraging the use of digital restrictions management services such as Spotify. CD stores have the disadvantage of an expensive inventory, but digital bookshops would need no such thing: they could write copies at the time of sale on to memory sticks, and sell you one if you forgot your own.The reason publishers give for their restrictive ebook practices is to stoppeople from sharing copies. They say this is for the sake of theauthors; but even if it did serve the authors' interests (which forquite famous authors it may), it could not justify DRM,EULAsor theDigital Economy Actwhich persecutes readers for sharing. In practice, the copyright system does a bad job of supporting authors, aside from the most popular ones. Other authors principal interest is to be better known, so sharing their work benefits them as well as readers. Why not switch to a system that does the job better and is compatible with sharing?A tax on memory and internet connectivity, along the general lines of what most EU countries do, could be used to do this. To support them well, two points are crucial: the money should be divided among all authors and we mustn't let companies take any of it from them; and the distribution of money should be based on a sliding scale, not in linear proportion to the book's popularity. I suggest using the cube root of each author's popularity. If A is eight times as popular as B, A gets twice B's amount (not eight times B's amount). This would have the effect of supporting fairly successful non-stars much better than they are supported now. Another method would be to give each e-reader a button to send some small sum (perhaps as little as 25p in the UK) to the author.Sharing is good, and with digital technology, sharing is easy. So sharing ought to be legal, and preventing sharing (that is, non-commercial redistributionof exact copies) is no excuse to make ebooks into handcuffs for readers.  If ebooks mean that readers' freedom musteither increase or decrease, we must demand the increase.Copyright 2012 Richard Stallman; Creative Commons Attribution Noderivatives 3.0 license• This article was amended on April 18 2012 at 9am for clarity
Nations will be divided not between east and west, or along religious lines, but between open and closed societies, the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, has said.​Countries that are closed to "change, ideas, cultures and beliefs that are different from theirs will quickly find that in an internet world they will be left behind", Clinton said.​Speaking at the inaugural meeting of theOpen Government Partnershipin Brasilia, she said countries could only become more secure and peaceful if they were open. "In the 21st century, the US is convinced that one of the most significant divisions between nations will be not between east or west, nor over religion, so much as between open and closed societies," she said.​"We believe those governments that hide from public view and dismiss ideas of openness and the aspirations of their people for greater freedom will find it increasingly difficult to create a secure society."​Clinton said the "remarkable events" in north Africa and elsewhere in the past year had opened up the potential for more open societies, and she welcomed government representatives from Libya to the Brazilian conference. "Before this year, they could never have participated in this open government partnership," she said.​The 55 members of the Open Government Partnership have each published a national action plan to outline how they will make their governments more transparent and strengthen democracy. The countries represent more than a quarter of the world's citizens, but Clinton acknowledged that simply signing up to the ideas of open government would not be enough."If ideas just remain theoretical, they are not much use to anyone," she said. "But we now have tools that previous advocates of open information could not even dream of. We are releasing enormous quantities of public data, making complex budgets available online, and connecting leaders with citizens, as we have seen in this past year of the Arab awakening."​She said Chile, Estonia, Spain and Tanzania had created websites to make government data accessible to the public, and Bulgaria and Croatia had set up systems to explain in clear language to their citizens how public money was spent.The ​US under-secretary of state Maria Otero said the conference demonstrated the global appetite for more transparent government, aand the internet had played a huge part in supporting transparency. "The position of the US has always been that the internet should be a completely free method of expression," she said.The Guardian'spublic leaders networkis the digital media partner of the Open Government Partnership in Brasilia
On August 24, PC gamers will get to experience one of last year's finest – and toughest – console releases: From Software's unrelenting RPG adventure, Dark Souls.As announced on Friday, the new Prepare To Die edition of the Xbox 360 and PS3 hit will feature a whole new chapter, Artorias of the Abyss, and a refined PVP mode which will make it easier for players to arrange competitive battles against their friends online. Plus, of course, the frame rate and texture detail will be given a lift.That's all we knew when we went into a group interview with Dark Souls director Hidetaka Miyazaki at Namco's Global Gamer Day event in Las Vegas. And that's pretty much all will still know – although Miyazaki did clarify some key points.The main question everyone has had since the announcement is whether console owners will get the extra content created for the PC release – perhaps as DLC. Namco's response to this has been, let's say, ambiguous. For Miyazaki's part, he said From Software had nothing to say at this point. "It's completely understandable that people who bought the console version have those questions. However, as the director of Dark Souls I cannot answer your question right now. I want to apologise to console owners that I don't have any news at this point."It would, however, be difficult to imagine Namco not bringing Artorias of the Abyss over to console. Indeed, there were rumours circulating the Gamers Day event that the company may even be considering a full retail release for a Dark Souls: Prepare To Die edition on console. It's likely we'll get more information at E3.Another element Miyazaki wouldn't be drawn on is the apparent decision by Namco to use Games for Windows Live for the PC game's online content. At the Namco Gamers Day event, box art of the title showed a GFWL logo, prompting a disappointed response from some gamers who view the service as inferior to other contenders such as Steam. However, while Miyazaki wouldn't comment, Namco's publishing producer for the game, Daisuke Uchiyama, told reporters that the final decision had yet to be made and that partnership negotiations were ongoing.Miyazaki did provide a few small details about the additional chapter. Apparently, it will feature "three to four" new boss characters and the same number of areas, as well as a fresh storyline. "There will also be more NPCs and more enemies," he said. "And the equipment of these characters will be available for the player to wear." He also mentioned that the area will fit into the game at some point after the middle of the game, and certainly later than Sen's Fortress.Apart from this addition, PC owners can pretty much expect a straight port of the console version. "There were many things that I didn't like or would have changed in the console versions," Miyazaki admitted. "But if you change every single element, it won't be Dark Souls anymore. We might tune it a little bit but we're not going to make any drastic changes."I also asked whether the area in the chapter was something originally cut from the console version, but apparently it's brand new. "The new areas were designed after the console release," he said. "However, we did have the idea when we were developing the game, but none of the team members took it seriously at the time. It's 99% new content."Moving on, it seems Dark Souls on PC will not support any sort of user modification or editing – unlike, say, Skyrim with its creation kit. "Personally, I am interested in the concept of Mods," said Miyazaki. "However, due to our lack of experience with the PC we need more time to adapt to what PC gamers want from mods. So this time we're not doing it."The game will also only offer limited support for mouse and keyboard control. "Since it's a straight port of the console version, we recommend that players use a joypad. We will support the keyboard, but it will be minimal."Finally, we asked Miyazaki about the mysterious pendant that players of the console version can select as a gift at the start of the game, but which seemingly has little use in the subsequent adventure. Is there more to this controversial trinket? "Oh, the pendant?" he laughed. "I am aware that many people are wondering about the meaning of it ... but let's keep it as a secret. I can't answer the question now. I won't answer it for the rest of my life."
While Star Wars has proved a bounteous source of inspiration (and money) to game developers over the past 30 years, its closest sci-fi rival, Star Trek, has ... well ... seemed fairly resistant to translation. There have been some marvelous attempts – the serious simulator Bridge Command and Star Trek: 25th Anniversary, and the ambitious Star Trek Online – but we've hardly been inundated.The general consensus is that Gene Roddenberry's creation is a very different beast to Star Wars. The shows have often been more about characters, relationships and diplomacy than blasting stuff with lasers. And video games, especially major franchise tie-ins, tend to be about action and immediacy. There is a reason we don't have a thriving negotiate-'em-up genre.So when Sony closed its E3 press event last year with the news that a Star Trek game was in development, it was a genuine surprise. How would they do it?Well, cleverly, they went straight to JJ Abrams. Due out in spring 2013, Star Trek the game will be heavily inspired by that director's re-imagining of the franchise; and just as Abrams' well-regarded film went for action and humour, so does the game. Developed by Digital Extremes – previously responsible for the likes of Darkness II and Bioshock 2 (which it worked on with 2K Marin and 2K Australia) – Star Trek is essentially a co-op shooter, with a strong focus on the relationship between the two selectable characters – Kirk and Spock. Namco's head of marketing Carlson Choi has neatly branded it "bro-op" – a term he seemed quite proud of while showing us the game.Collaborating closely with Abrams and his team at Bad Robot, Digital Extremes has slotted its game into the timeline between the first Star Trek movie and the second, which is scheduled to hit cinemas in May 2013. The developer is not revealing much about the story yet, or the main protagonists, although we're told its going to be a classic Star Trek enemy – and that we can expect more info at E3 in June.We do, however, get to see a short demo (the same one that they've been showing off formonths, sadly), which has Kirk and Spock returning to the Enterprise in a shuttle, only to find their Starship caught up in a series of immense energy snares. To get aboard, the lead characters have to don life support propulsion units (jet packs, to you and I), then leap into space, prompting a quick interactive flight sequence where players must whizz about to avoid space mines. Once in the shuttle bay, the duo finds the entire crew is missing and swarms of enemy soldiers in their place. Which is when the shooting starts.It quickly transpires that the clashing personalities of the principle characters have been transformed into a gameplay feature. Kirk is all about brute force, run-and-gun action; Spock is about stealth. To reflect this, the game features a roster of weapons, customised from classic Trek archetypes. Kirk has a "captain's phaser", a revolver-type blaster, which thankfully still has stun and kill settings. Spock carries a more refined Vulcan Repeater, a slower, semi-automatic weapon. There are other options to come including a more powerful federation rifle, which looks to replicate the standard assault rifle from the FPS genre.The varied arsenal is sort of where comparisons with Mass Effect – or at least the action sections of Mass Effect – may begin to emerge. All the weapons can be upgraded as you progress, making, say, Spock's gun faster and less liable to overheat, and eventually providing Kirk's phaser with a vaporise feature, which sounds gruesomely effective. Spock also has access to a range of special abilities, including stasis, which freezes enemies (ooh, a bit like the stasis move in Mass Effect, then) and a combat mind meld which confuses enemies into shooting at each other.As in the Bioware titles, then, combat is about utilising the different strengths of the party, and customising weapons. There is also significant interplay between different items – so if the characters generate a personal deflector shield, they can tune it to their weapons, so firing through it gives them a super shot.Interestingly, Paramount insisted that there be no non-interactive story sequences, so the plot is told on the fly. In our demo, several enemy soldiers beam into the shuttle bay as the characters are exploring, and while this is explained, the action goes into slow motion – allowing players to get the plot points while still taking part. Story elements are also delivered via a sultry female computer voice on the characters' tricorders, which also provides mission objectives and analysis.Another thing the movie team insisted on was humour. There's plenty of jocular interplay between Kirk and Spock, the latter continually urging caution, the former ignoring him entirely. "We showed this demo to Bob Orci who wrote the 2009 film and is writing the next one," says creative director Steve Sinclair. "He just said, 'thank you ... thank you for keeping the levity'. That's a really important [element of] Star Trek. And there are enough grim dark shooters out there."As you'd expect, the Enterprise has been accurately modeled, based on ILM's designs for the movie version of the craft. "We had access to the filmmakers, the props, and the architectural blueprints," Sinclair says. "When we said we were going to have a sequence that involved the shuttle bay, two days later an encrypted hard drive showed up at the office with all the ILM assets on it for the shuttles and the bay itself. People will be able to experience parts of the ship that they only glimpse in the films."The demo ends with Kirk confronting the enemy leader on the bridge of the Enterprise. In a desperate bid to escape, the captain sneakily takes control of their shuttle via remote control and pilots it straight into the bridge, sucking everyone out. "And that's the end of the game, with Kirk and Spock dead and flying into space," deadpans Sinclair. We're pretty sure he's joking.Star Trek, then, is bro-op action game with some role-playing and exploration elements. I'm just a teeny bit concerned by one sequence, which has Spock attempting to revive Kirk after exposure to a neurotoxin by taking part in a mini-game where he has to blast parasites through a microscope. Uh-oh. Mini-games. Let's just hope there are no computer hacking or lock-picking sequences. Given how over-used and generally ineffective and annoying these things are, that would be ... illogical.There's a lot still to discover, though, and mostly this is intriguing stuff. If the team manages to get the balance between the protagonists right, and injects plenty of the character of Abrams' reboot, this should be a compelling action adventure.• This article was amended on 4 May 2012 to correct the spelling of Bob Orci's name.
Already one of the biggest video games companies in the world,Namco Bandainow seems intent on extending its empire even further. Boasting a quarter of all software sales in Japan, and having announced an impressive line-up for the year ahead at its annual Global Gamers Day conference in Las Vegas last week, it looks certain to expand its share of the UK, Europe and the US markets.However, not all its games have crossover appeal. While child-friendly fare such asOne Piece: Pirate Warriors(out on PlayStation&nbsp;3 in November) will have some appeal to dedicated fans of the anime series from which it draws inspiration, it is likely to remain a niche offering in the west. That's something of a shame, as anyone who looks beyond the cartoonish visuals will find a speedy, over-the-top action brawler that explodes with imaginative characters and colourful attacks.Much more likely to excite serious gamers is the newStar Trekgame for PS3, Xbox&nbsp;360 and PC, set in the universe established by JJ&nbsp;Abrams's 2009 franchise-redefining film. Namco Bandai and the developer Digital Extremes were given unprecedented access to Abrams's development studio Bad Robot and the assets of the Trek owner Paramount and have crafted a title that could giveMass Effecta run for its money. There's no po-faced musing on stellar ethics; instead, we're treated to a thrilling dive through space before the game reveals itself as a varied shooter with a huge emphasis on co-op.Kirk and Spock share the spotlight, each offering very different abilities and play styles. Kirk is a powerful tank, with an upgraded phaser delivering incredible damage, while Spock favours stealth. Although armed, he can use Vulcan techniques to overwhelm or confuse enemies. Frankly, Spock seemed far more fun to play, though with the game not due out until 2013 – no firm date, but don't expect it to stray far from the second movie's May release – there's plenty of time for balancing. It is worth noting that this is not an adaptation of either of Abrams's movies, so it should escape the awfulness that afflicts most movie tie-in games.The fighting series Tekken has long been internationally acclaimed, and while there is no new "core" entry this year,Tekken Tag Tournament&nbsp;2was announced for a September 2012 release. It brings with it more than 50 fighters from the history of the franchise, competing in brutal paired matches. As with the originalTekken Tag, controlling two fighters simultaneously can completely change the game dynamic. Learning how best to balance a slow but powerful warrior with a fast and nimble one adds a new level of strategy to matches. Overall,TTT2look to be a fine addition to the illustrious line.Another returning favourite isDark Souls, a notoriously difficult dungeon crawler/action/RPG first released at the end of last year on consoles. The upgradedPrepare to Dieedition will see the beautifully gothic title also available on PC – a release petitioned for by fans. New areas, monsters and demonic bosses will be joined by an enhanced player-versus-player mode.The most remarkable entry of the show wasNi no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch, a collaboration between developers Level&nbsp;5 and animation house Studio Ghibli. The fantasy RPG tale of Oliver, a boy drawn into another world to save his mother's life, will silence those who don't believe that games can be art. It is visually gorgeous, channelling much of the Oscar-winning fantasy-adventure filmSpirited Awayin its style and tone and, despite only having two short sections playable at the event, proved deeply emotional.Gameplay is split between both worlds, with "our" world feeling linear and constrained, restricted to a top-down isometric view, while the fantasy world is bold and vibrant, full of life but also danger. There is a poignancy to Oliver's quest that few other titles can rival, though perhaps not as painful as waiting until the first quarter of 2013 to play it in full will be.A new focus on global appeal and a captivating range to back it up? Well played.
Poppy Dinsey set up herWhat I Wore Todayblog on 1 January 2010, uploading and sharing one photo of herself in a different outfit every day. But having grown up to be familiar with computers, she already had a well developed online presence."I started blogging when I was 12 or 13 on forums. I don't remember using the internet for schoolwork, but definitely by the time I left school I was getting regular chain letters and that sort of things from friends via email," she said.Dinsey started using the siteOpenDiaryfrom the late 90s onwards, and then moved on to MSN Spaces in 2004, writing a gossipy blog about who was kissing whom at school.While her friends were wary of buying things online, Dinsey also started using eBay, in order to buy clothes from the US."I always thought it was nonsense that people would steal your credit card details, and I wasn't scared of meeting up with people I had met online, as long as I was careful and used common sense," she said.When MySpace arrived on the scene, she was quick to sign up. "When we were 16, 17, all the boys wanted to be on it; it was a cool new way for discovering music and I used it to blog. I think that is where the obsession with having lots of friends began."Naturally, Dinsey was also a first-generation Facebooker. She joined the social networking site in its early days,when only students from top universities were allowed access."I remember the summer before we started uni, we were all waiting for the admissions office to send us our emails so we could join up. It was really exciting – it was so cliquey on there and you wanted to be a part of it."When the site started opening up to everyone, Dinsey was unconvinced. "It seemed like a terrible idea that anyone could join, especially our parents," she said.She began her own YouTube channel in 2007 and started taking part in online video communities such asSeesmic, a video platform that later became a Twitter client, where users record video blogs (or vlogs) and other users reply."I actually flew to San Francisco from London just to spend the weekend with someone I'd only ever met on Seesmic – these online communities felt quite small in those days, so you felt like you knew most of the people using the site," she said.But despite having spent half of her life sharing thoughts, opinions and herself online, Dinsey insists that she fastidiously regulates her output and strictly controls her privacy settings."People expect me not to think about it at all, but in reality I edit my online life. There are parts of my personal life I don't share at all."Sometimes people will tweet that they have just seen me on the tube, and I find that quite creepy."But the new generation of internet users has few such concerns, she believes."Every single thing is now put immediately online: 'This is what I'm doing, this is my personality and who I am.' These kids have grown up online and everything is out there."She worries about teenagers sharing explicit photographs by text that then end up online, or becoming victims of cyberbullying."I am wary," she said. "I'm confident about my own use, but I am concerned about the next generation."
Rosie Hickland started playing games online aged about six. "To me it just seemed a lot more fun than playing with my dolls – it was more grown up and there was more to play with," she said. By the time she was nine she was regularly chatting with friends via instant messaging and started using Bebo, a youth social networking site launched in 2005."People started blogging on Bebo and they would talk about it in school and I wanted to get on the bandwagon," she said. But it was joining Facebook at 12 that "changed things massively". She said: "It was the cool thing to have in school – it was just a great way to keep in contact with your friends."Rosie has 1,165 Facebook friends, and insists she knows "most of them". Getting new friends is easy, she said. "Whenever you meet anyone, on holiday or at a party they just say: 'I'll add you on Facebook.' Everyone has it so you don't have to be really close friends to add them."She admits to updating her Facebook status – which lets her friends know what she is up to – "a lot", commenting on music, the weather, what she is doing and where she is going.But does she think that people can make snap judgments from her profile? "People stereotype you because of the things you like or the music you listen to. I'm not really bothered what people think of me but I know that friends will put up stuff they think makes them look cool or will make people like them more. And I have other friends who won't put up photos of themselves because they think people will be nasty."Rosie also uses Twitter. "People on Facebook might get annoyed if you are updating your status all the time, but on Twitter you can tweet as many times as you like: that is the whole purpose."She and her friends constantly check their Facebook. "For my generation it's just normal – you get up and check your Facebook, get ready and check it, check it throughout the day on your phone and then before you go to sleep. It's just such a normal thing to do and it's easy and free."When Rosie first spoke to the Guardian she said her Facebook page was private, but it later transpired that all of her profile updates and photos were available for all to see."The only people who can send me friend requests are friends of friends, so I thought that meant no one else could see my profile," she said. "I think it's a bit misleading, really – there are so many options. I think they should make it easier to understand."Privacy settings are often not a priority for young people, many of whom are children when they first create accounts, she added. "I was in year seven, so about 11 when I set up my Facebook – I just don't think you understand how to do it at that age. I think lots of people would make the same mistake as me."Rosie has now changed the privacy settings, but has no qualms about letting her "friends" see her photos and personal information. "I don't think it's a big problem, I've accepted them as friends and I'm letting them into that situation. It's not like they are stalkers – I've opened up to it myself."I don't see any drawbacks to be honest – people sometimes try to add you when you don't know them, but I just ignore them."Rosie has an email address she uses only to contact her tutors at college; to contact friends she will text or message them on Facebook. She uses Google for research but admits to being something of a Facebook addict."I have it on my phone and always have a tab open. Once you get into it, you can't really get out.  I don't think I'd be able to delete it."
Nick Perry began using the nascent internet in 1991, when he started his degree in engineering and computer science. He and his fellow students were given email accounts on the computing department's Unix network, a rudimentary text-only system with no user interface. "It really felt quite exciting, seeing where it was all going. All of a sudden you had this resource on which you could communicate," he said.Perry used Usenet, a kind of bulletin board that is accessible today through multiple sources, includingGoogle Groups. "Really in those early days the web was just for nerds like me, if you wanted some tech advice or needed to find out how to do something."You wouldn't be able to find a pair of shoes but you could find people posting up facts about a range of niche areas, like tea or knives." Early communication was through mailing lists, which would compile FAQs for users. "You would get this stream of emails and it was quite difficult to manage," he added..Instead of typing a query into a search engine and getting an instant response, websites like Yahoo – at that time a major player – or email mailing lists like Listserv would index information under different subject headings.Perry, like other early adopters, was helping to build the internet as it went along. "People would create bits of software and tools that worked for them and then just post them up on the net – it thrived on that," he said."In the online community, people like to define standards and collaborate over protocols about how to distribute software or information."This collaboration with a bunch of similarly-minded individuals created a heady environment."It could make you feel quite powerful. Because there were a relatively small number of people involved, you could quite easily come to be seen as a 'go to' person for particular subjects. And these weren't 'real' people that you had to meet and go through social niceties – you didn't have to dress up or even smell good. For a nerd, all that was quite something."There was a palpable excitement about being part of this new stream of information."Despite feeling part of a relatively small niche in 1991, by 1994 Perry became aware of how quickly the web was opening up, with most students given email addresses."I think we were aware that it was changing very quickly, especially socially, and we were being swept away on that. If you were there at the beginning you had this great sense of openness. People were trying to connect everything up and help each other out. It wasn't pretty, but it worked."Then rival online services Compuserve and AOL started offering access to the web. "It felt a lot more closed and polished, like a private network. It felt like the internet was being divvied up, and our early feeling was that it would be open and collaborative … not controlled by corporations."The big shift came in the late 90s and was thanks in part to the burgeoning online porn industry. "What porn did was demonstrate that you could distribute media online; they took a digital leap of faith and proved it was possible and you could make it commercial."Then Google came along, and changed everything again, making searching on the web more practical, returning relevant results, ranked in a way that the directory-style listing of Yahoo or un-ordered results from AltaVisa had yet to do.Perry admits: "As I get older I know less about what goes on behind the scenes. Before, there were tech people producing solutions to problems but now it feels like there are far more people who don't necessarily understand the web."But he remains excited about the mushrooming number of new sites. "Sometimes these sites don't really seem logical. I thought that about Twitter – why would anyone want to read my stream of consciousness? – but then an event like the riots happens and it comes into its own."He does have concerns about the future of the net, particularly the mass exposure of people's lives on social networks."I'm a nerd who likes to keep his private life private," he said. "The way the internet is going scares a lot of people. It doesn't scare me: I don't really think anyone would be interested enough to stalk me, but I am reasonably careful about what I say."Nonetheless Perry is on both Facebook and Twitter. And recently he used the former to come out, changing his profile to "interested in men"."My reasoning behind it was that it is now difficult to keep a secret on the internet. In this day and age, if you are sharing things on Twitter and Facebook then don't expect those things to stay secret. If you really want things to be a secret, just don't tell anyone."• This article was amended on 23 April 2012. The original said "Usenet [is] a kind of bulletin board that exists today as Google Groups". This has been corrected.
Blizzard staff must be thanking their forefathers this year for a release schedule studded with fan favourites. Admittedly, this comes with expectations and dangers of its own, but with Starcraft 2 returning in the summer and Diablo 3 less than a month away, it's a problem many publishers would envy.And first glance at the recent beta test demo takes you right back to a world that seems to have barely changed in a decade. Diablo was never been a particularly subtle experience, but this ability to charge in with two swords flaying has ensured its survival while more tactical games have struggled to innovate. So don't go expecting massive changes in the gameplay department, but that doesn't mean the game is lacking in new features.Let's start with the new 3D engine, which adds whole new levels of detail, colour and interaction to the familiar isometric action. For the first time, much of the scenery is fully destructible – meaning stray shots can ricochet off tombstones and pillars or bring areas of the level crumbling down. This is particularly effective in the prelude to boss battles, where a character will literally rips its way through the scenery to get to you.This same level of detail applies to combat – with blood spray and hacked limbs littering the battlefield. There are also many more context-sensitive traps and set pieces, although the effort of lining up your enemies perfectly can sometimes outweigh the pleasure of, say, dropping a chandelier on them. Nevertheless, on looks alone, the improved textures, animations and impressive new lighting effects show Diablo 3 has plenty of innovation alongside the largely unchanged gameplay.There are still five character classes, with only the Barbarian returning from D2 to join the Monk, Witch Doctor, Wizard and Demon Hunter. Of the noobs, the Witch Doctor's arsenal of voodoo-like spells and thrown potions is perhaps the most unusual and this time round you can choose your character sex too – albeit with no noticeable gender traits. More effort has also been spent on the storyline, with travel notes and instructions scattering through the early levels and a main narrator who sounds very much like Sean Bean. There's also a much-improved score and some very ambient sound-effects.But perhaps Diablo 3's most satisfying change comes with an overhaul of the UI that makes managing your character far simpler and more instinctive. For a start, Diablo has taken the same path as recent RPGs like Kingdoms of Amular by allowing any selected item to be instantly compared with the one you have currently equipped. This makes deciding which items to buy or equip much easier and, once you pick up the Nephalem Cube, you can sell them without needing to find a nearby trader as well as craft unique new items from old.When you need to visit a town for other reasons – for instance, to finish a quest – a Stone of Recall instantly takes you back to the nearest town. To say this simplifies both exploration and combat would be an understatement, but the Health system has been revamped too. No more needing to drink potions (although you can if you want to) as fallen enemies will leave behind health orbs that can be simply walked over to collect.Of course, not every returning feature is instantly welcome. Chests and hidden troves still blow their items all across the terrain, to be tediously collected one by one. However, there is lot more treasure this time round – all of it automatically "bagsied" by whoever triggers it, hopefully putting an end to those frantic scrambles for booty in Co-op or PvP battles. On a more substantial level, critics may point out that having randomly generated dungeons counts for little when the same attack/retreat playing style is required for all but the boss battles.Then again, simplistic hacking and slashing has always been Diablo's greatest strength and weakness. For some, it's what makes it so blissfully simple to play; for others, it makes for a place that finesse and subtlety seems to have forgotten. Diablo 3 needs to get the balance between innovation and instant familiarity just right ... lets find out if it does so in May.• Diablo 3 will be released for PC on 15 May
The anonymousonline picture-based forum 4chan.org(warning: some content may offend) was set up in 2003 by the-then 15-year-oldChris Poole.Since its inception as an anime and manga discussion forum, 4chan has become a key player in online anonymity.  In the first of two conversations dedicated to online identity and anonymity, Aleks Krotoski meets with Chris to discuss at length his perspective on this issue and explore why he has been dubbed the "anti-Zuckerberg".Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
It was in May 2008 that Jonathan Zittrain first sounded the warning. While the argument was raging, as it is now, about censorship of the internet by governments seeking to control what their populations read – in countries such as China, India and Pakistan – the professor of cyberlaw at Oxford and Harvard universities had another concern: what if it were actually the gadgets we used that were in effect censoring the world that we could connect to, and the things we could do?Zittrain fretted that smartphones, which were just beginning to take off, might actually limit what users could do online compared with devices such as personal computers. Besides the obvious difference – a smartphone is light and can be slotted in a pocket; a personal computer is power-hungry and bulky – there's another subtle but essential difference. Personal computers are "generative": they can be programmed to do more than they were set up to. Smartphones, on the other hand, generally can't be programmed directly by the user. For the most part, they're appliances, as limited in what they can do as a coffee maker.In his book, The Future of the Internet and How to Stop It, Zittrain noted: "We care little about the devices we're using to access the net … we don't think of that as significant to its future the way we think of [direct censorship]."But does the rise of appliance-like smartphones – and more generally of "walled gardens" such as Facebook, Myspace and Google+ – presage an age where we simply cut ourselves off from uncomfortable truths online because our devices, or the sites we use, won't show them to us, like a North Korean radio made so it cannot be tuned to unauthorised sources?The question is urgent. Facebook has passed 845 million users, and smartphones are outselling PCs so quickly that in 2010 the research company Gartner forecast that as soon as next year mobile phones will overtake PCs as the most common way to access the web, used by 1.82 billion people, compared with 1.78bn net-connected PCs.But answering it is complicated, says Dr Richard Clayton of Cambridge University's computer laboratory, who has extensively researched the censorship and oversight systems used by many countries and companies, including the UK and British Telecom's "CleanFeed" system, used to filter child pornography."Facebook can cause people to disappear from history, vaporising their pages and everything they wrote on your wall, as if they were never there," he points out. For Facebook, everything – every user, every wall entry, every photo – is just an entry in a giant database, which can be removed at any time by someone with access to that database. (It could be you, or an administrator.) The complication comes in trying to suggest that doing that ornotdoing that is "wrong"."Everybody applauds the idea that there shouldn't be an open space where paedophiles swap material," says Clayton. "Or where al-Qaida can swap material and recruit. And then it gets harder – you have Facebook groups where you have Muslims who want to march through Luton to protest about our activities in central Asia. Facebook has a rather fun arrangement so that they can set up groups like that, but they aren't visible in the UK [where they would count as hate speech]."So Facebook roots out what it considers against good taste, which (as Clayton points out) generally means content that would not be allowed under the US first amendment, since it is an American company. Aguidebook for its moderation staffrecently became public, revealing that images of breastfeeding would be banned if nipples were exposed, but deep flesh wounds and crushed heads would be OK.While such rules seem peculiar in Europe, almost to the extent of being the reverse of what is expected, Google has also demonstrated the same American prudishness on its Google+ social network, which insists on people using their real names.As San Francisco-based journalist-turned-venture capitalist MG Siegler discovered, the site banned him from using a photo with a rude gesture – an extended middle finger – for his profile; when Siegler reposted it, Google removed it again. The key to the problem: Google wanted to show Google+ profile pictures in search results, and if those included pictures that some might find offensive, Google could lose business.Censorship? Heavy-handed US-biased restriction? Or reasonable move to keep the web clean? Tom Anderson, the co-founder of Myspace, who was automatically everyone's friend when they first joined,wrote an open letter (on Google+) to Siegler, in which he said: "Every social network has the policy you're decrying, and why shouldn't they? It's a public sphere." He compared it to wearing a racist T-shirt in a shopping mall: "Security would probably ask you to leave." He added that it had been very difficult at Myspace to keep up with "offensive" photos; without that control, a social network "turns into a cesspool that no one wants to visit … sorta like Myspace was".But social networks played a big role in the Arab spring of 2011, with Facebook and Twitter both cited as key to getting the message out from oppressed groups. More recently, Syria has become the source of many important videos showing the suffering of citizens attacked by their own government. Those can be seen on YouTube – though not, of course, by citizens within Syria itself.The fears about "walled gardens" sometimes reflect concerns that are as much about business models as principles.Facebook does not let Google or any other site index the vast majority of its content; a tiny file called robots.txt on its homepage stops search engines from grabbing details of photos, feeds or other data. Only the most limited information can cross that wall – andthat worries Google, which relies on being able to index everything (don't forget its mission statement: "organise the world's information and make it universally available") and then to sell adverts against it.John Battelle, who runs online advertising network Federated Media, says Facebook poses an existential threat to Google. "The old internet is shrinking and being replaced by walled gardens over which Google's crawlers can't climb," henoted earlier this year, as Facebook prepared its flotation. "Sure, Google can crawl Facebook's 'public pages', but those represent a tiny fraction of the pages on Facebook, and are not informed by the crucial signals of identity and relationship which give those pages meaning."In the same way, Apple's iTunes store is available on the web, and Google can index it, "but all the value creation in the mobile iPhone and iPad app world is behind the walls of Fortress Apple. Google can't see that information, can't crawl it, and can't make it universally available."In that sense, as Facebook gets bigger, and sells advertising to its users, it poses an increasing threat to Google – because to many, the space outside Facebook will look more and more like an untamed space where scams, malware and piracy thrive. "Google's business model depends on the web remaining open, and … that model is imperilled," Battelle adds. "The open web is full of spam, shady operators and blatant falsehoods. Outside of a relatively small percentage of high-quality sites, most of the web is chock full of pop-up ads and other interruptive come-ons."It's nearly impossible to find a signal in that noise, and the web is in danger of being overrun by all that crap. In the curated gardens of places like Apple and&nbsp;Facebook, the weeds are kept to a minimum, and the user experience is just … better."Even video sites such as YouTube and Vimeo can be thought of as a form of walled garden: videos are removed at the request of copyright owners and law enforcement. Often, they're dismissed as just being repositories for "cute cats" videos (with user-generated films such as "Charlie bit my finger" still near the top of the all-time list). But as Ethan Zuckerman, director of MIT's Centre for Civic Media, pointed out in a Vancouver Human Rights lecture,Cute Cats and the Arab Spring, sites such as YouTube, Facebook, or Twitter are the best place for dissidents to post grievances and findings.Those sites don't offer the best protection for dissidents, Zuckerman argues – for people can often be identified through their posting or web identity – but their power is that governments, even repressive ones, block them at their peril. If YouTube suddenly becomes invisible, people begin to wonder why and begin to ask questions – which in time, given the connectedness of our modern civilisation, will mean that they find out.An earlier version, from 2008, pointed to how theoverhead views of Google Maps had shown precisely who owned property in Bahrain– which often turned out to be the royal family. But what about the mechanisms that are increasingly being used to foment or report revolution – the smartphones with internet connectivity, or the computers being used to upload photos or video taken with cameraphones?Zittrain has expressed fears about how the devices we use to connect to the net have moved away from being fully capable personal computers – where in theory you can write programs that can use any capability of the computer – towards appliances such as the iPad or iPhone, with tightly limited functionality and access to the underlying operating system software, where only "allowed" programs can be installed from a vendor-maintained store. He calls such a process "tethering"."From the start my worries about appliances permanently tethered to their makers have been that the tethering won't be limited to smartphones," Zittrain sayss. "Rather, the closed smartphone architecture is the canary in the coalmine for all of consumer computing. That's why I've said the PC is dead, even as the PC's form factor may remain. In the past year we've seen the introduction of the App Store on the Mac PC – not just iPhone and iPad."Even Microsoft, which ushered in the era of the personal computer running software that in theory could be used to write any program, is heading in the same direction. Versions of Windows 8, to be released in the autumn, will also use Metro Store for apps, which Microsoft will control.Adding new programs will be hard; in effect, websites will become the new programs. Zittrain notes that although you can still side-load software – that is, transfer it from another source, such as the internet or a memory stick connected to the machine, that is a reversal from the paradigm that ruled for years."What a transformation: the principal way of acquiring software for the past 30 years is now through a side door rather than a front one," he says. "I'm both awed and worried about what's happened since 2008."Zittrain concedes that people like convenience and security – and they're entitled to. But he says there's a qualitative difference between now and then. "No one tried to get Bill Gates to alter Windows so that undesirable apps and associated content – undesirable to someone other than the user – couldn't be accessed. Today is different: if Facebook or Apple allow objectionable apps on their platforms, or Google in the Android Marketplace, or Microsoft in the Metro Store, regulators can say: take it down."That's a subtle shift, but important. Media commentator Jeff Jarvis says Apple's iPad is "sweet and pretty but shallow and vapid ... I see danger in moving from the web to apps," he said. "The iPad is retrograde. It tries to turn us back into an audience again."The same broad criticism is applied to smartphones, where not just Apple's product, but almost all platforms prevent any sort of easy access to the underlying code; there's no "command line interface" for a smartphone, no black screen and blinking cursor as you can find on a Windows or Apple computer, if you look hard enough.Part of that is for the protection of the wider telephone network, says Clayton. "Because  phones are talking to the wider telecommunications system, which isn't secure, the wireless side of phones tends to be locked down very tight."But on the app side, the extent of user lockdown varies between platforms. Apple's iPhone is tightly controlled: you can't distribute an app on to iPhones except by putting it through Apple's App Store – and the company has previously removed apps in China at the government's behest, such as in 2009, when apps about the Dalai Lama were removed.In that, Apple was like Google, which at the time maintained an operation inside China, and self-censored its content, offering a link to Chinese searchers to explain why the content was censored – but not to ways to find the results they wanted. Apple offered no such indication that the store was censored.With smartphones now outselling PCs every quarter, and China forecast to become the world's largest smartphone market this year, ahead of the US, the question of whether smartphones are a "reductive", limited platform, or "generative" like a PC looks like an increasingly important one.Battelle says the shift to mobile is unstoppable. "The PC-based HTML web is hopelessly behind mobile in any number of ways," he wrote on his blog. "It has no eyes (camera), no ears (audio input), no sense of place (GPS/location data). Why would anyone want to invest in a web that's deaf, dumb, blind, and stuck in one place?"Yet that wealth of data on mobiles isn't necessarily leading to a more web-like experience. Clayton says that "we are seeing more locked-down platforms than before" on smartphones – pointing particularly to Apple, but not excepting others.The biggest, and best-selling, exception is Android, the smartphone software that Google offers free to handset makers. "With Android, there's a wider choice of where to download apps from" – many companies, including Amazon, offer their own Android "app stores" – "and Google doesn't hold your hand as much." The search giant can still "kill" apps if it judges them to be malware.So far, there do not seem to have been any occasions when the Chinese government has demanded that an Android app is wiped from phones – though its Great Firewall can prevent people inside China accessing the official Android Market from which apps can be downloaded, rendering the problem moot. Indeed, Android Market has been blocked a number of times inside China, and many users there prefer the unofficial ones that have sprung up; though those, of course, will come under the eye of the government.In total, Android is outselling all other smartphone platforms – though probably not because eager would-be programmers and tinkerers are taking it up, but because carriers can offer them cheaply. "[Apple's iPhone and iPad software] iOS and [Google's] Android now represent fascinating hybrids," says Zittrain. "Third parties can write apps – and how they do! – but the manufacturer, to varying degrees, can control whether those apps can reach their audiences."Even so, there's no easy answer. For example, the success of Research In Motion's BlackBerry phones in many Middle Eastern countries has come about because they allow teenagers to communicate directly with the opposite sex, without having to meet face-to-face – because that could fall foul of strict religious laws. Similarly, Facebook offers a way for teenagers to "speak" in ways that might be banned in the physical world. To some teenagers – and activists – the fact that the BlackBerry's PIN-based Messenger system can't be tied to a phone, yet lets people stay in touch, is the perfect reason for using the platform. Though it can be decrypted – if the government goes to great lengths – in general it will be private, which suits its younger users perfectly.Zittrain's real worry is that"the personal computer is dead".His conclusion is a call to arms: "We need some angry nerds" – people capable of breaking out of the walled gardens.Indeed, the US government has found some: it has backed projects such as"the internet in a suitcase", which could set up a telecommunications network inside a country separate from the existing infrastructure.Zittrain acknowledges such projects, but for the wider world, he says, "convenience is great. I wouldn't call for a return to the green blinking cursor of [Microsoft's pre-Windows] MS-DOS or the [text-based] Apple II. But we should build architectures that permit innovation and experimentation if consumers wish to go 'off-roading'."
Late in March, I started to get a steady stream of emails from concerned readers: did you see that theInternet Society has appointed the former chief technology officer of the MPAAto be their North American regional director?I was as alarmed as they were.The Internet Society– ISOC – is an international nonprofit organisation whose mission is "to assure the open development, evolution and use of the internet for the benefit of all people throughout the world". More concretely, ISOC is also in charge of the .ORG registry, through its subsidiary, the Public Interest Registry..ORG holds a special place in the heart of internet activists. In the early days of the internet, there were only three generic top-level domains (gTLDs): .ORG, .NET, and .COM, and even though other gTLDs have been created since (like .INFO), these three are the most recognisably legitimate, credible domains in the world.But .NET and .COM aren't what they once were. The past year has seen a series of sloppy, high-profile domain seizures from .NET and .COM. There were extrajudicial, cloak-and-dagger operations run by the Obama administration's customs enforcers, acting on flimsy tips from junior employees at the big entertainment lobbies. Domains like dajaz1.com disappeared into Kafkaesque legal grey zones of secret evidence and hidden processes. Worse still was the seizure of the mooo.com domain, which was replaced with a stern warning saying the website that had once lived at that name had been a haven of child pornography (it wasn't – it had been home to 84,000 perfectly normal, harmless websites, all of whose owners were tarred by the accusation). And who can forget JotForm's seizure, another baseless, erroneous confiscation that made headlines in the middle of the fight over the proposed USStop Online Piracy Act, as a precusor to what life might be like under that regime.Tellingly, none of the seizures came from .ORG-space. .NET and .COM are managed by Verisign, a US firm with a history of playing nice with US law enforcement and administrative agencies, even when those agencies and officers are acting outside the law. But ISOC has an admirable history of standing its ground and demanding warrants, judicial orders and all the other formalities attending a society governed by the rule of law.SOPA's advocates viewed extrajudicial domain seizure without due process or the presumption of innocence as key to an effective copyright enforcement strategy. The now discredited law was filled with ways that you could lose your domain, from the "market based" approach of directly allowing rightsholder groups to order their seizure to a simplified process for sympathetic government agencies to effect seizures.There was even a provision for allowing domain registrars to pre-emptively seize domains from themselves without first receiving a complaint, and without having to worry about being sued for damages if it turned out they'd been wrong.Paul Brigner was chief technical officer of the Motion Picture Association of America during the SOPA debacle. During his one-year tenure with the MPAA, he made a handful of blog posts to the organisation's website, defending SOPA generally, and specifically pooh-poohing the idea that SOPA would have a negative impact on the overall security of the internet. This was the hottest hot potato during the SOPA fight, as eminent computer scientists and security experts argued that the law's provision against tools that made it possible to defeat domain name blocks would kill work on projects likeDNSSEC, a technology that counters the domain hijacking techniquesemployed by identity thieves and other fraudsters, as well as totalitarian governments who want to block access to foreign news sites.And before Brigner had been at the MPAA, he had been an official at US the telecom giant Verizon, , where he was on the record opposing net neutrality (the idea that ISPs should connect users to the sites they request, and not slow down some sites to the benefit of competitors who've paid for the privilege).Net neutralityis another long-running battle for ISOC, and they are staunchly for it.So how could ISOC appoint someone who had supported domain seizure, been prepared to sacrifice DNSSEC and the integrity of the internet's domain name system, and who was on the record as an opponent of net neutrality? How could such a person fill such a key role? Was he a mole put in place to weaken ISOC from within, paving the way for .ORG to join .NET and .COM as political footballs for copyright enforcers?Not according to him, and not according to ISOC. I've been peppering their press contact with a lot of questions about Brigner's appointment, and they made a good case that he is the right man for the job.I asked Brigner whether his statements about DNS blocking and seizure and net neutrality had been sincere. "There are certainly a number of statements attributed to me that demonstrate my past thoughts on DNS and other issues," he answered. "I would not have stated them if I didn't believe them. But the true nature of my work was focused on trying to build bridges with the technology community and the content community and find solutions to our common problems. As I became more ingrained in the debate, I became more educated on the realities of these issues, and the reality is that a mandated technical solution just isn't a viable option for the future of the internet. When presented with the facts over time, it was clear I had to adjust my thinking."My views have evolved over the last year as I engaged with leading technologists on DNSSEC. Through those discussions, I came to believe that legislating technological approaches to fight copyright violations threatens the architecture of the internet. However, I do think that voluntary measures could be developed and implemented to help address the issue."I will most definitely advocate on Internet Society's behalf in favor of all issues listed, and I share the organization's views on all of those topics. I would not have joined the organisation otherwise, and I look forward to advocating on its behalf."I asked similar questions of Walda Roseman, chief operating officer of ISOC, who concurred. "The Internet Society has known Paul for many, many years, and you may not know that he was also a founding member of our DC chapter," she says. "So he's no stranger to us. We've always found him to act with the utmost integrity and principled character. Even when on the other side of the debate, he was always considered one of the good guys, constantly reaching across the aisle to find common ground. Now, as you would expect in a case like this, we certainly took a close examination at his past views, talked with many associates and vetted every angle. And I am thoroughly convinced, as are my Internet Society colleagues, that Paul is steadfast in his belief in its position on SOPA, net neutrality and the importance of keeping the internet open and free."Intellectual honesty can be defined as the willingness to revise your beliefs in the face of contradictory evidence. Paul Brigner says that he has gradually evolved his beliefs and now repudiates the statements he made on behalf of his former employers, and his new colleagues say they believe his sincerity. They even supplied a list of personal endorsements from the likes of internet pioneer Steve Crocker. I'm left with the picture of an idealistic technologist who felt that he could do more good inside the MPAA than fighting it from outside, but gave it up as a bad job. That's not a bad sort of person to have in a position of importance at an organisation as vital to the internet's integrity as ISOC.
Five years in the making, and yet as fresh as one of the 10x10 pixel daisies that punctuate its felt-tip green hills, Fez is at once a tribute to the joy of childhood exploration, the wonder of adolescent Nintendo video games and the adult realisation of life's unending mysteries. It's a game without peril, without combat (none of the game's flora or fauna will harm you), with no character upgrades and where the only enemy to slow you down lies within your own ineptitude or puzzlement. A rare game indeed, then.Fall from too great a distance and Gomez, the fez-wearing protagonist, will crumple in brokenness, only to be returned alive and well to the platform without penalty. But don't mistake the lack of health bar, lives or any of the usual video game measures of skill and jeopardy as indicating a lack of challenge. Fez is a game of knotted conundrums, secret rooms, locked chests, arcane treasure maps and rabbit holes that lead you on and on through clockwork contraptions that must be conquered before they yield progress. In this way its systems feel as much a homage to the Nintendo games of its creators' youth as the striking pixel art graphics used to theme them. Its pastel shades and avatar's immortality belie a heart of fiendishness.At this core sits the game's Escher-like spatial conceit. Fez is a 2D platform game set within a 3D world. A squeeze of the trigger and the scene rotates horizontally by 90 degrees, bringing, for example, two floating shards of land that were once floating 100 metres apart into direct alignment, allowing Gomez to cross unimpeded. Essentially each scene is comprised of four scenes, its physical structures interlocking in four different ways.Braid had players manipulating time to solve its maker's conundrums. Fez asks us to manipulate space in order to progress, choosing just a handful of unflinching rules and spinning out five hundred vignette ideas to puzzle and delight. As the game progresses you must use you perspective shifting ability to align ladders, to create runways for moving platforms to travel along, and to chain together explosions in the rocks in order to create new passageways. Just when you believe designer Phil Fish has exhausted the potential in the core idea, a new surprise is sketched into a scene, the building of an orchestra of ideas, the likes of which is rarely seen outside of Nintendo EAD's greatest work.Despite the variety, your core task remains resolute and straightforward: collect 32 golden cubes, each one constructed of eight disparate shards. Like Mario's stars, these can be found sitting atop trees, underneath waterfalls, behind walls that must be cracked open with cartoon bombs and at the summit of mountains painstakingly scaled. They are scattered across a world interlinked by doors, each one leading to another section of the warren-like superstructure, which reveals itself scene by scene on an esoteric map. Collect all of the shards in a scene, along with any maps, keys or other secrets tucked away there, and the node turns golden on the map, the ultimate aim to bring the complete Midas touch to the universe.As with Braid and so many other of the indie blockbusters made by thirty-something creators, the game is seasoned with references to seminal 16-bit games. Treasure chests open to Zelda arpeggios as the camera turns dramatically around Gomez. Tetris pentominoes are bolted onto walls, clues to greater puzzles used to tidy up this game. Gomez has a lazy, Super Mario feel in the hands, requiring momentum before he'll make his longest leaps, and a stab of the up button to cling onto vines to save a fall. But Fez never relies upon homage to carry the experience. These are warm nods to the greats, Fish creating his own idiosyncratic patchwork from the fragments he borrows.It's a game in which the true aim is nothing more than to explore and to find treasure while doing so. So many video games borrow this voyager mentality, offering boisterous, darting journeys through shark-infested, bullet-dodging dangers. And yet, in Fez's purity, coherence and pacifist heart we find a treasure so much greater. Here is a keen reminder of gaming's ability to provide we who live in a world charted by satellites and Google Maps with new frontiers, with the unfettered joy of discovery, with the sense of our own psychical and mental horizons being expanded.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
