'A hanging garden of Babylon overlooking Silicon Valley," is Rich Gold's whimsical description of the most famous research laboratory in the history of computing. Set into the hills above Stanford University, the blocky buildings of Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center, or Parc, have tiered gardens, roomy windowed offices, and views of San Francisco Bay and the roofs of the corporate powerhouses that worship the silicon chip.Oddly, the place where virtually all of modern computing was invented is not a computer company at all but a self-proclaimed "document company". Windows, screen icons, the mouse, the laser printer, WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) printing and Ethernet (a method of connecting computers into a high-speed local network), even funny screensavers - all were developed more than two decades ago in Xerox's Parc. Xerox brought almost none of these ideas to market.Such twists and turns of fate leave Xerox working hard to re-establish its digital credentials, especially since it hopes to forge a reputation as an internet technologies and business solutions company.Turning the company in new directions has been a partial contributor to severe quarterly losses recently, but Parc seems oblivious to something as ephemeral as quarterly results."Parc is a cauldron of ideas, of thought, of new technology," says the pony-tailed Gold, whose company biography describes him as an "applied cartoonist" and "former consultant in virtual reality". Parc "is like a great university, with   all the kids taken out". New ideas include curious prototype modular robots that can move by themselves, link and modify their function as part of a larger unit. They now make simple snake and spider forms but researchers want to create them on a microscopic level, where millions would gather to create working objects."You could buy a box of modules and tell them to make a printer," suggests Gold, although he adds dryly that this particular research area "won't be a product soon".The lab has a full-blown Mems (micro electro mechanical systems) division. Mems are minute machines built on a silicon chip; researchers have created, for example, tiny mechanised tweezers capable of grabbing a single bacterium.Xerox is interested in optical Mems, which could enhance printers and copiers. Now such devices run on a single or dual laser focused through a mirror - a printing mechanism that is book-sized - but Mems could make them pea-sized.One project involves placing hundreds of silicon mirrors on a single microchip, then tilting them to direct an array of several hundred lasers. Another aims to position thousands of lasers on a single chip. These technologies would enable what researcher Eric Peeters calls "bat out of hell printing".Another division is exploring the use of multiple microchip sensors that could eventually make inanimate matter intelligent. Researcher Feng Zhao says that peppercorn-sized sensors could one day be sprayed across a road surface, enabling the road to tell a car the traffic conditions for a region and select the best route. He imagines a world of smart environments where sensors would provide factual information to be analysed by computers, enabling humans "to bridge two worlds - the physical world and the digital and virtual world".Individual sensors could   eventually be part of a vast feedback network on the net, as well, he says, since individual sensors could be given their own internet address.Underlying all Xerox research is ethnography, the study of human behaviour. Xerox employs some 15 ethnographers. One of them, Jack Whalen, says ethnogra  phy is "at the very heart of this center" because of a study at Parc decades ago. Researchers videotaped volunteers who were told to make certain kinds of copies on a copier they had never used before. The engineers and researchers were stunned to see that real people didn't interact with the machine in the ways they   expected and were confused by features that were supposed to be self-explanatory. The video led to a radical rethink at Parc and now ethnographers routinely work on all research projects."Truly useful technology supports and enhances natural human capacities and practices," says Whalen. "We're   trying to look five, 10, 20 years down the road and ethnography helps with that human-scape envisioneering." This may sound rather bizarre, but out of the strange and idiosyncratic often come flashes of brilliance athat mark a pure research laboratory. "Parc is about inventing the future," says Whalen.
Pushing back the boundariesICC2000PC	&#163;29.99 Empire	****What do Championship Manager players do during the summer? They keep playing Championship Manager, of course. But the ones who want a break could do worse than try the latest edition of International Cricket Captain, endorsed by Nasser Hussain.ICC2000 puts the emphasis on captaincy rather than management, though it does include picking the team, negotiating contracts and training youngsters. However, the main aim is to let you play through one-day, county and international matches ball by ball. This isn't an action game, but you can tell players how aggressively (or how defensively) to play. You can set a line and length for bowlers to follow, and either set standard fields or design your own.Like the real thing, this takes a long time. Fortunately you can skip the graphics, or just watch highlights (such as when a wicket falls), and get through more games in what   might be called scorecard mode. One mouse-click can either represent a single ball or an over. If you're really in a hurry, you can click "Skip game" and let the computer calculate the result.Player statistics are based on Wisden's Cricket Almanac, and teams are commendably up to date. However, there are some "historical scenarios" that let you replay classic test series or last year's World Cup. ICC2000 also provides a two-player game, and will support online play when the server comes online.The game is mouse-driven and the polished interface makes it very easy to play. It also seems very fair. Active   management generally seems to produce good results, or at least palliates the inevitable disasters. Even repeatedly skipping games does not seem to be a barrier to success.All in all, ICC2000 is an outstanding game for cricket fans, especially those who follow the English county game.Unfortunately this is a limited market, even by international cricket standards. What the game lacks is the introductory tutorial and background information that might help bring it the wider audience it deserves.  (JS)Fiendishly clever but not enoughDiablo IIPC 	&#163;29.99 Blizzard 		 ****There are some people out there who have the temerity to assert that Diablo - that's the original Diablo, released in 1996 - is still the best role-playing game on the market. Despite Might &amp; Magic, Fallout and Ultima.Most of these people, of course, also believe that the sun revolves around the earth. But the real question is: if the first game won so fanatical a following, can its sequel become the champion of   RPGs? Well, no, but not for want of trying.The setup and interface are still recognisably Diabolical, except for the fact that it has incorporated all the advances in the RPG world and a few more to boot. There are five character classes instead of three, 3D support, shadows, weather and water effects, cheatproof multiplayer support, and some innovative new skills and enemies (anyone ever use a corpse explosion on a scarab demon before?).Not only do you get different maps and non-player-character responses with each class, but because of the nature of the interface, you'll find yourself developing totally different keyboard techniques for barbarian, amazon, paladin, necromancer and sorceress.Left-click for melee attack and right for ranged might   suit one character, but assigning left-click to spells and switching between them might be a better option for another.Then there are the little touches, the sort that make you curse other programmers for being so lazy. Rats that flock to feed off the corpses of your vanquished opponents, only to scatter when you turn back. Chickens that squawk and flutter out of your way when you walk into them. Zombies that moan differently according to the extent of their injuries.Moments such as these make the opening chapters of Diablo II a delight.Only when you're some way into the game do the design flaws start to get to you. Stingy inventory space means you're heading back home every 10 minutes to sell off your excess    baggage. Customised options revert to default every time you start a game. Creatures that hit obstacles spin crazily instead of standing still. The control system becomes more    and more cumbersome, the more skills you learn. And the way that characters often face in a different direction from the way they're walking, creating a sort of diagonal-  moonwalking effect, is just sloppy.One flaw smarts from the start: the lack of save slots. Sure, you can save and exit, but thanks to the perennial autosaves, you can't save and reload. This is no biggie from the death point of view: you die, you're resurrected in town, you go back and pick up your stuff. But the save facility is not just there for death. It's there for moments when you accidentally spend all your hard-earned cash on a useless weapon, or spend an experience point on the wrong skill, which can ruin a game right up to the end.The saving disgrace aside, Diablo II's drawbacks are mostly minor. But they're enough to ensure that Baldur's Gate hangs on to its RPG crown.  (AB)Dastardly does down DisneyWacky RacesDreamcast	**** Infogrames 	&#163;39.99Walt Disney Magical Racing TourSony Playstation 	** Eidos 	&#163;29.99Often imitated but never   bettered is one way to describe Nintendo's classic racing game, Mario Kart.However, the fat plumber's reign may be coming to an end with the release of Wacky Races. Continuing the recent 70's revival -Dukes of Hazzard, and the Muppets have appeared in games -Wacky Races breaks the standard inverse relationship between quality and license by actually being cracking fun.Graphically the game is a beauty, with the Hanna Barbera look captured expertly by the Dreamcast. Very much like Diddy Kong Racing,   Wacky Races sets you a variety of karting challenges. Win race, gain stars, gain access to new track is the general rule, though if you get stuck on one course, you can quickly try a challenge on another.The game will really appeal to those who remember Penelope Pitstop, the Anthill Gang and the rest but, frustratingly, the real heroes, Dastardly and Muttley, are available to play only when a large proportion of the game has been completed.Surely as cruel a denial as any half-baked plan they may have hatched on TV. Thank fully there are no such problems in this months other kart release, Walt Disney Magical Racing Tour. Despite the licence the characters are strictly C list, with the likes of Chip 'n' Dale offering little incentive to persevere on some surprisingly tough circuits. A Goofy or a Mickey would have helped, and while the Disneyland visuals will appeal to the juvenile target audience, Wacky Races is by far the better game.It seems Mario may finally have met his match.  (GH)
Virtual DNANow we have the complete human genome, why not try virtual DNA sequencing? The Virtual Bacterial ID Lab,www.biointeractive.org, has a   fantastic interactive Shockwave program that lets you go through the whole process. You begin by grabbing your own bacterial colony out of a petri dish and it keeps on getting better. While you work in the virtual lab to the left, the right side of the browser gives a detailed commentary on what you're doing and why. Budding scientists and anyone with a general interest in the area will enjoy this. While there, pay a visit to the Virtual Cardiology Lab as well, or have a look at other science resources for children, teachers and adults.A handbag?Handbag.com's celebrity handbag auction began Monday, but bidding continues until the 13th, so you have plenty of time to go after Maggie's, Cherie's or Mo's little numbers. All proceeds will go to the charity Breast Cancer Care. Have a peep at the bags and find out how    to make a bid atwww.handbag.com/auctions/handbags/Tasty siteSainsbury's has a bright new website,www.tasteforlife.co.uk, a compendium of information on food and drink. Along with a special section on organic foods (Sains bury's was the first supermarket to offer organic gin, the site says helpfully), there are 4,000 recipes, tips on buying and serving wine, and an "it's gone wrong" Q&amp;A section. Especially useful is the recipe search engine, which locates recipe suggestions by main ingredients, time to prepare, calories, course, or dietary requirements. The selection I looked at all sounded pretty mouthwatering.Tune inWondering whether you can legally use that line from Romeo and Juliet on your new trance single? Find the answer atwww.hobomusic.com, a just-launched music site that has a number of features that musicians should find very useful. There's a free online legal clinic run by music lawyers Clintons, a booking service that lets you reserve studio time over the Net, and a directory of contacts and companies.Drop the debtComic Relief,www.comicrelief.org.uk, is using an email campaign this year to urge world leaders to keep debt cancellation on the agenda at the next G7 summit, taking place July 21-23 in Okinawa, Japan. Plenty of celebrities have swung in behind the initiative, including Ewan McGregor, Steve Coogan, Angus Deayton, Douglas Adams and Tony Robinson. The idea is that you get an email forwarded from the celebs and then either add    your name and send it on to your friends, or you can create your own email. You can also think about becoming part of an anti-debt "virtual human chain" on July 21; details atwww.dropthedebt.orgPension plansIf the word pension has always brought on the frights, trywww.pensionsorter.com, which proves that low-tech delivery of information is sometimes all that a site needs to be effective. Every aspect of pension-purchasing is gone through in detail, and all the terminology is explained in easy-to-understand language.Black holeFormer Disney studio head Joe Roth and the man behind The Blair Witch Project internet hype has launched a sci-fi site,www.DistantCorners.comIt has an initial disclaimer warning that the site really needs a high bandwidth DSL or cable connection for optimal viewing - that's a setup that's rare still in the States, let alone over here. Then, there's a silly, pretentious Shockwave sequence while the site loads. If you're still with them by this point, most of the site seems to run perfectly well on a 56k modem connection.New and notedInternational legal site A HREF="http://www.law.com/uk" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;Law.com<.a> now has a UK version, ... Macmillan Cancer Relief has a new site for its September World's Biggest Coffee Morning fundraiser, seewww.everyoneswelcome.com...A1 Learn, has launched a range of interactive online training courses in computing_ try a web-delivered short movie atwww.405theMovie.com, then read about how it was made... health and beauty sitewww.changeslive.comfeatures information, makeovers and a section for men.Wap watchUK Directory has a web - not wap - sitewap.ukdirectory.co.ukexplaining how to build your own wap pages which are downloaded to your phone for &#163;10 a month (after a free trial). Http://loot.com has potential but we drew blanks on finding a home while holiday queries found "File too large".Wap.breathe.com was OK for cricket, news and weather and also found the nearest Pizza Express. Wap.wapgata.com checks out domain names. 	 (Victor Keegan)Six of the bestGuides to San FranciscoRough Guide's San Franhttp://travel.roughguides.com/content/3697/index.htmEverything, including parking tipshttp://bayarea.citysearch.comNews, entertainment, sportswww.bayinsider.coLinks and more linkshttp://metroscope.com/sanfran.htmlQ magazine's gay and lesbian guidewww.qsanfrancisco.comqsf/guide/contents.html//wapSoMa: a Wap guide to The Citywww.waptown.net
Bill Gates, talking in Asia recently, made a point about the future of user interfaces and the limitations
    of keyboards and screens. One obvious interface is speech. 
    The idea of talking to a computer rather than typing, pointing, pressing or touching it in any way is not
    only embedded in our shared cultural vision of the future (remember HAL?) but makes sense because it is
    so natural to us as a way of communicating.Following this line of thinking would lead one to suspect that voice-enabled e-commerce (ie, v-commerce)
    will become a common way to do business on line: the question is when? 
    It may not be so far away. The medium being the message, and all that, the greater part of this article
    was in fact dictated to my Macintosh laptop through IBM's splendid ViaVoice package.I estimate that the machine got the words right about 95% of the time: not perfect, by any means, but
    still a very convenient way to get some work done while both hands are otherwise occupied (looking
    through relevant doc uments, making a few notes and so on). 
    So voice recognition is starting to work, but how will it combine with the net? There is already a standard
    for accessing web sites through the telephone (it's known as VoiceXML, or VXML) and there are already
    companies offering, or planning to offer, services in this area.The VoiceXML Forum, which was founded by AT&amp;T, IBM, Lucent Technologies and Motorola recently
    completed Version 1.0 of the VoiceXML specification, which aims to make content more accessible via
    voice commands and "traditional" phone interfaces. 
    Services like this mean that people will be able to follow up a web site and navigate their way through to
    find the information that they want using voice commands, and then have the information spoken back to
    them. How ever, navigating through vast amounts of information to find specific items probably works
    better through a web browser and large screen.Where the use of voice interfaces comes into its own is in this field of remote transactions. Phoning a
    bank to find an account balance or to initiate a bill payment is the perfect example.At the heart of v-commerce are two rapidly evolving technologies: natural language speech recognition
    and speaker authentication. 
    These will, in the medium term, make it possible for users to complete transactions all the way through
    from initial inquiries to giving payment details. 
    A voice recognition system would not have to be that comprehensive to satisfy these requirements.All it
    has to do is recognize that you are asking it to pay a bill and then present you with a list of
    pre-configured ways to pay (eg, "press 3 for Visa") to make it useful. 
    Recognition technology is coming along nicely and some mobile operators already have voice-recognition
    systems for customers to dial phone numbers or access voicemail messages (eg Orange's Wildfire) just by
    talking.Another potentially important factor is that speech recognition may be combined with voice identification
    to add flexibility and security to interfaces. 
    If someone was able to phone their bank and say "give me my balance", it would be rather useful if the
    voice interface were to both recognise the customer's request and simultaneously authenticate the
    customer to the bank back-end systems.This obviates the need for passwords and PIN numbers, or other
    additional authentication codes. Certainly it would be more convenient than navigating tiny mobile phone
    screens and punching data in using a tiny mobile phone keyboard. 
    The voice authentication systems already in the market are capable of authenticating the user even if
    they have a cold or their voice is altered slightly.In the case of voice authentication through mobile handsets, the combination of possessing the handset
    and having your voice recognised should be more than sufficient for every day security purposes. 
    If that happens, the new voice services could have a powerful effect on electronic commerce.Right now, 80% of people who begin a transaction on the web cancel it before it's completed. This may be
    because they can't be bothered to type in all of their details, because they can't understand the
    instructions or because it's just too much hassle: imagine just calling Amazon, saying what you want and
    then hanging up.V-commerce isn't a niche. Once voice recognition and synthesis systems come in to use, their impact will
    be immediate and huge. 
    Think of it this way: did Mr Spock ever use a Wap interface on his communicator? Of course not: he spoke
    to it.That's what we're used to doing to phones, which is why voice-enabled services will actually be critical to
    the success of "wireless web" rather than just being a cute add-on. 
    Putting all of this together, then, indicates a medium term future for the digital mobile phone as a general
    purpose transaction device with the primary interface remaining voice. 
    If, as some people suspect, wireless transactions could be responsible for almost half of all e-commerce
    in three to five years, then we'll all be talking telephone numbers.
Bush telegraphBush says its 21in and 28in internet TV sets have now reached the high street with prices starting at under &#163;200. The system includes a remote control that opens up to provide a small keyboard for typing email.A standard cordless keyboard and a colour printer are also available. Virgin Net is developing a home page and content for Bush Internet, the internet service provider.Although some commentators have hyped the potential of TV-based internet services, most services based on television set-top boxes have flopped and Microsoft's WebTV, on sale in the US since 1996, has not been a noticeable success.Mobile MintMint Telecom promised to make it easier and cheaper to take a mobile phone abroad when it launched a pre-pay global   roaming service this week. It also launched the first scratch 'n' sniff GSM system.You buy a Mint BasicCard SIM (fromwww.mint-tele.comor 0800 00 33 55) and put it in your existing phone when you go abroad. After that, all calls and SMS messages to your usual number are re-routed via Mint servers to your new Mint number. This avoids roaming charges and variable call charges, because Mint charges the same price for calls from any country to any country.Mint charges 85p per minute to make calls and &#163;0.425p per minute to receive   them. This compares with &#163;3.43 per minute to call London from Moscow on BT Cellnet, and the 94p per minute to receive calls in Brussels. On average, Mint expects to be about a third cheaper than rivals.But it will face competition from Deutsche Telekom'sOne 2 One, which plans to launch a pre-pay roaming package on July 17.One 2 One's service will be more expensive, from 99p to &#163;1.99 per minute to make calls and &#163;1.50 to receive them. And it may not offer such wide coverage:it has signed up more than 160 roaming partners in 80 countries, whereas Mint covers 240 networks in 114 countries.Guard mouseBannerbridge claims that the easiest way to protect your PC from passers-by is to plug in a U-Match BioLink mouse. This contains a fingerprint scanner to check each user's identity before they are allowed access to the machine. The mouse is available with serial, PS/2 and USB interfaces and works with Microsoft Windows 95B/98 and NT. Seewww.bannerbridge.co.uk. (JS)IBM bombsIBM's latest computer is anything but user-friendly. Reliability isn't great: it's expected to run for only 100 hours before breaking down. The delivery bill could well be huge - it requires several large convoys of articulated lorries to move it, and it takes two months to assemble. And   don't even ask about Energy Star compliance: the thing needs enough power to fuel a small, air-conditioned town.But the new $110m IBM ASCII White, pictured above, does go jolly fast. It is so speedy it can do in 30 days what a 1995-model Cray supercomputer would have taken 60,000 years to complete.For those who can imagine it, the IBM machine is running at a mind-boggling 12.3 trillion operations a second.And - the good news - if the pace of improved computer performance continues, some estimates suggest we'll have this kind of power on our desktops in less than 10 years.For now, however, this vast machine - actually made up of 8,192 individual processors and 512 connected computers - will be busying itself with things a little less mundane than networked games of Doom. The computer, running an IBM version of Unix,   will simulate nuclear weapons tests to an unprecedented level of detail. The simulations could help ease the US Congress' opposition to the comprehensive test ban treaty, which bans all real-world nuclear testing.Even this machine isn't good enough to fully replace nuclear tests. Scientists   estimate it would take a computer running eight times faster, at a trillion operations a second, to do that.But that kind of power is on its way - for those who can afford it. David Cooper of the US president's council on computing, says: "We're still on timescale to do that by 2004."  (NM)
Waiting gameUnlike new boots and panties, simple websites and old computers do not have to be thrown away once the shine has worn off. Just because you have a fast modem, it does not automatically mean that you will be able to download stuff from the web any faster.A useful analogy is to think of the chain that brings information to you, and compare it to ordering a meal in a restaurant.First step is to try to attract the waiter's attention (access the website). Second step is to wait for him to acknowledge you (the website responds).Third, he takes your order (you specify a certain page you want). Fourth, the chef creates the dish (the page is assembled from HTML text, graphics, background "wallpaper", Javascript etc).Fifth, the food is served (the components of the web page are sent over the internet). Sixth, the food is laid out on the table (the web page is assembled by your browser on your screen).  Now substitute a waiter on roller skates for a fast modem.What's the difference? Well, stages one, two and three are still the same - out of the waiter's hands (so to speak). Stages four and five are faster, and stage six is still the same (as it is the speed of the browser rendering that is key here).A final thought: does a hungry man care if the plate of food is tastefully garnished so that it pleases the eye? No - at this stage his stomach is in control.Micky Allenfisi@salamander.co.ukOn the cardsRegarding Iain Noble's letter about fraudulent credit card use, I had a merchant account with an internet credit card processing company and was shocked to discover that it could charge back fraudulent card use to me personally a full six months after it authorised the transaction.The company seemed to have made no effort to verify   the cardholder's address (the card was registered in Australia, the customer gave a US address).At least consumers are protected by law and operating procedures if they fall victim to card fraud - merchants have no protection whatsoever. Which may well explain why, when I bought a monitor over the net last week, the company insisted I fax them proof of my name and address before dispatching the goods.Simon Briggssimon@forward-internet.co.ukStat attackStat of the week on Microsoft's web browser domination, below the "Suspect Statistics" referred to by Neil McIntosh (Online, June 29), may be more suspect than you think if the data has been collected from websites.I regularly use minority browsers - Fresco on my Acorn and Opera on my PC. Many websites identify your browser and refuse to work unless it is Netscape or Internet Explorer.To overcome this, the latest version of Opera and most of the later Acorn browsers allow the user to set up "browser faking": my version of Opera can identify itself as Netscape or IE by setting the user preferences. Thus the major players may appear to be more popular than they actually are.John Purserjohn@jpurser.demon.co.ukPirates ahoyI found Roy Emerson's remarks about "piracy" incredible (Feedback, June 29). At no time does the consumer own media - in reality we only own the right to enjoy it. Does Mr Emerson back up his hard drive or record from the TV? Then he, by his own standards, is a software pirate.The whole argument about home recording harming the industry is a fallacy. Having spent some years in music retail, I concur that professional piracy is detrimental, but friends swapping LPs and CDs exposes people to new bands or styles of music.Consumers owning multiple copies of a recording, for whatever reason, is just a fantasy of sales and marketing executives. How much do you think that it costs to remaster a "classic" analogue recording onto CD? How many musicians are involved? We would   all be shocked at how little and how few. The real threat to the music industry is the domination of the supermarkets in the sales figures, skewing charts and ensuring that we get lots of safe and bland artists and compilations.Keep taping CDs, keep swapping CDs and keep buying CDs. Most of all support your local independent retailer.Paul Baldwincitizen.zero@excite.comI disagree with Mr Emerson on the issue of replacing vinyl with MP3. I do not endorse wholesale piracy, but "upgrading" format from vinyl/CD to MP3 should not be a problem.The situation is most definitely not exactly parallel to Mr Emerson's vacuum cleaner analogy. The cost of a vacuum cleaner is mainly made of manufacturing costs, distribution costs and the margin of the retailer. The cost of a CD is made of more factors: recording costs, manufacturing costs, distribution costs, shops' margin and, of course, artists' royalty - effectively your payment to the artist for the right to listen to their work.With MP3 however, only the artists' royalty remains in any serious quantity, as there is no manufacturing, no shop margin and distribution can be from a single file, recorded from an existing CD, at the recipient's cost.When I buy a CD I pay for all of the above, fair enough. But by doing so I have bought the right to listen to the music, so why should I pay again to listen to the same music in a different format?Antony Hawkinsa.d.hawkins@sheffield.ac.ukAs a musician I find Roy Emerson's attitude towards downloading music rather disconcerting. I am fully in support of music for everyone, irrespective of whether we are paid for it.For far too many years musicians have been the pawns of the record industry fat cats. I will welcome the downfall of the current regime where record bosses with no musical creativity take a big cut from those that actually create the records.MP3s can still be security keyed and so in effect the songs will always remain the property of the creator. The internet has opened up a vast market for individuals like myself and I am very grateful.Andy LucasAndyRLucas@aol.com
Even in the super-charged internet world, the BBC's dot.com juggernaut is gathering impressive pace. It could end today with a lorry load of evidence that it is miles ahead of the competition.In the2000 European Online Journalism Awards, to be presented tonight at the NetMedia conference at City University, London, the BBC is shortlisted in 14 of the 19 categories. Auntie could win gongs in everything from design to investigative reporting, via business and economics and music and entertainment.This comes only 10 days after the Henley Centre ranked the BBC top of the 10 most trusted websites in the UK. And it follows hard on the heels of Monday's unveiling of a revamped sports website, backed by funding of up to &#163;6m and 45 staff. That is almost as many staff as work on the hugely successful News Online stablemate, which has recently upped its profile even further by doing a deal with Yahoo!, the UK's second most popular website, to have its content displayed on the site's news pages.This appears to be a big success story: the BBC transferring its content on to the internet, building its brand online and gaining great respect around the world; 40% of BBC Online's traffic comes from overseas, although the UK traffic is still enough to rank it the 9th most popular site in the UK.But from the rest of the UK's online publishing industry come howls of protest. Commercial publishers say the BBC is steamrolling into areas already well served by the private sector, and using licence-fee money to snatch traffic away - even making it difficult for private sites to   secure that oxygen of online business, venture capital.The British Internet Publishers' Alliance (Bipa), is leading criticism of the BBC's online drive. Bipa has submitted evidence to the Davies review of the future funding of the BBC, and the House of Commons' select committee on culture, media and sport last year, when it was considering the future of the BBC.Its argument was summed up by Bipa chairman and Daily Telegraph director, Sir Frank Rogers, in a letter to the Times in April. "There is no case whatsoever," he wrote, "for the BBC to use public money to become a major electronic publisher on the internet."The net, with its lower costs and already diverse content, did not need a public service organisation to drive wide take-up of internet services, said Rogers. He described the much touted notion of convergence, where TV, radio and internet content is delivered to consumers on a single device, as "a seductive and misleading prediction".It is not hard to see why privately funded internet publishers are afraid of the BBC moving into their patch. While the start-ups struggle to raise finance and discover the so-far elusive revenue streams, the BBC has no such concerns. BBC Online's &#163;32m budget last year came from the licence fee, and the site does not carry advertising or sponsorship.This week provided one of the best examples of the   unfairness of the BBC's position, its detractors say. When the corporation decided to launch its new sports website, &#163;1.5m was found to set the new venture up, along with an annual budget of &#163;4-&#163;5m. With the sports website market already one of the most competitive in the UK net industry, it is unlikely a start-up would have been able to convince venture capitalists to part with that kind of money.Stephen Nuttall, head of sport atSportal.co.uk, wryly points out thatBBC Sport Online'sspending money this year is more than his company's entire first round of funding. "And that was to put up an international network of sports sites, not just the UK," he adds.Sportal scored a coup with its exclusive internet rights to Euro2000, and was named the best private internet company in Europe last weekend. But, says Nuttall, the BBC's renewed interest in online sport takes the gloss off his company's successes. The BBC has a big budget and, just importantly, it can cross-promote the online service on radio and television, he says.The BBC's determination to carve a niche in online sports will not make it an easy neighbour, he says. "The world does not need another sports site. If someone was trying to raise venture capital for a sports start-up, I think that their business plan would be scrutinised very carefully indeed. Who is going to scrutinise the BBC's?"According to Bipa, that scrutiny is badly needed to stop the BBC smothering newborn dot.coms with its own launches. Angela Mills, its secretary, says the BBC's public service role needs to be redefined."Nobody in Bipa is saying that the BBC has no place on   the internet. We're not saying it should be kicked off," she says. "It is just a question of making sure there are clear parameters between what is publicly funded and what falls within the private sector, and that proper rules apply in both."But is BIPA's case not built on vested interests and more than a hint of sour grapes? Even new media commentators based in the US are expected to say at NetMedia today that the BBC supplies a news service which matches, even outstrips, the best of what is on offer from the States.Mills, however, appears to take a softer line than her organisation's chairman. Online News is, she admits, "one of the world leaders, and it should be there.""That is exactly the kind of thing they should be doing, even although there are head to head commercial operations, including ITN which is a member of Bipa."The problem arises where, she says, the BBC launches into areas where there is already fierce competition - like sport and, last year, into internet service provision withFreebeeb.netlast year.That move sparked a flurry of protest both from rival ISPs and content providers, who feared the BBC's broadcasting channels could persuade large numbers of people to sign up for freebeeb.net then remain   within the BBC's internet offering when they got online.Their fears were certainly not allayed by freebeeb.net's launch, given a little glitz by two of the stars of BBC Television's Top Gear programme. This, they said, was a perfect example of the BBC's brands and stars, built up by publicly funded channels, being used for commercial gain.In the end freebeeb.net - run by BBC Worldwide, the commercial part of the BBC not funded by the licence fee - has not proved the massive force in the UK ISP market that many feared, and cross-promotion has been limited.But, says Bipa, it is a good example of how the BBC's commercial and publicly funded online activities have to be monitored and carefully kept apart. Mills is reluctant to say what the BBC's role should be in the online world. "I don't think it's up to me to decide what the BBC's role should be, but there should be a debate," she says."They should not be a national champion in the way that they seem to have been putting themselves forward, and in some ways as the government has supported them. There is no other European country which has a champion in this way."You hear them &#91;the BBC&#93; saying 'We're increasing internet usage' and I think that's rubbish - I think what   will get people online is lower telco costs, cheaper PCs, better security and consumer confidence. The fact that the BBC is online is not going to get hordes of people using the internet. That is really misguided."The public service remit would have to be something of quality and worthy of the public funding, not interfering with the private sector too much."The BBC's response has been to point to the quality of its offering and the corporation's "core values" of information, education and entertainment.Nigel Chapman is the BBC's director of online, the non-commercial arm which includes news and that controversial sport site, but not BBC Worldwide'sbeeb.comand freebeeb.net. He says the BBC will not be put off from its aim to expand rapidly in the online world, with its continuing ambitions in this arena to be confirmed by the appointment of a new all-powerful director of new media within a few weeks."Online as a medium is here to stay, and is expanding very fast," he says. "We know that in some groups - in particular young people - their consumption of traditional media falls as online usage expands. So you need to be in   online to continue using all the weapons in your armoury and build relations with licence-fee payers in the United Kingdom."The theme of keeping up with licence-fee payers' migration to the webrecurs in Chapman's defence of the corporation's publicly funded activities online, and is one of the main reasons he insists: "there is a special role for the BBC on the web"."Our new sports online site is a classic example of something that is strategically valuable to the BBC," he says. "We need to reinforce the value of BBC sports to users, and it's extremely valuable because we have an awful lot of high-quality sports content - both audio, video and text and pictures - and a high standard of journalism. It's a situation where both the BBC and the licence-fee payers win. It's a perfect example of an area we should be in."But, as Sportal and the BBC's other sporting rivals ask, does the world need another sports site? Not surprisingly, he says yes, it   does. "I understand their fears, and I'm not surprised they see the BBC as a major competitor - it is a major competitor. But just because Sportal.com and everybody else is going into sport online doesn't mean the BBC should not be in it."Chapman says that much of the new site's content already exists, and it is the corporation's duty to make it available to licence-fee payers."I think it is really important that the BBC makes the most of its investment in sport. We have this material in the BBC already - it would be a pretty sad situation if we weren't allowed to use the internet as another platform for people to access it."Chapman also defends the news content deal between the BBC and Yahoo!, which prompted one commercial content distributor to say this week he had his head in his hands, asking "why?" The arrangement, he said, meant the biggest content site was in bed with the biggest portal: a formidable partnership that he felt any for-profit distributor would struggle to break through.Chapman says that is not so. "The deal withYahoo!is not an exclusive one. We are in discussions with other portals about something similar both for News Online and for other parts of BBC Online. It is not our ambition to give Yahoo!   some marketplace advantage over other portals. Our ambition is to use our relationship with portals so that people who do not come direct to bbc.co.uk can see our material well presented in portals."He also gives short shrift to some more outspoken members of the UK's internet community who suggest that the BBC is, in fact, not as good at internet content as it - and others - think. "All the indicators - both qualitative and quantitative - all the awards, all the traffic, the independent assessors - all of them say what a brilliant job the BBC has done in Online, and how pivotal it has been in creating a benchmark of quality," he says."We're not complacent - there's a lot more to do, and many areas we should be in that we are not. The issue of web television is to come."But in the narrow-band world in which most people live we have put a stake in the ground about quality, range and depth of content which, frankly, is not matched by anyone else in the UK market."
Flour tortillas are an astronaut's favourite bread item (and only Nasa could call bread a bread item). I know this becausewww.jsc.nasa.gov/pao/factsheets/nasapubs/food.htmlreveals that "tortillas provide an easy and acceptable solution to the bread crumb and microgravity handling problem". They can go mouldy - there isn't a fridge on the orbiter - but fiendishly clever nutritional scientists at Nasa have developed a "shelf-stable" tortilla.Beefsteak aboard the shuttle is irradiated to stop it going off. If you don't want to heat up your rehydratable freeze-dried food in the oven aboard the shuttle you can chew your tortilla with apples, bananas, oranges, and carrot and celery sticks from the fresh food locker.A tray is advisable, attached to your lap by a strap. Salt cannot be shaken on to your celery, obviously: it is served in a little pouch, dissolved in water.Food matters, especially on a long spaceflight, perhaps to any of the nine planets in the solar system swwpds.jpl.nasa.gov/planetsor to the growing number so far spotted outside the solar system (I refer you to the extrasolar planets encyclopaedia -www.spaceref.com/.Although if you took off for a planet 50 or 70 light years away, you'd eventually get really sick of shelf-stable tortillas.People could opt for the fast track to Alpha Centauri by developing one of the technologies proposed in the site charmingly labelled Warp Drive When? (www.lerc.nasa.gov/WWW/PAO/warp.htm) which tackles head-on the handicap of not being as advanced as Captain Kirk, then identifies the whole problem of breakthrough propulsion physics atwww.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/bpp, proposing (1) propulsion that requires no propellant mass, (2) propulsion that attains the maximum transit speeds physically possible, and (3) breakthrough methods of energy production to power such devices.People who think old-fashioned fiction is less demanding could instead fashion a Star Trek universe in which such things might be possible, and then contemplate the materials they would need to make Spock, Bones and Beam-Me-Up Scottie feel at home, simply by clicking onwww.tms.org/pubs/journals/JOM/9606/Bormanis-9606.html.The thing about space, and in particular, the cluster of hyperlinks in and around    Nasaspace (Nasa.gov) is that once you get up there, you need never come down. Forty years ago, rocket scientists began thinking about upward mobility, high finance and high society, and there are still dreams of a wheeling space settlement populated by 10,000 delightfully detached people hooked on artificial gravity, hydroponic cultivation, asteroid prospecting and a viable but very mobile society of others atwww.permanent.com.You get the picture: mundane websites enclose a little world, but Nasa cyberspace enfolds a universe. You look for one thing, and discover new worlds along the way.Many of these can be found at theastrobiology webwhich takes you to authorities who can be remarkably helpful on life in extreme environments, the details of suiting up for an EVA or spacewalk or the search for extraterrestrial intelligence.Someone feeling entrepreneurial and anxious to make a buck in orbit could do worse than check out the Space Frontier Foundation (address:www.space-frontier.organd motto: "Space is a place, not a program") which links to a surprising number   of commercial enterprises waiting to take off.The foundation argues that it is human destiny to settle Mars, which means terraforming it, which of course means going to it.And anyone who goes to Mars will be shut up in a little spacecraft for months, so the old recipes for shelf-stable flour tortillas simply won't do. Fortunately scientists atCornell Universityhave been working on the problem.Their version of extraterrestrial nosh includes fresh melon, sweet potato pancakes or wheatberry and rice cereal with rice milk, and scrambled tofu for breakfast.For elevenses, they propose pitta bread and peanut butter and carrot sticks; followed by lunch of tomato and lime soup, with a sweet potato and bean burrito with fresh salsa and a tofu miso dip with carrot sticks. Dinner would be a slap up affair of carrot drumsticks, tabouli salad, potato and fresh coriander stir-fry, a zucchini loaf cake.The diet had to be low in salt, because the whole lot would be grown hydroponically and watered with astronaut's urine, which would of course get progressively saltier as the journey went on if you started shaking the iodised salt over your sweet potato chips every time.A gang of volunteers at Cornell ate this stuff for 30 days. But Mars is only a skip and a jump compared to Saturn. Anybody who fancies riding along with the spacecraft Cassini-Huygens and touching down on Titan seewww.jpl.nasa.gov/cassiniwould have taken off years ago and wouldn't expect to arrive until 2004.And what would you find on Titan? A thick atmosphere of ethane and methane, or to put it another way, awesome concentrations of flatulence, a condition which by the way causes great irritation in a small spaceship.Tortilla, anybody?
Last week the owners of Standard Life, one of the few remaining mutual financial institutions, decided not to turn it into a private company despite being promised a windfall of up to &#163;6,000 each. But while Standard Life will remain owned by its members and run for their mutual benefit instead of delivering profits to shareholders, the future of the worlds' biggest and most successful mutual undertaking looks far less certain. The internet, a co-operative enterprise with more than 300million "members" is in trouble.It may sound strange to claim that the internet is like the worker's co-op running your local health food shop, or the John Lewis Partnership. According to the International Co-operative Alliance a co-operative is "an autonomous association of persons united voluntarily to meet their common economic, social and cultural needs and aspirations through a jointly-owned and democratic-controlled enterprise", and this does not seem to describe the net.For one thing, the many networks and computers that make the internet are not jointly owned: they are all in private hands. Perhaps when the net was just a government and academic network, and   all the computers and cables were in public ownership, it might have been a co-operative of some sort, but that is certainly not true today.The internet is hardly democratically controlled, either, at least not on the one member, one vote model. In the early days it was managed by a beneficent oligarchy of technically-minded individuals who were either paid to research and develop computer networks or worked for companies that gave them time and space to be involved in the standards-setting   process. Now it is dominated by the paid technical representatives of large corporations seeking to have their technologies and programs incorporated into the standards.But the computers and the networks are not really "the internet": the internet emerges when they are connected, in the space behind the screen. It is, as William Gibson put it, "a graphic representation of data abstracted from the banks of every computer in the human system". And the way the inter net's technical standards are set is still open to all who want to participate and not dominated by one company or group.This internet, like a mind inside a brain, is more than the hardware and software that support it. We all share in the net only as we contribute to it, adding our programs, computers and network links to the larger whole. We all accept the technical   limitations on which software we can use, so that we can join our computers together. And we all benefit from the scale of today's internet. That makes it a co-op.But all is not well. The internet is like common land which can be used by everyone. As long as nobody takes too much of the land, or grazes too many sheep or cows, then everyone can benefit. However, the first person to graze too many sheep gets an immediate advantage, for one year at least: their sheep grow faster and they make more money. The end result is that the commons are destroyed, and everyone loses out. But the certain knowledge of long term disaster may not be enough to deter the first mover who sees a large short term gain.We can see this happening already with Linux, one of the internet's big success stories. For eight years the open source operating system created by Linus Torvalds in 1991 was worked on by thousands of programmers who wanted to contribute to the public good. But while the source is free, corporate users want to buy technical support for it, and a number of companies offering Linux services, such as Red Hat, have gone public with massively inflated share prices.As a result, the thousands of programmers who have contributed to Linux over the years are now asking where their share of the money is. The move to demutualise Linux, just as the building societies were demutualised, is just around the corner. And, as with the building societies and the banks, it will be the current owners - the few who own Linux-focused companies or whose programming made it into the latest distribution - who will benefit. Those who contributed in the early days, who worked to build the commons in the first place, will be forgotten as virtual fences are erected.It does not have to be that way. One of the most important things about the internet is that it has no limits. Unlike a physical field, it is always possible to add to the size of the net, simply by adding more computers and networks. The activities of the entrepreneurial capitalists do not have to affect the co-operative programming teams or the virtual communities, as long as all users respect the mutualist principles which   made it all possible in the first place and created this "dot.commons" we all share.Support for the open standards on which the net is built is the most important of these principles, but the tension between working to standards and creating innovative software that creates new markets (and new commercial opportunities) is always great. Sometimes it breaks down, and we get the browser wars between Microsoft and Netscape, or the Instant Messaging battle between AOL and the rest of the world. Unfortunately, the initial profits for the standards-busting first movers can be so large companies have a great incentive to deviate from standards or introduce their own proprietary software in the hope that they will dominate the market.Keeping the internet mutual is important for two reasons. First, it presents a coherent alternative to the world in which transnational corporations with internal economies larger than those of many nation states shape our lives in their own interests. And understanding the way the internet developed and grew in mutualist terms gives us a valuable case study.Second, the internet can work as it does only if it remains mutual. The need to build a network that can reach everywhere, be used by everyone and support all the many different activities that we need or want from it is too important to be left in the hands of a single company or group of companies.The mutual internet, like the mutual building societies, does not have to concern itself with the interests of one particular group, and can be there for everybody. The alternative is a bigger AOL or Microsoft Network, driven by corporate agendas.Mutualism is the principle that "individual and collective well-being is obtainable only by mutual dependence". The internet has given us an opportunity to reshape the world and build on mutualist principles in our new economy. But this is a choice we must make, not a predetermined outcome of the digital revolution. We have the tools - can we use them?Five pillars of w-mutualism1:For a free Internet to flourish, all those who wish to connect to the network must work to open, mutually agreed technical standards.2:The dot.commons will continue to thrive only when they are rooted in open standards rather than proprietary technologies. Free exchange of technical information should be encouraged as far as possible and enforced only when necessary.3:There are many legitimate uses of the network and not all serve all needs. What matters is that the use of the network by one should not have an adverse impact on its present or future use by others.4:The network is a social institution that both offers rights to and demands obligations from those who seek to use it.5:Government has a responsibility to promote equal access to the network and its services, to act as an effective regulator and to avoid restricting the future development of the network.Undermining mutualismA good example of how the "public" and mutual internet can be undermined by technological advances is Wap (wireless application protocol). Wap is a way to present web content and email messages for display on the small screen of a mobile phone and to deliver the content over wireless networks (like the GSM network). It is being sold as "the wireless internet". But Wap is a proprietary technology developed and owned by the Wap Forum and anyone who wants to   develop a Wap service must license the programs and ideas from there.Wap is not open, it is not in the public domain and it cannot be enhanced or developed by anyone other than the owners. The way Wap is being promoted - as if it were the internet on   a phone - misrepresents it in the way that the proponents of demutualisation of insurance companies and building societies misrepresent the operations of listed financial services companies, and to the same end.&#149;  Bill Thompson is the author of E-mutualism - Or The Tragedy Of The Dot.commons, just published by the Co-operative Party at &#163;5.
Gasp! Yikes! Beano fans are in for a big shock later this month when they open a copy of their favourite comic. All the characters will have gone except Dennis the Menace and Gnasher. Completely baffled, Dennis starts searching for his missing pals and eventually discovers them sitting in an internet caf&eacute; where they are logged onto a new Beano web site.The comic's publisher, DC Thomson, is planning this high-profile PR stunt to announce the official launch ofBeanotown.com, a new online community designed for children. Populated by the likes of Minnie the Minx, Roger the Dodger and the Bash Street Kids, Beanotown is the latest attempt to make the traditional comic relevant to the fast-growing internet generation. The virtual town will replace the Beano's old web site and the publishers are hoping they can turn it into a major new e-commerce platform.It has taken six months to build Beanotown.com at a cost of about &#163;500,000. The town square's home page leads you through to high street shops, a museum and the Bash Street School. To become a resident of Beanotown you pay an annual &#163;5 fee, which is deducted from a credit card. Then you can move into your own virtual house and decorate and furnish it how you wish. You can talk to other residents of Beanotown through email and you can choose to have a Beano character to lead you around and tell you jokes."Beanotown.com is not in any sense replacing the comic," explains DC Thomson's online manager, Ben Gray. "They will feed off each other. The internet is helping us to broaden the appeal of the Beano into other areas which are not comic-related."A cartoon strip about life in Beanotown will run regularly in the comic and an online Beano bank as well as various educational products are already under serious consideration. It sounds far-fetched but the Bash Street Kids might even become part of the new curriculum to help teach school children how to behave as citizens. As part of   the proposals, there would be references to illustrated examples of life in the new virtual town. Beano executives say you can teach children by showing them how not to do certain things.The Beano is practically a national institution. It first hit the news stands in 1938 and has chuckled and chortled forward despite television, video and computer games. In it's heyday it was selling about 2 million copies a week. Now it still manages about 210,000.The Beano's owners know it must embrace the online world. Gray believes the Beano would be stupid to ignore the growing appeal of the net and with kids' favourites such as Billy Whizz, the Three Bears and Dennis as some of the key attractions, he's confident that surfers will come in droves to the virtual town.The Beano has tried other media - there was a Dennis the Menace cartoon series on TV - but Gray feels the technology of the web is streets ahead of traditional television shows. "With the internet you have the ability to give the children the opportunity not only of watching but of participating."DC Thomson executives are already developing an ambitious e-strategy for Beanotown.com. They believe they can use the new site to expand the UK-based comic internationally. Asked if there might for example be a Chinese version of Dennis the Menace, Gray says the site could be used to test and develop new characters. But the immediate priority is to stick to the English-speaking countries. The US is regarded as the best new market for the Beano to enter because there is clear evidence of an appetite among Americans for traditional British humour demonstrated by the success of shows such as Benny Hill, Monty Python and more recently Nick Park's box office success, Chicken Run.The comic's executives   know it's important to build trust among parents in the UK before Beanotown.com can become a key destination for kids and a fully-fledged online retailer. To begin with visitors to Beanotown will be able to buy comic-related merchandise. Everything from T-shirts to whoopee cushions will be on sale. But the Beano's commercial team is talking to potential e-commerce partners including retailers and fast food companies.The Beanotown hairdresser (who presumably has to shear Gnasher's shaggy coat when it gets too hot) could even stock L'Oreal's kids' shampoo on the salon's shelves, says Gray. There are also discussions about linking up with eToys or Toys "R" Us to host online toy stores.E-commerce directors are dogged by complaints that they have so far failed to make any tangible profits. But DC Thomson's executives are confident Beanotown.com will soon become profitable. "We should make a profit within one and a half years because we're so good at keeping costs down at the start. If we get two or three big advertising clients and build them into the fabric of the town that will be worth a fair amount of money - and that should not be too difficult," Gray explains.Beanotown was designed in-house and there are a team of six people working on it. Aside from this high-profile   e-venture, which is officially launched in mid July, DC Thomson is also developing online sites for its other publications, which include regional newspapers. Last year the company generated about &#163;50,000 in online sales and figures are already reportedly up this year.Tanya Kreisky, editor of Internet magazine, thinks the idea of a safe community for children on the web could rejuvenate the comic - although the Beano faces stiff online competition from rivals such as theCartoon NetworkandDisney."A lot of people look at the Beano nowadays and say it's dated," she says. "This is a huge leap for a static printed product. It's a good example of the net offering something which the original product could not. The Beano might even become cool again."Dennis the Menace is a national cultural icon of sorts and the sight of him putting down his catapult, and heading off to an internet caf&eacute; to become an e-entrepreneur will probably have some influence on general British attitudes to the web.While we adults tend to agonise over when and whether the so-called internet bubble is going to burst, the reality is the Beano-reading generation (seven-14 year olds) display no such doubts. Children are instinctively at ease with new technology. It might sound like harmless fun, but the new residents of Beanotown could eventually play a serious role in sustaining the long-term growth of the internet-based economy.
To call it mobile mania would be an understatement. Over 50% of Britons now own a mobile - a staggering 85% above the same time last year - with analysts predicting that penetration will be 60% by the end of the year. It is quite possible that in a few years time it will hit 80%.The ubiquity of the mobile is already changing relationships. Parents can no longer eavesdrop on what their children are up to through the fixed link, but they bond through knowing where their children are and through text messaging. For youngsters it brings back the herd instinct as they head out alone, meeting up later after messaging.And we haven't seen the start of it. The new Wap (wireless application protocol) phones linked to the internet are slow, often incompatible, and very flaky in performance - but interesting applications are emerging. You can get instant news, live share prices, plus step-by-step directions to the nearest cash machine or pizza parlour. During the next few years, as   phones get smarter and faster - and with the arrival of continuous "broadband" access to the internet - the phone will know who you are and where you are, enabling you to consult a doctor remotely, call up live pictures of traffic jams (or anything linked to a camera). It will be a goldmine for enterprise as thousands of programmers work out innovative applications. The mobile will become the most popular product the industrialised world has known - and continuous technological change could induce users to buy new models every few years.It offers developing countries a chance to leapfrog over their lack of telephone infrastructure (half the world has never made a phone call) into the 21st century. That will require new social entrepreneurs with skills to persuade multinationals to allow cheap Third World access to their satellites as they pass unused overhead. If developing countries aren't hooked into the information revolution, they will fall further behind.
Cable &amp; Wireless yesterday stepped up its campaign to grab a large slice of the European internet business service provider market with a $20m (&#163;13m) investment in GorillaPark.GorillaPark, a pan-European consultancy, advises e-commerce start-up enterprises and telecoms groups, and provides them with seed funding, public listing advice and infrastructure support. In return for those services, GorillaPark receives a stake in each of the start-up businesses.Cable &amp;Wireless said that it might in future invest directly, or buy outright, start-up ventures financed by GorillaPark."GorillaPark complements Cable &amp; Wireless's strategic fo cus," said Stephen Pettit, director of corporate development at Cable &amp; Wireless. "Through our investment we can add value to our core business by participating directly in the dynamic innovation that is happening at the entrepreneurial end of the sector."In the past two years, Cable &amp; Wireless has transformed itself from a mobile and cable television group through various divestments to snapping up a string of internet business service providers across Europe, the United States and Asia.GorillaPark, which has offices in London, Amsterdam, Munich and San Francisco, says that it is equipped to support 20 start-ups a year and float them within two years.Mr Pettit said the Cable &amp; Wireless investment allowed it to provide products and ser vices to the start-ups and in turn to access their products.He will join the GorillaPark board and its investment committee.Cable &amp; Wireless stressed, however, that it was not entering the venture capital market.GorillaPark's other investors include ABN Amro, Atlas Ventures, Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs.Jerome Mol, founder of GorillaPark, said: "Cable &amp; Wireless' global structure and capability is of great importance to the service we offer our companies. We focus on developing companies in Europe and then scaling them to enter Asian markets, such as Japan, as well as the US."Cable &amp; Wireless had assessed other internet incubator funds before investing in GorillaPark.
Sundays can become even lazier for stay-at-home Tesco shoppers. The supermarket chain yesterday increased the delivery period for its online customers to 12 hours on Sundays, following a big increase in sales for the company's internet shopping service.The operation is being extended to 300 of Tesco's 640 stores and yesterday it began testing the extended hours service, which is not affected by Sunday trading laws.The delivery vans are now on the roads between 10am and 10pm in the trial areas, in contrast to the stores which must close at 5pm at the latest.Unlike its rivals, Tesco runs its delivery service from individual stores rather than central distribution centres.It claims to be world's biggest online grocer through its Tesco Direct website - at the start of the year it said 2,000 new customers a week were signing up - and is expanding to offer books, clothing, gifts and banking services.The supermarket chain also says it is making money from its online operation, a rare claim for an internet business.Useful linksTesco Direct
What is your car?A lightweight, aerodynamic transport pod - with a wooden body.Why do you drive it?It's an ecological method of transport - light, with low drag.What does it say about you?That I'm patient. That I'm willing to go to great lengths to show people the intelligent way forward.What reactions do you get?Everybody looks, children jump up and down. It makes people happy.Does it work?It's not a toy; it's a working car. The looks are incidental - it had to be this shape to let the air go past gently and efficiently. The wood - mahogany - just happens to be beautiful.Have you ever owned a more conventional vehicle?I had another self-built three-wheeler, and before that I drove a bubble car. A recumbent bicycle is still my preferred mode of transport.What kind of driver are you?I used to be mad. I put in a tiny 435cc engine for a while to slow myself down, so I was forced to drive more considerately.Any bad habits?No. Since I did the top speed test I've never been to 100mph again, although I have been fast on the German autobahns.Any points on your licence?No.Ever experienced road rage?Definitely not.What state is your car in?You have to treat it like a boat: sand it back and re-varnish it every couple of years.What's in the car?An information sheet to put on the car when I park it. It's to educate people. Everybody will have to start being more careful, you know.Is it a fire hazard?I certainly wouldn't allow smoking in the car, but that's because it's an awful habit.What would be your dream car?The idea for that came to me four years ago, and it's almost ready. It's based on the plans for the most advanced car ever - even lighter than this one. That's all I'll say. But what I really would like to build is a fully enclosed pedal-powered device.Who would be your dream passenger?Somebody who appreciates what I do.What's it like to driveWhen you drive it, you can forget that it's not a normal car, except for the fact that everybody's looking. You feel like you ought to wave. A friend of mine said she felt like the Queen.
If it wasn't for a huge slice of luck, Eric Voight would almost certainly have died the day he drove from Lichfield to Manchester. Without realising, the 76-year-old violin dealer and restorer drove into the oncoming lane of a dual carriageway. Only the frantic flashing of an approaching driver - and a convenient gap in the barriers - enabled Voight to avert a horrific crash. But it left him shaken. He went to his GP who assured him it was a one-off."He should have warned me then," says Voight. "He knew my age. But I soon realised my driving ability was failing. I was no longer thinking quickly and had trouble noticing the signs. After more close shaves I finally thought, 'That's enough.' I took my car to an auction, sold it and that was that. People often say, 'I can't do without my car.' But it's no argument - not when you consider your safety and that of other people."Ask an elderly driver to recall their fondest motoring memories and it's unlikely they'll select any from the past few decades. Gone are the days of not seeing another car for miles. The generation who passed their driving tests in the post-war years have had to become accustomed to motorway gridlock, road rage, tailgating and a whopping 10-fold increase in road traffic.But new research suggests that modern-day motoring is taking its toll on elderly drivers. Studies are showing that intimidation, lack of confidence and declining ability are forcing many elderly drivers off the road altogether. And with the elderly population expected to soar in the next 20 years, steps are now   being taken to ensure safer motoring for the "baby boomer" elderly drivers of the future.According to the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions (DETR), elderly drivers are involved in as many accidents per mile as 25 year-olds. This is partly due to elderly motorists driving predominantly on local urban roads, which have the worst safety record. Another recent study commissioned by the Automobile Association has found that elderly drivers have particular problems turning at road junctions."The crushing message for older drivers is that, in spite of all their fears about motorways and busy traffic, it's the right-hand turn that is their biggest enemy," says Andrew Howard, AA head of road safety. "Older people feature highly in junction accidents. They seem to have trouble judging the speed of approaching vehicles and finding a gap between them to pull out. On today's busy roads, they are forced to take risks they are often not capable of achieving."It would be alarmist to suggest that elderly drivers are generally unsafe. Many older people are highly   competent drivers with years of experience and Howard points out that few elderly drivers drive drunk or use their cars as machismo objects.But age inevitably slows us down. AA research shows that failing vision is the main reason elderly people stop driving. Eyes become more sensitive to headlight dazzle and take longer to focus back on the road. But deterioration of our faculties is often an insidious process - and some may not recognise a decline until too late.To help assess potential risks, the DETR is currently conducting a three-year study of elderly motorists' driving. One early finding is that elderly people restrict their motoring by avoiding busy town centres, unfamiliar routes and driving at night. Yet despite this self-regulation, many competent elderly drivers still become anxious about their driving. And this anxiety can reach a crisis point."I have worried myself so sick that I can't eat or sleep," says Dennis Cox, a 72-year-old retired sales manager. Ten years ago, he began worrying obsessively after journeys that he had jumped a red light or even killed a pedestrian without realising. The only way he can stop the worry is to retrace his journey to check for signs of imagined carnage. For Cox, an otherwise stable and jovial person, this obsessive worry has become a millstone around his neck."I realise it's irrational," he says. "If you hit someone, you'd know about it. But I can't get that into my head. I once drove past a pub where there were young people coming out. I heard shouting and when I got home thought, 'Perhaps they were shouting because I hit someone.' I actually   went back but, of course, there was no sign of anything."To quell this anxiety, Cox booked a refresher lesson. The instructor said his driving was good but that didn't help. Dennis now suspects that his pride about his 48-year clean driving record - and his fear of not being able to maintain it - may have contributed to his anxiety.Matthew Joint, AA behavioural psychologist, echoes Cox's suspicions. He is well aware of the anxiety that elderly drivers can experience. Retirement sometimes prompts people to dwell on things, he says, and driving is one of them. And such sufferers are predominantly male. "Driving is an important part of many men's lives," he says. "To realise they're not as good as they once were can be devastating. They've often dominated the driving for a long time. Sometimes their wives never learned. Then being unable to share the driving only increases the pressure. I've known people to go into panic attacks because of this."It's unlikely that the next generation of older men will experience this problem as, according to AA predictions, the number of elderly women drivers will double in the next 15 years. But this upcoming older generation will still suffer declining faculties. In anticipation of this, some local authorities are launching mature driver schemes. Devon county council has pioneered such courses, and other counties look set to follow. On them, drivers are encouraged to voice their concerns. One subject that always comes up, says instructor Mike Howell, is young drivers."They feel very intimidated by young drivers. I always stress it's nothing personal, just people leading busy lives. Roundabouts are another worry - hardly surprising as roundabouts didn't exist when many of them learned to drive."In August, the DETR will conclude its study and research is already under way to assess how road signs can be improved. But some fear these studies will ultimately lead nowhere. "Yes, there's a lot of DETR research and some good learning taking place," says Peter Gimber, Devon county council head of road safety. "But I fear the whole national issue of older drivers is in the tray marked 'Too difficult'."One finding is that many older drivers want to give up driving simply because it has become a chore. Eric Voight is one. While he misses the car for shopping, he does not miss the stress of driving through Manchester and having profane insults hurled at him by impatient boy racers. And he certainly does not miss worrying about landing himself or a pedestrian in hospital because of his lapsed concentration."I read recently about an elderly man who killed his wife backing out of their garage. Things like that strike a chord with me. Traffic in Manchester is horrendous nowadays and I can go anywhere by bus for 36p. So no, I don't miss it. I started driving at 17 and enjoyed the best years of motoring. That will do me."
The  news that Yahoo! has decided to switch search engines from Inktomi to Google must have left many laymen and women puzzled last week. Who or what are Inktomi and Google? Who dreams up these daft names anyway? And isn't Yahoo! itself a search engine? Why should it need another one?The answer to this last question is that Yahoo! began life as a directory of websites, not a search engine. But as it became clear that its staff of indexers could not keep up with the growth of the web, the company contracted out the business of servicing searches to Inktomi, a specialist search engine company based in California.It turns out that Yahoo! is not alone in this. Inktomi provides search engine facilities to various clients includingAOL,Excite@Home,RealNetworks,the Microsoft NetworkandNBC Internet.So every time an MSN subscriber (say) types a query, it is serviced not by Microsoft, but by technology created by   Inktomi and licensed to MSN.Why did Yahoo! make the shift? Nobody knows for sure, but here are some possible answers. Firstly, Google is widely regarded as technically superior. It ranks search results using a kind of automated peer review so that a page is judged partly by how many other pages on the Net link to it. Secondly, Google   claims that it indexes more documents than anyone else (it was claiming half a billion documents last week) and therefore that searches on it tend to be more comprehensive (i.e. less arbitrary and selective).Oh, and Google does not take money in return for boosting your site in its rankings, a fact which endears it to geeks and drives business folks to distraction.Because the web is so vast,   and grows so quickly, no search engine, not even Google, can provide anything other than a partial index. That means that users searching for information are dependent on their chosen search engines.It also means that proprietors of search engines possess economic power, for they define who's visible and who is not.As the world shifts increasingly to e-commerce, a presence in cyberspace will come to be as important as the possession of factories, offices and shops in the real world.And if search engines can't, or won't, find your site   then you will be, to all intents and purposes, rendered invisible. So one of the key concerns of businesses and organisations will be to ensure that when people go looking for them on the web, their site will be ranked prominently by the major search engines.At present, search engine rankings are determined either by algorithms (like, say, the peer-linking algorithm employed by Google) or by economics. In the latter   case, rankings can be improved by payments or by 'partnership' deals - which are really just payments in another guise.However rankings are determined, the inescapable fact is that search engines already wield considerable power, and that this power is exercised entirely without regulation.There is, in other words, a politics of search engines. Or, rather, there should be, for it's no good saying that the market will take care of the problem, that search engines will rise or fall depending on the quality of the service they offer to customers or users. An exclusively market-driven solution will lead to a web where the most visible organisations will be those with the deepest pockets and the widest range of partnership deals.Alarmed by this prospect,Oneworld.org- a leading portal for NGOs and organisations interested in environmental issues and sustainable development - has already created its own specialist search engine precisely to avoid the looming threat of 'virtual invisibility'. You could say it was a way of ensuring that the Yahoos of this world do not inherit the earth.John.Naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
Richard Branson, pioneering founder of cutting-edge businesses, was this weekend contemplating a humiliating rebuff: the official website for Virgin trains has lost its quality hallmark.Thetrainline.com, a subsidiary of Virgin Rail but in the process of being demerged, is only the second trading site to be ejected from the  Which? Web Trader programme. The first was Jungle.com, since reinstated. 'The main source of complaint was regarding purchase of tickets which were not received, even though customers' accounts were debited,' said Katie Hammond of the Consumers' Association, which set up the kitemark scheme to encourage more people to shop online. It sets stringent standards and monitors the 850 registered retailers.Customers who complained to thetrainline.com told  Which? the staff were unhelpful. The complaints were passed on to the retailer but another 22 similar gripes were recorded in the space of three weeks. 'We have withdrawn their membership due to the fact that unsatisfactory progress had been made to rectify the problems,' said Hammond.Trainline.com's chief executive, Alan Meekings apologised to customers. 'Every complaint which finds its way to  Which? is like a stab in the chest.' But he said they had to be set against the 50,000 transactions made each week. The crux of the problem, he said, was a failure to transfer new timetable data correctly, leading to ticket-issuing problems. This caused a log-jam in the system.He added: 'We are demerging because we are an impartial provider of tickets for all routes sold by all operators. Our aim is to provide the best route at the cheapest price.'He said 40 per cent of all current inquiries result in sales of Virgin tickets.
People hoping to make a quick profit from free shares in internet community websiteThemutual.netfound that by the end of yesterday's first dealings it would actually cost them money to sell their stock.Themutual promised new subscribers the chance to share in the company's success by giving them 1,000 shares each when it listed on the stock market. But at the end of the first   day of trading on AIM yesterday the shares had slumped 50%, making each tranche of 1,000 shares worth &#163;7.50.Stockbrokers said that investors looking to offload their stock at this level would probably end up losing money because even cheap dealing fees are usually more than &#163;10.Managing director Ben Heaton said shareholders should hang on to their stock."We always expected the shares to react like this. Members should look forward as we build the business and hopefully turn those 1,000 shares into a nice little windfall," he said.The shares are priced at 0.75p each, valuing the firm at &#163;27m. Mr Heaton said the point had been to allow members to see the value of their shares.Themutual recently raised &#163;2.5m from four venture capital firms and Mr Heaton said it would not need to return to the market for more funds.
The inventor of the "virtual video recorder" yesterday said he wanted to settle with the entertainment industry after his start-up company received a $10m writ for copyright infringement.David Simon, 40, a software programmer, closed down his website RecordTV.com, which allowed users to record television shows and watch later at their convenience, after lawyers for a dozen media groups, including Time Warner and Disney, alleged that he was stealing their shows."I don't want to be the figurehead or a martyr," Mr Simon told the Guardian. "I am a guy with two kids, a mortgage and a regular job. I just want to settle."He has become the latest target of a media and entertainment industry keen to destroy all web-based "attacks" on its legal rights. Earlier this month, the US recording industry asked the federal court to shut down online music-sharing service Napster.This time it is the Motion Picture Association of America which has trained its sights on RecordTV.com."David Simon, willingly and knowingly, has built a business based on offering its customers access to valuable, stolen property," said Jack Valenti, president and chief executive of the MPAA.Last November, Mr Simon used not much more than a cable feed and a few computers equipped with television tuner cards in his Los Angeles home to record episodes of Pokemon on his PC for his daughter.A few months later, RecordTV.com was born - and by March was attracting some 100,000 users and up to 2m hits a day.The ease with which Mr Simon produced his website contradicted the industry view that the quality of the internet was not up to "video streaming" popular programmes. However good the technology, it may not be enough to save Mr Simon."We have no funding and are just trying to reach a settlement," he said.The future of the website, which sports a picture of the founder as well as a biography mentioning his love of running 15 miles a day, is based as much on raising some money as pacifying the media moguls.
Zetters is planning to reinvent itself as an international online financial spread-betting operation after a decline in its core football pools business.The company is understood to have applied to the financial services authority for regulatory clearance to compete with bookies IG Index and City Index by offering punters the chance to bet on a range of stock market prices. Chief executive Tony Wollenberg said Zetters was also talking to potential partners in the US and Far East about tapping "vast" overseas gaming markets.He hopes that making Zetters available through the internet, digital television and handheld web access devices will attract people who do not use betting shops.Bets placed on share price changes, interest rate moves and index levels are among the fastest-growing areas of the bookmaking industry. That has led IG Index to seek a &#163;115m flotation next month.However, Mr Wollenberg warned that Zetters might relocate to an offshore tax haven if the government refused to reduce the betting levy.The declining popularity of football pools was reflected in full-year results to March 31. Turnover fell by &#163;5m to &#163;10.42m, pre-tax profit slipped from &#163;1.54m to &#163;1.14m.Useful linksZetters
Antfactory, the internet investment fund that specialises in supporting the online strategies of old economy companies, has raised a further $150m (&#163;98m) in new funds and is poised to announce a number of alliances with leading stock-market listed UK companies.The London-based company has now raised $545m in private equity over the past nine months. If the stock market's appetite for technology stocks improves, it is likely to seek a flotation later in the year valuing it at around $1bn.Chief executive Harpal Randhawa said: "At the moment we're raising money from value added investors but flotation is always an option."Investors in the new round include the existing shareholders Whitney &amp; Co, Citicorp Venture Capital and CVC Capital Partners. First-time investors include Allianz Capital Partners, Moore Capital Management and Hopa, which is   the controlling shareholder in Telecom Italia.The funding was completed despite a general cooling among investors' appetite for internet investment and incubator companies.Antfactory was founded byformer investment bankers and technology experts last year to identify ways in which new economy businesses can partner with existing companies, building on assets like their customer bases, brands and supply chains.One of its best known investments is in Whittards, the coffee shop operator. Antfactory took a 25% stake earlier this year and is helping it to develop an ambitious global e-commerce division.Dozens of internet invest ment and incubator companies have emerged over the past year to satisfy investor demand for technology stocks and entrepreneurs' needs for backing. Several, like New Media Spark, JellyWorks and Convergence Holdings have listed on the stock market. However, with market sentiment changing, many are now looking to consolidate with European and US firms.Mr Randhawa insists that his firm is different. "E-commerce is a non-trivial business. Investing in two people with a good idea and a website does not constitute backing a business. You need customers and you either have to buy them or partner 0someone who has them."We believe you need to partner with old economy companies and leverage their brands, supply chains and customer bases. We hope to announce several major deals soon."Antfactory currently has investments in 20 firms, of which 13 are UK-based.
Dimension Data, the South African IT group, plans to spend $500m (&#163;330m) buying up three companies in which it already has stakes. The group is set to go straight into the FTSE 100 when it lists in London next month.The Johannesburg-based firm, which is looking to raise up to $1.25bn from the flotation, intends to buy the remaining equity in a network integration firm, Chernikeeff   Networks, based at Sunbury-on-Thames, and GK Communications of Warrington. It will also take full control of Comtech in Australia.The remaining funds are likely to finance the acquisitionof e-commerce businesses in the US and to support organic growth, according to the group chairman, Jeremy Ord.Dimension is likely to be valued at around $9bn when it lists in London. Marketing of the new shares to institutions - co-ordinated by Deutsche   Bank and Merrill Lynch - begins this morning, and first dealings are expected on July 19. Unconditional share trading begins on July 31.Dimension aims to offer corporate customers a "one-stop shop" for all their networking, internet commerce and IT consultancy needs. It has 32 data centres around the world from which it controls a variety of networking requirements for clients including Vodafone, Unilever, Coca Cola and Virgin Mobile.Useful linksDimension Data
Oracle, the world's second largest software company, has admitted that it hired private detectives to dig up scandalous information on Microsoft, its biggest and most bitter rival.The investigation came to light when the detective firm, Investigative Group International, offered to buy rubbish being thrown out by a pro-Microsoft trade organisation.In a statement late on Tuesday night, Oracle admitted hiring IGI, a firm headed by a former Watergate investigator, to make inquiries about two advocacy groups which publicly supported Microsoft in its fight against the US government's anti-monopoly lawsuit."Oracle discovered that both the Independent Institute and the National Taxpayers' Union were misrepresenting themselves as independent advocacy groups when in fact their work was funded by Microsoft for the express purpose of influencing public opinion in favour of Microsoft during its anti-trust trial," Oracle said."Left undisclosed, these Microsoft front groups could have improperly influenced the outcome of one of the most important anti-trust cases in US history."Oracle said it retained the detective firm in June 1999 to investigate the Independent In stitute, a free-market policy body that placed full-page advertisements in the Washington Post and the New York Times defending Microsoft. The advertisements portrayed 240 academic figures as giving independent views.In September, the New York Times reported that the Independent Institute's ad was paid for by Microsoft. The Times said the documents had been provided by a Microsoft adversary associated with the computer industry who refused to be further identified. A spokeswoman for the newspaper said it was policy not to disclose the names of confidential sources.Oracle added that "Microsoft also funded the Association for Competitive Technology" without specifically admitting that it had paid IGI to investigate this Washington-based group.IGI tried to pay two janitors $1,200 (&#163;800) for the rubbish thrown out by the association, which also published pro-Microsoft statements during the trial.Oracle said it insisted that any IGI investigation should employ legal tactics and was assured that was obeyed. Microsoft, which is appealing against a court decision that it should be broken up, jumped on the statement as proof that the government's case is underpinned by the firm's rivals.This is the latest example of a long-running and often bitter feud between Oracle, which is headed by the flamboyant Larry Ellison, and Microsoft, founded by the cerebral Bill Gates.A turnround in Oracle's fortunes this year, after it was quicker than Microsoft to realise the potential of the internet, meant Mr Ellison came close to usurping Bill Gates' position as the world's richest man this year.In the past year, Mr Gates has watched his wealth shrink from $100bn to about $60bn, while Mr Ellison has increased his net worth from $9.5bn to $47bn.Usful linksMicrosoftOracle
British software developer Orchestream Holdings yesterday defied negative investor sentiment towards internet companies by showing a 74% price jump on its stock market debut.The stock reached a high of 322p shortly after listing, capitalising the group at &#163;372m. Shares in Orchestream ended at 313.5p, compared with its issue price of 185p.The surge in share price reflected strong demand for the stock, which saw its public offer nine times oversubscribed. The success of Orchestream ranks alongside that of fibre-optics maker Bookham Technology, which listed in April.Both stocks have proved that wary investors are more   willing to a pay a high price for shares in "infrastructure" style stocks that support the internet, telecommunications and personal computer markets rather than investing in e-commerce companies.Orchestream has developed a piece of software that is designed to ensure the reliable transmission of data along computer companies' networks and the internet, using the basic internet protocol (IP) technology that allows computers to communicate with each other over the net.Orchestream's software also allows the prioritising of data over the internet. The explosion in traffic has meant that IP transmissions have become errati c and slow, giving the software an edge over rivals.Orchestream raised &#163;49m through the issue of shares to institutions, which will own 37% of the company. Those funds will be used to expand the company's research and development and sales and marketing teams. Acquisitions and strategic alliances might also be considered.Ashley Ward, Orchestream's chief executive, said: "It's important that we begin to widen the gap between us and any competitor that might emerge in this market."He believes Orchestream has a 12-month lead on its competitors.The competitive threat to Orchestream is expected to emerge from industry heavyweights such as Cisco, Lucent and Nortel. They are expected to develop their own software and could then use their marketing muscle to ease the likes of Orchestream to one side. Mr Ward said he was "pleasantly surprised" at the company's strong listing.Orchestream had incurred a loss of &#163;2.6m at April 30, on revenues of &#163;411,000.Analysts expect its losses to leap to &#163;10m on sales of &#163;2.7m this year and turn to profit in 2002.The remainder of the company's share register will be split between management, owning 21% of the stock, chip maker Intel and Reuters holding 6%, and venture capital firms such as Atlas, Quester and Celtic House.Useful linksOrchestreamBookham Technology
FI Group, the software and computer services group, yesterday unveiled a strong rise in underlying profits over the past year and claimed that the computing business is finally recovering from its Y2K woes.The company said that its short term priority was to restore Druid Group - the rival consultancy it bought for &#163;763m in March - to acceptable profitability by the second half of the current year.Hilary Cropper, the chairman, indicated that FI was disappointed with the performance of Druid in the seven weeks since the takeover was completed. She blamed tough market conditions following the Y2K debacle and uncertainty among clients over internet-related investment.Ms Cropper said that because clients needed to make substantial changes to their systems for e-business, they were looking at their entire systems "rather than rushing ahead with implementation"   on a piecemeal basis. But "current client wins by Druid are encouraging," Ms Cropper said.Despite the problems with Druid - and having watched its share price underperform the FTSE software index by almost a third in the year to date - FI announced a pre-tax profit increase of 59% to &#163;27m for the year to April 30, before an amortisation charge of almost &#163;10m for Druid.Looking ahead, Ms Cropper spoke of "positive forward momentum," pointing in particular to a significant growth in large outsourcing contracts over recent months. She also made it clear that further international expansion is a real possibility in the next 12 months, with Germany and the Benelux countries identified as target areas for the next acquisition.The group reported annual turnover up 35% from &#163;228m to &#163;308m.Earnings per share fell to 3.91p from 5.80p but the final dividend is being increased to 2.7p. The shares nevertheless slipped 10p to 445p.Useful linksFI Group
Bank of Scotland is today expected to announce an agreement with IBM to outsource all its IT systems. The aim of the scheme is to save the bank millions of pounds a year.Under the terms of the alliance, the bank's technology staff are expected to be transferred to IBM's payroll. It will be the first deal of its kind for a leading British bank.Bank of Scotland refused to comment last night, but has said in the past that it would look for ways to keep costs under control through outsourcing.The arrangement is expected to give the bank scope to embark on a new strategy after failing to convince the market that it had potential for further growth after its failure to win control of NatWest.Among projects with which the Edinburgh-based bank has   been connected are a new joint venture with Easyjet, which is said to want to set up an Easymoney website to add to a stable of products including car hire and internet cafes.But the bank will be cautious about new joint ventures after being forced to abandon plans for a project with the American evangelist, Pat Robertson, when he made disparaging remarks about the Scots.The outsourcing arrangement was described last night as "huge" by banking sources. IBM is already working on an internet project for the rival HSBC."It allows Bank of Scotland to get on with banking and IBM to get on with the computing," was how one industry source described the deal.Arrangements of this kind are increasingly common in both public and private sector, but have not, until now, been used in British banking.Useful linksRoyal Bank of ScotlandIBM
However vehemently today's web enthusiasts proclaim that "content is king", I suspect very few have stopped to
    consider just what this stuff called content really is. If it's anything at all.Take any well-branded cereal, for instance - one of those packages of sugar-coated corn meal with a
    recognisable cartoon character mascot on the box. What's the content there: the cereal, or the cartoon
    character?Is the animal cartoon a communicator of the product's brand image, or is the food itself merely a medium
    through which the character is communicated? It's a tricky distinction. 
    When my father was growing up, bubblegum companies competed by offering free trading cards inside their
    packages. Little pieces cardboard with the images of baseball players proved the most successful, and soon
    children were buying whole packs of baseball cards with only a single stick of bubble gum.Today, baseball cards are sold without any bubblegum at all. Despite gum's textural attributes, baseball cards
    proved to be the "stickier" content. 
    Why? Because it provides a richer media experience. Not only can collectors look at pictures, but they can
    compare and analyse the statistics of each player as chronicled on the card's back.More importantly, this depth of data allows the card to serve as what I've started to call "social currency." While
    children can debate the merits of one brand of gum over another for only so long, they can talk endlessly about
    the players' whose cards they've collected, trade them, or even just peruse one another's collections.See, the cards aren't really ends in themselves; they are the basis for human interaction. Johnny got some new
    cards, so the other kids come over to see them after school. The cards are social currency.We think of a medium as the thing that delivers content. But the delivered content is a medium in itself. Content
    is just a medium for interaction between people. The many forms of content we collect and experience online, I'd
    argue, are really just forms of ammunition - something to have when the conversation goes quiet at work the
    next day; an excuse to start a discussion with that attractive person in the next cubicle: "Hey! Did you see that
    streaming video clip at streamingvideoclips.com?"Social currency is like a good joke. When a bunch of friends sit around and tell jokes, what are they really doing?
    Entertaining one another? Sure, for a start. But they are also using content - mostly unoriginal content that
    they've heard elsewhere - in order to lubricate a social occasion. And what are most of us doing when we listen
    to a joke? Trying to memorise it so that we can bring it somewhere else. The joke itself is social currency."Invite Harry. He tells good jokes. He's the life of the party."Think of this the next time you curse that onslaught of email jokes cluttering up your inbox. The senders think
    they've given you a gift, but all they really want is an excuse to interact with you. If the joke is good enough,
    this means the currency is valuable enough to earn them a response.That's why the most successful TV shows, web sites, and music recordings are generally the ones that offer the
    most valuable forms of social currency to their fans. Sometimes, like with mainstream media, the value is its
    universality.In the US right now, the quiz show Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?" is enjoying tremendous ratings because it
    gives its viewers something to talk about with one another the next day. It's a form of mass spectacle. And, not
    coincidentally, what is the object of the game? To demonstrate one's facility with a variety of forms of social
    currency!Contestants who can answer a long stream of questions about everything from sports and movies to science and
    history, are rewarded with a million dollars. They are social currency champions. Content on the web is no
    different. Sure, the internet allows people to post their own content or make their own web sites.But what do most people really do with this opportunity? They share the social currency they have collected
    through their lives, in the form of Brittney Spears fan sites or collections of illegally gathered MP3's of popular
    songs. The myth of the internet - and one I believed for a long time - is that most people really want to share
    the stories of their own lives.The fact that "content is king" proves that they don't. They need images, stories, ideas, and sounds through
    which they can relate to one another. The only difference between the internet and its media predecessors is
    that the user can collect and share social currency in the same environment. 
    Those of you who think you are creating online content, take note: your success will be directly dependent on
    your ability to create excuses for people to talk to one another. For the real measure of content's quality is its
    ability to serve as a medium.
Creating an accurate map of infinite, abstract cyberspace isn't the easiest task for cartographers.Cyberspace, of course, doesn't exist. It is, to paraphrase novelist William Gibson, a consensual hallucination of space and surface - our brains perceive space when we surf the net and communicate with other users around the planet, but what we perceive as space is actually binary code, buried in vast world-wide corridors of information."There's the screen, then that goes into the wire and then where is the rest of the internet? For most people it's just invisible. It's just under the road and in anonymous server rooms," says Martin Dodge, researcher at the Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis at University College London.For three years, Dodge has curated his own cyber atlas online atwww.cybergeography.org/atlas, a collection of maps of virtual space from a disparate group of researchers.Until recently, a lot of cybermapping has viewed computers as fixed points on a map, treating cyberspace as a tangible object anchored to the physical world by the networks and phone lines that form its backbone.But as the internet is moving away from the fixed to the fluid access model (the use of palm-top devices for internet access, for example), cybermappers are having to rethink the way virtual space is viewed.This is also changing our urban environments, the way we travel, the way we communicate, the way information is disseminated and the way we are targeted as consumers."The information landscape of the city is just as important as its transportation grid or housing stock, yet we understand very little about its actual shape and form," says Anthony Townsend, research scientist at Taub Urban Research Center, New York University. "Such understanding is likely to radically reshape the way we plan and accommodate future growth and change in urban areas."As fluid-access penetrates further into the market, the computers plugged into the phone lines will stop being our gateway into the net as we ourselves - just by carrying our mobile phones - become the entry points. Just how are we to think about and visualise cyberspace when it is a morphing entity, its shape constantly affected by millions of fluid-access users, all moving in different directions and accessing cyberspace at different times and for different   reasons? These questions pose some real problems for cyber mappers."In my mind it seems to be a real paradox," says Martin Dodge. "Fluid access in one way is the dream that geography and location doesn't matter now, but the question everybody asks you when they ring is 'where are you?'. And the whole Wap thing seems to be about giving geography back to you - look at local navigational devices. Geography doesn't matter, and yet when people use mobile phones geography seems to matter even more."In one sense, this could mean that cybermapping may move away from abstraction towards becoming a very organic discipline indeed - as people become the entry points to cyberspace, surely maps of cyberspace will use people as landmarks?"I see no technical reason why this is not possible," says Townsend. "The challenges come from summarising so much information in a visually   coherent way."And the nature of mobile devices means that mapping and tracking the individual is totally possible."It's a fantastic way to track people," agrees Dodge. "If you're monitoring cellphone communications you see how pedestrians move and how traffic flows and how they live their daily lives. Potentially that is fantastic data."The kind of data that details the daily routine of every net-connected individual would be invaluable to businesses and marketers. A chain sushi restaurant, looking to open a branch in central London for example, could look at an   animated cybermap of mobile internet users and pinpoint the location where most 19-25 A1 female office workers go for lunch.But this kind of information can also be a bad thing. "It's a huge invasion of privacy, potentially," says Martin Dodge. "The companies running the networks have valuable data - they've got your billing address, so they know your financial lifestyle and then they know your geographic lifestyle throughout the day. Huge implications. And I don't know if people are aware that is coming."It's a view shared by Townsend: "A number of firms that already operate wireless data networks routinely monitor their customer's location. In the US, the E911 service will require wireless operators to be able to pinpoint the location of a mobile within a hundred metres or so. There is no doubt that once the necessary technology to implement this service is   deployed, it will be used and resold by the wireless operator to third parties to target consumers based on their geographic location."Currently, mapping fluid-access cyberspace is still in its infancy. But the possibilities have been realised. It's only a matter of time before cartographers overcome the visual problems of mapping millions of people in flux and start creating crucial maps that aside from revolutionising marketing and commerce, will help us visualise and understand the way we live, interact and process information collectively.
When you pop into a supermarket and toss a bunch of bananas in your shopping trolley, it never crosses your mind how difficult it was to get them there in the first place.Bulk-buying bananas has traditionally been a long and painful process. Supermarket buyers have to sift through hefty catalogues, fax suppliers then negotiate the price face to face or over the phone. It can take months to place a big banana order. For years top supermarket executives have been muttering that the rotten system was more than ripe for a change.In a move to speed up such transactions, a number of business to business (B2B) services have been launched on the internet. The potential market is huge. The amount of produce traded annually across the world is estimated to be worth about $250bn and analysts are forecasting that at least 20% of this will be traded online by 2004.World of Fruit, launched in September 1999, now has 300 registered users in 25 countries. Its internet market place lets buyers of anything from oranges to pears compare prices from produce suppliers before placing orders. The site deals in euros and is pitched at major purchasers. Sellers pay the site a commission on their sales. With offices already in the UK, France, Spain, Italy and the Netherlands, World of Fruit plans to expand into the Americas, South Africa and Asia promoting the online market and offering customer support.Business development director, Francis Hackett says: "The internet is providing transparency and eliminating geographical boundaries. You put produce up on the site and it eliminates the need to phone or use the fax."Online business to business propositions, as opposed to business to consumer ones,   are exciting investors. In New York agencies are presenting e-commerce directors with the daily schedules of venture capitalists and tips on how to stalk them. Tactics have included paying actors to talk loudly about dot.coms on mobile phones in bars where venture capitalists usually like to hang out. If you have a strong B2B idea it's unlikely that you would have to resort to such desperate PR tactics.Richard Lord, who edits the digital business magazine, Revolution, believes the main attraction of business to business services on the web is that they are actually helping to consolidate fragmented offline markets. "The vast bulk of economic activity takes place between businesses. Most companies have a variety of different suppliers who they have been dealing with individually. If you can create a forum which puts all these business relationships in one place it becomes cheaper and more efficient to administer."Ventures such as World of Fruit have met resistance. Lord is not surprised. "If you have spent 20 or 30 years working in an industry it must be highly irritating to have a collection of 20 or 30 year olds come along and tell you that what you're doing is completely inefficient."At least two more major food-orientated services are expected to launch by Christmas. "It's the future," says the editor of the Grocer magazine, Clive Beddall. "It's the electronic version of the old trading floor."Beddall, who thinks canned fish such as tuna could be a highly profitable online sector, argues that the speed, convenience and the accuracy of the internet will gradually over haul the traditional grocery business methods. "It's just so convenient. You're able to go in so quickly without leaving your chair. There are one or two Luddites in the industry but they're a declining breed."GlobalNetXchange, the major B2B online marketplace for the retail industry, plans to give supermarkets access to suppliers of everything from food to condoms and chocolate. This $200bn internet venture is backed by Oracle and heavyweight chains around the world including Sainsbury's."We can see that the whole way people buy goods within the retail market is going to change," explains Sainsbury's group director for e-commerce, Patrick McHugh. Underlining the supermarket's eagerness to embrace the net, he points out that it will be putting 75% of its global purchasing through the exchange which amounts to about &#163;15bn.McHugh compares the GlobalNetXchange site to a giant yellow pages where buyers can congregate and browse suppliers by categories. To preserve confidentiality, there are closed areas for striking the deals. "When we find suppliers through the internet we go into normal commercial negotiations about price, delivery and quality through secure links."McHugh says Sainsbury's will still carry out offline checks on suppliers. "We send buyers around the world to look at bananas and pineapples. There is no way through that but we will be able to do it in a more informed way."Analysts wonder ifSainsbury'swill use its muscle simply to deal with the suppliers it always has done or whether it will use the site to create new business relationships. McHugh says the chain is strongly committed to finding new suppliers online. "I believe the internet will give us much, much more choice. It will make us more competitive in our own label products and will enable us to broaden our range." He believes that   B2B sites are not just convenient tools for buyers but can really assist suppliers too. Letting them reach a number of major buyers in one location so they can consolidate their orders.Old economy critics of the fledgling internet industry have tended to only focus on business to consumer propositions but in the fast-emerging, financially-attractive business to business arena,   the web is already starting to bear fruit.
If last week's 19% drop in the value ofAmazon.comtold internet retailers anything, it was that the market will no longer tolerate the business model that has so far dominated internet commerce.By far the net's largest consumer retailing operation with 20 million customers    and nearly $3bn dollars in annual revenue, Amazon's stock plunged after a number of prominent Wall Street analysts warned that the company's outlook was bleak. A credit analyst at Lehman Brothers called Amazon's credit "extremely weak and deteriorating" and said that the company, whose stock is   down 55 % so far this year and has never posted a profit, risks running out of cash by the middle of 2001.Though Amazon issued fierce denials that it is in any trouble and called Lehman comments "hogwash", the drop in its stock has sobered even the most bullish believers that all that matters in   internet business is to build brand and a strong consumer base while ignoring the necessity for actual profit.Against the background of recent e-commerce failures such asBoo.comandToysmart.com, it's no longer a secret that internet retailers are in big trouble. Stock prices have skidded, venture capital has dried up and the markets are shunning those who cannot demonstrate how they will be profitable soon.Earlier this week, for instance,Oxygen, the high-profile media company providing cable-channels and websites for women, said it was discontinuing its e-tailing sites and will not now carry inventory items as part of its service.To please testy investors, dot.coms are trying numerous tactics including employee layoffs, reconceptualising their businesses and raising advertising rates to show they can have a future in the black.But the biggest obstacle to profitability remains the practice of selling products beneath cost to lure new customers. That appears to be changing and instead of promoting discounts, net retailers are now bragging of price increases as a way of steadying the hands of nervous investors.Last Christmas, the luxury watch retailerAshford.comwas selling Tag Heuer watches at roughly 35% below their suggested retail price. Since then, the site has raised prices by more than 20%.This pattern is being repeated across net retailing. To the delight of bricks-and-mortar retailers, net companies are raising prices and curbing numerous internet bargains cherished by consumers. "The artificial pricing of 1999 is history," said Mark Goldstein, chief executive ofBluelight.com, the web arm of the US retailer Kmart.Against expectations, there are signs that consumers don't mind paying more so long as they get service and convenience to match. In a May survey, Jupiter Communications, the internet consulting firm, found that cyberspace customers were growing fractionally less price-sensitive. Some 73% of the 1,500 people who replied to the survey rated price as the most important factor in   their decisions to buy a product, but that was down from 80% two years earlier."Our research shows that people are clicking at the higher price range, because they will pay a premium for convenience - like being in stock now, or excellent customer service," Daniel Ciporin, president of Deal Time.com, a service that allows customers to compare web prices, told the New York Times.Other profit-boosting strategies include raising costs indirectly by increasing shipping and handling fees or reducing special offers, cutting back on discount coupons and free extras, while adding limits on who gets them. Starting next month, Amazon will raise the monthly fee it charges small businesses that sell through its zShops and Amazon auctions from $9.99 to $39.99.But many firms, including Amazon itself, are resisting the new strategy to raise prices on merchandise, preferring to concentrate on growth and rewarding repeat customers for their loyalty with added incentives.How far struggling web retailers can push prices remains to be seen. In the short term, things are likely to get tougher still. Next month, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, a US agency that sets accounting conventions, is expected to approve a new system whereby retailers calculate "gross profits".Many of the big etailers, including Amazon.com andeToys, list the costs of shipping and handling under their marketing budgets, a practice that inflates gross margins.If the board ends this practice and instead requires businesses to deduct these costs from the value of goods sold that could cause margins to drop to 10% from 20%. And that, of course, is only going to create additional pressure to raise prices.
BBC Tomorrow's World Live(in association with the Department for Education and Employment), Earls Court 2, London. Ticket hotline for individuals: 0870 739 9333. Bulk tickets for schools: 020 7433 0860 or email twle@brandevents. co.uk. Seewww.twle.co.uk.Until July 2Training Solutions &amp; The IT Training Show, NEC, Birmingham. To pre-register, call 01923 690685 July 4-6.GPRS &amp; EDGE conference, Le Meridien, London. IIR Conferences: Telephone 020-7915 5055 or send an email to gprs@iir-conferences.com or visit the websitewww.irr-conferences.com/gprs.July 4-7.Digital Music in the New Millennium, a discussion sponsored by Internet Freedom and S3. Institute of   Contemporary Arts, The Mall, London SW1. Box office: 020 7930 3647. Tickets cost &#163;10. July 5.NetMedia 2000conference for journalists and media managers, City University, Northampton Square, London EC1. Email conference@city.ac.uk or seewww.net-media.co.uk.July 6-7Internet IPO Forum, Royal Lancaster Hotel, London. For details visit the websitewww.internetipoforum.comJuly 6-7UKUUG Linux Developers' Conference, Imperial College, London. UK Unix User Group: go towww.ukuug.org/events/linux2000/or call 01763 273475 July 7-9Incubation:the trAce Conference on Writing and the Internet, Nottingham Trent University, Nottingham. trAce: 0115 9486360 or seehttp://trace.ntu.ac.uk/incubation/. The event includes an appearance by Stelarc, a performance artist. See alsowww.stelarc.va.com.au. July 10-12ASP European Summit, The Okura Hotel, Amsterdam. IIR Conferences: 020-   7915 5055 or email asp@i ir-conferences.com or seewww.asp-summit.com.July 10-13Talent Match, La Scala, London, for new new media and computing graduates. Seewww.nmk.co.uk/match.cfm.July 12Spreadsheet Risks Symposium, the first conference of the European Spreadsheet Risk Interest Group (EuSpRIG), University of Greenwich, London. Go towww.gre.ac.uk/~cd02/EUSPRIG/July 17-18Macworld New York, Jacob K Javits Convention Centre, New York. Seewww.macworldexpo.com/mwny2000July 18-21Siggraph 2000computer graphics and animation exhibition, Ernest N Morial Convention Centre, New Orleans. Seewww.siggraph.org/s2000.July 23-28EVA 2000: Scotland, the 11th annual conference on electronic imaging and the visual arts, Abden House, Edinburgh. Vasari UK: 01252-653049 or emailjamesrhemsley@cix.co.ukor seewww.vasari.co.uk.July 26-29
Indulge in Dark pleasuresPerfect DarkNintendo 64 &#163;49.99 (&#163;69.98 with Expansion Pak) Rare/Nintendo *****The three-year wait ends tomorrow with the arrival of Nintendo's Christmas '99 blockbuster, hyped as the greatest console game of all time. The problem is that, given the build-up, almost anything would be an anti-climax.Happily, Perfect Dark does not disappoint. At least, people who played Rare's earlier first-person shooter, Goldeneye 007, should find they are able to move seamlessly into this very similar but bloodier world.Which is not to say that Goldeneye players have seen it all before. Perfect Dark (rated 18 for violence) has   new missions, new weapons, new enemy behaviours, and probably the fastest, most detailed, and most responsive 3D graphics that will ever grace Nintendo's ageing console. The sound effects and atmospheric background music are excellent as well.You play the 22 year old Joanna "Perfect" Dark - a nickname acquired from your excellence in training - on your first mission. For starters, how about penetrating the inner sanctums of the dataDyne Corporation and rescuing the stock scientist, Dr Carroll. To play the solo version, however, you need the N64 Expansion Pak (&#163;19.99), which adds to the steep price of the game cartridge (&#163;49.99).The one-player game is a challenge that will keep most players coming back for some time, and can be completed on three skill levels: Agent, Secret Agent, and Perfect Agent. If you need help, you can play co-operatively with a friend.But what provides Perfect   Dark's ultimate longevity is the multiplayer combat. Up to four players can shoot it out in deathmatch mode, with or without simulants (computer-controlled players), which to some extent make up for the limited number of players compared with network games such as Quake III Arena. There are lots of options, including player teams and humans v simulants.Perfect Dark has lots of incidental delights it would be nice to take into other   games - the floating CamSpy, for example, the night vision goggles and some of the weapons' zooming sights. It should certainly boost Nintendo's profits for a while, the problem being that players who've now stopped waiting for Perfect Dark may not want to wait much longer for a better games console to replace the N64, such as Nintendo's Dolphin.  (JS)And now for something really sillyBishi BashiPlayStation &#163;29.99 Konami ***No, it's not a juvenile description of English fans abroad, but rather a mix of insane mini-games that, once again, makes you thankful for Japanese cultural exports.Bishi Bashi is actually a compilation of two games, Hyper and Super Bashi, both of which are hugely popular in their homeland.For your money you get 94 games that test everything from your reflexes to your rhythm, with a few simple brainteasers thrown in. The only common denominator is over-imagination and possibly some dubious substances added to the developers' coffee.For example, one game sees a bride and groom competing in wedding cake shot-  put with the congregation as the target, while in Perm Mania your dancefloor performances are rewarded by an ever-growing Afro haircut.Block-moving puzzles and even basic mathematics appear in some of the less frantic episodes but be under no illusions - this is manic stuff with little time to recover between the 30-second rounds.The drawbacks are few and minor. Playing by yourself is simply not an option while graphically the game wouldn't stretch a ZX Spectrum. But garish visuals matter little in the heat of competition, with the game coming into its own in a party.Serious strategy players may scoff at the sheer triviality of the game but they are just missing the point.Bishi Bashi is superbly demented nonsense and proof that whatever our cultural differences we all love playing Martian pinball while feeding coloured beans to short bearded men.Don't we?  (GH)No more heroes any moreHeroes of Might &amp; Magic 3: The Shadow of DeathPC CD-rom &#163;29.99 New World Computing/3DO  	 ***Also known as Heroes of Might &amp; Magic 3.3 - yes, it's the second sequel to a second sequel. This should come as no surprise, since the Heroes series is a thoroughly enjoyable, highly successful sword 'n' sorcery strategy game; in milking-cows-dry terms, it's no worse than, say, Civilisation or Command &amp; Conquer.The capital offence here is that not enough has changed. Like its predecessors, Shadow of Death puts you in control of a town and a hero. You must explore your suroundings, accumulate resources, then build up enough forces to remove whoever happens to be marauding at the time.All that's different is seven new single-player campaigns, a few more single-player scenarios, and a slight tweak to   gameplay in the shape of combination artifacts. The graphics are unchanged (that is to say, cute, functional, nothing special) and the soundtrack still sashays between the inspiring and the annoying.Well, we've all seen missions disks passed off as new games before. What's harder to forgive in Shadow of Death is the way 3D0 has failed to address the series' longstanding gameplay problems: the fact that armies can't walk past each other, even if they're on the same side; the fact that, when you're standing immediately outside a structure, you have to take a step back and a step forward to enter it, thus using up vital movement points; the way teleporters dump you in different places according to how they're feeling; and the skewiff game balance that all too often leaves your "heroes" functioning as delivery boys.Heroes 3 is a great game. If you like strategy games and haven't already got it, this version, as the most up to date, is the one to buy. To existing players, however, it's going to seem like a fast-buck, slapdash money-grabber and will probably be treated as such.  (AB)
Play to winAre you 15 or older and hot stuff with a console game controller? If so you could win &#163;1,000 and 15 minutes of fame in Gameplay's first UK   Console Championships. Four regional heats, starting in Cardiff on August 5, will lead to finals at the Live 2000 exhibition in London on September 23.The championships will be based on the most popular games on the Sony PlayStation, Nintendo 64 and Sega Dreamcast: Gran Turismo 2, Goldeneye 007 and Soul Calibur. There is a deposit of &#163;10 to enter but that's refunded if you turn up at the venue. For details, seewww.ukconsolechamps.comor call 020 7388 0004 and ask for the UK Console Championships.Chicken RunSo far, Nick Park's Chicken Run is an animated movie, a website and a media phenomenon. By the end of the year, it should also be a videogame. Eidos Interactive has secured the worldwide publishing rights for the PC and Sony PlayStation. Blitz Games, founded as Interactive Studios by the Olliver twins, is writing the code. Peter Lord and Nick Park, creators and co-directors of Chicken Run at Aardman Animations, say: "We are very excited to see our characters developed for these platforms, it's another   step forward for chickens and for the studio." Since the average game-of-the-film is usually dire, let's hope they're not disappointed.PD for GBCPerfect Dark may be out for the Nintendo 64 games console (UK sales start tomorrow) but there's also a version on the way for Nintendo's Game Boy Color handheld. It's clearly not going to be the same game, but apparently the GBC cartridge will be able to exchange data with its bigger sibling. The expected street date is   August 18. TOCA Touring Car and Tiger Woods games are also in development for the Game Boy Color.Get unstuffedBizarre Creations is living up to its name with Fur Fighters, a shooter that Acclaim will release tomorrow for the Sega Dreamcast. The idea is pretty simple: furry toys toting some serious firepower. The concept and the   cartoon graphics allow Bizarre to have some unadulterated, and sometimes adult-oriented, fun. Although Dreamcast owners get first chance to knock the stuffing out of General Viggio - literally - a PC version is expected in September.
Not only BT and the cable companies are getting their knickers in a twist over high-speed internet access for the home.Earlier this week, BT said the long delayed ADSL would be delayed for even longer -until September. It blamed technical problems which appeared in trials, and said it needs more time to ensure a high enough quality service.But these trial tribulations did not stop research company JD Power and Associates announcing on Monday that 22% of British internet users already have high-speed internet access at home, via a cable modem or DSL line.That would suggest more than 2 million lucky souls are already zooming around cyberspace at the end of a high-speed line - a highly unlikely figure, given BT's technical problems and the fact that NTL, the biggest UK cable company, is still rolling out its high-speed internet services, with many densely-populated areas still not served.Even when the roll-out is finished, NTL says it plans to limit the size of the first wave of subscribers to its service.Online called rival research company IDG, who assured   us that the number of domestic broadband users at the end of 1999 was... er, nil.Things will get better, but not by much: it predicts a rather puny 114,000 consumer DSL/cable subscribers by the end of this year, a little over 1% of the UK's existing home internet users.Questioned, JD Power initially stuck by the figures in its "inaugural UK Residential ISP Customer Satisfaction Survey", which also named Demon Internet tops for customer satisfaction."We have researched other sources and these numbers are indicative of the internet market in the UK," said   US-based spokesman Peter Dresch. He did not add which other figures those were.But, on Tuesday, Dresch called back: JD Power was retreating. While 22% of respondents thought they had high-speed cable internet the respondents might, he admitted, be mistaken.The survey appeared to show that many users think they have high-speed internet access, when they might have only normal dial-up access from their cable operator.All of which begs the question: what percentage of oft-quoted net statistics is based on users' misconceptions?
Forget piles of CDs and DVDs taking up valuable shelf space in the living room. If the big electronics firms have their way, future generations of music and movie lovers are just as likely to access their favourite sounds and scenes from an intelligent home server.And, with the advent of broadband phone and cable connections, capable of bringing large amounts of data into your home quickly, music and film buffs could soon be able to have that entertainment pumped down the line, without a carefully catalogued CD jewel case or video box in sight.A British pioneer of this technology has just launched the UK's first-ever intelligent sound server for the consumer market. Cambridge-based Imerge's SoundServer has a 19Gb hard drive for compressing the equivalent of around 200 CDs in the MP3 format. It can supply 16 different soundtracks to different zones or rooms in your home, and the technology has already been licensed to several hi-fi firms including Linn, B&amp;W and Living Control.The device does away with many of the conventional accoutrements of music buying and playing. There is no trip to the local record store: music can be downloaded directly from the internet, although audio CDs can be put onto the server by the user.Those carefully crafted CD and album covers go by the wayside too, at least in a physical form: the server uses its built in modem to link up with theCD Database websiteto download track names, which can be accessed using a handheld device. A TV screen can be used if you want to appreciate the original album artwork.Even that mark of the real music obsessive - the carefully ordered and catalogued music collection - will be lost. The server will allow you to type the name of the artist you want to listen to, even play tracks with a particular word in the title.Imerge's XIVA software even allows the user to program music according to tempo (beats per minute), genre or date recorded. For example, you could program the server to play slow, romantic music in the dining room for a dinner party and hard rock in a kid's bedroom   upstairs. Neither are these technological advances confined to audio. Similar server-based products are expected which could spell the end of the humble video tape. Digital satellite broadcaster SkyDigital and American manufacturer TiVo recently formed an alliance to introduce a home video server, or personal video recorder (PVR), into the UK this autumn.Capable of capturing around 30 hours of programmes on a 30Gb hard drive, this VCR sized device is expected to cost around &#163;400 on launch.As well as doing everything your video does, it also automatically records TV programmes that may be of interest to the viewer. It works by capturing textual information, known as "meta data", from a TV programme which is then processed by a number of virtual "jurors" - autonomous agents that are specialists in a particular field of the user's tastes.Each of these agents gives a result about the programme   using a number between 0 and 100, then a separate "umpire" agent considers these results before deciding which of the programmes to record.The end result is that if, for example, you are a sports nut, the TiVo box will run off and record all the sports programmes it can find over a given time period, allowing you to sit back and watch them when you want.Future generations of the Sky/TiVo-based product, under development at Philips' Research Laboratories in Surrey, will also integrate home network facilities to stream around your home to MP3 players, TV monitors and home shopping devices.Meanwhile, ADSL and fibre-optic cable operators are also working on video on demand and music on demand services from a central server.So will the arrival of the home or the central server, combined with the added threat of MP3, herald the   death of today's CD, video tape and even DVD?Fionnuala Duggan, EMI's vice president new media Europe and international thinks not - at least in the foreseeable future. "I don't think that one format will truly replace another, just that the options the consumer has will be increased."Go back five years and the only option was to turn the radio on or go into the shop and buy the CD, cassette or record."The choice will continue to explode, not just in formats, but in devices to play them back on. Several big manufacturers are launching solid-state audio players which offer faster download times and increased storage capacity. Expected in the UK before Christmas month is Panasonic's SD (Secure Digital) Audio player - a device that can be worn around the neck like a pendant or even on the wrist like a watch. Already out is Sony's Memory Stick Walkman.Traditional retailers are also beginning to respond to the shift from physical to online distribution of music.Earlier this year Virgin Entertainment introduced kiosks in its north American Megastores where customers can search online catalogues and download music directly to SDMI (Secure Digital Music Initiative) compliant Diamond Rio players. Similar moves are also afoot for the UK.Like HMV, Virgin is beginning to introduce CD burning in its stores: customers can choose tracks from a library of 70,000 tracks - all held on a central server in the store. Once copyright issues are sorted out it will also offer MP3 downloads to SDMI portables via its instore kiosks.Chris Hartley, Virgin Megastores' business development manager, says bricks and mortar retailers are well positioned to take advantage of new music distribution."For those who don't have their own credit cards or are unsure about buying online, instore kiosks offer the perfect solution," he says.Although he sees a time when tangible media disappears altogether, he believes it won't be for a long time yet. "CDs are a collectable item. People want all the artwork and sleeve notes so they can find out just who it was who played guitar on track three!"Recording the future2000:Launch of home audio and video servers capable of storing up to 30Gb, enough for around 300 CDs or up to 30 hours of VHS quality digital video. Second generation SDMI-compatible MP3 players with around 64Mb capacity introduced.2001:Home based servers that can capture digital audio and video then send it by radio to portable devices such as handheld MP3 players.2002:Widespread broad band delivery via ADSL and fibre-optic cables provides "always-on" connection for music and video streaming - music on demand (MOD) and full video on demand (VOD).2003Panasonic predicts arrival of first 1Gb portable SD players that can store around one hour of digital video. Philips plans to introduce its Connected Pl@net devices - voice-activated mobile phones capable of displaying video images and downloading songs.
It's breakfast time in London and I've just logged in to the Excite! Over-50s Chat Room where Lusty_Lucy and TallTexan have been at it for some time.Lusty_Lucy: How about you Tall Texan have you had any body-piercing done?Tall Texan: One or two.Lusty_Lucy: Let me guess where Tex.Yes, I'm a silver surfer (netspeak for anyone over 45 who can work the mouse). When I first became a senior netizen in January I didn't quite know what to expect, but my 12 year old clicked onto a link called Kids and I assumed there would be something similar for me: Crinklies, perhaps, with links to www.beigewindcheaters orvaricoseveins.com. I certainly didn't expect Body-Piercing With Tex and Lucy, or the chance to share my rather meagre experience of it with people old enough to remember roll-ons and Doris Day, with folk called Labialover, LustyPants, 40buxom, InUniform and EAPoe, who is coming to us live from Sheffield and is, frankly, out of his mind.EAPoe: You might wake up one morning to the sound of something racing by you in the wind. Do not be alarmed it will not harm you.LustyPants: SUCK MY PLUMS!!!!Reflecting that perhaps the name should be changed to Over-Excited 50s Chat, I logged in to MSN Search and typed: Over-50s. Four results came up. The first, Crusties: A Community For The Over-Fifties; so far, alas, only a Community Of One. I also passed on Sexually Inclined 30s-50s (UK) Non-Geeks, though this might be one for LustyPants to bookmark.Having been born and raised near Woodford, I was fleetingly tempted by The Prudence Family And Friends (An Opportunity To Keep In Touch With The Woodford, Essex Community Of The 50s And 60s) then remembered all the reasons why I got out of there in the first place.Romance And Friendship for Over 50s In the Millennium (Talk Frankly About Any Subject As Long As It Does Not Offend Anyone) had a member list of 25, including two new silver surfers that week. I logged in but the chat room was empty. Were they some place else where they could be as offensive as they want?The sensible end of middle-aged net life is occupied by Vavo, "the online community aimed exclusively at the O-45s". I signed up straight away, being very taken with a link "Say It With A Vavo e-cardi". Here, I thought, was an outfit   with its finger on the pulse of what really mattered to the generation who wore flares first time around. I then realised that my over-45 eyesight had misread "Say it with a Vavo e-card".Vavo's chat room may be a by-word for Middle Britain decorum (LustyPants would receive a very prompt e-redcard) but in the words of its online editor Pat Gerber: "Romance definitely comes into play on how this age group uses the net, which would figure, considering the divorce rate in the 45-50 category". Two romances have already blossomed via its chat room, including one between a UK and a USA user. Clearly, we're just as sex-obsessed and romantic as anyone else and on the net you don't have to worry about harsh lighting.Otherwise, it is no more possible to pigeonhole the middle-aged into sites than it is to catalogue the sea. Once we have learned how to use the thing (try the free Getting Online course in Internet, HTML code and web design atwww.idea.org.uk/, not specifically for older users but very Luddite- and technophobe-friendly) our interests are as eclectic as those of any other age group.An e-friend, Albert, is proud, at 59, to be the oldest member of the Watford FC fans online mailing list. My hobby, running,    is shared by people from teens to eighties, though I recommendwww.Waddleon.comfor those whose athletic enthusiasm outstrips their talent. But as another e-friend, Geoff, commented, one of the most empowering aspects of the net is that you can be whatever age you like at the keyboard.On the issues that increasingly concern us the more miles we clock up on the tripmeter of time, such as life-threatening symptoms, the names of all the ancestors we're going to meet in the next world, and finding out whether vengeance lay in store for the schoolmate who stuck your head down the toilet and pulled the chain, the net serves us as well or as badly as anyone else. There is a vast number of sites for medical matters, genealogy and class reunions, of which some are excellent and others dreck.Paul, a 63 year old bishop, has an unusual surname which onwww.worldwidenames.comhe managed to trace back to a 12th century Benedictine monk, one who clearly did not embrace celibacy. Bernard, now a departmental head at Manchester Metropolitan University, used Big Foot on the web to track down an American fellow-student of the late sixties, and from there to organise an across-the-pond reunion with friends not seen for 30 years.And now if you'll excuse me I must get back online and find out what EAPoe's been taking. I don't think it's Wincarnis. Though having said that, a search for Wincarnis revealed 26 entries, including Old Time Christmas in Jamaica, Monsieur Henri Wine Company New Orleans, and, bizarrely, 1992 Sire Standings. Perhaps EAPoe knows something I don't.
Security fearI became concerned recently about some mysterious charges on my credit card bill made by a US firm calledCCBILL. I was appalled to discover on checking with them that the fraudster who had been using my credit card details had been able to join numerous "adult" web sites while managing to mistype my name (NOLBE instead of NOBLE) and give a fictitious address and post code that bore no resemblance to the billing address for my card (no, I tell a lie, it had UK in it).This does not give me a warm secure feeling about doing further business on the web.  Surely these firms are supposed to do more that simply verify the number on the card?Iain NobleEmail address suppliedNo doubtsI found the review of the Sony Memory Stick Walkman (Online, June 22) by Jack Schofield very annoying. He seemed intent from the start on "downing" the device. I can't see why he wants to do this. This is one of the best pieces of equipment that Sony has released.First he compares it to several other portable music devices, one of which is a standard Walkman. How can we compare an analogue device to one which is 100% digital? It would be like comparing vinyl to a CD... there's no contest.I agree that you don't get much bass from the MS7 - but is that the only reason for buying such a device? If Schofield wants his eardrums perforated by bass that's fine, but if he wants a stylish, portable music device, he should reconsider.On to the issue of sound quality. I have listened to the MS7 through some very expensive Linn speakers, and also through my home-cinema setup and I can't question the quality. While it is not CD-quality, it is far   superior to a standard recording on audio cassette. If Schofield had used a higher bit-rate for his initial MP3 track instead of 192kbps, he would have found a better conversion to ATRAC3. I always try to get my MP3s as high as possible - say 320kbps.What he also fails to mention is that being a solid state device, the Memory Stick won't skip tracks no matter how hard you shake it about_Oh, I can hear my Discman skipping right now!I for one was very pleased at being one of the first to buy this machine, and have no regrets about doing so.George Blocksidgegeorge@peem.demon.co.ukPiracy's costI was very distressed by your correspondent Simon Pearce's letter (Online, June 22). He sees nothing wrong with replacing worn-out tracks on vinyl discs by downloading free from the net.Would he expect to take a new vacuum cleaner from a shop without payment because he had already bought one that was now worn out? The situation is exactly parallel.People don't realise that it can often cost thousands of pounds to produce a modern CD, which can involve as many as 200 professional people - musicians, technicians, designers etc. This is their livelihood, not a hobby.If everybody had your correspondent's attitude, eventually, no more recordings could be made as the necessary human, technical and financial resources would cease to exist.Roy Emersonroy@emersonrec.fsnet.co.ukNo venuesRichard Walley's suggestion that MP3 will mean that musicians earn a living by playing live (Online, June 22) might have some validity if the opportunities to gig were not decreasing through the closure of so many music venues.Rod Rayrod@backtobase.demon.co.ukBug sourcePeter Rockett blames cheap hardware for crashes that people experience with Microsoft systems (Online, June 8).As a computer user/ software designer/database   designer/mathematician, who has 30 years experience in research, manufacturing and finance, I have every sympathy with anyone who struggles with Microsoft products.The best comment I have heard regarding Windows operating systems is that to buy and use them is like buying a car with the bonnet welded shut.Compared to Open VMS, Unix or Linux, Windows by any name is an operating system that is concerned only with the bottom line, despite the fact that NT was developed by the very people who were responsible for the most powerful and reliable operating system in the world - namely VMS.I have had to use Windows 95/98/NT on Dell/Time/ Compaq PCs and I know from bitter experience the problems inherent in Microsoft products if one wishes to do anything of a non-standard nature. Non-standard by MS thinking, that is.(You can do anything in a Windows environment - provided that it's what Microsoft tells you that you can do!)Dave Robertsdavid@dmroberts.greatxscape.netSavvy no moreYour article The Star of Search Engines (Online, June 22) reminded me, sadly, that my all time favourite search engine SavvySearch has been bought out and apparently squashed bySearch.com.SavvySearch was a metasearch engine originally developed by Colorado State University that simply worked brilliantly - particularly when checking the phrase checkbox.Typically, 10 to 15 listings would be found, with most being relevant. For instance, a search of the parliamentary website was far easier than using the site's own search tools, which do not permit phrase searches.Now anyone selecting SavvySearch gets diverted to Search.com, which is much slower to access and respond and doesn't seem to find relevant hits in the same way - significantly it has no Phrase checkbox.As Wayne Trzyna, one of the original developers wrote back to me: "I believe search.com bought SavvySearch. I too was sorry to see it go."Peter Lennardpeter@hands.free-online.co.uk
Driving down information superhighwayA breakthrough in Japan has put the car a step closer to becoming a truly useful movable tool for work and entertainment.Scientists at the government sponsored Communications Research Lab in Yokusuka near Tokyo claim to have successfully transmitted data at 10 megabytes per second to a moving vehicle, the broadcast equivalent of using optical fibre.Smart, or "wired" cars could be connected remotely in real time to a network providing a huge amount of information available to the driver, including route planers, maps and even information on local restaurants - all displayed on screen or spoken by the on-board computer.It would also make Intelligent Transport Systems (automated driving, for example) a practicality."Achieving a 10 Mbps data rate for moving vehicle is a challenging task, essential for future mobile communications systems beyond existing ITS," said project director Toshio Ihara.Roadside-to-vehicle communication technology is seen as the huge emerging mobile market with electronic and motor companies pouring millions into transforming the car into a mobile office or family amusement centre."Once you put a mobility link into a car there's a whole bunch of interesting things a car can use it for," said Ken Blakeslee chairman of the Mobile Data Association.Music to your earsSanyo has launched an all-in-one headphone-cum-audio player that uses a stamp-sized multimedia card to store audio files transferred from a PC.Available from July 1 in Japan, the lightweight player will retail for about &#163;200 when it debuts in the UK later this year.Weighing in at 134 grams, the SSP-HP7 can store and record 60 minutes of music and can play for about 10 consecutive hours on two AAA alkaline batteries.Music can be downloaded from the internet, including MP3 and AAC files, to the headphone's 32MB MultiMediaCard (MMC) via a PC   running Windows software and equipped with a USB interface. It plans to add compatibility with ATRAC3 and other compression systems to the model later, a spokesman said.Sanyo claims its new headphones will respect music copyrights by protecting the copyright of audio data using protection software SP3 from Liquid Audio. The technology prevents rewriting of any data recorded on the MMC and copying of such data to other personal computers.Japanese users will also be able to download tracks from the company's Music Sanyo audio data delivery site that features a prepaid settlement service called WebMoney. The company did not say if the service will be extended abroad.  (MF)Handheld from SonySony has unviled a prototype of a new Palm-like gadget which will be the Japanese company's first move in the fast-growing handheld   computer market.As Online went to press, details of the new device were scant. However, according to the Wall Street Journal it will weigh 148.4 grams, be narrower than the Palm V and thinner than the Palm III.Both colour and black and white versions of the machine will be available, and they will all feature slots for Sony's MemoryStick technology.The company is also said to be considering adding video and audio capability.One thing the new devices will not include, surprisingly, is wireless connectivity to the internet, although peripherals should be available to provide that.Sony's entry to the market is significant: its marketing and technological muscle will add fresh competition to a rapidly growing market.There is already an intriguing battle developing between runaway market leader Palm, which has a 76% share, and Microsoft's Pocket PC brand, which has around 10%.Microsoft told the Wall Street Journal this week that it welcomed Sony's arrival in the market. "We can't wait to see   what Sony comes out with," said Phil Holden, group product manager of mobile devices at Microsoft. "We love competition."  (NM)ThinkPad now a thin padThere should be a ready market for a thin (25mm), light (1.3kg) notebook PC with a battery life of about eight hours, and IBM hopes to add that type of machine to its ThinkPad line by the end of the year.It showed prototypes at the PC Expo exhibition in New York this week. The system is the familiar ThinkPad 240 with its Intel processor swapped for a Transmeta Corporation Crusoe chip, a new design that requires little power. Emulation software enables the chip to run Microsoft Windows and other operating systems, including GNU/Linux - which is not a coincidence, because Transmeta's main claim to fame so far has been that Linus Torvalds, keeper of the Linux operating system kernel, works for the company.Other PC manufacturers are known to be working with Transmeta chips in their labs, but IBM has ThinkPads with trial customers. Gateway has also ordered 100,000 Transmeta chips for use in a Linux-based "internet appliance" produced for America Online, and will use it in a thinkpadlike wireless system to be launched next year.Last year, when the US government filed an anti-trust suit against Intel for abusing its monopoly power and bullying three of its customers, the Federal Trade Commission argued that Transmeta and similar firms "exert no competitive influence on Intel".Mobile theatreToshiba, which claims to have invented the concept of "home cinema", has announced a small, portable projector that could also appeal to PC and Mac users, and game players.The MT1 (Mobile Theatre Projector) is roughly the size of a notebook PC but can project an image with a 250in diagonal, more than four times as big as the UK's largest domestic TV set.And while you probably don't have a screen suitable for a 5.1m x 3.8m picture, Toshiba claims the image is so bright that you can use the living room wall (always assuming magnolia triumphed over designs more suited to Changing Rooms).The MT1 can be connected to a DVD player, a VCR, a personal computer, and a hi-fi system to provide good quality sound.Palm to go SDPalm Inc, still mostly owned by 3Com, plans to introduce an SD (Secure Digital) expansion slot in a new machine to be launched early next year.SD was developed by SanDisk in California with Toshiba and Matsushita, and about 60 companies have adopted it.The slot should also allow the use of Bluetooth wireless modules and other accessories.Palm has been criticised for the limited expansion capabilities of its handhelds, and companies licensing the Palm operating system have fixed it in various ways: Visor added its own Springboard expansion slot, Sony is using its own Memory Stick technology, and TRG adopted the standard CompactFlash slot. This gives customers more technology choices but increases costs for peripheral suppliers who want to cater for more than one device.  (JS)
You say in your book that machines will be able to "perceive" as well as remember and communicate. When?In principle they "perceive" now, in the sense that they have a mass of cells (neurons) which, as in certain parts of the brain, "fire" in patterns that are pretty much like the world which the "eyes" of the machine are sensing. We call this "depiction". When the machine is using its eyes, the depiction is accurate and allows movement or actions in the world to deal with the objects perceived. If the machine closes its eyes, it can, in a slightly fuzzy way, imagine worlds that it has sensed, and in this way plan its actions without actually taking them. These properties are in a totally embryonic state on our machines, but it should not take more than five or six years for this technology to become commonplace.Will their success diminish the economic importance of human brains?Artificial perceptual systems are there to extend and enhance the economic importance of the human mind. They make machinery more compatible with, and therefore more useful, to human brains. The more we work with virtual brains and their attendant virtual minds, the more we stand back in awe of the real thing. What we learn is how the fabric of the brain supports mind - a vital element in the understanding of mental disorders so that human brains can maintain their economic importance as long as possible.Will the internet be able to prolong people's conscious lives?The internet is there for human brains to communicate. However, as an aid to this communication, software agents could be created with artificial perceptual systems. They would act as good messengers between humans and computers. Sadly they will not be able to prolong life, but might help in old age where they could remind one of things that had been forgotten.Will there still be a role for God?Concepts of God are not likely to be shifted by technological progress. The link between minds and God is largely a cultural one in the sense that Aristotle saw thinking as being the activity of a mortal that would get him or her as close to divinity as possible. The presence of a machine with a mind does not deny the belief that a real human mind is divinely endowed.How do you use the internet in your daily work?The speed with which I can find people working in interesting fields and get in touch with them is revolutionising the way I do the groundwork for my research ( http://wos.mimas.ac.uk/ ). Specialist sites such as the Neuroguide are useful (www.neuroguide.com/). I also use email, order books ( amazon.com ), check railway (www.rail.co.uk/) and airline timetables ( travelstore.com ) on the net.What are your favourite web sites?www.FT.com,www.newscientist.com,www.bbc.co.uk,The London Symphony OrchestraandReal Player.&#149;   Professor Alexsander's new book, How To Build A Mind (Weidenfeld &amp; Nicolson, &#163;14.99) is published today
This is a turning point. Today, half the people on the internet are American. By 2004 it will only be a third, according to Barry Parr, a senior analyst at the San Francisco-based International Data Corporation, and two-thirds of all internet spending will then be outside the United States."Because nearly 80% of Americans will be online, there is simply more opportunity for growth outside the US," he says.Cisco - also from San Francisco - supplies most of the communications equipment that runs the net, and its television advertisements show it knows what's going on. The ads present a series of children from around the world asking the same question: "Are you ready?"They aren't. In fact, IDC's research shows that more than half the US sites surveyed are doing nothing to internationalise their sites, and this could threaten their future. Another American company, Forrester Research, says leading American websites now turn away almost half of the orders that originate outside the US, and that three-quarters of the sites aren't designed to handle non-US addresses or work   out shipping costs."Businesses that don't begin preparing today could find themselves outflanked by their more internationally-oriented competitors," Parr argues.Of course, some are already well advanced.Yahoo!, theMicrosoft Network (MSN)and a few others have been globalising their businesses for three or four years. As a result they are among the top five sites visited by home users in many different countries, judged by the number of unique visitors per month, according to Media Metrix, an audience measurement company based in New York. In its first multi-country survey, released this month, MSN took the top spot in Australia and Canada while Yahoo! came top in the UK and Japan.But local websites are also appearing at or very near the top of the charts: examples includeFreeservein the UK,   T-Online in Germany, Wanadoo in France, and AtNifty in Japan. Both Yahoo! and MSN are competing by making their local offerings as local as possible, and Yahoo! now also has operations in 20 countries including Brazil, China, Denmark, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Norway, Singapore and Taiwan.Jerry Yang, a co-founder of Yahoo! and himself born in Taiwan, says: "Our goal is get local when the growth starts to happen, and in Western Europe we think it's going to happen in the next year. It's already happening in Japan, where we have a 100% Japanese site. I would say it's probably the most important corporate priority for us to be truly global, but to do it in a way that allows local control of content, the product, and the flavour and culture. It's tough to do. Most media companies aren't that local. It's exciting and daunting at the same time."My belief is that, probably not too far in the future, very few people will care about American content, they will only care about local content. This is not like Disney movies. I think delivering internet communications, content and services is about creating somewhere where   you belong, which is primarily something that's in your neighbourhood, not in California. Just having local content is not enough, right? But if you don't have a rich offering that's part of people's lives 24 hours a day - which is extremely local - then I don't think you'll be successful.""Everybody talks about it, very few people really do it," says Dan Pelson, president and chief executive of Bolt, which is based in New York and has just opened a UK site. He has even coined a term for it: "glocalisation". But Pelson reckons that, in the long term, the global market for Bolt's chat sites, targeted at teens aged 15-20, is huge. "Just think," he exclaims: "40% of India will be under 20. There will be more people in our demographic than there are people in the US!"India, China and other massive populations may be slow to come on to the net, but usage is already exploding in Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. These are countries with young populations, and they are also centres of PC production, where people can easily assemble their own machines from parts.In South Korea, for example, the number of internet users leapt from 3.4 million in    February 1999 to 15.3 million in May 2000, according to Korea's Network Information Centre, KRNIC ( http://stat.nic. or.kr/english/public_html/iuser. html ). With a third of the population online, Korea went to the top of Network Solutions' monthly chart for new dot.com name registrations outside the US, and Seoul was the top city ahead of Hong Kong and London (www.nsol.com/statistics). When I was there, I saw more website addresses prominently displayed in tube and television advertisements and shop windows than in either Singapore or London.But the globalisation of the internet brings with it a problem that was amusingly highlighted by Professor Nicholas Negroponte, founder and director of the MIT Media Lab, at an IDC conference in Paris last September. "One day we're going to wake up and say, 'Oh my god, I didn't realise that Spanish was the second biggest language on the internet... after Chinese'."Today, most people are happy to do their websurfing in English, even when it's their second language. According to IDC's Project Atlas II, which polled 29,000 internet users around the world, 72% currently prefer to surf in English, though the   proportion falls from 97% in the US to 48% in western Europe, 25% in Latin America and only 16% in Japan.However, IDC predicts that the number who prefer English will fall to 64% by 2003, and Parr argues that "as the net becomes less of a tool of the elite and more commonplace, the population of non-English-speakers will grow even faster."Translating websites into local languages could soon become an enormous problem - and an enormous business for machine translation companies such as Lernout &amp; Hauspie, Systran and eTranslate.Kevin Lim, vice president of L&amp;H's Asia Pacific subsidiary in Singapore, says that today more than 70% of internet content is in English but more than 80% of the world's population are not native English speakers. To tackle the problem, L&amp;H has research teams in Korea,   Singapore and Japan working on speech recognition (speech to text), language translation (text to text) and voice generation (text to speech). The results are not as good as human translation, which L&amp;H also offers, but machine translation is very cheap and very fast."Our first priority is really delivering three languages - Japanese, Korean and Mandarin Chinese - with Tamil, Hindi, Malay and Thai to follow," Lim says. "Cantonese is on the roadmap as well. But there are 205 active spoken languages in China alone, and 15 national languages in India."Obviously L&amp;H, a Belgian company, is not creating products solely for internet use. However, Lim believes speech will become the most common way of accessing the net in the Asia Pacific region. He points out that keyboards were not designed to input Asian languages, and that it's much more natural to use a speech recognition system.Lim also argues that mobile phones are already more common than PCs in many regions. "In the USA," he says, quoting figures from Ericsson, "there's one mobile phone for every four PCs, whereas in China, there are   10 mobile phones for every PC!" The lack of an established telecommunications structure will, he thinks, enable some Asia Pacific countries to leapfrog the west by rapidly adopting mobile phones and wireless organisers for internet access.China has only 12.3 million internet users, less than 1% of its 1.3 billion population, according to recent research by Hong Kong-based Iamasia (Interactive Audience Measurement Asia). Many of those have access only through universities and cybercafes. The potential for growth is enormous, but may also depend on a more liberal political climate. However, it would be hypocritical to criticise China when the UK is planning to trample human rights underfoot in forcing through an e-commerce killer, the RIP (Regulation of Investigatory Powers) Bill.But while imagining the internet of the near future as multi-lingual, multi-cultural, mobile and truly global, don't count out the Americans yet. They still have the economic power and own most of the big brands on the net.An unofficial policy   discussion group, the Global Business Dialogue on Electronic Commerce, which held a conference in New York in April, reckoned that 85% of the revenue from internet businesses goes to American companies, and 95% of the stock market value of internet properties is held by American companies.Sooner or later they will feel the need to expand in a hurry, and because "no company can expand into all markets at once," as Parr says, they'll do it by acquisition. IDC is therefore predicting "a wave of global mergers", and it's not hard to imagine Yahoo!, AOL, eBay, Amazon and other American giants doing most of the buying.In other words, the globalisation of the internet could turn out much like the globalisation of the computer business, which is now worth $2 trillion a year. Like the net, the computer industry started in the US, but there was a flowering of overseas suppliers before American companies such as IBM, Digital Equipment Corp, Hewlett-Packard, Compaq and Dell became multi-national operations and squeezed out most of the local competition.
Search meGoogle, already the net's prettiest and best search engine, has switched to a new index containing a billion internet addresses. Chief executive    Larry Page said it was equivalent to searching a stack of paper more than 70 miles high in half a second. Excite has also improved its service withPrecision Search, though it doesn't cache pages like Google. AltaVista'sRaging SearchandAll The Webare the main competitors.On your bikeThe Tour de France begins on July 1, and the official website atwww.letour.comis open for business in English and French. Intel is the site's new   media sponsor so some high-bandwidth trimmings have been added. Race data will also be available on Wap (wireless application protocol) phones.Top manOn Saturday, our friend Bill C gave his first webcast fromwww.firstgov.gov, which will eventually be the place to go for US federal government information. The site includes a text version so someone at Number 10 can print a copy for Bill's friend Tony B, who is getting a one-stop e-gov shop built atwww.ukstate.com.Click for picsThis time last year, Americans were getting to grips with storing the happy snaps from processed film online, and uploading pictures from digital cameras. Now British firms are offering similar services.PhotoBoxstarted last month,Fontangolast week, andBootswill join in next month (you can register early).Supapichas also been offering a service in conjunction with Eframes in California.Home to roostChicken Run, Nick Park's new animated feature, now has an eggsciting website atwww.chickenrun.co.uk, complete with slide show, clips and trailer. For the background, however, seewww.corona.bc.ca/films/details/chickenrun.html. There's also a humorous site for the script ofCurse Of The Bog Women, written as a student assignment and now being turned into a $4.5m movie. The home page looks as though it could be really good if it ever finishes downloading.Face offNot long ago, most of the people on the web were either tech-heads or real people. Nowadays you can barely hit a link without stumbling into some species of celebrity. Usually the aim is to generate traffic, as Britney Spears will no doubt do for new teen siteYOUtopia. Sometimes the idea is to flog stuff, as with Frank (as we must learn to call him) Branson's new financial portal,Virgin Money. Very occasionally a site rises above the fray, such asSir Cliff Richard's Tennis Foundation, which "aims to make tennis accessible to every child in the   UK". Even the Flash intro is almost bearable.StreamingBritish entrepreneur, Robert Madge, has launched an internet streaming video service, the Madge Broadcast Network (MBN). The aim is to deliver RealVideo (.rm files) over an "overnet", a private overlay network that bypasses the slow public internet. MBN is connected to the Real Broadcast Network (RBN) in the US. Seewww.madgeweb.com/streaming.Free quotesWould you like to ask a raft of suppliers to "quote me for" some desired object or service?The QM4 sitelets you specify what you want while remaining anonymous, and will email you the quotes from suppliers in its database of 9,000 companies and services.Break timeYou may have to spend 9am to 5pm in an office but perhaps you could sneak off to the9to5 Cafeas well. Dolly Parton is nowhere in sight. This entertainment website has a panic button in case the boss turns up unexpectedly, but he will find it hard to lure people away fromJambaand other sites for long.New and NotedVirgin Net is hosting a website for Cameron Mackintosh's forthcoming new musical comedy, The Witches of Eastwick atwww.virgin.net/theatre/witchesofeastwick, and organising a special performance in London on July 21.Planet Kidshas launched "the UK's biggest safe-surf children's entertainment service" with links to more than 50,000 sites.DooYoulooks superficially like Yahoo! but it's designed around user opinions of products and services rather than web pages. The Financial Times has launched anFTMarketWatch, a British version of an American idea,CBS MarketWatch.Six of the bestNews wiresReuterswww.reuters.com/newsPA: Press Associationwww.ananova.comAP: Associated Presswww.newsday.com/ap/topnews/Business and marketswww.bloomberg.co.ukLight reliefwww.showbizwire.comSortedhttp://w.moreover.com
The resurgent investor interest in hi-tech flotations was in further evidence yesterday with two more technology companies announcing plans to list on the main market.IFX Power, a company that makes the hardware needed to operate electronic gadgets for the power industry, said it had raised &#163;30.6m before expenses and would command a valuation of around &#163;117m when its shares are expected to start trading on July 5.Database software company Alterion plans to raise &#163;20m and will be valued at around &#163;60m.The float announcements came as shares in internet software firm Orchestream jumped 74% on their first day of trading, just a few weeks after several technology, media and telecom floats were postponed due to market turbulence.Letsbuyit.com, Yes Television, Filmgroup and Chello were among high-profile new technology-based companies reassessing fundraising plans on the public markets in recent weeks.IFX Power's European managing director, James Peters, and chief executive Larry Tracey have decided to use the float to cash in &#163;3.4m worth of shares each. Broker Investec Henderson Crosthwaite said both had served the British business of IFX for several years and it was not unusual   for key directors to sell shares at the time of a float. "They still retain large stakes," an adviser said.IFX Power is made up of two power solution firm subsidiaries: a British company called XP and US-based firm called Foresight. Around &#163;10.3m of the money raised will be used to fund the costs of acquiring IPS, another American company.The group recorded turnover of &#163;58m and pre-tax profits of &#163;3.6m last year."What we are looking for from the IPO is to give the group visibility in the market and the opportunity to expand geographically," Mr Peters said.Alterion, which manufactures software enabling companies to make better use of their customer databases, expects to be capitalised at around &#163;60m if it completes a successful flotation on the main market later in the summer.Investec Henderson Crosthwaite hopes to raise around &#163;20m to help fund new Alterion offices in the US and Europe, as well as sales, marketing and development costs.A former WH Smith finance director, Keith Hamill, is non-executive chairman of the groupIn the year to March 31, Alterion recorded sales of &#163;1.01m and pre-tax earnings of &#163;12,000, compared to a loss of &#163;255,000 in the previous equivalent period.Useful linksIFX PowerAlterionOrchestream
Winchester Entertainment, owner of the popular Jellabies children's characters, is to establish a separate unit aimed at distributing Hollywood movies to British cinemas.The move into film distribution follows the announcement of record pre-tax profits of &#163;1.54m for the year to March 31 on the back of a 33% increase in turnover to &#163;4.9m.Chief executive Gary Smith said Winchester was talking to several US producers about licensing the international rights to their films and distributing them with partners which might include the video company VCI. The first feature film it will distribute will be Another Life, staring Nick Moran and Natasha Little, which is set to be released in Britain in February next year."We are looking to increase our control over the exploitation of our intellectual property rights," Mr Smith said.   "We are looking to distribute on video, aircraft, television, the internet and video on demand. By going into this area in partnership we will minimise the risks involved by sharing print and advertising costs."Winchester will also look to increasingly take an ownership position in films. It is already part-funding Heartbreakers, an MGM-produced film staring Sigourney Weaver and Gene Hackman. In return it receives worldwide distribution, sales and marketing rights, excluding the North American market.Mick Southworth, formerly managing director of Film Four Distributors and responsible for the release of films including Brassed Off and Secrets and Lies, is to head the new division.Winchester is also talking to toy companies about producing merchandise for The Wheels on The Bus, a new children's programme.
The novelty of searching and browsing the net has worn off. People are in hurry and want to find what they are looking for without having to click their way through a company's entire site.RealNames, a California company founded in 1997, believes it has developed the technology to make e-commerce quick and painless. Known as the Internet Keywords system, this click-cutting device is being backed financially by, among others, Microsoft, as part of the software giant's new strategy to put itself at the centre of the internet for consumers and businesses."Surfing was two years ago, now we're looking for e-commerce solutions. We look at Internet Keywords as a way for people to go straight to the products," explains John Tomany, vice president of business development RealNames Europe.Several companies have turned to Keywords, including eBay, the hugely-successful online auctioneer, and Panasonic, the Japanese electronics consumer giant. The "deep brand-navigation" devised by RealNames allows a company to shepherd customers directly to products, using key phrases.Say a customer wants to buy a digital video player (DVD) from Panasonic; typing "Panasonic DVDs" in the address field of their browser will take them straight to a list of Panasonic DVDs, cutting out the company's home page and navigation. Ford recently used Keywords technology to push sales of its Explorer cars. Instead of trawling through the Ford site, customers who typed in the words "Ford Explorer" were taken directly to the relevant pages.For companies keen to exploit e-commerce, such directness can be a boon. Typically, the Keyword system is used in conjunction with a promotion campaign through posters, print or TV ads. Once a company has generated interest in a product, potential customers have the option of following up that interest online."It's all about convergence of the offline and online experience," says Mr Tomany.RealNames claims there has been overwhelming interest in its Keywords technology, which may be mostly hype, but since Microsoft - which has already taken a 20% stake in the company - has today committed itself to Keywords for its Internet Explorer browser and MSN Search, deep brand-navigation could be the shopping tool of the very near future.About two million Keywords are currently in use in the US and Europe, with between 250,000 and 300,000 of those being based on this side of the Atlantic. A company typically pays RealNames about 2,000 a year for the use of a Keyword and the evidence so far is that companies are willing to give Keywords a go as a means of boosting sales.Useful linksRealNamesE-finance: special report
Every Friday night is party night at Amazon.com's headquarters in Seattle, Washington, and last Friday was no exception. As Jeff Bezos, the company's youthful founder, bounds into the staff canteen clad in the regulation blue shirt and khakis of the dot.com executive, the only sign that this might not be the start of an ordinary weekend at Amazon is the television news crews thronging outside. But Bezos ignores them, focusing instead on the technicians setting up the music system for that evening's function. A blast of feedback shakes the room. "I've got blood coming out of my ears, now, people!" Bezos says, and laughs the laugh that nobody who meets him fails to remember: a sound - part hyena, part Mike Myers's Dr Evil - that erupts at the oddest of times, preceding him down corridors, derailing your train of thought.Most people were expecting blood on the carpet. For last Friday was one of the oddest days to hear Bezos's trademark guffaw, and the first time Amazon might justifiably have cancelled the staff shindig - probably the worst day in the history of the internet retailer that had become the shining success story of electronic commerce. The day had cost Bezos personally around a billion dollars. It began with a report from Lehman Brothers, the investment bank, warning that the company was haemorrhaging cash and might not survive. Analyst Ravi Suria highlighted Amazon's "weak balance sheet, poor working capital management, and massive negative operating cashflow - the financial characteristics that have driven innumerable retailers to disaster through history." It was a day during which Amazon's shares lost 20% of their value, and 51m of them changed hands. A company worth about $40bn (&#163;25bn) just before Christmas had ended the day worth $12bn (&#163;7.5bn), and things did not improve during trading yesterday.Amid such dire warnings, few people expect the bunting to come out on July 15, the fifth anniversary of the company's launch. Except, perhaps, Bezos himself. The energetic 36-year-old takes an attitude to losing $1bn (&#163;625m) in one day that is, to say the least, long term."Three years ago our stock was $1.50 a share, today it's $30-something. There have been many, many days when our stock has gone up 20% in a day" - that laugh again - "and if stocks can go up 20% in a day, they can go down 20% in a day. All internet stocks are volatile, including Amazon.com... we are nowhere near   running out of cash, and we are not at all worried about it." ("He is always like this," says Bezos's assistant, Lizzie Allen. "Always optimistic.")Amazon, taken to court two years ago for claiming to be the earth's biggest retailer, has unquestionably become one of its best-known brands. A company that started as an online bookseller has assiduously purchased the rising stars of e-commerce, and now offers music, videos, kitchenware, garden tools, DIY equipment and more. But even with his firm's vast product range and expanding customer base - 1.4m people in the UK alone - Bezos's optimism is beginning to look increasingly isolated. Despite the company's vigorous expansion and development, including proposed same-day delivery in some British city centres soon, the year that Amazon is expected finally to haul itself into the black grows ever more distant. Famed Wall Street analyst, Mary Meeker, predicts losses of $96m (&#163;60m) this quarter and $83m (&#163;51.8m) next, and the firm sacked 150 people in January, its first redundancies. This is a crunch time, and not just for Amazon: many dot.com stocks are already in freefall, and if the industry megalith hits trouble, many others will surely follow. The fate of a lot of paper fortunes will turn on what happens to Bezos next.Until the beginning of this year, the Amazon story had almost seemed too good to be true. The deification of Bezos - America's second-richest man under 40, with an estimated net worth of $4bn (&#163;2.5m) prior to last Friday - reached its high point at the end of 1999, when the Princeton graduate and self-confessed geek was selected as Time magazine's person of the year, an award previously given to Martin Luther King and the Queen. Bezos, to his credit, downplays the hero-worship. "Sometimes I think Time magazine chooses somebody   and really chooses that person, and sometimes I think it is really choosing somebody as a symbol for something much bigger," he says, "and I would claim that's what it was in my case. They were not choosing me as much as they were choosing the internet and me as a symbol of e-commerce."Amazon has certainly symbolised the radical - many would say foolhardy - techniques of business development that have come to rule cyberspace. Its strategy of putting market share ahead of profits and taking on established offline players has entered the business lexicon: today, people use "being Amazoned" to refer to the fate of a company that is about to lose out to a younger, nimbler rival. Bezos's obsession with his company is key to the success of this approach: "I know a lot about e-commerce," he says, "but it's because I think about it  all the time. I'm constantly thinking about Amazon.com, e-commerce and the internet. It's in my every waking moment and most of my sleeping ones." Bezos dismisses criticism of the notion of investment in future business to the exclusion of present-day profits. "The internet truly is a big deal so it hasn't been over-hyped in that sense," he says. "It will probably be a bigger deal than anyone realises. Long term, there is an irrational under-exuberance."It all began for Bezos when he was working as a technical expert for DE Shaw, a Manhattan hedge fund. His wake-up call, as he describes it, occurred when he read that use of the web was growing at a remarkable 2,000% a year. Within a few months, he had packed in his day job and left New York with his wife, MacKenzie, and their dog. His adoptive father, a Cuban native who married Jeff's mother when he was four, gave him a car and invested a total of $300,000 of his retirement money in the new   venture. Jeff and MacKenzie, a writer, drove the car for five days across the country to Seattle, spending their first night at a motel and the second camping beside the Grand Canyon. He typed a business plan while his wife drove. "I knew it wasn't likely to work," he says, when asked if he ever doubted the wisdom of his venture. "The doubts are when you think it might work." And he laughs uproariously again.When Bezos talks about the early days - when he worked out of the converted garage of his new home with the company's first two employees - he sounds supremely happy. He once described his decision to give up a well-paid day job to start something which could easily have failed as part of the "regret minimisation framework". He did not want to look back and regret taking the easy way out. "Most regrets are acts of omission, not commission," he says. "Right now, I am very happy. I know that I will have absolutely no regrets about being focused on Amazon.com."Much of this early down- home atmosphere remains at Amazon's shabby Seattle offices. The Friday parties are just one aspect of this; to save on overpriced office furniture, the standard company desk still consists of a pine door, purchased from a DIY store and propped up on four pieces of timber. As in many other internet firms, employees are partly remunerated in company stock, giving them something of Bezos's sense of ownership - or, according to a more pessimistic reading, buying them off with paper money that, on a day like last Friday, can begin to look decidedly like Monopoly cash.But Amazon's finances have also   raised eyebrows in far more fundamental ways. The company insists that the money flowing into it is being invested in its infrastructure. But US newspaper investigations reveal that the company is carrying more than $2.1bn of junk-bonds debts, supported by only $25.6m (&#163;16m) of equity - and that around 20% of the company's assets consist of balance-sheet "goodwill", sums that emerge when a company acquires another company for more than it is worth, writing off the difference against earnings. Far from being ploughed back into the business, critics point out, hundreds of millions of dollars of income is being used simply to service the company's enormous debts, frittering away an average of $10m (&#163;6.25) each month. And margins don't look like improving: any company, given an adequate marketing budget, can set up as a putative rival to Amazon simply by undercutting its prices. Such rivals make huge losses in the process, but given that huge losses are something of a status symbol in the online economy, this isn't necessarily an insurmountable obstacle.Time magazine describes Bezos as a visionary, a man who saw the future five years before the rest of us did. So great is his reputation that one analyst warned me not to waste our interview asking him about finances because "he has so much else to offer". Bezos is keen to exploit this reputation to keep his investors on side and focused on the future. "What you see today and what you think of as e-commerce is so primitive," he says. "Computers are not always on; people don't even have them in their kitchen or bedroom." He cheerfully imagines a day when the ubiquity of computers means that we will be ordering everything we need, not just books, or CDs, or pets, from Amazon.In the interim, Bezos insists the company has no plans to fire any more people to cut costs this year. It may slow down its rate of acquisitions, he says, because it finds little of interest in the etailers that are in dire straits. "In most cases, unfortunately, we're not interested because it's a question of what would we be getting. We have great technology and a great brand name." But amid the confidence and laughter, Bezos sounds an almost unwitting note of warning. Talking of how he never expected to really make a go of Amazon.com in those early years as he drove across America, he says: "Most start-up companies do fail, but most fail slowly. It takes six or seven years for them to fail, usually." As Amazon's fifth anniversary rolls around, Bezos may be wishing he hadn't said that.&#149;Amazon.comAdditional reporting by Oliver Burkeman
The government is to back down following public uproar over a new security services legal framework, which critics claim will give British spies untrammelled access to email.Ministers will today table amendments to the regulation   of investigatory powers bill making it clear that the security services will require individual warrants to gain access to email messages or transactions.There had been widespread fears that the bill as drafted would have meant the security services merely needed to seek a general warrant for a website   or internet service provider, and thereafter any detailed information gleaned from that electronic system would require no further warrant.The amendment will be tabled in the Lords today in time for the next committee stage scrutiny of the bill.The Home Office minister, Charles Clarke, also promised   yesterday that ministers will table amendments to allay business fears about the costs to companies of complying with the bill.He is expected to sharpen up the distinction between the revenue and capital costs of complying with the proposed new regulatory regime.Some businesses have   claimed the new regime will cost private business as much as &#163;640m over the next five years.Mr Clarke has also agreed to reduce requirements on business to hand over their encryption key to the security services, saying they will only be required to hand over text rather than the key itself.
The fall from grace ofAmazon.comis good for the economy and, maybe, good for the company itself. No one can take away from Amazon its stunning achievement in virtually inventing the dot.com company and being its most spectacular success story (physically if not financially). In less than five years it has become the world's biggest bookshop and has been diversifying feverishly in order to become the world's one-stop shop for a wide range of consumer goods. But in doing so its shares flew too close to the sun and have now melted. They fell 19% on Friday making a 70% fall during the past six months. This is part of a much wider melt-down that has hit US and UK internet stocks generally.This is good news for two reasons. First, it has brought a dose of realism into a crazy world in which investors seemed to think that net stocks were beyond the laws of gravity. They are not. They have to make profits, like others. Amazon's price soared ludicrously beyond reality considering it is losing money heavily in an environment in which price cutting is endemic. The company claims it has over $1bn in its coffers (the result of selling stock on the back of its overhyped share price). That may be so but it won't last long at the pace it has been leaking cash of late. And if Amazon is in this state, what about the rest?The second reason is that the fall of the dot.coms hasn't brought down the rest of the economy with it. So far, that is (don't bet on it). Some economists had predicted a scare scenario in which the surge in hi-tech stocks (which provided the wealth to fuel America's consumer spending boom) would go into reverse thrust. People, suddenly feeling poorer because of falling stock markets, would stop spending, thereby propelling the economy into recession. Maybe the crash hasn't happened yet because of the spatchcock way in which the fall in technology shares occurred - up one day down the next, affecting different stocks in different ways and often offset by a rise in old economy stocks. People are at last realising that, for all their glamour, most dot.coms targeting consumers are just selling old economy goods in a different way - and with thousands of global competitors prepared to undercut them. There will eventually be an almighty shake-out from which only the super-fit will survive. Meanwhile, consumers should take advantage. Seldom has there been such a good time to shop.
Shares in Pace Micro Technology, Europe's leading digital TV set-top-boxmaker, closed up 24.5p at 959p yesterday. The price change values the company at &#163;2bn, and came in the wake of a three-year deal with Comcast Cable Communications, the third largest cable company in the US.The deal means Pace will be the only manufacturer supplying cable set-top boxes to both Motorola and Scientific-Atlantic, which combined control 95% of the cable infrastructure in the US. First delivery of the high specification 400,000-unit order is expected at the end of 2001.Pace chief executive Malcolm Miller said: "This deal means we can reach the broad US market. It builds on the deal we did with Time Warner last year, and I would hope to sign at least one more US deal by the end of the year."The deal follows strong interim results in December which valued Pace at &#163;1.8bn, with half-year turnover up by 60% to &#163;157m and pre-tax profits up by 53% to &#163;12.7m. In May, broker Credit Suisse First Boston raised forecasts for year-end, pre-tax profits by 7% to &#163;25.7m. Final results are expected in July.Pace had a series of set-backs after its 1996 float, including falling sales and share price as the market waited for digital technology to take off. In 1998 the share price stayed below 100p despite new contracts with ONdigital, BSkyB, Cable &amp; Wireless and NTL. Turnover and profits have had a bumper year, however, following the boom in digital broadcast technology.One analyst said yesterday that, as the speed of digital roll-out accelerates, "Pace Micro has proven again it can develop and integrate its technology and open new markets. It is pretty encouraging."
What do you drive?A Fiat Punto cabriolet, inky blue.What does it say about you?I love fresh air and the colour blue.What do you like about it?I still get very excited about putting the roof up and down, but I don't like the boot space - it's too small.Why did you buy it?My 2CV caught fire one day so I thought I really must get a safer car. I bought the Fiat primarily because of its roof - not that I'm obsessed.What kind of driver are you?Pretty safe, bar the odd shortsighted swerve when I'm very tired.Any bad habits?Swerving. I was cross-eyed as a child and while this has been corrected I find judging the width of the car difficult. I've left many a hubcap on the pavement.Any driving test tales?I had the examiner examining the examiner in the back of the car during my test, which was more nerve-wracking. I went up the kerb on my reverse round the corner but passed everything else.Have you ever got any points on your licence?I got three for speeding, which have been cleared now as it was a while ago.Have you ever experienced road rage?I get angry at traffic lights and catch myself giving the light a bitchy look but I avoid outbursts of aggression at other drivers. I keep my V-signs below the window.What state is your car in?It is a bit bashed outside and a bit hairy inside because of my dog, who leaves a bit of her behind each time.What's in the boot?Dog food.Have you ever had any romantic encounters in a car?Only outside the UK.What music do you listen to on the road?Country.What would be your dream car, and why?An old BMW convertible - sky blue with white roof and white seats. I love big cars. It would be like driving the living room.Who would be your dream passenger?Raul from the Mavericks - he could sing to me along the freeway.Sara Crowe appears in A Busy Day at the Lyric Theatre, Shaftesbury Avenue, London. Box office: 020-7494 5045
One colleague who insists on wearing suits all the time was convinced he would catch each of us in one before long. Last week he did, proving two things: that we are not against wearing of suits per se and that we have the good sense to dress for the occasion. This particular occasion was a trip to the Houses of Parliament.We have approached a prominent public figure to take a place on our board as a non-executive director. The questions he asked are a measure of how the e-commerce environment has changed.Almost immediately, he rattled off questions such as: "what are your revenue streams?" and: "how many customers do you need to move into profit?"Six months ago, profit was almost considered a dirty word in the world of e-commerce. Now it is one of the first things people ask about. We impressed on him that Rools is a sustainable business and will eventually generate profits.The atmosphere relaxed a little and our host gave us a quick summary of his involvement in internet businesses and went into what motivated him. To his credit, it seemed that he was getting involved because they are of interest to him, not based on the simple economics and who pays the most.A brief interruption in the form of the division bell for a vote and we wrapped up the conversation.The final point he made was that although the personal incentive to get involved would not be the deciding factor, there had to be enough of an incentive to make the devotion of time and energy worthwhile.Trying to get celebrity endorsement has so far been only a marginally less exacting experience. Since William Shatner made a well-publicised second fortune through his involvement with US dot.com Priceline, celebrities have become very switched on to the potential upside of getting involved in the new economy.A few days ago it was announced that David Beckham and Britney Spears were each going to be heavily involved in separate online ventures. We have been to see a couple of celebrity agents, in settings that are not quite as imposing as the House. These agents have been at least as commercially clued-up as any of our partners and in each case they wanted to gain a thorough understanding of the business. Their celebrity clients have very clear strategies and have put far more thought into the next five   years and how they want to position themselves than either of us ever did for our careers. They have a further requirement, beyond enthusiasm for the business and the incentives it can offer. The business has to fit the professional and media profile they have built and are going to develop in the future.For instance we know of one celebrity who plans to move from children's television to mainstream programming next year and is looking to get involved with e-commerce companies that will help support such a move.All these meetings last week seemed to go well. Whatever comes out of them, they were certainly a colourful and welcome addition to the wide range of positive, negative and downright unusual experiences that we have had since we started this business.&#149; Adam Hamdy and Guy Mallison are the co-founders of Rools.com, a service that enables teenagers to buy online without a credit card.
