Twitter has brought down a hail of critical tweeting on its own head by suspending the account of a British newspaper's Los Angeles correspondent following his acerbic reporting of NBC's coverage of the Olympics.The social media network hummed with the indignation of thousands of its users after theTwitter feed of Guy Adamsof the Independent disappeared. The paper's deputy editor, Archie Bland, confirmed the suspension, calling it "heavy-handed".NBC said it had complained to Twitter after Adams published the email address of one of its senior bosses. "We filed a complaint with Twitter because a user tweeted the personal information of one of our executives. According to Twitter, this is a violation of their privacy policy. Twitter alone levies discipline."Rachael Horwitz, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based firm, confirmed that it does not "actively monitor" users' accounts, and added that it was company policy not to comment on individual users.NBC acted after Adams published a tweet that included the email address of Gary Zenkel, the president of NBC Olympics, encouraging people to complain to him about the TV network's delayed broadcast of the opening ceremony of the Games.Twitter's terms and conditions state that users must not post private email addresses, unless they are already available on the internet. Adams said the email was not a private one but a corporate account, and that Zenkel's address is identical in form to thousands of other NBC employees.The offending tweet was not the only one critical of NBC. Some of Adams's comments fall in the camp of caustic criticism:"America's left coast forced to watch Olympic ceremony on SIX HOUR time delay. Disgusting money-grabbing by @NBColympics"And some arguably went further than that:"I have 1000 channels on my TV. Not one will be showing the Olympics opening ceremony live. Because NBC are utter, utter bastards."In a piecepublished by the Independentthe reporter said that NBC's decision to delay transmission of the Games so that it could maximise its advertising revenue in primetime had sparked "ridicule from TV critics and outrage from the US public".He also pointed out the timing of the suspension, which came very soon after a sharply-critical piece by Adams on NBC's coverage of the Olympics opening ceremony was published.The headline on the piece said "all the talk is about #NBCfail". Adams also referenced several gaffes and insensitive remarks by NBC commentators, including the memorable remark that they "haven't heard" of Tim Berners-Lee, the British inventor of the world wide web.Suspicions that Twitter had over-reached itself and strayed into censorship were heightened by the fact that thefirm has entered into a deal with NBCUniversalin which Twitter becomes the official narrator of live events at the Olympics.Among the sharply-worded tweets coming from Adams were:"Am I alone in wondering why NBColympics think its acceptable topretend this road race is being broadcast live?"and: "Matt Lauer: 'Madagascar, a location indelibly associated with a couple of recent animated movies.' #tosspot"Twitter users rallied to the defence of Adams. This from the Scottish novelist Irvine Welsh was typical:The Guy Adams twitter ban illustrates three tendencies of hegemonic power; 1) hates criticism, 2) takes itself seriously 3) no sense of fun.&mdash; Irvine Welsh (@WelshIrvine)July 30, 2012Or this:Draconian suspension of#Indyjournalist Guy Adams account by#Twitterfollowing criticism of#NBC#Olympicscoverageindependent.co.uk/sport/olympics…&mdash; Gideons Way (@Gideons_Way)July 30, 2012
Jury selection began Monday for a Silicon Valley trial that pits Apple against Samsung in a high-stakes battle for the future of the smartphone market.Apple is suing South Korea's Samsung for $2.5bn, asserting that its rival made "a deliberate decision to copy" the iPhone and iPad, imitating the design and infringing technology patents. Apple wants to make permanent a preliminary ban it won on US sales of a Samsung tablet and extend that ban to Samsung's smartphones.Samsung has hit back, accusing Apple of using patents to "stifle legitimate competition and limit consumer choice to maintain its historically exorbitant profits." It has also counter-sued, claiming that Apple infringed its patents and demanding royalties.This is the first time a jury has heard a smartphone patent dispute in the US. Apple's headquarters are less than 11 miles from the San Jose courthouse that is expected to hear the case for the next four weeks.But Samsung has plenty of clout in the Valley, too. Android was developed by Google and is now the most popular platform for mobile devices. The case will be closely watched by all of Apple's rivals, many of which have already clashed with Apple overseas, and Google is expected to have its own team of lawyers in court monitoring the action.Google may not be in the dock, but it will play a large part in the trial. One email Apple has submitted to the court discusses a Google employee's  concerns that the proposed design of some Samsung Galaxy tablets were "too similar to Apple" and should be made "noticeably different"."It doesn't get much bigger than this," said Colin Gillis, tech analyst at BGC Partners. "The two biggest smartphone companies facing off in the world's biggest market."Gillis said that while Google clearly had its eye on Apple's lead in mobile, this case was really all about Samsung. The South Korean firm has seen off HTC and Motorola to emerge as Apple's biggest rival, and the trial comes at a sensitive time for Apple, which released disappointing results earlier this month.In the second quarter of 2012, Samsung accounted for 32.6% of global smartphone shipments, up from 29% in the quarter ending in March, according to the research firm IDC. Apple's share fell to 16.9% from 23% over the same period.Apple chief executive Tim Cook and Samsung's Choi Gee Sung tried and failed to resolve their dispute at a court-ordered meeting in May.The US case is just the latest in a global fight over smartphone patents. A German court last week upheld a European-wide ban on Samsung's Galaxy Tab 7.7 Android tablet before a full-blown patent trial.
We knock them to the ground with broken chairs, sever their limbs with kitchen knives, side step their faux-amorous lunges and headshot after headshot after headshot. But still no button press has yet managed to stem the cultural advance of the video game zombie. Some of their popularity with game-makers is practical. The rotten cadaver is the perfect game asset for cut/copying till the solitary threat becomes a barging throng – no need for any great variety. Likewise, the eager lumber of the walking corpse makes for a happy afternoon's animation work for an artist – far simpler to execute than a pack of wolves, ninja or other flightier sort of menace.Even so, the past few years have yielded a bumper crop of video game undead, one that shows no sign of retreating from players' living rooms with the advance of Resident Evil 6, Zombie-U, Day-Z and, this week, Deadlight. Perhaps, just as Japan's Godzilla embodied the nation's terror of nuclear weapons post-World War II, our current post-apocalyptic zombie fiction is an allegory for western consumerism, the double-dip recession revealing the groaning idiocy of the mall-going public, bitten by bad credit. Or maybe, our game-makers are just plain unimaginative.Regardless, Deadlight chooses not to put a name to its symbolism, instead referring to its zombies plainly as 'Shadows'. Whatever darkness in the social psyche they represent, their name has a more literal meaning too, the game's appropriation of Limbo-esque silhouettes rendering the zombies as inky figures moving famished, graceless and shadowy across back-lit scenes of urban desecration.Developer Tequila Works has made much of the game's 1980s setting, but it barely manages to peek from the gloom, the game's dystopian ambiance far closer to The Walking Dead's ruined Americana. In play, however, that era's presence is more keenly felt. This is a game in the cinematic platform tradition of Flashback, Another World and Prince of Persia and, while it's dressed in contemporary shades, its core is often as unforgiving as its influences.You play as park ranger Randall Wayne searching for his missing wife, child and the  scattered pages of his lost diary. Limber and athletic, Wayne can sprint across rooftops, barge through barricaded doors and haul himself along telephone lines out of reach of the horde below (although jump into 10 feet of water and he'll drown in an instant).Far from a dull power fantasy, Deadlight's designers rarely give Wayne access to the tools of zombie extermination – the axe, pistol or shotgun – and when they do, they're not afraid to take them away again. As such, much of the game is spent scrabbling away from the Shadows, whistling to lure them onto electrocuted traps, bounding up walls and doing anything to gain height to protect your precious three units of health. One Shadow can be pushed away with relative ease. Three will quickly overwhelm, forcing a checkpoint restart.As in Limbo, these restarts become a familiar routine - particularly as the game moves from its first act to its second and third, where the emphasis is placed more firmly on platforming and trial and error design traps. These grow infuriating at times, not least because the style of the game's visuals aren't matched by a finesse in its controls, which make precision jumps more frustrating than in, say, Shadow Complex.That's not to overstate the game's difficulty. This is a largely straightforward game, and developer Tequila Works provides a fair amount of behind-the-curtain assistance to players, nudging them a few pixels to the left and right where necessary to smooth over collision detection. Likewise, none of the puzzles truly confound, and the majority of the game's collectibles are barely hidden at all. But there is a roughness to some interactions that can break the spell.The game's formal storytelling fails to match the interest of its visuals, which, in their picturesque illustration of the Pacific Northwest, find a melancholic beauty. Character motivations are plain and uninteresting, with overbearing voice acting shunting the mood from B-movie class to Saturday morning cartoon. The graphic novel influence is plain to see – not least in the hand-drawn cutscenes – but it's in the background detail and stage dressing that Deadlight's strongest storytelling is found. The scenes are cliche – a ruined hospital, underground sewers, an empty stadium - but the art pays enough attention to the fine detail to bring them to fresh life.Despite the mournful soundtrack and muted colour, it's a game with a mischievous heart too – a rooftop chase scene parodying endless runner Canabalt, complete with frightened doves, providing a standout moment, alongside some 80s LCD handheld game secret collectibles, playable from the title screen. Still, it's a game in which an early sense of delight and intrigue soon turns to weariness, the standout scenes and ideas failing to compensate for an increasing sense of deja vu with each new wall run and puzzle, wrapped in a tired storyline that does little to propel you forward. In the end, it's the zombies that make you flee to the conclusion, rather than the design that draws you towards it – a subtle distinction perhaps, but a crucial one.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Videogames used to be content to take their cues from action movies;Deadlightis the latest title at pains to stress that it's as indebted to Joseph Conrad as it is to James Cameron.It may be set in a zombie-ravaged dystopia, but the game places atmosphere and intrigue over gunplay, and while the writers sometimes mistake the pretentious for the portentous, the art design proves more than capable of speaking for itself, conjuring a muted, eerily plausible post-apocalyptic Seattle.This sense of place is the game's trump card; a 2D platformer, it draws players through a string of beautifully realised environments, ably integrating ideas and systems from a range of titles, old and new – though it arguably lacks a strong identity of its own. Nevertheless, this is a solid, stylish debut, proving that even in an era of sprawling 3D worlds a humble sidescroller can still engage.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 28 July 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (2)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)PC (0)52 (1)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (37)PS3 (10)Wii (9)63 (8)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (62)3DS (38)354 (3)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (34)PC (1)105 (7)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)PC (3)286 (5)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (39)PC (5)Wii (1)367 (4)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (41)3DS (2)DS (2)58 (10)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (36)PC (16)359 (12)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (31)Wii (13)PSP (10)4410 (6)Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance(12+)3DS (100)211 (–)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (48)3412 (9)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)PC (2)1113 (–)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)1214 (13)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure (7+)Wii (49)Xbox 360 (30)PS3 (15)3DS (7)2815 (11)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (41)PC (3)416 (–)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (35)PC (15)3917 (–)Pokemon Conquest (3+)DS (100)118 (17)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (30)PC (6)5519 (–)WWE 12(12+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (36)820 (–)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)14UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Many children's book-apps are based on existing print titles, with the original author's role confined to approving the plans and finished results. After all, they've already written the words that will be used. These are contractual partnerships, rather than creative collaborations.That's not a criticism, as it makes sense for book publishers to bring their existing catalogues to tablets and smartphones first, as they gauge the potential market. Yet in the adult market, there are some examples of authors working more directly with publishers of apps based on their work.Touch Press made itsSolar Systemapp with author Marcus Chown as a new title, for example – there was no print version to work from, and in fact, the app was only laterturned into a bookby Faber. Historian Dan Snow's work with developer Agant onTimeline World War 2is another example.In the children's book-apps space, there are less examples, with most titles either based on existing print books or copyright-free fairy tales and nursery rhymes.An interesting debate has broken out over the weekend about how this might change. It started with ablog post by children's author Moira Butterfieldon the Picture Book Den website, in which she called for publishers to bring authors more into their app plans."We already have apps in which picture books are read out loud and pictures change when children touch the screen. But I believe there could be more innovative computer/picture book mixes out there to discover, and I want publishers to call on us authors for ideas, not just on computer whizzes. I think we should get into the mix and offer our creativity," she wrote."As an author of both picture books and material for other age-groups, I very much want to bring my experience to the tablet. I don't want apps simply created by teccies with no thought for the intricate, delicate, precious magic that happens between a child reading words joined with pictures. Nor do I want to stick my head in the sand, and pretend that the online world doesn't exist."Butterfield's post spurred aquick responsefrom Kate Wilson, managing director of British company Nosy Crow – a company that publishes both physical picture-books and book-apps, with some of the latter based on its print titles, and others based on fairytales."We'd love to find authors who are interested in working on apps," writes Wilson. "But writing a highly interactive, multimedia children's app that is a satisfying reading experience is not the same as writing a picture book."She outlines several reasons: apps are more collaborative processes than printed books – "more, perhaps, like writing a film-script than writing a book" – and may require authors to be thinking more about what goes into animation and coding. They're non-linear experiences too, where the linear narrative sits alongside interactive elements."Apps are new, and they're developing fast. I think that authors who are interested in writing in this space need to keep up with developments, immerse themselves in this world and get to know the best of the apps that are out there, and, even better, spend time with children who are reading those apps to see how they use the screen and what they expect from it," writes Wilson.Some are doing that: in fact, Nosy Crow is about to release an app called Rounds: Franklin Frog (pictured at the top of this article), which has been written by an external author-illustrator team, working with the publisher.These two blog posts don't read like an argument: more Butterfield saying authors would like to be involved, and Wilson welcoming that, while pointing out that the process may throw up some surprises.One thing that does come across, though, is the idea that children's book-apps are still firmly stories, not technical showcases for gadgets. But also the dangers of assuming authors are luddites or developers are unliterary geeks.Actually, the best children's book-apps are likely to be produced by teamwork involving developers with a sensitivity to storytelling, and authors with a genuine enthusiasm for interactivity and technology.
Retailers that sell video games to children are now liable for imprisonment or a fine, under a tough new age-classification system designed to crack down on violent and unsuitable content.Under the new rules that came into force on Monday, all games sold in the UK will now be regulated under a system called PEGI, the Pan European Game Information scheme, which makes it illegal to sell 12-rated video games to children under that age for the first time.Until now the British Board of Film Classification has provided 15 and 18 certificates that are legally enforceable. But there had never been the equivalent for 12-rated games, making it technically legal for children to buy them.The PEGI system, which is viewed in the industry as adopting stricter ratings, will see small diagrams introduced to give shoppers guidance on references to sex, drugs, fear, gambling or online gaming elements in each title. There will also be indicators for bad language, discrimination and violence."Today's simplification of the ratings system benefits both industry and consumers and will help ensure that the millions of games sold in the UK each year are being played by the audiences they were intended for," said culture minister Ed Vaizey.Backers of the new regime said that the shift to a single system would help consumers, and especially parents, make informed decisions.The government moved to tighten video game content rules following recommendations made byTanya Byron's Safer Children in a Digital Worldand Reg Bailey's Letting Children be Children review.Under the regulations, retailers could face a prison sentence of up to six months and a fine of up to £5,000 for selling a game to someone under the age-rating classification.The new system will end the BBFC's role in rating video games. All video games will be rated under the PEGI system by the Video Standards Council, unless the title contains explicit sexual content.In the event that a title may require an R18 rating, the BBFC would classify the game."We very much believe that the sole adoption of PEGI will provide a clear and consistent direction on age ratings for parents and will be a vital tool in helping them to understand they types of games that their children should be playing," said Dr Jo Twist, chief executive of the Association of UK Interactive Entertainment.
It is 4 metres (13ft) high, weighs 4.5 tonnes and fires 6,000 ball-bearing pellets a minute, yet this ¥100m (£816,000) monster could be Robomop as well as RoboCop.The massive robot, called Kuratas, is controlled either by a human pilot in a mid-torso cockpit or by a smartphone connected to a 3G network, and was unveiled at the Wonder festival in Tokyo on Monday.The diesel-powered machine could, it was claimed, be used as a trundling "ecofriendly" weapons system (top speed 6.2mph) – or customised for more peaceful functions such as firefighting or cleaning, according to designers at Suidobashi Heavy Industry.Just take care while dusting ...• This article was amended on 30 July 2012 to correct the price, which was originally given as ¥1m.
A selection of eight new and notable apps today:Tesco DiscoverUK supermarket chain Tesco has launched an augmented reality shopping app, using technology from HP subsidiary Aurasma. "Interact with Tesco through exclusive videos, competitions and offers – bought to life before your eyes," suggests its store listing. That means pointing your smartphone at the Tesco Discover icon on print materials to access the extra content. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhone / iPadFinal FantasySquare Enix has launched the original Final Fantasy game for Android, porting the updated version of the 1987 RPG that was released for iOS in February 2010. Expect crystals, battling and lots of monsters.AndroidCamera ExtrasAfter a limited initial release, Nokia's Camera Extras app has gone global – albeit only for the company's Lumia Windows Phones. It offers extra features for the handset camera, including panorama shots, a self-timer and modes for action shots and smart group shots.Windows Phone (Nokia)Fujifilm Camera ApplicationFujifilm has launched a new smartphone and tablet app that works with its Wi-Fi-equipped digital cameras. The idea: people can wirelessly transfer up to 30 photos at once from camera to smartphone or tablet to view them – the key usage is the latter, for the bigger screen.Android / iPhone / iPadTouchMix FXTap Tap Revenge became a big music-game brand on iOS, but can TouchMix FX do the same thing on Android? Released by games firm Gamevil, it sees you tapping along to beats and rhythms as light orbs and lines fill the screen, with a quest system to keep the gameplay moving along.AndroidHeathrow Airport GuideHeathrow Airport has an official Windows Phone app, with features including live flight tracking, notifications of flight status updates, terminal maps and listings for the shops and restaurants at the airport.Windows PhonePanasonic Flag TagsOlympic sponsor Panasonic has launched a Flag Tag app for Android and iOS, which aims to get people digitally painting their faces with the flag of their country, before sharing it on social networks. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhone / iPadTripLingo UK EditionIt's a shame this app doesn't appear to be available in the UK App Store, because its description is a hoot. "Top of the morning and tally ho young lad! Have a laugh and a jolly good time learning some well good British phrases to make sure you don't get Kate Mossed in London!" The idea being travel and Olympic-related phrases in "four classic London accents: Posh, Cockney, Scouse, and Jafaican (think Ali G!)." Wait, what: Scouse?iPhone
Nintendo's 3DS didn't have the most comfortable start to life: it sold slowly until it was treated to a price-drop, and remains dogged by the perception that it lacks killer games, at least in comparison with its predecessors.Yet it can officially be acclaimed a success now, having sold more than 19m units worldwide, and New Super Mario Bros 2, which seems to have crept into existence completely under the radar, is exactly the sort of game that its myriad owners crave.If you're a lover of all things Nintendo – and it's a company that inspires fierce, almost tribal loyalty – then you just might have an inkling of what New Super Mario Bros 2 is like. The clue is in the name: it's the second iteration of Nintendo's modern take on its classic side-scrolling platform games from the 16-bit era which unleashed the moustachioed plumber on an unsuspecting world.Unsurprisingly, it resists the urge to tinker with the format. Indeed, as ever, Princess Peach has been kidnapped by Bowser (this time in cahoots with his funny-looking mates the Koopalings who, disappointingly, only feature fleetingly) and as Mario, you must work your way through six main worlds (there are two bonus worlds and another you open when you finish the game)  to rescue her.The game can be played co-operatively by two people (bringing Luigi into play), and you soon open a mode called Coin Rush, which involves racing through sets of three stages, under quite harsh time-restraints, collecting as many coins as possible without losing a life. Your best Coin Rush efforts can be sent as challenges to people you meet via Street Pass.New Super Mario Bros 2 doesn't play at all fast and loose with the established conventions of its predecessors, so it's instantly familiar and comforting. But its attention to detail is meticulous, and it is easily distinguishable from New Super Mario Bros.For example, it takes some cues from Super Mario 3D Land, such as letting you store a spare power-up on and launch it from the touchscreen, giving you the invulnerability-conferring White Raccoon Suit power-up if you die too many times on a given level, and making you collect Star Coins to open up bonus stages. It places more emphasis on coin-collection: as well as the red rings, which conjure up sets of eight short-lived floating coins, there are yellow rings that turn nearby enemies into coin-generators for a while.And, of course, there are new power-ups. The most potent is the Gold Flower, which gives you a Fire Mario-style attack with a death-ray-like radius and potency. You can jump into special yellow blocks which, with a pleasing level of surrealness, fasten themselves around your head and basically work as power-up-preserving crash-helmets. The Raccoon Suit is much in evidence, and most worlds have a haunted house (involving shenanigans with real and fake doors) and a mid-level tower that culminates in a mini-boss-battle.Graphically, NSMB 2 impresses. Although it is seen from the classic side perspective, everything is rendered in a wonderfully crisp manner, making it the perfect companion purchase to a 3DS XL, with its large screen. The 3D is gentle, rather than potentially headache-inducing, and does not impinge on the gameplay.But its best aspect is wonderful level design. As ever in a Mario side-scroller, you encounter a bewilderingly diverse set of environments: desert, ice, undersea and of course lava are all present and correct, along with a wildly inventive array of traps and obstacles, such as gas-jets, see-saws holding spiked balls, platforms that collapse after a while and so on.Sometimes you encounter flowing green blocks that build new platforms as they move, which epitomise the sort of logic and rhythmic flow that pervades the game, and the difficulty level swiftly ramps up, testing your precision jumping and attacking skills to the full. New Super Mario Bros 2 may not do anything we haven't seen in a game before, but it oozes such quality from every pixel that if you don't derive pleasure from playing it, no matter what your age or gender, it's difficult to think of any game that would satisfy you.• Game reviewed on Nintendo 3DS
It's Monday again. Has everyone had an enjoyable Olympic weekend?
A quick burst of six links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow Microsoft Lost Its Mojo: Steve Ballmer and Corporate America's Most Spectacular Decline &gt;&gt; Vanity FairOnce upon a time, Microsoft dominated the tech industry; indeed, it was the wealthiest corporation in the world. But since 2000, as Apple, Google, and Facebook whizzed by, it has fallen flat in every arena it entered: e-books, music, search, social networking, etc., etc. Talking to former and current Microsoft executives, Kurt Eichenwald finds the fingers pointing at C.E.O. Steve Ballmer, Bill Gates's successor, as the man who led them astray.Microsoft Responds To Its "Lost Decade" &gt;&gt; Business InsiderNeedless to say, he doesn't agree.Olympics 2012: Twitter users blamed for disrupting BBC's cycling coverage &gt;&gt;The GuardianGood luck with this:International Olympics Committee Communications director Mark Adams said: "From my understanding, One network was oversubscribed, and OBS are trying to spread the load to other providers. We don't want to stop people engaging in this by social media but perhaps they might consider only sending urgent updates."Apple Is Said to Discuss an Investment in Twitter &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAn intriguing prospect. More to come on this.Apple Discussed Investing in Twitter &gt;&gt; WSJ.comPeople familiar with the matter said there are no current formal investment or acquisition discussions between the companies.When Craigslist Blocks Innovations &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comMost of the sites that Craigslist killed began as hobby projects, making little to no money -- just programmers trying to make a product they loved, better. Craigslist and its chief executive, Jim Buckmaster, did not return repeated requests for comment.
Age:The bit we're interested in, Samsung Electronics, is 43.Appearance:Big. And shiny.What the hell does that mean?It's active in more than 60 countries, employs over 200,000 people, and sells more smartphones than anyone else.So why haven't I heard of it?You're an&nbsp;idiot.There is that. And yet I have heard of another big company that makes smartphones. I can even name its charismatic, polo-neck-wearing former boss.That's because you keep reading about it in the Guardian. Some people complain Apple is the only technology company it's interested in.Yet here we are, proving them wrong.Er …What's the problem? We're writing about Samsung, aren't we?We certainly are. It's locked in a momentous legal struggle!Who with?Apple! But that's pure coincidence.Didn't they fall out over Samsung's funny,Apple-mocking adsin 2011?Yes, but this is a&nbsp;war not&nbsp;just a battle. Now the South Korean and American giants are fighting more than 20 cases across the world, including the US, the UK, Germany and Australia.Patents, design, that sort of stuff?In the US, what the Wall Street Journal calls "the patent trial of the century" is due to begin on Monday. Apple is claiming that Samsung's success is built on deliberate imitation, while Samsung is expected to argue that its rival's designs aren't as special as it would like to think, and that Apple has infringed some of Samsung's own patents.It's a bit childish, isn't it? "Please, sir, he's copying …"It's always messy when friends fall out. Apple buys components from Samsung.Is all this legal stuff necessary? Apple's not struggling, is it?Hardly. Profits were up 21% last quarter. However …There's always a however.Analysts were expecting better. Samsung, meanwhile,has posted a 48% increase, thanks largely to its Android-based Galaxy smartphones.What will happen if Samsung loses the case?It could be forced to take its products off the shelves, or simply change its designs. Mind you, that might not be a disaster. As a British judge has said, they're"not as cool" as Apple's.Do say:"It's the case everyone is talking about …"Don't say:"Look how snugly it fits my new&nbsp;iPhone."
Don't panic, I'm almost certain that Nasa won't actually be using a games console to control several billion dollars' worth of space gadgetry for their imminent"Curiosity" Mars mission. They have, however, created afree downloadable game, available for Xbox Kinect and in-browser for PC, to simulate descending through the red planet's atmosphere, a journey that has been dubbed the "seven minutes of terror".And so it's down to you to deploy the parachute and heat shield, before safely landing the trusty rover so it can tootle off looking for signs of life by snuffling about among the craters.As well as excellent graphics, Kinect's use of body movement and gestures is fun and surprisingly tricky: features that are lost in the PC version. This isn't about intricate gameplay though, rather an introduction to space science, with lots of fascinating facts making for plenty of gaming time. Clever enough to send a robot to Mars, it seems Nasa's rocket scientists have also managed to sneak a spot of (whisper it) learning into a videogame.
The latest trend on the internet is to step away from the internet, according to a growing band of American technology leaders and psychologists for whom the notion of the addictive power of digital gadgets is gaining sway.Although the idea of a clinical disorder of internet addiction was first mooted in the 90s and is now regularly treated by doctors on both sides of the Atlantic, attention is shifting from compulsive surfing to the effects of the all-pervasive demands that our phones, laptops, tablets and computers are making on us.In China, Taiwan and Korea, internet addiction is accepted as a genuine psychiatric problem with dedicated treatment centres for teenagers who are considered to have serious problems with their web use. Next year, America'sDiagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the authority on mental illness,could include "internet use disorder" in its official listings.In February, leaders of the largest social media companies will gather in San Francisco for theWisdom 2.0 conference. The theme for the \conference, attended by some of Silicon Valley's biggest names, is finding balance in the digital age. Richard Fernandez, Google's development director, has called it "quite possibly the most important gathering of our times".Fernandez plays a key role in Google's "mindfulness" movement. Aimed at teaching employees the risks of becoming overly engaged with their devices and to improve their concentration levels and ability to focus, he says teaching people to occasionally disconnect is vital. "Consumers need to have an internal compass where they're able to balance the capabilities that technology offers them for work with the qualities of the lives they live offline," he says.Newsweekrecently held up the case of Jason Russell, the film-maker behind theKony 2012 video. Russell's film went viral, bringing him fame as 70 million people watched it. After spending days online with little sleep, Russell had a psychotic breakdown – all digitally documented via social media on his Twitter and YouTube accounts. His wife said he had been diagnosed as having "reactive psychosis", which doctors had linked to his extreme internet exposure.It was an illustration, saidNewsweekwriter Tony Dokoupil, of the proof that was "starting to pile up" that the web wasmaking us more depressed, anxious and prone to attention deficit disorders than ever before. "The first good peer-reviewed research is emerging and the picture is much gloomier than the trumpet blasts of web utopians have allowed," said Dokoupil.Psychologists are deeply worried about the effects digital relationships are having on real ones. Facebook is working on plans tocurb anonymous "stalking"by allowing users to see who has visited any group of which they are a member – with the possibility in future of extending  that to allow people to see who has looked at their page."Checking Facebook to see what the ex is doing becomes a drug," according to psychologist Seth Meyers, who said the checking could quickly decline into obsessive-compulsive behaviour. Stuart Crabb, a director at Facebook, said people needed to be aware of the effect that time online has on relationships and performance.However, some doubt the notion of technology addiction, pointing instead to the rising demands of the workplace, where employees are working longer hours and then going home still tethered to devices pinging them emails and messages. "Are weaddicted to gadgetsor indentured to work?" asks Alexis Madrigal, a writer for theAtlantic. "Much of our compulsive connectedness… is a symptom of a greater problem, not the problem itself."
Continuity can greatly benefit serial fiction but, unfortunately, theKingdom Heartsseries has, over time, become overly mired in its long-form narrative. This latest Disney-cum-Final Fantasymash-up sends heroes Sora and Riku through various animated worlds to master mythical Keyblade weapons. Die-hards will no doubt be riveted, though newcomers will be utterly bewildered by the convoluted – and some would say contrived – saga that unfolds.Thankfully, the varied gameplay makesDream Drop Distancestill worth investing in. The introduction of "flowmotion", a parkour-like way of navigating the world at speed, makes battles considerably more dynamic, bouncing between enemies to perform special moves. Camera angles can be tricky to follow, though locking on to foes helps. Levelling up is a by-numbers RPG grind, though new skills are unlocked through a charming virtual pet system – an appreciably innovative touch, as is the "Dive Mode" mini-game used to journey between worlds.
Can anything bring the PC business back to life? Tallying up worldwide PC shipment calculations by the research companies Gartner and IDC, together with the revenue and profit figures from Microsoft, and Apple's computer sales numbers, it's clear that the Windows PC business is having a lousy time.Even Apple is hardly thriving; its computer shipments grew by just 1.8% on the previous year. Even so, it continued Apple's run, now 25 quarters long, of growing faster than the Windows PC business, which showed a very slight drop, down by 0.2% according to Gartner and IDC.There are three possible explanations for this: people are waiting for Microsoft to releaseWindows 8in October (as Microsoft has said it will); people are buying tablets instead of PCs; or people are so gloomy about the whole economic picture that they're putting off purchases.Figuring out the answer is essential to the long-term survival of Microsoft (the vast majority of whose profits come from Windows and Office licences) and to companies such as Dell and other PC makers that haven't managed to make the transition to the mobile world. After all, if this is just a passing economic storm, things should improve and so should Michael Dell's smile. But if not…?First, is the prospect of Windows&nbsp;8 really slowing down sales? Probably not. I've looked at quarterly PC sales figures going back to the start of 1998 and while there is always a lull before such releases, Microsoft times new versions of Windows to come out before Christmas – to ride the marketing wave with consumers, who have in the past bought around half of all PCs. New Windows releases get plenty of build-up and businesses know they're coming. So they don't really affect business sales and there don't seem to be that many consumers who hold off buying at those times.Which leaves us with two other potential culprits for the PC's decline: tablet sales or the gloomy world outlook, where the US and European economies are mired in jobless recoveries, or just plain old recessions.Let's take the second first. I compared the OECD's figures for the G20 economies' growth from 1998 to the start of 2012 with PC sales growth. Similarities? There are some – PC sales dipped like mad in 2001 as the US slid into recession, even though the Far East kept growth going; that's because most PC sales then were in the west.Since then, there's been the Lehmans-inspired crash of 2008, which pushed PC sales into negative territory, but since then, the G20's GDP has been fairly positive. PC sales growth, though, has been trending down far faster than GDP growth for the past eight quarters. And it has never done that before. Usually, over that 14-year span, PC shipment growth has been above the GDP trend. That means there must be something else at work. Eight quarters of downward trend takes us back to April 2010 – when Apple launched the iPad. So where has the PC growth gone? Mostly into Apple's coffers, where in the last quarter it sold 17m iPads – 68% of the worldwide tablet market.Sure, not every one of those iPads is a lost PC sale. But you have to suspect that it's making  a substantial difference. If you buy an iPad (or aGoogle Nexus 7, as a lot of people are presently doing) that's money you don't have to spend on a PC. Add up the money spent on tablets and consider that it could have gone on PCs and you realise why Microsoft announced in June that it was to sell its own tablet, theSurface, running Windows 8, available some time before Christmas. The Surface and its brethren might do just as well as the iPad.We're choosing tablets because more and more we want to do things – well, computing things – on the move. I see people pull out tablets in situations where they wouldn't pull out a laptop: a commuter waiting on a platform for a train, a mother giving her child something to play with, a business person handing a demonstration around in a meeting. Computing has changed from being something you go to a computer to do to something that the computer comes with you to do. It's a subtle change, but world-altering for PC makers.To a large extent, people who buy the iPad over other devices don't care whether it's a "walled garden" controlled by Apple and they don't care about the fights that go on between Apple and Android fans.  They like the mobility. So the Surface might be a hit (depending on price) – if it offers Windows with extra mobility.Which only leaves one tricky question: is the Surface a tablet or a PC? That's one where the teams at Gartner and IDC go quiet. It looks like a tablet, but it runs Windows, which is the desktop operating system. Maybe the way to get the PC market to grow again is by redefining other stuff as a PC too. The only problem then is that it might require including the iPad. If that happens, Apple becomes the world's largest PC manufacturer. And I don't think Microsoft would like that. It's going to be a long summer.
The head of the American government's secretive National Security Agency has taken the unprecedented step of asking a convention of computer hackers to join him in an effort to make the internet more secure.In a speech to the 20th annual Def Con gathering in Las Vegas, the four-star general Keith Alexander stressed common ground between US officials and hackers, telling them privacy must be preserved and that they could help by developing new tools."You're going to have to come in and help us," Alexander told thousands of attendees.The conference founder, Jeff Moss, known in hacking circles as the Dark Tangent, told the conference he had invited Alexander, who rarely gives speeches, because he wanted them to learn about one of the world's "spookiest, least known" organisations.Attendees were respectful and gave modest applause, though several said they were concerned about secret government snooping and the failure of authorities thus far to stop foreign-backed attacks."Americans pay taxes so that federal agencies can defend them," said a researcher who asked not to be named. "I see it as a hard sell asking a business entity to spend money for the common good."Alexander won points by wearing the hacker "uniform" of jeans and a tee shirt, wandering the halls and praising specific hacking efforts, including intrusion detection tools and advances in cryptology.He also confronted civil liberties concerns that are a major issue for many researchers devoted to the internet.Taking questions screened by Moss, Alexander denied that the NSA had dossiers on millions of Americans, as some former employees have suggested."The people who would say we are doing that should know better," he said. "That is absolute nonsense."Alexander used the speech to lobby for a cyber security bill moving through the Senate that would make it easier for companies under attack to share information with the government and each other as well as give critical infrastructure owners some reward for adhering to future security standards."Both parties see this as a significant problem," he said, adding that the experts like those at Def Con should help in the process. "What are the standards that we should jointly set that critical networks should have?"In addition to conducting electronic intelligence gathering, primarily overseas, the defence-department-controlled NSA is charged with protecting the American army from cyber-attacks.Increasingly, it has been sharing its findings with the FBI to aid in criminal cases and with the department of homeland security, which warns specific industries of new threats.Displaying a slide with the logos of several dozen of companies breached by criminals or spies in the past two years, Alexander said only the most competent even knew they had been hacked."There are 10 times, almost 100 times more companies that don't know they have been hacked," he said.
Britain has quietly agreed to measures that could increase the ability of the security services to intercept online communications, experts say.Although the Home Office is at pains to stress that the draft communications and data bill, which is going through parliament, will not involve checking the content of emails and social media, experts say British officials have been simultaneously involved in international moves that could allow increased interception of online data – moves that will not be subject to the scrutiny of MPs.The European Telecommunications Standards Institute (Etsi), the body that sets industry standards, has agreed measures that analysts say could force internet service providers to ensure that their systems meet government standards for intercepting communications.The government's data bill restricts the authorities to only being able to see who is contacting whom, when, where and how, while the content of online communications would remain private unless a court warrant was obtained.A joint scrutiny committee of MPs and peers, set up following widespread  concerns about increased intrusion following the unveiling of the draft bill last month, is understood not to have been informed of the Etsi standards, which critics say could precipitate an escalation in state surveillance.While the bill does not authorise interception, experts warn that there is nothing in the proposals that prevents the authorities from then installing their own hardware capable of intercepting the communications network.A draft report from the Etsi technical committee on lawful interception, dated April 2012, indicates that standards have been agreed that could lead to increased data interception. It reveals that measures have been agreed to monitor "nomadic access", which means surveillance of an individual whether they go online from their home computer, mobile or an internet café. To facilitate this, service providers "must implement a Cloud Lawful Interception Function (Clif)" that could mean the installation of a new monitoring interface "or more likely ensuring presentation of information in a format recognisable to interception mechanisms".Etsi has faced criticism in the past for the pre-emptive inclusion of wiretapping capabilities, a decision that critics say encouraged European governments to pass their wiretapping laws accordingly. According to Ross Anderson, professor in security engineering at the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory, the institute has strong links with the intelligence agencies and has a significant British contingent, along with a number of US government advisers.The development has led to fears among civil liberties campaigners that the bill could become a stepping stone towards plans to monitor and control access to content.Anderson said: "It's an absolutely massive extension of state surveillance. At present the government can watch anybody. What they want in the future is to get into a position where the government can watch everybody."They are saying this is only about communications data, but in fact it is not. If you build the infrastructure that Etsi have agreed, it can be used for interception. The documents show that there is a clear and continuing intention to use it for interception."Some experts believe that allowing the government to install its own hardware at internet service providers, as currently proposed by the bill, would have to comply with the Etsi standards and would lead to interception of an individual's online content.Nick Pickles, director of the privacy and civil liberties campaign group Big Brother Watch, said: "We're seeing moves at an international level to make it easier for the content of communications to be intercepted. For Home Office officials behind the communications data bill, spying on who we are emailing or Skyping is not their final objective. Officials from Britain are working internationally to force service providers to ensure that their systems are easy to tap into."He said it was worrying that the Etsi standards had not been disclosed to the committee of MPs and peers, introduced as one of the safeguards following opposition to the proposals. The committee will examine all aspects of the draft bill and is expected to report in November.However, a Home Office spokesman said there were no plans to collect the content of online data. "It is simply untrue to suggest we would be able to collect the content of communications data. The changes we are making only relate to the who, where and when of communications data. The interception of the content of any communications is a completely separate matter and continues to be strictly controlled by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, requiring a warrant signed by the secretary of state."
This is the only bike I've tested that has made me blush. It's an exhibitionist's bicycle, an I'm-mad-me steed. A ludicrous contraption so wilfully wacky you may as well go the whole hog and pedal around with "You don't have to be crazy to ride this bike, but it helps!" embossed on your helmet."Why are you riding a triangle?" I'm sure that's what everyone was thinking. If I caught them checking out my wheels, I reddened, desperate to tell them this wasn't my bike. I hadn't paid £500 for this silly contraption. I'm notlikethat.One question recurred: what's the point? I struggled to find one. Sure, I was able to appreciate the oil-free Kevlar belt, which replaces a normal chain – every commuter bike should have one. I had respect for the super-reactive disc brakes and I could see how the meerkat-ish riding position would be handy for a bad back and a good view of the road. But why bother with a folding bike that, even when compact, was the size of a set of golf clubs.So I asked the inventor.Mark Sanderscame up with the Strida for his final project 25 years ago at Imperial College and the Royal College of Art but has long since sold the company. "Maybe you just don't like it?" he said in a very cheery email. "Itisa radical bicycle :-) Don't worry, it's a 'Marmite product' – people seem to love it or hate it. It is not a bland, me-too product." It has "chutzpah", he added.He admitted that, in the UK, the homegrown Brompton is "thefolding bike". But, he said, "in Asia, where it is now made [Taiwan], this is reversed – Strida is seen as contemporary and less agricultural than most folding bikes. Even in countries like Russia and China they sell many more Stridas than [in the] UK. There are even several fake Strida factories in China – government-sponsored... grrrrrrr!!"I confessed I had problems with the feathery steering, which Sanders described as "super-manoeuvrable" but just made me feel vulnerable.The unusual fold, inspired by the classic Maclaren pushchair, has its own advantages, Sanders insists. The idea is for the bike to convert quickly into a "stick-with-wheels" that fits neatly in corners. He insists you can stuff it in a golf bag and get it on a plane – I was planning to take it to the car-free Channel Island ofSark, but once I'd struggled handling the thing on London's flat tarmac, I decided against trialling it on Sark's up-and-down dirt tracks. The single gear would have been fine – I actually found it too low for most of my cycling around the plains of north London – but I didn't trust myself to stay in the saddle. No&nbsp;chutzpah, me.Strida LTPrice£499 frombikerepublicstore.co.ukWeight9.6kgGearsOneMeasurements (folded)114cm x 51cm x 23cmAdded extrasKevlar chain, back rack and rear LED
Google is facing a fresh privacy blunder after it admitted it had not deleted all of the private data, including emails and passwords, it secretly collected from internet users around the UK.The search giant was ordered in December 2010 to delete the private information hoovered up by its Street View cars from open Wi-Fi networks.But on FridayGoogle told the Information Commissioner's Officethat human error prevented it from erasing the data, which could include the emails and passwords of millions of Britons.Google admitted in May 2010 its Street View cars had mistakenly collected private information as they photographed homes and landmarks around the world.It is not known exactly what private information was taken in the UK, but regulators in the US found traces of medical records and web browsing history among the so-called "payload" data.The news that Google has not purged all of the data taken from UK users 19 months after it was instructed to do so will cause further embarrassment for the company.On Friday, the ICO said the retention of the data appeared to be a breach of the undertaking signed by Google in December 2010.A spokesman for the ICO said it would now conduct a forensic analysis of the data, meaning Google could be fined up to £500,000 if the material is found to be in breach of the Data Protection Act.The company will be one of the first to have breached an undertaking by the ICO if the data is found to be in breach of the DPA.The ICO said in a statement: "The ICO is clear that this information should never have been collected in the first place and the company's failure to secure its deletion as promised is cause for concern."Google's global privacy counsel, Peter Fleischer, apologised for the error in a letter to the ICO on Friday. Google declined to comment beyond the letter, which waspublished on the ICO website.The technology company is already being investigated by the ICO over claims it orchestrated acover-up of the data collection in 2010.Google declined to say when it realised it had not deleted all of the data.Nick Pickles, director of privacy at the pressure group Big Brother Watch, said Google should never have been ordered to erase the information in the first place."We now have an opportunity to explore just how sensitive the information was," he said."Given that Google failed to respect people's privacy in the first place and subsequently failed to adhere to its agreement with the information commissioner, serious questions need to be asked to understand why Google seemingly sees itself as above the law."The information commissioner is hampered by a woeful lack of powers and is forced to trust organisations to tell the truth. Given Google's behaviour has called into question if that really is a proper way to protect our personal data, it must be right to now demand a proper regulator with the powers and punishments to fully protect British people's privacy."
Most gamers have heard of the classic multi-event sports simulations that tend to accompany events like the Olympics. Daley Thompson's Decathlon, International Track &amp; Field, and more recently Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games have all sought to capture the challenge of sporting competition for those of us who can barely use a hammer to put a picture on the wall let along throw one 80 metres.But, with the advent of digital distribution, online play and social gaming, as well as a more interesting, elastic concept of interactive entertainment, the 2012 Olympics is getting a few more offbeat tie-ins.On Saturday, for example, the brilliantly innovative studio Hide&amp;Seek is running99 Tiny Games, a collection of quick urban mini-games which will be placed all over London. Interested participants can check the website's Google map for their nearest activity, then head along to find the rules, which will be written out on a nearby wall or on the pavement. They're all different, all interactive and will provide you with a good excuse to explore familiar and unfamiliar areas of the capital.Hide&amp;Seek has run similar 'urban gaming' events in the past, and they're always a fascinating interplay of social, emergent and classical gaming elements. This one is part of Showtime, a festival supported by the Arts Council and designed to bring the Olympic spirit to as many different groups in the capital as possible. Get out there and try a tiny game, if you can.Just as interesting isBlind Football, a browser-based game that seeks to simulate the Paralympic sport. Developed by creative agency Drum and supported by Sainsburys, the title requires players to put on a pair of headphones and follow audio cues, listening for the shouts of team mates (and for the incoming ball, which contains a bell) to make accurate passes. It's certainly not the first game to use only sound rather than visuals, and it took me a while to understand what I was supposed to be doing, but it's a really interesting attempt to convey the experience of such a familiar sport from a very different perspective.Last and by all means least,Captive Mediais the creator of, ahem, 'the world's first contact-free, networked, washroom gaming system'. It's a sort of toilet games console that has been fitted into restrooms (you can tell I've just got back from the States) around the country, and which provides a screen where the onscreen action is controlled by the user's urinal flow. To 'celebrate' the Olympics, the company has launched a new 100m Dash game. Participants control it by, and I quote, "directing their pee stream at targets in the urinal. The truer their aim, the faster their character sprints".Apparently it's possible to post your score to a worldwide leader board or to tweet it to friends. If you insist on taking the pee out of the Olympics this summer, this might be the most effective demonstration of your sporting contempt.
At its heart, Dead Space is a game about being alone. About being alone in a dark corridor hurtling through an uncaring void, with mutated creatures that were once human shambling towards you.Dead Space 3 is exactly like that, except you're not in a corridor. And it's not dark. And the enemies were never human. And you're on a planet. And you're not alone.How, then, is it Dead Space?Many people (around half the internet at last count) weighed in with this opinion when the title was unveiled at E3 in June. But the sound and fury of the Electronics Entertainment Expo are a difficult game to play, given the ridiculous levels of fresh content that crops up every year.Studios have to show that they've grown, but not outgrown their fans; that they've built on their previous successes, but aren't cutting loose intrinsic parts of their franchises in the quest for innovation.Are two heads better than one?The innovation in question is a co-operative mode, a first for the horror franchise, which sees vivisection enthusiast and glowing headcase Isaac Clarke teaming up with a gruff, no-nonsense military type in the form of Sgt John Carver.Isaac, despite starting off as a mute doll for the player to steer through terrifying situations, has blossomed as a character since the series' inception. In struggling with the Necromorphs – horrendous zombie-like things from beyond the stars – he's gone mad. He's not a soldier, he's an engineer.In the first game, most of his weapons were made of hastily-modified scientific equipment. By all rights, he never should have survived the first two games, and his sanity is having real problems coping with the implications of what he's done.Carver, conversely, is a space marine, in that he is a marine that operates predominantly in space. He wears big red armour and has a shaved head and a bunch of scars and he uses the f-bomb like most people use simple hesitations or breathing in.His wife? Dead. His child? Not among the living. He is the very essence, at first glance, of a bullet-spraying cardboard cutout that swings around a big gun and shouts at baddies when they run away. There might well be more to his character than this, but if there is, it's not to be seen in the demo.What there is to be seen is action, and plenty of it. With the addition of Carver into the mix, the two characters chat to each other in cut-scenes (providing a much richer story than Isaac's quiet progression through the narrative, which is something) and during combat – but listening to your ally tell you where to shoot a monster is less panic-stricken than, say, furiously shooting at it yourself and hoping something will drop off.Trust me, I'm an engineerThat said, creeping horror being replaced with frantic stress isn't a bad thing. Double the number of guns means additional enemies on screen and concurrent objectives to solve, which may not equal double the amount of horror, but it does open up new elements of gameplay.In one section, a giant drill spins and rotates around a circular arena in a blatant contravention of established health and safety laws while hungry Necromorph monsters creep out of the woodwork and try to tear the heads off Isaac and Carver with their additional limbs.One player must deal with the drill (by slowing it down with their suit's Statis field, a series staple that's normally used to stun enemies, and shooting out the engine) while the other fends off the alien horde. It's not a new idea by any means, but it's nice to see.The fear isn't whether a corpse is going to shamble back to life and start ripping off arms, but whether both parties involved are doing their jobs. Dead Space 3 asks you to put your hands in the life of another, and that's an entirely different – and entirely valid – kind of scare.The other change from the standard pattern is the addition of human enemies to the mix. Up until now, Isaac's limited his vivisectional tendencies to the grotesque horrors that are Necromorphs; but now – with their human servants, the Unitologists, becoming more desperate – he'll find squads of armoured men with machine guns trying to kill him on a semi-regular basis.Sawing off their legs and stamping on them is appropriately grim, but entirely optional – unlike your normal foes, they can be shot in the chest and killed quickly thanks to their human physiology.Back to the old schoolDuring the hands-on, though, it became apparent that there was more to the game than co-op battles on desolate ice planets. During one level set earlier in the game, Isaac explores a derelict ship floating adrift in space and finds – who'd have thought it – Necromorphs, who try to kill him. This is the same old-fashioned terror that the series has dined out on so far: Isaac is under-prepared and struggling to make his way through rusty corridors while too many monsters burst out of the pipework too close to his face.The same scares are still scary, which is testament to Visceral's ability to effectively program a futuristic haunted house. Approaching a dead body is still wrought with tension, and when it stands up (and they do often stand up) there's still a little thrill of excitement as you struggle to deal with an enemy that is suddenly within killing distance.The traditional elements, then, are far from gone – players are still lopping the limbs off horrific enemies in a fight to survive, which is rather the point. The story, too, is still Dead Space, but different. It's evolved. There's talk of the ice planet that Isaac and Carver walk across holding the key to the origins of the Necromorphs and, it's hoped, the key to their destruction. For fans of the series, that's an exciting prospect.None of this is mandatoryIt's important to note that having a co-operative mode in a game doesn't mean you have to play it – the game is fully wired to be played alone, first, and then a second time with a friend on a higher difficulty with improved weapons earned on the first playthrough.Complaining about an optional co-op mode in a horror game, especially when the secondary character is nowhere to be seen on a single-player run, is a bit like complaining Bioware got gay in your Mass Effect and your heterosexual Shepard isn't going to go anywhere near a galaxy where he might be able to kiss a man on the mouth. Silly, basically.• Dead Space 3 is due for release on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in February 2013
A selection of 16 new and notable apps for you today:Pixel'dThis is Disney's latest iOS app, and perhaps its most intriguing yet. It's a pixel-art app where you create images, including using stamps of Disney characters from Mickey Mouse through to Cars. These can be animated over 20 frames, and shared on various social networks.iPhone / iPadTime Out London for iPadEarlier this year, Time Out launched a whizzy new iPad app for New York: less about presenting the pages of its magazine, and more about a city guide for restaurants and tourist hotspots. Now London is getting the same treatment, with editors' picks and personalisation features to learn from your preferences over time.iPadNexus QAs Google's Nexus Q home entertainment device starts to ship in the US, its official app should pick up some download steam. Once installed, it enables Android users to stream music and video from the separate Google Play and YouTube apps to the device, and thus onto speakers and screens around the home.AndroidYahoo! Sports Beyond Gold 2012Yahoo's latest iOS app launches just in time for the Olympic Games, promising news, results, medal counts, photos and other content. It includes the ability to drill down by specific sport.iPhone / iPadPhotorouteThis is a really good idea: an app from Enabled City for "accessible, editable route maps" in London, aimed at people with physical and learning disabilities, as well as people speaking English as a second language. That means step-free routes for people using wheelchairs, and photos taken along each route to aid navigation.Android / iPhoneClara Button and the Magical Hat DayClara Button started life in a printed book published by the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum in London. Now the V&amp;A has taken her digital, working with developer MAPP Editions on this iPad book-app. The story is set in the V&amp;A itself, with lovely illustrations and lots of interactivity for children.iPadBeat GeekDigital music startup TuneWiki has launched a new mobile game, Beat Geek, which aims to test the trivia knowledge of music fans around the world. It's a freemium title that sees you competing against friends and other players, with power-ups to provide a leg-up. The App Store listing alludes to cross-platform play against Android, so expect a version for Google-powered devices soon too.iPhone / iPadAsphalt 7: HeatGameloft's racing franchise has a long history on mobile phones, with its seventh incarnation now available for Android. There are more than 60 cars, 15 tracks around the world, and a choice of online or local multiplayer.AndroidBar Fight LiveDeveloper Kempt is billing this as "the world's first crowd-sourced, live app development", which means players get to provide feedback on how the game should evolve from within the app itself. "The game will star legendary Hollywood hero Stunt Guy. It'll be about a fight… in a bar. Beyond that – we don't know!"iPhone / iPadNHM EvolutionThe Natural History Museum in London has debuted an iPad app crunching in 750MB of content from the last 600 million years of life on Earth. Not just dinosaurs, although they're understandably part of the mix. The book-app includes data and images on 100 key fossil sites and more than 800 creatures and plants.iPadMarie Claire Runway A/W/12IPC Media's Marie Claire magazine has released its latest fashion app, which edits together animation and video from 10 fashion shows in New York, London, Milan and Paris showing off clothing for the coming season – complete with editors' thoughts on the key clobber.iPadMumdergroundFile this alongside Photoroute when it comes to accessible London travelling, although the target audience here is different: mums. It's a journey-planning app for the tube to help people choose stations that are more pushchair-friendly. Although someone should tell the developer that dads take children around London too...iPhoneRelevanceRelevance is the latest mobile app looking to bring more, well, relevance to Twitter and Facebook feeds. It promises to analyse your social graph to make sure it serves up the tweets and status updates that will be most interesting to you, including using data on your actions and reading to refine its algorithm.iPhoneCity of Secrets"Want to see my Mole?" asks the Google Play listing for City of Secrets. Well, that's quite an offer. But this is actually a game about a mole – Mr Moles, in fact – who stars in a point-and-click adventure game promising "revolution, mystery, and adventure".AndroidDomestosAs branded iPad games go, this may take some beating. "Play the germ buster game to destroy those 'menacing nasties' that lurk in your home and learn about the benefits of Domestos over thin bleach."iPadClarks KidsBut while we're on a branded games tip... This one for shoe retailer Clarks squeezes in augmented reality, Kimberly Wyatt formerly of the Pussycat Dolls, and a matching-shoes memory game. No information about the merits of thin bleach, as far as I'm aware.iPhone
Yeah, Friday! What are you up to this weekend? Any gaming, or just mowing the lawn?
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook shares fall after social network posts modest results &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukIn case you missed it. Facebook revenues up slightly, to $1.18bn, in three months to 30 June. Net loss of $157m.Facebook Reports Second Quarter 2012 Results &gt;&gt; FacebookHere's the dope.Facebook Is Said to Work With HTC on Mobile Phone for Mid-2013 &gt;&gt; BloombergBloomberg reports:The companies had intended to release the device as early as the end of this year, and pushed back the timetable to give HTC more time to work on other products, said some of the people, who requested anonymity because the plans aren't public. Facebook is also developing a modified operating system for the device and has assembled a team of former Apple Inc. (AAPL) programmers to improve its iPhone application, people said.Zuckerberg: It Wouldn't Make Sense For Us To Make A Phone &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHe also said this last year (or 2010) in a rare interview with Michael Arrington at TechCrunch. So, what's changed?Facebook Careers &gt;&gt; FacebookFacebook is hiring six engineers based in London.The companies had intended to release the device as early as the end of this year, and pushed back the timetable to give HTC more time to work on other products, said some of the people, who requested anonymity because the plans aren't public. Facebook is also developing a modified operating system for the device and has assembled a team of former Apple Inc. (AAPL) programmers to improve its iPhone application, people said.The Apple-Samsung Trial: What Samsung Will Attempt to Prove &gt;&gt; WSJFrom Samsung's legal document:Contrary to the image it has cultivated in the popular press, Apple has admitted in internal documents that its strength is not in developing new technologies first, but in successfully commercializing them. . . . Also contrary to Apple's accusations, Samsung does not need or want to copy; rather, it strives to best the competition by developing multiple, unique products.Apple Claims Google Warned Samsung Against Copying iPhone, iPad &gt;&gt; AllThingsDFrom Apple's legal document:"Samsung's documents show the similarity of Samsung's products is no accident or, as Samsung would have it, a 'natural evolution. Rather, it results from Samsung's deliberate plan to free-ride on the iPhone's and iPad's extraordinary success by copying their iconic designs and intuitive user interface. Apple will rely on Samsung's own documents, which tell an unambiguous story."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Facebook shares have plummeted as the company failed to scotch concerns that the social network will struggle to profit in a mobile world.In its first results presentation as a public company, Facebook announced revenues of $1.18bn (£750m) for the three months ending 30 June. The results were just ahead of analysts' expectations and came after US stock markets had closed.Facebook's shares had been falling all day on Thursday, ending down 8.5% at $26.84, as investors feared the company would miss analysts' projections. They continued to fall in after hours trading, dipping below $25 for the first time since May's initial public offering.The company reported it had 955 million monthly active users as of June 30, 2012, an increase of 29% year-over-year. The number of mobile users reached 543 million as of June 30, 2012, an increase of 67% year-over-year. For the second quarter, Facebook posted a loss of $157m.Mobile use has worried investors as Facebook has admitted it has as yet found it hard to make money off those accounts.Sam Hamadeh, founder of PrivCo analysts, said it appeared that 57% of Facebook's users were now mobile, up from 54% last quarter."That's a serious problem for them. I don't think that they can innovate fast enough to keep up with that shift," he said. "The results are a 'meh'. They are a little better than expectations but not enough for you to call this anything other than a miss."The shift to mobile platforms has been further underlined in recent weeks.Last week, Apple announced it had sold 26m iPhones, 17m Pads and 4m Macs in the third quarter. Google's Nexus 7 tablet sold out across the US within days of its launch."Our goal is to help every person stay connected and every product they use be a great social experience," Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and chief executive, said in the earnings release."That's why we're so focused on investing in our priorities of mobile, platform and social ads to help people have these experiences with their friends."In a conference call with analysts, Zuckerberg said the firm was concentrating its efforts on mobile services. "Our vision for platform is bigger than most people perceive," he said.The results are the first since Facebook's disastrous stock market debut on 18 May. Facebook priced shares at $35 ahead of its long-anticipated initial public offering but after briefly soaring, the share price crashed and has remained below that price ever since.The company and its bankers now face legal action from shareholders who have accused them of selectively handing out negative information to some large shareholders ahead of the sale. Delays in the start of the sale and other issues are also being investigated by regulators.The fall came as shares in Zynga, the social gaming company responsible for 12% of Facebook's revenues, hit an all time low on Thursday after it issued disappointing results.
Twitter users have been hit by a blackout on the social networking site just a day before an expected surge in traffic for the Olympics Games opening ceremony.The twitter.com website was down for about two hours on Thursday because of a technical fault, although service was still partially accessible through its mobile site and some third-party applications.In a message to users, the company said: "Howdy folks, looks like we're experiencing a small interruption of Twitter.com and some mobile clients."On its network status page, it wrote: "Users may be experiencing issues accessing Twitter. Our engineers are currently working to resolve the issue."A spokeswoman for the company said she could not offer any reason as to why the site had crashed and it is not yet known what caused the fault, which was resolved by around 6pm.Twitter is expected to be one of the main social networking sites used by sports fans and athletes during the Olympics. Sporting events regularly attract an increase in activity on the site, and during the Euro 2012 final this month, users posted more than 15,000 tweets a second.There are more than 2,000 verified Olympians, past and present, signed up to use the service, but athletes have been warned about their Twitter use during the Games.London 2012 chairman Seb Coe said last week: "I have found quite a close correlation between the number of tweets at competitive times and the level of under-performance."
Not a good week for Zynga shareholders, it's fair to say. At the time of writing, the social games publisher's share price is $3.06, having plunged nearly 40% following the company's announcement of its financial results for the second quarter of 2012.Revenues rose 19.1% year-on-year to $332.5m, but the company reported a net loss of $22.8m compared to a $1.4m net profit in Q2 2011. Analysts had expected greater revenues and another small profit, hence the stock-market punishment after the figures were revealed.Why did the financials fail to meet expectations? Zynga's chief executive Mark Pincus gave three key reasons in the company'sanalyst call.They were: changes to Facebook's viral algorithms that benefited new games but penalised older titles including several of the company's key cash cows; the delayed launch of Zynga's newest Facebook game The Ville; and the fact that its Draw Something game "underperformed versus our early expectations".Pincus went on to lay out the areas Zynga feels will drive its business forward over time: Facebook in the near term, mobile in the medium term, and then Zynga's own platform in the long term.The company's much-scrutinised relationship with Facebook is obviously the key to that short-term growth, as Zynga adapts to changes in the social network's algorithms, and tries to ensure it can remain top dog against a renewed charge from recent rivals like Wooga and King.com.It's the medium-term growth from mobile that's interesting, though: you can tell from the call and from Pincus'statementshow important mobile is to Zynga strategically:"We grew our mobile footprint five-fold in the year to 33 million daily active users [DAUs] making Zynga the largest mobile gaming network. We also faced new short-term challenges which led to a sequential decline in bookings," he said."Despite this, we're optimistic about the long-term growth prospects on mobile where we have a window of opportunity to drive the same kind of social gaming revolution that we enabled on the web."33m daily active mobile users certainly isn't to be sniffed at, although Rovio might run it close with Angry Birds, and the active user totals of Japanese networks DeNA and GREE are unclear.The challenge now for Zynga is to build mobile success on a similar scale to its Facebook dominance, when many of the viral and advertising tools that fuelled its growth on the latter aren't as efficient in the mobile world.A quick look at the top grossing charts on Facebook's web-based App Center, Apple's US App Store for iPhone and Google Play for Android shows the challenge. On Facebook, four of the five top-grossing games are Zynga's.On iPhone, just one is: fifth-placed Poker by Zynga, behind CSR Racing, Kingdoms of Camelot, Rage of Bahamut and DragonVale. On Android, it's a similar story, with Poker Zynga's sole entry in the top five.To put it another way: if Zynga is to grow rapidly in mobile it faces a helluva scrap that can't be won by flexing its marketing musclesin the same waythat it does on Facebook. And on iOS, it will find a platform owner (Apple) even more resolute than Facebook in its desire to not have one company dominate, and thus call the shots.Which is not to say Zynga doesn't have some advantages on mobile. Those 33m DAUs can provide a powerful launchpad for new Zynga mobile games at a time when mobile publishers are waking up the importance of having their own networks for cross-promotion.Zynga also has the financial reserves to punch its weight in any mobile games industry consolidation, including picking up innovative games as they emerge. It's just that the company can't always get its own way: indie games Tiny Tower and Fruit Ninja both out-gross the Zynga games that they inspired (Dream Heights and Zombie Swipeout respectively), which would be extremely unlikely on Facebook.And Draw Something? Pincus told analysts that Zynga is "advancing in the Draw Something franchise to build on the brand in future games", while there's also a TV pilot in the works – a sign that Draw Something may contribute to Zynga's future revenues in ways other than in-app purchases and advertising.In short, it's way too early to say that Zynga is failing in mobile, but also way too early to discern if it can repeat its Facebook success. That's one of the reasons why the mobile games market is currently such a fascinating place.
Leading casual game developer Popcap has created a new app for fans of its hit tower defence title, Plants vs Zombies.Due out later this year on iOS devices, Zombatar will allow players to build their own 3D zombie characters – choosing each monster's trousers, shirts, hair and shoes – as well as a series of facial features and dance moves.Users can then interact with the creatures, pointing at the screen to get them to pull off a range of jerking responses.Completing the package, players can choose to add 3D zombies to their own photos or videos – any snaps can be enhanced with small animated zombies superimposed over backgrounds. Images will then be available to download to computer or to share over social networks.Cleverly, Zombatar will also allow users to communicate with their zombie lessors. A speech recognition feature lets fans shout commands at their onscreen dead, only to hear responses being fired back by the rotting charges.It's an amusing little diversion, clearly aimed at fans who didn't want their zombie fiction curtailed by the stifling demands of the original story.It's not a game as such – more an extension of the zombie customisation elements in previous tittles. However, the sheer range of T-shirts, jackets, hats and shoes (with more available to those willing top pay via micro-transactions) will no doubt seduce fans.Popcap has also confirmed that its latest casual gaming phenomenon, Solitaire Blitz, is coming to iOS devices later this year.The card game derivative will be compatible with iPhones and iPad, and cross-platform functionality will allow players to take part on PC or Mac, as well as smartphone.The touchscreen interface works well, especially as the card-sliding element speeds up to meet the increasing competence of the player.So, an app that allows you to superimpose zombies on your photos and an artful translation of Solitaire to iOS. This might not be the announcement bomb that some wanted from this week's Casual Connect conference in pop cap's home town of Seattle, but these are neat additions to the Popcap catalogue, and they'll do until the company finally reveals what its workers have really been beavering away on for the past 18 months.
Years ago I had an Amstrad 8512 word processor with program that allowed one to scan the individual letters of one's handwriting, and turn letters into a font that could be used in Locoscript, Amstrad's resident word processor. Do you know of any similar program available for a PC (Windows XP), preferably free or at an affordable price?Peter BannA lot of websites now offer services that convert your handwriting into a font. The process is usually the same: download a template and print it out, write characters in the lettered boxes, scan the resulting template, upload the scan to the website, and finally, download and install your font. If there's a choice, you will probably want a TrueType (TTF) font for Windows.Sites that offer this service include Kevin and Amanda'sFonts For Peas,YourFontsandMyScriptFont. However, Amanda publishes handwriting fonts and doesn't convert all the ones she is sent. (She doesn't like making "old-fashioned cursive fonts".)FontCapturenow goes toYourFonts, and while it's probably still free, the site obviously wants to sell you a font management program.Fontifiercharges $9 (£5.73) to download the font after you have seen a free preview,Writing Fontscharges $9.95, andHandFontcharges $8.95.MyFirstFonthas a tutorial that takes you through the process of making the font yourself.The very popularPilot Handwritingsite isn't working for me at the moment and may have gone, though Pilot is obviously still in business making my favourite G2 and G-Tec-C4 pens.A business that's after a higher quality result could try Somerset-basedQuantum Enterprises, which offers six services. A basic font generated using the usual online system costs £4.95, while its semi-automated Standard service (more suitable for cursive handwriting) costs £6.95. At the top of the range, however, it offers Premium and Premium Ultra services at prices up to £84.95. This includes manual editing of fonts based on analysing your real handwriting, not just writing characters in boxes.Looking up words in Microsoft WordCan you recommend any software that provides a spell check facility on Word documents, that also includes definitions of each option? In a hurry, it is all too easy to grab the wrong correction for a spelling when you are only presented with a list of words. Babylon translation software displays word options with definitions, but it is not reliable.Gill GeddesOne of the least-known features of Microsoft Word is that it has had a dictionary and thesaurus look-up service built in since Word 2003. It's very easy to use: you just hold down the Alt key while mouse-clicking the word you want to look up. This will open a Research Pane to the right of your document, with entries from several sources. These include Microsoft's Encarta Dictionary and an English language thesaurus, but you can select from a range of offerings.A slower alternative to Alt-clicking is to right-click a word and select Look Up from the drop-down menu.The problem is that all the reference books and website resources are online, not stored on your PC. Even if you restrict the look-up to Encarta Dictionary, it takes a second or two to fetch the result. This is bearable if you only want to look up the odd word from time to time, but not if you want definitions for everything.Instead, your best option is probablyWordWeb, which is described as: "A comprehensive one-click English thesaurus and dictionary for Windows. It can be used to look up words from almost any program, showing definitions, synonyms and related words. It includes pronunciations and usage examples, and has helpful spelling and sounds-like links." There are also WordWeb apps for Apple's iPhone and iPad and for Android devices.WordWeb 6.8 is free for modern versions of Windows (from Windows 2000 onwards). There is also a more powerful WordWeb Pro version for £14. To this you can add extra word-lists and the Oxford Dictionary of English (£19), the Chambers Dictionary and Thesaurus (£19) or the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary (£35).WordWeb lets you look up words in Microsoft Word and other applications by holding down the Control key and right-clicking on the word. It's as close as I can find to the Command-Control-D dictionary/thesaurus look-up that's built into Mac OS X. Since WordWeb is on your hard drive and runs from the SysTray in the Windows TaskBar, it's faster than using Word's Research Pane.Annoying mouse-oversI've noticed recently an increase in underlined words in news articles that, when you hover the mouse over them, open up a box to entice you into buying something, entering a draw, doing a survey etc. I use Firefox on Windows 7. Is there any way to disable them?LaurieThese popups are usually called "mouse-overs", and because they are built into web pages, they can be hard to disable. However, as a Firefox user, you may be able to block most of them by using theNoScriptadd-on. If it doesn't work on a particular site, trying making it an untrusted website. I don't know of anything as good for other browsers, but theKill Evilextension for Google Chrome, which I have not tried, says it "mercilessly removes" all sorts of annoying web tricks. Most of us probably just keep the mouse pointer away from underlined words, but perhaps Ask Jack readers can suggest other options….Link phishing?I have recently received two emails that seem to be part of some automated phishing initiative. I am not sure what they are trying to achieve, or where I can report this. I am sharing this because it is plausible, but it is clearly deceptive and therefore has a dishonest intention.Nigel LloydBoth of the emails start with the words "I am curious if you are the person responsible for adding content" to a specified web page, and aGoogle searchshows that lots of people have received similar emails. They are probably related to SEO (search engine optimisation). Specifically, they appear to be an attempt to get links from reputable websites to the senders' content farms. These backlinks would get them a higher rank in Google, and help them make more money from advertising. As web scams go, it seems relatively harmless, and not worth reporting, even if we could think who to report it to.Of course, even if you don't provide a link, or possibly some free content, replying to these emails might get you added to the databases of live addresses used by spammers.
A selection of 14 new and notable apps for you today:Muse 360Famous for their live pyrotechnics (both guitar-wise and actual-pyrotechnics-wise), Muse have a new app that promises fans the chance to "immerse yourself in the concert with full 360 degree views from 5 cameras where you control the show". Said show being the band's Reading Festival performance. The app is free, with individual songs costing 69p, or £4.99 for the set. The app is from Warner Music, whose technology partner Mativision made a similar app for Slash earlier in the year.iPhone / iPadBubble Witch SagaWith more than 40m players, King.com's Bubble Witch Saga (essentially Puzzle Bobble with pointy hats) has been a huge hit on Facebook. Now it's available on iOS as a free-to-play title, with more than 150 levels plus social features.iPhone / iPadDr. Seuss's The Cat in the Hat Color &amp; Create"Brush off your beret, shake out your smock, and get ready to color and create," suggests the App Store listing for Random House's new app, based on the TV show The Cat in the Hat Knows a Lot About That. This isn't a book, though: it's a licensed colouring app for iPad with digital crayons and brushes, stickers and characters from the Dr. Seuss universe.iPadIBM ThinkIBM's latest iPad app is "for kids, innovators and forward thinkers" looking to "address some of our most pressing challenges – from the grand to the everyday". Which means a 10-minute video about the patterns of human progress, an interactive timeline and other thought-provoking thought-provocations. The company wants people to chat about it using the hashtags #IBM and #THINK too.iPadWalking Dead: The GameGames firm Telltale has launched its official Walking Dead game for iOS: a five-part episodic game based on the original comic books, promising that it "explores some very dark psychological places". That means zombies, obviously. The next four episodes will be released over the coming weeks as in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadRevunote for EvernoteThis interesting Android app builds on Evernote's platform, aiming to "help you learn things off by heart using 'spaced repetition'. Some things are more useful in your head than they are in the cloud..." It involves tagging notes in Evernote that you want to review, then synchronising the Revunote app, which enables you to review them at intervals of one, three, seven, 14, 30 and 60 days (that's the "spaced" element).AndroidLondon Official City GuideLondon &amp; Partners' official city-guide app makes the leap from iOS to Android, promising event listings, special offers and walking-trail suggestions for the capital.AndroidSpy vs SpyGot fond memories of the C64, Apple or Atari versions of classic game Spy vs Spy? It's back for iOS, courtesy of developer Robots &amp; Pencils. The game involves two spies competing with booby-traps and beatings, in split-screen. The game supports local and online multiplayer, and has a choice of new 2012 visuals, or the original graphics.iPhone / iPadAupeo RadioPersonal radio service Aupeo is having a good go at competing with Pandora – not least with its availability outside the US. Now it's available on Windows Phone, prompting you to enter an artist, genre or musical topic to generate a skippable radio station.Windows PhoneCaillou StickersPre-school TV how Caillou has spawned a creative iOS app from Night &amp; Day Studios, which offers children 138 digital stickers to make their own pictures with. Scenes include a camping site, bus stop, farm and birthday party.iPhone / iPadBourne Legacy: Operation IntelI covered the iPhone version earlier this month, but NBC Universal's real-world adventure game has now been ported to Android. The idea: complete Google Maps-powered missions to unlock audio clips from The Bourne Legacy.AndroidSolaRolaAnyone who remembers the mobile games industry before the iPhone – yes, there was one – may remember SolaRola. Inspired by Sony's LocoRoco, it was a bouncy physics-driven adventure starring two ball-shaped heroes rolling and swinging their way through colourful levels. Now it's been updated for iOS.iPhone / iPadGet Your Flag OutGet Your Flag Out might look like a novelty app, in that it lets you display the flag of your favourite country (or countries) on your iPhone for the Olympic Games. The twist is that it also alerts you when up to three selected countries win medals, including the athlete's name and event.iPhoneParaNorman: 2-Bit BubLaika's new action-puzzle game for iOS ties into an upcoming "animated zombie comedy" film called Paranorman. It sees you controlling ghost-dog Bub through 30 levels, with the promise of more when the film comes out in August. Laika made the movie, and worked with game designer Graeme Devine on the game – his background is interesting, having worked at developers Trilobyte and id Software, he also held a games role at Apple between 2009 and 2010.iPhone / iPad
Facebook's maiden financial results as a listed company will not make pleasant reading.With founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg criticised for taking a back seatduring the company's disastrous Nasdaq listing, Wall Street will be hoping the founder steps forward with some reassuring remarks on Thursday evening's earnings call with analysts.After booking a $1.1bn (£710m) charge for share-based payouts to staff and early investors at the public offering, the social network is forecast by its lead bank Morgan Stanley to report a $673m loss before tax.Revenues are recovering from theirshock first quarter plunge, but while the consensus among analysts is that they will be up 30% year on year, growth is likely to be the slowest yet disclosed at Facebook.Even without the cost of the float, underlying earnings are not thought to have returned to their Christmas high point of $725m, and may have in fact fallen slightly from the last quarter to $593m.Bad news on Wednesday from Zynga, whose income is heavily dependent on the Facebook platform, has not helped calm the markets.Facebook's stock fell nearly 8% in after hours trading to $27.04 after Zynga reported results well below forecasts and slashed its outlook for the year.The company blamed the drop on Facebook, saying the social network made changes to its site that favoured new games, many from Zynga's competitors, over the company's existing games.Much of the social network's non-advertising income comes from Zynga, which shares profits for games played by Facebook users.Having celebrated his wedding and jetted off on honeymoon the weekend after his company's 17 May stock market debut, which saw the price crash as low as $26 days after its $38 launch, an appearance from the 28-year-old CEO could steady investor jitters."Zuckerberg should show up on the call, not necessarily to read the income-statement stuff, but to simply come on and make some strategic remarks, and be available to answer some strategic questions," said John Palizza, a business lecturer at Rice University in Houston. "He should be there to show he's engaged, he cares about the investor."More likely to be on the line at 5pm (New York time) to elaborate on Facebook's second-quarter results are chief financial officer David Ebersman and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's self-described "grownup" in the room and one of the company's best communicators.Analysts have been cutting their estimates in the past month, according to Bloomberg, with more than half rating the stock a hold, underperform or sell.Facebook has already warned that many of its users are now on mobile phones rather than desktop computers, and that advertising income on smartphone screens is harder to come by.Speaking at the annual Allen &amp; Company Sun Valley media conference earlier in July, Zuckerberg confirmed that his hardest job right now was figuring out how to adapt Facebook for mobile devices.And a recent study shows that the network's meteoric growth to 901 million users worldwide may be peaking. Over the past six months, Facebook's US user number is down 1.7%, and its popularity is declining in Hong Kong and Singapore, according to Capstone Investments, which used software to analyse activity on the site.But the company has at least one potentially magic revenue boosting bullet in its arsenal."Even one strategic change – charging for branded pages – would, in our view, nearly double Facebook's long-term revenue opportunity," according to Nomura bank analyst Brian Nowak.Brands are currently charged for advertising, but they can set up their own page for free. With many of the world's largest advertisers now using dedicated Facebook pages as one of their principal social media tools, many believe it is only a matter of time before the company begins charging them for the privilege, perhaps based on the level of usage and numbers of "likes".Morgan Stanley says other new initiatives could include launching a mobile and desktop advertising network, using the firm's expertise in placing contextually relevant ads to sell space on websites owned by others.Facebook made $3bn from contextual ads in 2011 and could generate a further $2bn a year by 2015, according to its bank.The company could also dive into e-commerce, charging commission on merchandise sold via its pages, with digital entertainment, clothing and travel likely to be popular with social shoppers.Handled correctly, the catch up with investors could be an opportunity to rekindle some of the enthusiasm that was extinguished in May.
Thursday morning and I'm at the last morning of the Casual Connect festival in Seattle. How are things in the UK?
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAnalysts just can't get Apple right, it's too innovative &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyHere are some of the most-quoted Apple analysts: Gene Munster, from Piper Jaffray has a bachelor's degree in "financial managment and new venture strategies;" Sean Wu has a BSc in economics; Atlantic Equities' James Corwell, given five stars by Yahoo's finance page for his accuracy in predicting Apple's stock performance holds a first class degree in mathematics from Cambridge; Toni Sacconaghi from Sanford C. Bernstein has a bachelor of science in electrical engineering from Brown University; and RBC's Mike Abramsky, has an MSc in engineering from MIT.Though these weren't the only analysts whose opinion drove Apple's "rare miss" headlines this quarter, a lack of high-tech, communications and scientific degrees (or training) underscores something, here. Centering on economics and finance, many analysts seem to ignore common sense and technological aspects of Apple's business that have led the company down the path of enduring success.Note the date when this was written. Still true.November 2009: RIM stock climbs on share buyback &gt;&gt; ReutersFrom November 2009:BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd announced a share buyback worth up to $1.2bn on Thursday, but analysts said competitive concerns will continue to exert pressure on the company's stock.The stock was then at $60. The stock now is about $7, so the $1.2bn of stock is now worth about $140m. RIM threw away $1bn on its own stock using cash that it badly needs now.A classic example of why stock buybacks are always a sign of management losing its focus.The 3 Phases of Owning a Computer &gt;&gt; The OatmealSo true.Meet the 'bots' that edit Wikipedia &gt;&gt; BBC NewsTo be precise, the bots that watch for vandalism. A fascinating piece.Asus, Lenovo, Toshiba, Samsung to launch Windows RT tablets this year. Others await Microsoft's permission in January &gt;&gt; Unwired ViewWhy are there so few Windows RT tablets announced?According to [the] Chinese Economic Times, each major Windows RT ARM chipset vendor - NVIDIA, Texas Instruments and Qualcomm - was allowed to select only two OEM partners for the original launch. NVIDIA got Lenovo and Asus, Texas Instruments chose Toshiba, and Qualcomm went with Samsung and HP. Now, that Hewlett-Packard decided not to do ARM tablet at first, Qualcomm might be working with Dell to fill the vacancy.Apparently, this restriction will be lifted in January. Why is Microsoft looking to restrict the number of Windows RT tablet makers at launch, though?Apple's Reality-Check Quarter In Charts &gt;&gt; SplatFBut the big-picture story is that this is a slower period ahead of the expected new iPhone and potential new iPad this fall (and maybe someday, a television). Apple's 23% year-over-year revenue growth was its slowest since 12% growth in the June 2009 quarter, and was almost down at Google's 21% level!You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple has released the latest version of its Mac operating system, dubbed OS X Mountain Lion.The new software includes close integration with Twitter and is available to download from the Mac app store from Wednesday. Facebook integration will be added later this year.TheOS X Mountain Lion releasemomentarily crashed Apple's app store,according to reports. TheLondon Internet Exchange, which monitors traffic levels from British broadband providers, said it had seen no noticeable rise in use in the hours after its release.The operating system introduces Apple's iCloud system, which allows users to wirelessly connect their emails, contacts and calendars across several computers, iPhones and iPads.It also includes a new notification centre, which aims to gather all of a user's online social activity in one place. A new dictation feature will enable users to dictate emails, documents and Facebook updates."People are going to love the new features in Mountain Lion and how easy it is to download and install from the Mac App Store," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing."With iCloud integration, Mountain Lion is even easier to set up, and your important information stays up to date across all your devices so you can keep editing documents, taking notes, creating reminders, and continue conversations whether you started on a Mac, iPhone or iPad."The operating system – costing £13.99 of $19.999 – has so far been met with mainly positive reviews.New York Times writer David Pogue described OS X Mountain Lion as "a gentle, thoughtful upgrade" and worth the retail price.However, the technology writer Brian Heater, for Engadget,wrotethat the software was "a fairly aggressive bid to fold the best of OSX and iOS into one product" and that "many of the latest new features feel a bit like iOS hand-me-downs".• This article was amended on 26 July 2012, because the original said OS X Mountain Lion includes close integration with Facebook. That feature is not in the newly released version of the operating system but will be added with an update to the software later this year.
Today Apple released Mountain Lion, its newest desktop operating system, but users are facing a host of problems as they attempt to download the highly anticipated system.Apple announced that it would release Mountain Lion today duringTuesday's third quarter earnings call, where they attributed the lower than expected figures to rumors of new products.The announcement caused excitement in tech circles and Mac fans were on social media in a display of enthusiasm:Ahhh Mountain Lion comes out tomorrow! Waiting til midnight to see if I can order it then :)#applefreak&mdash; Kassi Gruenberg (@hrtmnsevrythng8)July 24, 2012So who's camped outside their house all night waiting to be first in the Q at their MacBook to download OS X Mountain Lion?&mdash; Paul (@paulb323)July 25, 2012If you can get there, it's worth it, according to an an exhaustive 17-page review of the $19.99 operating system.The Next Web reportsthat Mountain Lion tries to unify Apple's desktop features with its incredibly popular mobile products.Critics are pleased with the results– especially its wallet-friendly pricing – but as users attempted to download the new system this morning, they faced several downloading issues.If I get 'error 100' one more time I'm going to eat something!! Potentially a Mars bar.&mdash; Jonathan Ogden (@ogvidius)July 25, 2012After closing my account, closing MAS, deleting Safari cookies and rebooting my Mac 9673 times I still get the Error 100. Not nice, Apple :(&mdash; Alberto Calvo (@pumpkin)July 25, 2012Error 100 trying to download Mountain Lion, don't Apple ever plan for the bandwidth needed during big updates?&mdash; Ian Dixon (@isdixon)July 25, 2012Apple sent me (and countless other users) a faulty Mountain Lion redeem code. Says "already been used." 45 mins with phone support, no joy.&mdash; Jeff Greenstein (@blue439)July 25, 2012problems with mountain lion huh? shoulda got windows&mdash; Jack32X (@Jack32X)July 25, 2012For those getting an Error 100, an iOS and OSX developerposted these troubleshooting directions online.If your redemption code is not working,the MacRumors forumis collecting responses from users with the same problem.On Twitter, New Mountain Lion users shared their initial takes on the new operating system:I sketched my review of Mac OSX Mountain Lion:twitter.com/SamSpratt/stat…&mdash; Sam Spratt (@SamSpratt)July 25, 2012First impressions are if u use Google &amp; Dropbox for most of ur online life…there's really very little to get excited about in Mountain Lion.&mdash; Zee M Kane (@Zee)July 25, 2012Already loving Mountain Lion. Notification Center is slick and the new Safari is FAST.&mdash; Gary Whitta (@garywhitta)July 25, 2012which of these 200 Features in Mountain Lion is worth to upgrade?#stillsearching&mdash; Martin Berger (@martinberx)July 25, 2012Did you download Mountain Lion? Have any tips on how to work around the bugs? Is it worth the pain? Tell us more...
Apple has released Mountain Lion, aka Mac OS X 10.8, the latest version of its Mac OS X desktop operating system, as a download from its Mac App Store for £13.99 ($19.99 in the US).The company says that it includes more than 200 new features (a figure that has been fairly consistent over other OS X releases), though the most important for many users will be the new Gatekeeper feature - to prevent malicious apps downloaded from the web from infecting machines - and the addition of iCloud functionality to many applications.It also brings a Notification Centre which mimics that found in the iOS software on the iPhone, voice dictation, AirPlay Mirroring to send audio or video streams to compatible devices from a Mac, and the Game Center function found on the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. A forthcoming update will add Facebook integration to apps.The release was foreshadowed by Apple's chief executive Tim Cook as he announced the company's financial results for the second calendar quarter on Tuesday night.As usual, the arrival of the new version has drawn a plethora of reviews: here's our collection of the runners and riders.The Next Web: Matthew PanzarinoIn a nutshell, OS X 10.8 is a generous helping of iOS-friendly syncing apps and services, with a sidebar of unfortunately poor Messages and a grab bag of 'most wanted' features and tweaks to Lion.It's absolutely worth the $20 price tag to upgrade, as there is more good here than bad, and that's super cheap.As Panzarino points out, the idea that Apple is trying to turn OSX into iOS doesn't make sense, since the latter came from the former (under the direction of Scott Forstall, now head of iOS). He notes:Mountain Lion continues the unification of Apple's platforms by adding even more features found on iOS to OS X. But it also contains a healthy sprinkling of small improvements and polishing notes that feel very reminiscent of its Snow Leopard release. That was an OS designed to polish up the rough edges of Leopard, a major game-changing release that was big on ideas and a bit short on execution.His conclusion? "OS X will get more features that sync seamlessly with portable devices, that work logically and without a lot of tweaking. It will come at the expense of easy tweaking and massaging, but it will make users lives simpler."(Panzarino's 17-page review isavailable in a single page.)Macworld: Jason SnellSnell gives it 4.5 mice (out of 5), noting that "At $20, Mountain Lion is Apple's cheapest OS X upgrade since version 10.1 was free 11 years ago". He points to how much tighter iCloud integration is (you're asked for an iCloud ID when you first set up; then documents you've created and saved to iCloud are stored and altered there).The traditional file system is beginning to be obscured - a path Apple went down in the Lion release when it hid the /user/Library directory (it's still there, like C:\Windows, but takes some accessing). "Many expert users will blanch at the concept of not using the traditional file system, but Apple believes that most computer users struggle with finding files and traversing file systems," Snell notes.Gatekeeperhas the potential to be the most important change. Developers can apply for a cryptographically signed certificate; though Apple doesn't check who applies, it can revoke a certificate - so that if you choose only to allow apps that have Gatekeeper-signed certificates to run, anything that turns out to be malware can be killed by Apple. However, it's not a malware fix - and there could still be holes.Apple Mail gets improvements (such as a VIP filter - only see emails from particular people, when you choose). And there are plenty more. Snell's conclusion:Even prerelease builds were far more stable than I've come to expect from OS X betas, leading me to wonder if Apple's new annual schedule is leading to more careful incremental updates (with fewer bugs) rather than great leaps (with more, nastier bugs).Like Panzarino, he doesn't think it's worth asking whether it's worth the money, because it's so cheap.The Unofficial Apple Weblog: Richard GaywoodHe points out that it's barely a year since 10.7 ("Lion") and the announcement of the first beta in February was a surprise too. He too says there's barely any reason to consider the cost; compared to the $100 (or £80) that Mac OS X upgrades used to cost, this is light.His advice: don't being in a hurry to upgrade:Some nasty problems have been known to slip past Apple's testers and into the wilds, and something you rely on - some small utility or a printer driver or somesuch - may not yet be updated to work with the new OS.. That - and the advice to make backups and test that they work (ie you can boot from them, and reinstall them) are probably the soundest suggestions you'll hear around any OS release on any platform.Pocket Lint: Stuart Miles"A roaring success?" asks Miles carefully. The only UK reviewer who got to see the first beta in February, he's also the only one we've seen (fingers crossed: so far) who puts Mountain Lion into its proper context, which is in comparison with Microsoft's Windows 8:Having now played with both the Windows 8 Previews and OS X Mountain Lion extensively over the past couple of months, what's fascinating is that both are gunning for the same finish line, but with at times, very different approaches.Mountain Lion is a slow movement though to a complete transition rather than Microsoft's approach with Windows 8 that is very much a head-first ordeal.Like (we suspect) many, he dislikes the harking back to physical objects that the apps aren't - torn pages for Notes, for example. " Considering there is nothing quaint about the metal-clad devices Apple puts the software on, this disconnect is getting old and boring." That's basically his only complaint; at the price, an upgrade is money "well spent - moreso if you use an iPhone or an iPod."Ars Technica: John SiracusaKnown in the Mac community for his book-length OS X reviews (in fact, Ars Technica offers them as paid-for ebooks; or you can page through the 24 pages of the review), Siracusa shines spotlights on the places nobody had thought of, and then shines more spotlights on the other bits too. Each is a sort of War and Peace of the product. This review weighs in at 26,000 words, which asMarco Arment points out, is back to normalcy for him, after a gigantic 40,000-word treatise on Mac 10.4 ("Tiger") in April 2005.If you have time to spare, Siracusa's review will probably fill the time either while you wait for Mountain Lion to download, or while you wait for other people to download it and discover the bugs.Here's thedirect Apple Store link; you won't be able to download it unless your machine is compatible. It's a 4GB download, and you need 8GB of free space.CompatibilityApple has alist of compatible machines, andRoaringApps has a listing of 10.8-compatible apps.
Shortly after playing throughBrave: The Video Game, the companion piece for the new Pixar movie, I was given the chance to ask the film's director and producer a few questions. One was right at the head of the queue. Why does Pixar, a studio that creates brilliant movies and clearly has impeccable standards, content itself with farming out the interactive side to third parties?"We try," says Brave's producer, Katherine Sarafian. "We worked quite closely with the game developers [Behaviour Interactive] and Disney Interactive because we want it to be great but, more importantly, we want it to feel like the movie even if it can't quite look like the movie."The game expands the world, so it's very important to us that any new characters or environments in there feel like Brave, which is why we work so closely and give so much of our time to it. Because if we just farmed it out then we'd be disappointed with the result. And Disney Interactive would be too."Some of Sarafian's points have to be conceded – the game's art style and enemy design certainly fit thematically with the movie. And the few cast members that feature in both game and movie emphasise the work that goes into the tie-in."I kind of got more into the game, in the sense that there was more dialogue than in the movie," says Kelly Macdonald, who plays Brave's lead character, Merida."There was just more to do, a lot of the sessions were for games. I'd do a couple of lines for Mark [Andrews] and Katherine before I started the games session, with a guy called Ben who was more of a voice on the line – the film stuff tended to happen in person."But none of this quite answers the question. It's the old licensed games lament, about a standard genre piece given appropriate visuals and sent out to shift units.Merida, voiced by Kelly Macdonald, in Pixar's Brave. Photograph: Disney/Allstar"We can't control everything, they're two different deals," says Brave's director, Mark Andrews. "The games have their parameters they have to work within, the companies making them have their parameters they have to work within and they each have budgets. So how do you get the best quality in that frame you're working to?"That nails it. Don't get the wrong idea – Brave: The Video Game is, as far as licensed games go, pretty good. And the concept's solid, blending the Lego series' family-friendly platforming with a 3D twin-stick shooter.But it utterly lacks the magic or even production values you might expect from something with Pixar on the box. Would the people at Pixar ever consider making their own games?Andrews says: "No." He says it firmly."We actually had something like that in-house a few years ago," Sarafian says. "I don't think we would consider it now because we want to focus on the primary business of film making, but there was a time back in the late nineties where we did interactive games."The Pixar Interactive Division was short-lived, existing from sometime in the early nineties and through the release of Toy Story before being shuttered in 1997.In that time it produced two things –the Toy Story Animated Storybook(skip to 24 minutes if you want to see Buzz Lightyear moonwalking on an arcade cabinet). The second was the Toy Story Activity Centre, a more straightforward collection of minigames.The first, to my very young self, was a delight; as brilliantly animated as you'd expect, it goes through the film's story and lobs in puzzles and minigames as it steams along.The company's co-founder, Ed Catmull, told Variety Magazine in 1999 that: "Given the talent we put on this project and the return we got, we did the very best and only did fine financially."The Toy Story Animated Storybook sold well, in terms of a quasi-educational CD-Rom, especially when you consider it was published byAvanquest, a French software house more inclined to stuff like antivirus programs.Not enough. After the division's closure a Pixar press release said the company said it would redirect its valuable talent into the main business of making movies."When we had that in-house division we wanted and needed those artists to be working on the films," Sarafian says. "So we kept on borrowing them and were thinking 'Why are we doing this? Let's just make the movies.' That's where our passion is."It's hard to argue with that. "We spend as much on video games as we do on movies," Andrews later tells me, somewhat unconvincingly.But Brave does reach beyond the home consoles –Temple Run: Braveis a themed version of last year's hit app, whileBrave: Storybook Deluxeis a much more interesting case.This is one of Disney Interactive's newest forays, and Brave is one of a series of offerings such as the Lion King and Tangled. They all share the same template.And when put next to stuff likeThe Fantastic Flying Books of Mr Morris Lessmore(watch the trailer) or theNumberleys(watch the trailer) you see the difference. Both of these "interactive storybooks" are made by Moonbot Studios, two of the three co-founders of which have a history with Pixar, and next to them the Brave Deluxe Storybook feels like those Activity Packs you used to get on long car journeys.Are they games? Does it matter? Only in the sense that, as you toy with and watch the Numberlys, you wonder whether that first experience burned Pixar a little too badly.Thinking of movies and games as totally distinct enterprises ignores all the blurring that happens at the boundaries, where new ways of telling stories and engaging audiences are constantly being born.Pixar is superb at what it does, and clearly doesn't want to muddy that with what it sees as a loss of focus. But I don't want Pixar to make Dark Souls.Last week I re-watched The Incredibles, and all I could think of was what Moonbot would do with it. Yesterday I downloaded the Brave Deluxe Storybook, and just wished it had a bit more magic to it. A bit more imagination. A bit more Pixar. Is that too much to ask?
The email app that has made the most headlines in 2012 is probably Sparrow, which made a splash on iOS and Macs before its developer was acquired by Google to work on its Gmail team. So what's the next hot email app?It could beMaily, although it's much less likely to be bought by Google – or at least, if it was, the latter company would have some hard questions to answer about its plans for using data on the app's users.Why? Maily isn't for adults: it's for children. "Your Kids' First Email," as its subtitle goes. "Especially designed for kids from 4 years old". It's a free iPad app that has just launched on Apple's App Store.It might be more accurate to describe it as Gmail meets Draw Something, albeit without the gaming elements. The app gets children to create visual messages using digital pencils, brushes, stickers and backgrounds, as well as photos taken using the iPad's camera.These can then be sent to people on a list of contacts created by their parents: grandparents, aunts and uncles, family friends and other children. The pictures go to their normal email addresses, but if they want to reply, they log in to Maily's website to use its adults' dashboard – with these replies in turn going to the child's inbox in the Maily app.Parents can also use this dashboard to monitor what their child is sending and receiving, and manage their contacts list."What Maily is creating is a safe environment where kids can express themselves in their own 'words', in a strongly visual way, and communicate seamlessly with the people close to them," explains the company's pitch document.It could be controversial. Why the rush to get children as young as four years old? Will parents really trust a brand new startup with their children's fledgling electronic communications? And perhaps most importantly, if the app is free, where will the money be made?Having tried the app, I think the answers to the first two questions will vary by parent: some will be freaked out by it, and some will feel this isn't a problem that needs solving – it's easy enough to take a screenshot of any iPad app that a child has been using, and email it from the parent's account.Actually, though, I feel differently. My five year-old is just starting to grasp the idea of email – just last week he was using an app called Trees Are Best FACT, and insisted that my wife send me the image he'd created. But he's also reaching the age where he (increasingly firmly) wants to do things for himself whenever possible. Email may soon fall into that category.Or to put it another way: lots of app developers have been working on ways for children tocreateusing tablets, but less on ways to then share those creations – complicated by the fact that sharing to Facebook or Twitter from an app made for kids is problematic.Maily is an interesting solution – albeit one that needs to quickly get an update to support more than one child per device – and I suspect there will be others on the way. In fact, some apps are already out there:FamJamis an iPad app for sharing digital artworks between children and family members, whileArt My Kid Madeis an iPhone app for storing and sharing photos of real drawings by children.None of this replaces a child drawing pictures on paper that get stuck on the fridge, or talking to their grandparents on a telephone or Skype connection. It's just another form of communication.But what about that thorny third question: Maily's business model? I asked the company about this, and co-founder Tom Galle told me that ads and in-app purchases (IAP) are not on the cards for the iPad app – the part used by children.They may in time be added to the adult dashboard, although IAP will be put to a very specific use: "Some kind of store, available for parents and adult contacts, who will be able to buy features for their kids," according to Galle.That could be an interesting discussion with Apple: how to pay for IAP from a website to be used in an app. But it may be a fruitful discussion: it's not a big stretch to imagine something like Maily being a part of iOS itself, if Apple ever decides to do more to cater for family usage of its devices.
Henry Chilver, who has died aged 85, drove the transformation of the Cranfield Institute of Technology (CIT) into a postgraduate university specialising in engineering, science and management. The College of Aeronautics established at RAF Cranfield, Bedfordshire, in 1946 became CIT in 1969. Henry, a professor of civil engineering at University College London (UCL), arrived early the following year as vice-chancellor and embarked on a policy of expansion while maintaining academic independence.Student numbers increased through recruitment, by incorporating the National College of Agricultural Engineering at Silsoe in 1975, and, from 1984, by assuming academic responsibility for the Royal Military College of Science at Shrivenham, which became a third campus. Dependence on government funding was greatly reduced through research contracts, fees for higher degrees and intensive short courses for industry and commerce. Henry helped the heads of schools to obtain the resources needed to achieve their aims.This policy of generating commercial revenue within schools that were geared to market sectors rather than conventional engineering disciplines was an outstanding success. Today, only about 15% to 20% of Cranfield's annual grant income comes from government.Henry's approach enabled high-quality undergraduates to work on advanced projects with and for industry while pursuing their own thesis research. This also provided many with an automatic introduction to potential employers.Henry promoted Cranfield's focus on the application of knowledge rather than merely its acquisition, and was always looking for ideas and inventions that could lead to profitable products. Cranfield Biotechnology Centre, established in 1981, harnessed scientific and entrepreneurial skill to grow into the school now known as Cranfield Health.The Cranfield School of Management was initiated just before Henry arrived, and he encouraged it to the point of achieving world-class status. The Cranfield Technology Park grew with his support, attracting such organisations as the Nissan European Technology Centre. Henry promoted international research and development contracts, links with organisations worldwide such as Rolls-Royce and Boeing, and the double-degree programmes developed initially with the University of Technology of Compiègne, north of Paris.Four years after Henry's departure in 1989, CIT became Cranfield University. Cranfield was to become the UK's only exclusively postgraduate engineering, science and management educational institution, led by experts in their own academic fields but with close working relationships with industry, commerce and government.Margaret Thatcher appointed Henry to chair Acard, the Advisory Committee on Advanced Research and Development to the cabinet (1982-85). He had already amassed company directorships, and as temporary head of the Post Office (1980-81) oversaw the successful separation of postal and telephone operations. In 1983 he became chairman of the Milton Keynes Development Corporation, responsible for Britain's biggest and most ambitious new town project. Henry's ability to assess people and their motives was of enormous value in dealing with the wide variety of agencies involved in the project.Born in Barking, Essex, Henry was the son of parents from the East End of London – Amos Chilver, a cabinet-maker with a business in Shoreditch, and Annie Mack, from a Dalston family involved in the furniture trade. He studied at Southend high school for boys, going up to London to help in the family business on Saturdays. There he learned woodworking, a skill that he maintained for the rest of his life. Later, he became interested in music and art, which he collected.After a first degree and PhD at Bristol University, he taught at Cambridge University from 1954, becoming director of engineering studies at Corpus Christi College in 1957. In 1959 he married Claudia Grigson, a doctor, and two years later went to UCL. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 1977, knighted in 1978, elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1982 and made a life peer in 1987.He is survived by Claudia; their daughters, Helen and Sarah, and three sons, John, Mark and Paul; and 14 grandchildren.• Amos Henry Chilver, Lord Chilver, engineer and academic administrator, born 30 October 1926; died 8 July 2012• This article was amended on 15 August. The original stated that by 1989, Cranfield University had become the UK's only exclusively postgraduate engineering, science and management educational institution. This has been corrected.
A selection of 11 new and notable apps for you today:My Life as a RefugeeA game about being a refugee? This is the work of the UN Refugee Agency: a game that sees players "contemplate the same life-changing decisions refugees make in a true-to-life quest to try to survive, reach safety, reunite with loved ones and re-start their lives". The aim: to raise awareness of the issues.Android / iPhoneBoxCloud service Box has launched an app for Windows Phone, helping its corporate customers share files and collaborate on documents from their Microsoft-powered device.Windows PhoneSky News International for iPadAs the title makes clear, this isn't an app for BSkyB's home market of the UK. Instead, it's Sky News for the rest of the world, offering news, live TV streams and extra content. "Free for a limited period" according to its App Store listing.iPadSlipknot: Wear The MaskHere's a partnership that few Slipknot fans would have expected: the band have teamed up with agency Saatchi &amp; Saatchi to make their first official smartphone app. The idea: fans make their own Slipknot mask in the app, and share it via Twitter, Facebook and email. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneDragon StoryWhere there's money in freemium gaming, there's fast-followers. Backflip Studios has been making a mint from its DragonVale game, but rival publisher TeamLava has its own fire-breathing offering, Dragon Story. It's made the leap from iOS to Android, getting players to hatch, raise and breed virtual dragons, using in-app purchases to speed up their ambitions.AndroidCheezburger BuilderMeme-focused website group Cheezburger Network's new app claims to be "the best way to caption your photos", helping people add captions to pics and submit them to the company's sites.iPhoneGetTaxiA thought: why have so many of the taxi-hailing apps focused on iOS and Android, when a lot of the people taking taxis everywhere (in London at least) are still on BlackBerry smartphones? GetTaxi is hoping to capitalise with its BlackBerry app, which is currently available in London and Tel Aviv.BlackBerryTravel Angel from OrangeHere's another useful BlackBerry app, from UK operator Orange. It tracks data, text and call usage when you're abroad: "giving you total control so you can see how much you've spent to date". Okay, so cutting roaming rates for all of the above would be good too, but at least being able to track usage is a start.BlackBerryChortleUK comedy website Chortle now has an iPhone app, offering news, videos and a listing of upcoming comedy shows, including use of location to filter out the ones near you.iPhonePlay by AOLAOL has launched a new version of its music app Play by AOL for Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet. it's a music player with social features built in, and while the news isn't much use for people in the UK – where the Kindle Fire isn't available – the fact that the app has been revamped for a seven-inch tablet hints that it could also be coming to Google's Nexus 7 in the near future.Android (Kindle Fire)RippleRipple looks interesting: an app aimed at sports fans with an emphasis on the London Olympic Games. It's based around two views: a top-down map and an augmented reality view, offering information on local businesses and venues in London – but also with scores, news and medal tables from the Games.Windows Phone
Google's search results on both desktop computers and mobile phones could see important changes for European users, after the European Commission said it had reached a good level of understanding with the search giant in its antitrust investigation.Reports indicate that Google has offered to make concessions on how it orders its search results, including the fast-growing mobile platform, after pressure from Joaquin Almunia, the EC's antitrust commissioner.That would mean that the company can avoid an expensive and drawn-out court case which could see it being hit by fines reaching billions of dollars, instead reaching a settlement that both sides can point to as a success.It would also relieve pressure on the company in Europe, where it has around 90% of the search market. It is also being investigated by regulators in the US, South Korea, Australia and Brazil.Google wrote to Almunia at the beginning of July, offering its suggestions for dealing with his concerns in four areas: that Google used its monopoly to favour its own properties such as Google Shopping in search results; its "scraping" of review sites' content to display in search results; restrictions on rival advertising on some sites; and problems faced by advertisers who wanted to export their ad campaigns from Google to other platforms.If no settlement was reached and Google lost in the courts, it could be fined of billions of dollars – the largest it has ever faced.Previously, its largest fine was $500m (£322m),paid to the US Department of Justice in 2011&lt;/a&gt; over illegal pharmaceutical ads shown to US consumers.But it is search that goes to the heart of Google's business. The company has fiercely resisted suggestions that it favours its own properties such as YouTube or Maps in its search results, with chairman Eric Schmidt telling a US Congressional committee that it does not, and that their appearance high in the search listings is part of Google's "universal search" approach.However rivals, including theBritish "shopping search" company Foundem, have produced studies showing that they are substantially downgraded in Google's results as soon as it introduces a product that competes with them.Any settlement would have to include some change to how those searches are presented or ordered. It is not yet clear whether they would apply only in Europe, or would be worldwide.A spokesman for Almunia's office said the EC considered Google's proposals to be a good basis for further talks and had reached a good level of understanding with Google."There will soon be discussions at technical levels," he said. "We hope this process will lead to remedies addressing our concerns."According to reports, Google has offered to make concessions on its search both on desktop and mobile in order to settle the case. Google declined to comment except to say that it continued to work cooperatively with the EC.Icomp, an industry pressure group whose backers include Microsoft, welcomed the EC's announcement."Google's acceptance of the commission's framework and commitment to offer remedies for both PC and mobile-based internet was a hugely significant acknowledgement of their market power and illegal anti-competitive behaviour," said David Wood, counsel for the group."We should soon discover whether they are serious about addressing the concerns raised not only by the commission, but also numerous companies over the last few years."It is now vitally important for the ongoing discussions to ensure remedies which, above all, end the discrimination and manipulation of search results which have had the effect of turning the open internet into a closed 'Google internet'."Nicolas Petit, a law professor at the University of Liege in Belgium, told the New York Times that he did not believe the commission had a strong case against Google, and that this might have contributed to Almunia's unusual offer."It could have been a bluff, like a poker game," he said.But Petit also said that Google liked to reach settlements when it had been accused of breaching the law, as happened with its book-scanning project.."Its image is extremely important in its success, and that's why [Google] like settlements because they can be presented as win-win situations for consumers and the company alike," he said.
Here be the middle of the working week. How's yours going?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTwitter pushes to boost site's utility &gt;&gt; WSJ.comThe efforts are part of Twitter's continuing mission to increase its service's usage and to build its business. Twitter executives still fight a perception that the service is only for tech geeks or narcissists, and there remain doubts about how big the San Francisco company can grow.Facebook long ago managed to solve those problems and has more than 900m active monthly users world-wide and more than $3.7bn in annual revenue. Twitter has more than 140m monthly active users and analysts project it will generate less than $300m in revenue this year.User growth is key to justify Twitter's $8.4bn valuation, and pave the way to an initial public offering in a year or so.Some companies are small, yet have impact. (Note: if paywalled, try a search via Google News.)Dongly Things &gt;&gt; Douglas AdamsHe's gone, but not forgotten, even though he lived in a time before Apple connectors:Time to declare war, I think, on little dongly things. More of them turned up in the post this morning. I'd ordered a new optical disk drive from an American mail order company and, because I live in that strange and remote place called 'Foreign', and also because I travel like a pigeon, I was keen to know, when ordering it, if it had an international power supply.Adams's work remains a wonder of foresight.40 Tips and Tricks for Google Nexus 7 Tablet &gt;&gt; The eBook Reader BlogIncludes fixes for things that we've previously been assured weren't a problem (home screen rotation) and how to add things whose absence meant the iPad/iPhone was rubbish (Flash). Most of this will be familiar to any Android user, though some of the apps could be helpful. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)4G LTE Playbook launching July 31st! &gt;&gt; CrackBerry.comThe original article is on MobileSyrup: the 4G version of the PlayBook (promised "later this year" at Mobile World Congress in 2011) is heading our way as soon as this month. The price? $550 for a 32GB version.Now read the opinions of the Crackberry faithful.VMware pays $1.26bn for networking software maker Nicira &gt;&gt; eWeek.com"Nicira and VMware are of similar cultures," [VMWare president of product marketing in VMWare servers Bogomi] Balkansky said. "We both were born in the Stanford (University) Computer Science department. We both look at virtualized networking as an important new sector in data centers and cloud computing."(Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)The world is closer to a food crisis than most people realise &gt;&gt; Environment GuardianStep out of the technology filter bubble for a moment:Although the world was hoping for a good US harvest to replenish dangerously low grain stocks, this is no longer on the cards. World carryover stocks of grain will fall further at the end of this crop year, making the food situation even more precarious. Food prices, already elevated, will follow the price of corn upward, quite possibly to record highs.The Arab Spring uprisings were partly triggered by higher food prices. What might this do?Malware attack spread as email from your office's HP scanner &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityIn these high-tech times, scanners and photocopiers aren't just dumb machines sitting in the corner of the office.They are usually connected to the corporate network, and - in some cases - can even email you at your desk to save you having to wear out your shoe leather.And it's precisely this functionality that we have seen cybercriminals exploiting today, pretending that their malicious emails in fact come from an HP scanner inside your organisation.The documents claim to have been scanned inside the organisation so that you'll click on them. Inventive.Honest, it's an iPhandroid.. oh all right &gt;&gt; eBayFrom the spec:3.5'' Dual SIM GPS Android 4.0 Smartphone 3G W007 4GBHow can you not love a dual-SIM Android 4 smartphone that is an exact copy of an iPhone casing that comes from Wendy's Phone Shop? The really fascinating question though is: what sort of connector does it have on the bottom? There aren't any pictures. (Thanks @alexredcloud for the link.)iPod history &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansShows iPods by year of release, capacity and model. A very useful way of visualising how to segment a market.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Apple disappointed analysts despite reporting profits up 21% year-on-year to $8.8bn (£5.6bn) and revenues up 23% to $35bn, after missing targets that Wall Street had forecast as consumers held off buying iPhones ahead of an expected new model later this year.The company also offered surprisingly low guidance of just $34bn in revenues for the coming quarter, suggesting it will not have another blockbuster product and may be expecting a slowdown in sales as people anticipate new products including new iPhones and possibly a smaller version of the iPad.That slowdown hit iPhone sales a year ago as anticipation grew ahead of the launch in October of the iPhone 4S.Chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer told analysts after the release that iPhone sales were being impacted by rumours of new products.Though sales of its iPad leapt by 84% year-on-year to 17m, iPhone sales rose just 28% to 26m, well below the figures some analysts had expected. The stock plunged almost 5% in after-hours trading after the company announced theresults, which were below the Wall Street consensus expectations for the quarter of $37.22bn. The number of iPhones was below forecasts, while iPad sales were ahead.A key part of the miss appeared to be sales in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. In Europe, sequential sales dropped by 7%, but in Asia-Pacific they fell by nearly a 25% from the previous quarter.Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, insisted  that the company was thrilled with the sales of iPads. He announced that Apple would release Mountain Lion, a new version of its desktop operating system and said: "We are also really looking forward to the amazing new products we've got in the pipeline."He declared a $2.65 per share dividend as the company announced $9.32 per share profits.The Guardian understands from its own sources that Apple will be releasing a new, slimmer version of its iPhone in September, using a new, smaller "nano-sim" card for activation and a different dock connector on its base.That is likely to drive rapid sales in the fourth quarter of the year, but Apple's low guidance may imply that any new phone will come towards the end of the July-September quarter.The company saw a fall in quarter-on-quarter average selling prices (ASPs) for all its products except its computers. For the iPhone, the ASP fell from $647 to $624, and for the iPad, from $558 to $538.Both drops may indicate that Apple's move to cover the lower end of the market by continuing to offer its year-old iPad 2 at a reduced price, and 2010's iPhone 3GS as a "low-end" iPhone, are reducing both its revenues and profits."It really is the iPhone company. The iPad is not strong enough to beat numbers," said BGC Partners analyst Colin Gillis. "The iPhone 5 is already the most hyped device and for it to exceed expectations is going to be really hard."The expected roll out of a new iPhone will likely pose a stiff challenge to rivals.This was a reason why few investors were not expecting a blowout third-quarter as they remembered how chatter over a new iPhone last year caused Apple to miss quarterly expectations for the first time in years. The economic slowdown in Europe and China also made many investors nervous."We expected a lot of consumers will probably delay their upgrade and their purchases until the iPhone 5 comes out," Channing Smith, co-manager of Capital Advisors Growth Fund, said. "We saw a similar trend occur last year with the iPhone 4S."
Video camera. Still camera. Video editor. Handheld games console, music player, satellite navigation device, internet browser, radio, ebook reader. (Also, telephone.) But a 650,000-volt stun gun?The iPhone is often said to have revolutionised the mobile phone market. Now, it's about to take on a somewhat more alarming guise.The Yellow Jacket iPhone stun gun case, designed "to be able to take down a fully grown, aggressive, adult male", is heading to market, following anIndiegogo campaigninspired by one man's real life assault.Seth Froom, former military policeman and inventor of the Yellow Jacket, was the victim of a robbery at his Louisiana home last summer, during which his iPhone was stolen. It was a traumatic experience that "changed my life forever", Froom says in avideo accompanying his campaign.But the trauma wasn't all for naught. As it turns out, Froom had his Eureka moment while in contemplative mood following the attack."I thought of all the things I could have done differently, to prevent myself from becoming a victim," Froom said."I thought of the firearms I had upstairs, which in the moment did nothing to protect me. I thought of the fake cellphone stun gun I had. This served no purpose as a phone and I never carried it around."I thought of my phone case itself that the robber had left behind on his way out. And that's when the idea came to me."Now, Froom has a device that will enable him to fell an assailant even if his firearms and fake cell phone stun gun are beyond reach.The Yellow Jacket fits snugly around the iPhone 4 or 4S,turning it into a powerful stun gunwhile also serving to protect the device from the associated thrills and spills of an attempted mugging. Oh, and it can provide up to 20 hours of extended battery life.The device bulks out the phone somewhat, but then you can't put a measurement on peace of mind. The "stun part" of the Yellow Jacket is at the top, which could lead to concerns regarding 650,000 volts discharging through one's ear, however Froom and his co-founder Sean Simone say a safety cover "should" prevent accidental shocks.The pair have been seeking backing on the crowd-funding website Indiegogo, and while they are some way off their $100,000 goal, they announced on Saturday that they had enough resources to get things rolling."We have reached our minimum goal and are pleased to announce production WILL BEGIN upon the completion of our campaign!," an update read.The Yellow Jacket's final retail price is unclear, but presently a donation of $100 will be rewarded with one device in white, black or pink. (A $380 donation gets you a "family pack" of four.)Still not convinced? Froom and Simone claim the Yellow Jacket can even be discharged mid-phone call, without losing connectivity. Maybe just put the call on loudspeaker first.
In April 2003, Apple unveiled the third generation of its iPod – and introduced the 30-pin connector on its base that would in less than a decade become part of more than half a billion devices.But now, Apple is preparing to dump that heritage by introducing anew, thinner 19-pin connector with the next iPhone, expected by carriers to launch in mid-September.Customers who have old accessories will have the hassle of carrying around an adapter if they get a new device – although industry sources have indicated to the Guardian that such adapters will be readily available.But for the accessories companies which have for years relied on Apple using the same connector, the latest news marks a waypoint in the life of Apple's longest-supported proprietary connector. (The second longest was the FireWire 400 connector, first included on Apple computers in 2000 butremoved in 2008.)The 30-pin connector was originally introduced so iPods could connect to both FireWire and USB connectors without putting both ports on the device. (In 2001 the first iPod had a FireWire connector.)Manufacturers may have suspected a change was coming – but Apple will not have told them. Paul Griffin, chief executive and founder of Griffin Technologies, told the Guardian last year that he had frequently asked Apple in the past whether it planned to change the design or working of the dock, and been rebuffed. "[Apple are] just not going to talk about what their upcoming plans are," he said. "They're probably listening [to accessory makers' requests] but they're not going to just do it because you ask them to."Griffin was one of the first companies to make iPod-compatible accessories with its tunable iTrip radio device for sending music via the headphone jack to a car's FM radio receiver. That hooked into a nine-pin connector on top of the second-generation iPod – and was killed off by the 30-pin connector on the bottom.But now the 30-pin has run its course too. Darren Griffin of Macfixer, which repairs Apple devices, explains: "You have 30 pins occupying a mere 21mm. Each pin is 0.4mm wide allowing for the gap between pins. It doesn't take much to damage a pin – the most common issue being foreign objects getting caught in the connector slot. Even the smallest metal shaving can short a pin. If anything, it's a wonder that more issues aren't reported. I've had to change the sync connector on iPhones many times when damage to the pins prevented them from charging or communicating over the connector."But what will people do connecting old and new machines? iMore.com, the site whichfirst suggested in Februarythat Apple would ditch the 30-pin connector,said on Tuesday nightthat Apple will offer an adapter to enable 19-pin devices to link to older 30-pin connectors. But manufacturers still face the challenge of trying to decide what proportion of "new" and "legacy" devices to make – given that the vast majority of iOS (iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch) devices already in use will use the old connector – but that there will be a surge in demand for accessories with the new connector."I think they're right not to get too caught up in trying to support legacy [connectors]," Griffin said last year. "And if they had told us they were going to stick with something or not stick with something then it would have curtailed their future development plans, so I think they were smart to just say 'we're listening, but we're not going to promise anything'."Now, though, the companies have fallen silent as they absorb the news. Neither Griffin Technology nor iLuv, a US accessories company, wished to comment on the news. Quizzed by the Reuters news agency, Logitech, one of the biggest speaker makers, declined to comment.Now companies which make add-on speakers, connectors, chargers and a host of other attachments for the iPhone – and almost certainly in time the iPod and iPad too – will have to figure out whether to build with the new or old connectors, or both, and how best to handle the transition.The sheer number of devices built for the old 30-pin connector is staggering. In all, Apple has sold more than 350m iPods, 220m iPhones, and 70m iPads (the precise figures will be clearer after its quarterly results on Tuesday night). In all, that makes about 640m devices; and since that day in 2003, almost every one has had a proprietary 30-pin connector, 26.1mm wide and 5.7mm deep. (The only exception is the iPod shuffle, which since its second-generation model uses its headphone socket as both a charger and data transfer system.)Accessory makers have feasted on it, while also giving Apple a significant advantage over rivals in the digital music player market in the mid-2000s, when it was battling to retain its top spot.When the iPod built an early lead in the music-player market in 2003, the proprietary 30-pin dock meant that accessories such as boomboxes and sound-to-FM systems for cars would only work with it. Those accessories created a "halo effect" around the iPod because they were more profitable for retailers than the iPod itself, and could be sold by anyone. No other music player company was able to challenge Apple's scale – and the accessory halo became self-reinforcing, so that by the end of 2005, the NPD Group estimated that for every $3 spent on an iPod, $1 was spent on an accessory in-store, creating a market then worth $850m – not counting sales from internet sites.That, in turn, first fed an accessory market which kept the iPod on top of other accessory makers (because retailers could get better margins selling the accessories than the actual iPods, and no other music player could plug into them) and then helped drive iPhone purchases among existing iPod owners.The introduction of the iPhone in 2007 and the iPad in 2010, both using the same connector, meant that the accessory market could continue growing and using the same tooling for their products. Now, the business for slide-on iPhone chargers, speaker docks, and similar accessories is almost certainly worth more than a billion dollars; huge areas of the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas are devoted to companies making iOS accessories.For accessory vendors who have for years relied profitably on the proprietary 30-pin dock to hook their devices up to iPods, iPhones and iPads, Apple's as-yet unannounced shift to a 19-pin dock could turn out to be a boon – or a blight."It represents an opportunity for accessory vendors," said Pete Cunningham, London-based analyst at technology research firm Canalys, told Reuters. "The iPhone connector has been a standard for a long time now and I would expect the same to be true for a new connector, should Apple change it as expected."The key reason for changing the 30-pin connector would probably be to create a thinner phone, in line with the trends of other handset vendors such as Samsung, the world's biggest smartphone vendor, whose Galaxy S range is thinner than the iPhone. Presently, the dock connector is substantially larger than the micro-USB connector used for charging and data connectivity by other handset vendors.Apple is likely to remain with a proprietary connector rather than moving to micro-USB – even though connectivity with the latter is an EU-mandated standard – because it wants to retain control of features such as AirPlay, which can wirelessly stream audio and video to compatible products, whose makers have to pay a licence fee.Some vendors in China have already begun offering cases for the new phone, complete with headphone socket on the bottom and a "guarantee" the dimensions are correct, according to Reuters.And for some in the peripherals industry, the change could open doors to new business.One employee at a Hong Kong-based company that designs speakers specifically for Apple accessories told Reuters: "iPod docking speaker sales have been declining for one or two years … My previous factory is a lucky one. They shifted the focus to Bluetooth speakers, which proved a wise decision now." Speaking on condition of anonymity, the employee said: "It looks like while iPod speaker sales are going down, Bluetooth speaker sales are going up."But some users worry about what's going to happen as they try to bridge the generations. "With a smaller connector, what am I going to do with my loudspeaker at home and the fitness pack that I use when I go to the gym? That's the question," 24-year-old Travis Tam, who owns an iPhone 4 and works as an account executive at a social networking company in Hong Kong, told Reuters."I feel that the premium gap between the next iPhone 5 and newest Android models is getting much smaller these days. That will mean that details such as having a smaller connector will mean more in whether I will continue to use an iPhone and switch to other Android phones."A salesman surnamed Chan at an Apple reseller in Hong Kong thought a smaller connector would be a "pain", and would spoil the clean lines and seamless connectivity that is Apple's trademark. "There are ways around it as some of the speakers have an audio input point that can be connected directly to any iPhone with a earphone jack. It's not a very elegant way of doing things, but it's an alternative," he said.In the end, Apple fans have one thing in common: they're loyal."I don't think it will stop Apple consumers from buying the new gadgets," CK Lu, Taipei-based analyst at research firm Gartner, told Reuters. "Many companies are interested in developing accessories for Apple, because Apple users are more open and willing to buy accessories."(Updated: the first-generation iPod shuffle used a USB connector; those from the second generation onward used the headphone socket for power and data.)
With 34m users and the slogan "Remember everything",Evernotehas become one of the most popular consumer-focused cloud services since it launched in 2008. Not least because 1.4m of those users are paying for it.The service helps people to capture text, web pages, photos and sounds and access them from a range of devices: computers, smartphones and tablets. In recent times, Evernote has also launched and acquired standalone apps for specific tasks, such asSkitch,Evernote Food,PenultimateandEvernote Hello.I sat down with chief executive Phil Libin before his appearance at the LeWeb London conference in June, to talk about the company's growth, and how he sees the world of apps and cloud services."One of our greatest strengths, but also our greatest challenges, is that our 34m users are using Evernote in slightly different ways," says Libin."That's great as a platform, but even power users feel they're only using 10% of it. One of the big things we're focusing on right now is feature discovery: we want people to be engaged, rather than just using whatever the 5% is that you happen to find first."Libin says this doesn't mean over-complicating Evernote or hitting users with a barrage of options and features – quite the opposite, in fact."We used to put function first, but now we put experience first. It took us years to figure this out, though!" he says."When you're in a design session, if the answer is 'make that configurable, put in a preference for this', that's almost always not the right answer. It's the lazy way out: you're leaving it up to the user to do the work of figuring things out."Mobile has been a big part of Evernote's growth: Libin says 75% of users have their first experience of the service on a mobile phone, and that the company's most profitable customers are the ones who use its service across multiple devices.This is despite – or more accurately because of – the fact that Evernote doesn't pressure its free users to upgrade. "People love to buy things, they just hate being sold to," says Libin."Once you actually like a brand, it feels good to spend a little bit of money. It's like Apple stores: nobody ever tries to sell me something there – they don't have big 'three days only!' sales. They try to create a brand and a culture that I really like, that makes me want to spend money."Libin says he's patient about this as it applies to Evernote: he's talked publicly before about the way people are more likely to pay – and pay more – the longer they have been using the service.Trust is a big part of that, which filters into issues like piracy, which is currently a hot potato for Facebook and other free-to-use web services. Libin says Evernote has been able to sidestep the debate."It fundamentally comes down to the business model. We don't make money off your data: our revenues do not depend on us being clever with your information, but for a lot of other companies that's exactly their business model," he says."They immediately have this tension between the customer's desire to have their data private, and the company's desire to make money. For us, we only make money if you use the product so much that you're in love with it, and you choose to pay for something you don't have to pay for. But it's easier for us to do that than Google, Facebook or Twitter."Another challenge for these companies is how to manage their platforms for third-party developers making apps and sites, particularly if (well, when) those apps and sites may compete with or complicate the parent service's business model. Facebook and most recently Twitter have been criticised on this score.Evernote has its own thriving ecosystem of developers, and anannual "Devcup" contestoffering more than $100k in prizes for "the next generation of memorable apps".Yet with the company adding new features to its main apps and launching new spin-offs, how does Libin avoid similar controversies about squashing developers' business models?"Again, it's easier for us than it is for Facebook or Twitter: our developer ecosystem isn't as big, so we're able to give a little bit more individualised attention, and talk to almost every developer that's working with us," he says."I don't think anyone's really figured out how to have a good developer community, but our approach is to try to be maximally transparent as a company about our plans, particularly to developers. We don't want to turn around and undercut them."Evernote's app strategy is interesting, though – not least because it has certain similarities with what Facebook is doing with its own standalone apps.Evernote Food is an app used to "preserve and relive memorable food experiences" – photos of dishes, tagged with locations and other data, and stored in Evernote's cloud. Evernote Hello does a similar job for people: an aide-memoire for contacts that builds up into a history of meetings.The latter "isn't meant to be a long-term separate app" according to Libin. "Remembering people should be a core feature in Evernote, but we wanted to spend a year or two really innovating on the UX side, and when we find a perfect user experience, we'll roll it back into the product."Libin adds that doing this in a separate app is a way to try out new interfaces and ideas without worrying about the impact if they're introduced into the main app and used by 10m people straight away, while still in their experimental stage.Now think of what Facebook has done withFacebook MessengerandFacebook Cameraon iOS, which smacks of a similar strategy – even if the social network also has work to do to improve its sluggish main app on that platform.Libin is big on user experience. As a last question, I ask him what technology trends are currently exciting him, and he picks one: the way "the definition of user experience is shifting".How? Libin says that Apple's achievement has been to teach the world that user experience is "the single most important thing", albeit on single devices."The next battle is not single devices, but your 360-degree user experience," he says. "How does everything you interact with work, across every device? The companies that had big advantages in the single-device experience don't necessarily have the same advantages in that world."Why? "In the DNA of that, you're going to have to be open: it won't be one company that makes all this stuff." Apple might disagree – Samsung and Sony too – but Libin thinks there are opportunities for more open hardware and software makers."We need to have the best of Silicon Valley software combining with the best of what's going on in Japan and Korea, and then from Europe the idea of thinking about how to have a good lifestyle," he says.
