At the World DAB Forum in South Korea, the new AAC+ advanced audio coding format was officially adopted as the new standard for DAB digital audio broadcasting, as predicted here last month. This leaves the UK likely to be left behind, because we have rolled out a version of DAB based on the obsolete and much less efficient MP2 codec. This is derived from MPEG-1 Audio Layer II, and performs particularly badly at the lower bitrates used by almost all the UK's DAB radio stations.Using AAC+ provides much better sound quality at the same bitrates as MP2. Switching over would enable most radio stations to transmit at lower bitrates, saving them money, while still delivering better sound quality. This would also free bandwidth for extra stations, for which there is currently no room. Everybody wins - except for the UK consumers who have already bought DAB radios, which are incompatible with the new system.WorldDAB - which has already changed its name to WorldDMB - says it has submitted its AAC+ system for standardisation and that it expects compatible receivers and services to arrive next year.Some countries, such as Australia, decided to adopt AAC+ even before the WorldDAB Forum, and AAC/AAC+ has also been adopted for Digital Radio Mondiale, DVB-H mobile TV and some web radio broadcasting, even in the UK. However, WorldDMB notes that "in more developed markets where DAB has achieved significant penetration including the UK, Denmark and Norway, broadcasters intend to continue to broadcast all digital radio stations using MPeg Layer II for the foreseeable future."Ofcom confirmed that there were no immediate plans to adopt AAC+, and the Ofcom Annual Lecture, delivered by Ofcom chairman David Currie on November 1, made no mention of the change in standards. He only said that: "DAB, after a slow start, is now offering more choice for consumers," and that: "We will be advertising the second national digital multiplex plus several local multiplexes by the end of the year."Ofcom confirmed that this means more of the same outmoded DAB that some other countries are abandoning, rather than an opportunity to kickstart AAC+. "It wouldn't be right for us to consider changing at the moment - it could have a severe adverse effect on the interests of citizens and consumers, and more widely on the market for digital radio services in the UK. But we welcome developments and we are keeping the situation under review."The Digital Radio Development Bureau, created to market DAB, said AAC+ was "good news for DAB globally - if you're Australia, it's fantastic news" - but that 89% of British DAB users "rated the sound quality between good and excellent. The people who don't like DAB sound quality unfortunately are in the minority. If people didn't like [DAB radios] they wouldn't buy them and we'd be dead in the water."The expectation is that manufacturers who serve the global market will produce radios that support both DAB and AAC+. Ofcom says it "encourages the radio industry to work with manufacturers to develop and market such radios as standard".The DRDB suggests that any transition to AAC+ could be like the move to HDTV, with people buying HD-ready sets even if they don't have any high-definition programming. However, it is difficult to see much of a market for dual standard MP2/AAC+ radios unless someone decides that AAC+ is the future for the UK, not just the rest of the world.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Why spam is out of controlNoticed a lot more junk in your inbox? Danny Bradbury reports on the increasingly sophisticated methods being used to pump out millions of unwanted emails.Survey subsidies wiped off the mapGovernment's decision to stop paying Ordnance Survey to chart all of the UK raises the spectre of future privatisation.Britain refuses to listen to new digital radio formatA new standard for digital radio is good news for everyone - except the UK, which is stuck in the past.GadgetsSony Ericsson W850iOverall you'd probably be delighted to find the W850i in your Christmas stocking - delighted, that it is, until you saw a neighbour with the Sony Ericsson W950i handset which is also imminent.Samsung BDP-1000 Blu-ray playerSo the high-definition video war has finally reached the UK with the launch of Samsung's BDP-1000 Blu-ray player. It's a smart move for Samsung to get in early, especially as Blu-ray's rival - HD-DVD, developed by Toshiba - will probably be cheaper.Flybook V33i Lux ProWith its 8.9in screen it might be one of the tiniest notebooks on sale, but the Flybook V33i Lux Pro is also one of the most innovative.Gamesblog:The future collision of robots and gamingKeith Stuart: I spend a lot of my time thinking about the future of gaming. I don't mean hot new genres or transitory design trends. I'm talking waaaaay off in the future, when games break out into our real lives. It is going to happen.Newly Asked Questions:Why didn't Google buy Zimbra instead of Jotspot last week?Perhaps to make the task of building an online suite of office-style applications harder for itself.Is Microsoft really giving Linux its blessing?Absolutely not! The deal that Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer has announced with Novell will involve Microsoft handing out thousands of vouchers for what he called "Novell's version of Linux" running on Windows servers.Can't we all share in the search bounty?Victor Keegan: Should we be paid for using search engines? For most people that is a silly question. Of course not, they would say. If anything, we should be paying them.TechnobileMat Smith: Another USB lava lamp? You shouldn't have. Really. Because I don't have any spare ports left.The dragon who's an angel for hot textDoug Richard has breathed fire at would-be entrepreneurs on BBC2's Dragons' Den, but has also helped them and others get started.Why is the government so eager to stifle innovation in business?Michael Cross: In almost every walk of life, we boast about being innovative. Even heritage parks usually put the word "new" somewhere in their promotional blurb. But in one huge sector of economic activity, innovation is a dirty word.Internet governance: it's like an arranged marriageThe first UN-backed forum started out as farce - but turned into a triumph.One pixel is plenty for picturesForget millions of pixels - two American researchers are working on a digital camera that has just one.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesMicrosoft Office goes gold | Cute TVs for cute kids | Healthier website | Tough but lighter and smarter | Project it wider | Quit now on YouTube | Computing costs
Make it work for the userHaving worked on user experience projects for online government transactions, I am not surprised with Michael Cross's conclusion that the e-national project has added a "digital interface to that mess" (The tangled web of government, November 2).The key to successful e-government services is to ensure that the way the transactions are realised is aligned with users' needs. Simply providing an electronic version of a badly designed form does not make the process simpler or more bearable.An IT-centred process is not the solution to what clearly demands a user-centred approach. Throwing the latest IT solutions at the problem and making sure all the "relevant offices [are] connected electronically" is certainly a challenge, but one that still misses the point: it is the users' experience that all e-government solutions need to support and improve. This is the only way we can ensure that IT does not operate for the benefit of the institution but that of the citizen.Nikos KaraoulanisLondon&#183;I think Cross is missing something in his analysis: while Britons CAN do all these things, it doesn't mean that they ARE all doing them. Last week we posted on the digital divide becoming more entrenched. Less than half of Britons have home access to the internet. E-government policy needs to address these issues instead of just improving the technology. They are starting to do this with the NHS electronic care records program roadshow but, as we wrote last week, it seems to be too little, too late. I'm not convinced that the citizens believe in the e-government program and more should be done on the engagement front.informationpolitics.com/archivesTime travellingTerrific article, but I'm amazed Guy Clapperton, a Who fan I'm sure, got the date wrong (Regenerating an original Doctor Who, November 2). It transmitted in 1968, not 1969.Michael McNameeBBCCustomer serviceFor years I have taught beginners' IT classes for trade unionists. At the end of week one, I ask every student to find out the hardware, software and personware they use. Personware? That's the person they go to when things go wrong. Every-body has to have one. Michael Pollitt (Technobile, November 2) knows this. It's interesting that, more often than not, personware is not the person that people are told to go to, either at work or at home. Another illustration of how mad the world we live in is.Geoff BrownPrestwich&#183;I don't work in IT, but I know my way around a computer. Just had my Firkin Friday lunch spoilt by my mum asking me how to open a Word file without Microsoft Office.http://macbore.blogspot.com/Open landscapeThanks for the interview with Google's Chris DiBona (Giving Google a licence to code, November 2). It was so refreshing to see a substantial mention of open source and Linux. My guess is that many of your readers would find the open landscape interesting, if not to their future advantage.Alan CocksBracknell&#183;It looks like Google has joined the chorus of commercial open source developers with serious concerns about the current draft of the GPL Version 3.www.theactblog.org/Jack hit the right noteOctOpus (Letters and blogs, November 2) is the sad get - he/she may like to eat McDonald's, drink instant coffee and read Dan Brown alongside "most people" who "couldn't care less about the quality" of what they consume, but the minority who are passionate about quality should not be fobbed off with low standards of broadcast sound on DAB just because "the majority" aren't bothered, and Jack Schofield is absolutely right to make an issue of it.Martyn CornellTeddington
As the nights get colder and people begin to stockpile gift catalogues, I fear the worst. If you're known to distant friends and relatives as The One Who Likes Computers, then you too can look forward to receiving some depressingly inane USB accessories. Catalogues are stuffed full of everything a technophile could never want, and thanks to the miracles of mass production, most of them fall neatly, and sadly, within the price range of the average Secret Santa gift-swap at work."I'm sure he'd love the mini-rocket launcher I got him.""Look, a little light-up Christmas tree - that should cheer up his desk."So you got me a USB lava lamp? You shouldn't have. No, really. Really.I understand that the subject of unwanted Christmas presents is a tricky one, and that I should be grateful that I get anything, but if someone gives me another novelty USB memory stick, I might throw it at their head.Because of course I didn't really want the 2GB memory stick that I bought myself a few months back. I think sushi shapes and 64MB of USB memory go together so very well.Oh look! It's a wiggly LED light dongle! Completely redundant if your keyboard is cunningly positioned in front of the monitor. I have a laptop.If you work in an office, then it doesn't matter if your work is IT-related or not. Those who struggle to think of an interesting present know that if you work in an office, then you love to drink tea or coffee. So obviously you desperately need a USB mug warmer. Yes, you'll finally be able to keep your drink in lukewarm purgatory.Does it really take that much effort and time to make a fresh brew that you'd prefer to be stuck at your desk with a sub-par cuppa? Just ditch the aged drink and make a new one.It gets worse. You - well, not you, someone else - can buy a set: USB-powered cup warmer, body massager and keyboard vacuum. That's a gift set that sucks in both senses of the word.With all of these objets donn&eacute;s sucking, blinking, heating and vibrating, my desk looks less like a workspace and more like a preschool computer from Fisher-Price.Not that all of them can be plugged in at the same time, as I have only four USB ports, which I use for such frivolous activities as printing, scanning and downloading digital photos.You know, the sort of things you'd use a computer for ...&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
So the high-definition video war has finally reached the UK with the launch of Samsung's BDP-1000 Blu-ray player. It's a smart move for Samsung to get in early, especially as Blu-ray's rival - HD-DVD, developed by Toshiba - will probably be cheaper. Yet will it appeal to anyone apart from home cinema diehards? At this stage probably not, as the price tag of around &#163;900 is way too high and you also need an HD-ready TV to get the best out of it. Nevertheless, the picture quality is superb. When teamed up with Samsung's 46in LCD TV it delivered superb levels of detail and wonderfully warm colours. Overall the picture was slightly crisper even than HD movies transmitted via satellite and cable. It also performed well with standard DVDs. The BDP-1000 is a bit light on features, though you do get a smart card reader for viewing video and JPEG files. On the downside the discs take an age to load and the player is slow to respond to the remote. There's no denying the image quality the player delivers, but given the impending format war and its sky-high price, I can't see too many takers for this model just yet.
With its 8.9in screen it might be one of the tiniest notebooks on sale, but the Flybook V33i Lux Pro is also one of the most innovative. It is the first to feature integrated HSDPA (high speed downlink packet access) so if you add a suitably endowed SIM card you can surf the web wirelessly at speeds of up to 1.8Mbps - providing you can find an HSDPA network. The notebook itself has some cute features and some very annoying ones. On the plus side it really is tiny. It also has a swivelling screen, which can be twisted so that it can lie flat, tablet PC style - which is handy, as it has a stylus-based touchscreen option. The V33i boasts a usable keyboard and sports a reasonable-quality screen. Its usability is, however, slightly compromised by a very odd rubberised mouse, which I found very tricky to use. Also on the debit side there's no integrated optical disk drive and battery life is not especially generous. You also pay dearly for the privilege of owning the laptop, as it retails for &#163;2350 - way beyond most traditional laptops.
I spend a lot of my time thinking about the future of gaming. I don't mean hot new genres or transitory design trends. I'm talking waaaaay off in the future, when games break out into our real lives. It is going to happen. In some ways it is already happening. Location-based mobile games such as Botfighters and Undercover allow players to track each other using the GPS functionality of all mobile handsets.Then there's augmented reality, in which game graphics are projected on to a translucent screen (usually a head-mounted display unit) then viewed over a real-world location so that it appears the virtual action is taking place in the everyday world. Projects such as ARQuake by the Wearable Computer Lab (http://wearables.unisa.edu.au/) and the University of Singapore's Human PacMan game are intriguing examples.But these are mere adolescent fumblings. Something bigger is on the way. The Information Commissioner's report, A Surveillance Society, last week looked at how most people have simply accepted CCTV cameras and other surveillance technologies: many of us are viewed more than 300 times a day. In fact, not only do we accept CCTV, we embrace it. Several tech companies now offer home surveillance packages so we can set up cameras at home and then view the video feed on our mobile phones or laptops via the internet.Surveillance culture is interactive. It is a game. Indeed, there's an intriguing downloadable videogame named Vigilance 1.0 (www.martinlechevallier.net/english/A_vigilance.html) which gives you control of a bank of CCTVs trained on a small town. The player's role is to watch out for and report crimes, and while the point is to analyse the fallibility of the viewer and the subjective nature of viewing "crime", the experience is weirdly, undeniably compelling. It is only a matter of time before someone develops a game using the thousands of real CCTV feeds accessible via the internet.Meanwhile, in Japan, game developer Bandai has manufactured NetTransor, a robot that can be controlled remotely via Wi-Fi. It features a webcam so you can watch where it's going. It is unutterably cool.Robotic toys are an emerging market, the closest competitor to games for the key demographic of young males. From Sony's Aibo dog to the Roboraptor dinosaur, they are becoming more intelligent and interactive - more game-like.When surveillance and robotics collide, you pretty much have the future of gaming - a hyper-reality where android beings are sent out into the real world, viewed and controlled remotely, interacting with each other and us. The Sims, but real. It's going to happen.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In a remarkable failure of joined-up policymaking, the government has killed off almost all central subsidies for mapmaking. A terse statement from the Department for Communities and Local Government announced that next month it will stop paying Ordnance Survey to survey "uneconomic" parts of Britain such as mountains and moorlands.Ordnance Survey said it needs the subsidy to map all parts of Britain to the same standard, whether or not there is commercial demand. Accurate maps of remote areas can be vital in emergencies such as plane crashes - of which the classic example is that of Pan Am 103 on to the village of Lockerbie on the night of December 21 1988. That required emergency services to search a huge, remote area at night; good maps were essential for the operation.The agency warns that the subsidy's withdrawal "will have an impact on the currency and content of the rural geography in our products".Since 1999, Ordnance Survey has received &pound;93.5m through the national interest mapping services agreement, known as Nimsa. While a decision to end the subsidy was widely expected, ministers have dithered for two years about how and when to kill it off.Surprise announcementHowever, last week's announcement was a surprise for two reasons. First, it pre-empts the findings of a panel that was set up to publish next summer a geographical information strategy for Britain. The department said it would continue to fund work on the strategy, which forms part of the Transformational Government IT programme for the public sector.Second, the decision flies in the face of responses to a consultation in May 2005, which reported "high levels of support for the continuation of the status quo" and "strong support" for extending Nimsa to cover more activities, such as the development of an addressing database. Respondents also called for organisations other than Ordnance Survey to qualify for the subsidy. Last week's statement claimed that the department has "taken account" of the consultation.Nimsa was drawn up in 1999 to smooth Ordnance Survey's transition from a directly funded government body to a "trading fund", run as a quasi-business. In its first year, the subsidy was &pound;16m but has steadily declined, amounting to &pound;10.9m in the last financial year and around &pound;1m this year.Following last week's announcement, funding will cease entirely in December. A statement by Baroness Andrews, one of the two ministers with responsibility for Ordnance Survey, said that from now on it would be up to public bodies needing geographical data to procure it directly.The announcement said that the subsidy was becoming obsolete in the fast-evolving market in geographical information "where a fast-growing user base is demanding more sophisticated products and services from a wider range of suppliers".The statement also cited "budgetary pressures" as one reason for the decision: the department is in gruelling negotiations with the Treasury over its allocation in next year's spending review.Ordnance Survey said that it would continue to provide some Nimsa-funded services including supplying emergency maps for floods and other contingencies, and coastal mapping."We have accepted that we will continue to do these things in the national interest despite the extra cost burden," it said in a statement.Commercial providers of geographical information have long been critical of the subsidy. Last year's consultation report cites "concern over the potential for cross-subsidy of commercial activities".Michael Nicholson, chief executive of Intelligent Addressing, which earlier this year had a complaint against Ordnance Survey's competitive behaviour upheld by the Office of Public Sector Information (www.freeourdata.org.uk/blog/?p=55), said: "It seems surprising that they can be so sanguine about losing this money if they needed it so badly."Robert Barr, an expert in geographical information at Manchester University, described the Nimsa deal as "botched from the word go".He said that it was never enough to cover Ordnance Survey's public interest activities, while "giving the appearance of an unfair subsidy". He predicted that Ordnance Survey would have to increase the prices of maps and other products to fill the funding gap.The Nimsa consultation report concluded that "any financial support for Ordnance Survey will clearly continue the tension that arises when publicly funded data collection is exploited commercially".Under scrutinyIf ministers hope that ending Nimsa will end a simmering row about Ordnance Survey's role in the market for geospatial data, they might be disappointed. The agency is under scrutiny from the government's Office of Public Sector Information following the Intelligent Addressing ruling and a separate complaint over the licensing of boundaries used in the national census (www.freeourdata.org.uk/blog/?p=72).Meanwhile, Ordnance Survey, as one of the largest and most commercially successful trading funds, is expected to feature prominently in a study into the market in public-sector information which is due to be published by the Office of Fair Trading in the next few weeks. It is also at the forefront of the government's opposition to the wording of the European Inspire directive, which would require public bodies to make available data needed for environmental protection free of charge.In the short term, the ending of Nimsa is bad news for Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign, which argues that data held by bodies such as Ordnance Survey be made freely available for individuals and commercial entities to exploit. This model would require data collection to be funded centrally.Ending subsidies to Ordnance Survey raises another possibility: that a future government might consider outright privatisation - an option considered and rejected in the 1990s. This would be a disaster for free data. Barr suggests an alternative approach: splitting the organisation into two. One division would operate a national geospatial database, funded by the taxpayer and made available to all, while the other would compete freely in the marketplace for maps and other "value added" products.Another model could be Canada's Geobase project, where since 2001, mapping agencies at different levels of government - federal, provincial and municipal - have agreed to share and make available geospatial data under so-called "copyleft" royalty-free licences. The database, available at the Geobase portal (geobase.ca), includes administrative boundaries and height data, which have both been subjects of anguished controversy in Britain.Ordnance Survey's head, Vanessa Lawrence, has said she opposes our campaign on the grounds that future governments cannot be relied upon to continue to support mapping, which in "free data" countries such as the US has been an easy target for budget cuts.The decision to end Nimsa suggests she has a point. At Technology Guardian, however, we remain sure that the case for publicly funded, freely available, geographic data can, and should, be sustained.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The trouble with the mobile phone industry is that sometimes it can move too fast. Exhibit A is the W850i, the latest Walkman music phone from Sony Ericsson. It's a good-quality phone with some innovative features, including a facility that can tell you the name of song that is playing on its FM radio. It is also compatible with Sony Ericsson's rather good Bluetooth wireless earphones. The handset itself sports a 2 megapixel camera, 1GB of Flash memory storage and 3G connectivity. The handset's design is also pretty smart, although it took a while to get used to the menu system. The small and very fiddly buttons didn't help. Overall you'd probably be delighted to find the W850i in your Christmas stocking - delighted, that it is, until you saw a neighbour with the Sony Ericsson W950i handset which is also imminent. Arguably the first music phone really to give standalone music players a run for their money, the W950i packs four times as much storage as this model, has an amazing screen that displays cover art and great battery life.
Should we be paid for using search engines? For most people that is a silly question. Of course not, they would say. If anything, we should be paying them. The use of search engines has transformed our lives by bringing knowledge on any subject to our computer screens in a fraction of a second - and all for nothing. The more relevant question is: how much would you pay to have a search engine if it were suddenly whisked away from you? The answer is: a lot of money.But times are changing. The vast revenues that search engines are piling up - particularly Google - has started an interesting debate about who should pay whom for what. In Google's early days, when it wasn't making much profit, no one cared: but now that it is making buckets of money, content creators (including newspapers) are asking whether they could share the bounty as well as advertisers who, after all, are piggybacking on other people's content. And what about the users of search engines? They don't generate any content, but without them there would be no pot of gold in the first place. Are they not stakeholders who could make their own landgrab?They already have. Sites such as goodsearch.com in the US (actually powered by Yahoo!) and everyclick.com in the UK enable you to give money to a charity, based on your searches. Everyclick claims to have had 12.6m searches and donates 50% of its revenues to a charity. It is only a short step from donating search revenues to charity to keeping them yourself. Enter Zotspot, a newcomer to the overcrowded search market, which has just announced a service it claims is the first to "pay users in cash for their normal search behaviour" with the chance to earn more by recruiting others to the site. If you don't want to keep the cash, which would be in small chunks, then you can donate it to a charity.None of this is a threat to Yahoo!, MSN, Ask or Google yet - but it may be a harbinger of things to come as a debate unfolds about who should be the real beneficiaries of the content that search engines bring to our screens. One of Google's biggest assets is that its name has become a verb that is used as a generic term for search, even though it actually has only 45% of the US search market. This comes from portraying itself on its home page as a dedicated search engine, whereas its rivals run emporiums (apart from the revamped Ask), making it impossible for them to be branded in terms of just one of a number of products on their portals.Google's biggest weakness is, ironically, its search engine. It is brilliant, but so are its main competitors nowadays. It no longer has a unique selling point beyond its formidable contextual advertising. Given three or four lists of results from different engines, I would fail most of the time to tell which were from Google. This doesn't necessarily matter because branding and stickiness appear to be more important than quality: witness the way that the superior Google mail (Gmail) has failed to make much impact on the market leader Hotmail.What this does mean is that the search race is not over. There is too much money at stake, and if rival engines were to share revenues in a serious way with both content providers and users then Google could come under pressure. One of the reasons content providers have not been paid in the past is that the web never developed a viable way of collecting small sums of money in the way mobile phones have done. But the problem of micropayments has been solved by some sites such as Revver (recently nominated for a Technology &amp; Engineering Emmy award) which offer payment, though only when the kitty reaches $20 (&pound;10.50). Most of the best things on the web are free, and long may it be so. But in territory that has already been commercialised, the playing field clearly needs to be levelled.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When you bought your digital camera, were you told how many million pixels it had? You're always told that more is best: the higher the number of pixels, the better the picture resolution - and the steeper the price. Early digital cameras offered 1m pixels, while the latest boast more than 8 megapixels and counting - expensive models that sales assistants are always keen to sell.But research being done at Rice University in Texas by Richard Baraniuk and Kevin Kelly promises to turn digital camera technology on its head. Their dream is to have a digital camera with just one pixel, yet lose none of the picture quality.Compressed data"Digital cameras are very inefficient in their use of the pixel data they acquire," says Baraniuk. "We wanted to attack some of the inherent inefficiencies in conventional digital photography, in particular the fact that we sample digital images with millions of pixels but then need to compress the resulting data."Once you've taken a picture, the pixels are represented by millions of numbers - far too many for your camera to store. A battery-hungry microprocessor does some rapid calculations to find fewer numbers to approximate or compress the image. This not only drains your batteries but also throws away most of the original image information. The days of increasing megapixels are now limited, as 10 megapixels roughly equals the resolution of film."So you might ask yourself - is there a better way? Well, some new mathematics has popped up over the past two years or so that suggests there is," says Baraniuk.Over the past year, Baraniuk and Kelly have been testing a new type of digital camera. While the images they've produced appear fuzzy, the way they've been created is nothing short of revolutionary. It involves what they describe as "pretty deep stuff" - new mathematical algorithms for compressed sensing.As with the JPEG format, compression is the key, but in a bizarre way. To create an image equivalent to that from 5m pixels, you might only need 200,000 measurements. The light levels are recorded and then complex calculations tease the picture out. A weird feature of the maths means the best kind of measurements to take are random ones.To build their camera, Baraniuk and Kelly used something normally found in digital projectors: a digital micromirror device (DMD). This has 786,432 bacterium-sized metal mirrors which can be electrostatically tilted, and which fit on to a chip about the size of a postage stamp. The number matches the total reconstructed pixels in the final image.In a digital projector, the microscopic mirrors reflect light to the lens to make a bright pixel on the screen, or are tilted away to leave it dark. The experimental camera's DMD is run backwards by replacing the light source with a photodiode - in effect, the single pixel for the experimental camera - and filters for each colour. A lens focuses the image to be photographed on to the DMD, while another directs the combined mirror reflections to the photodiode.Only half of the mirrors reflect light onto the photodiode at one time. Mirror selection is entirely random and, says Baraniuk, is like white noise on a untuned television. The light measurements - repeated thousands of times in quick succession - are of the averaged intensity of just the random "on" mirrors and not the whole picture. A computer then extrapolates an image from the data - also working backwards rather like the DMD - thanks to some mathematical magic. "The bottom line is that we can take a picture with potentially millions of pixels but using just a single detector element," says Baraniuk.So far, their experiments have only involved photographing static objects such as dice, a ball and a coffee mug. The big drawback? Five minutes to take a picture. To reach a stage where their Cyclops camera might challenge an ordinary digital model may take several years of miniaturisation work and the development of faster algorithms."The idea is that it would give the same quality pictures but using less power and with potentially less overall complexity," says Baraniuk. "We're not claiming we'll replace conventional digital cameras tomorrow."Nigel Allinson, professor of image engineering at the University of Sheffield, has concerns about the method because of possible artefacts in image reconstruction, the extra computing power needed and the loss of light (which means less sensitivity in low-light situations). Nevertheless, he reckons that single detectors might be useful for infrared, ultraviolet or x-rays.Exciting ideas"Ideas such as the single-pixel camera are exciting. The field has yet to be fully explored since, as always, there will be limitations. The potential of a single detecting element is that you can work much more easily outside the visible part of the spectrum," says Allinson.The two American researchers are thinking along the same lines, and they're interested in building a terahertz camera for high-resolution imaging. Terahertz radiation will penetrate cloth, paper or plastics to see what lies underneath and has the potential of distinguishing between liquids - something that airport security might find very useful. But should the single-pixel digital camera ever reach the high street, that pushy sales assistant is going to be lost for words.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Make it smallI've been looking at the ultra-small, sleek desktop machines called Shuttle XPCs. A machine of this physical size, halfway between a midi tower and a laptop, would suit my needs admirably. My PC technician is very suspicious, citing possible issues arising from inadequate cooling leading to things such as premature component failure.Derek BanksJack Schofield replies:Shuttle has been making the XPC line since 2002, and several other companies including MSI and Asus make small "barebones" computers. Most of these are based on the Mini-ITX and microATX formats. Your technician is correct in pointing out that small cases can overheat and this can lead to erratic operation and component failure - which applies to portable PCs as well as desktops. However, the problems are well known and smallform factor designs should generally avoid them. Shuttle, for example, typically uses heatpipes as well as fans.The main drawbacks of small-form designs are a possible lack of expansion space, depending on your needs, and the use of more specialised parts. For example, you are unlikely to get more than one 3.5in and one or two 5.25in external drive bays, and cheap standard desktop PC parts may not fit the case. However, parts suppliers are now making smaller components with greater capabilities, and external expansion is a realistic option (eg external hard drives), so it could be argued that large desktop cases are no longer required. Certainly the trend is towards small, stylish machines, particularly for use as Media Center and home theatre PCs, and they also have industrial and commercial uses. They are not quite mainstream yet, but I expect their popularity to keep growing.Mobile SkypeIs there any Skype software for my Treo 600 phone, please?Clare NesbittJS:There is an 18-month-old petition asking Skype to support Palm devices atwww.petitionspot.com, but there's no sign that it will. You could use EQO for Skype software (www.eqo.com), which connects a mobile to Skype but, as far as I can see, only via a PC. Also check out the iSkoot beta (www.iskoot.com). However, there may be better options. MobiVoIP (http://mobivoip.net) claims to have the first VoIP software for PalmOS, while UK-based Hampton Software offers Articulation (www.hamptonsoftware.co.uk).Backchat&#183;Following last week's Norton v Zone Alarm, Peter Smith says: "When I upgraded to Norton Internet Security 2007, I was required to uninstall Webroot's Spy Sweeper first. It seems Internet Security can't tolerate much competition! I am also pretty unhappy that I'm barred from downloading the upgrade from a US site for &pound;26.70, and instead have to pay Symantec &pound;39.99 for the privilege of living in the UK." Steve Knight says he installed Norton AntiVirus 2007, "ignored the warning re ZoneAlarm Pro and everything works just fine".&#183;I mentioned Novosoft's Handy Backup fromwww.handybackup.com. Greg Wallis notes that there is another Novosoft trading at www.handybackup.com. Novosoft Inc (from Texas) says the version sold by Novosoft LLC (from Russia) is being distributed illegally, but it has been there for at least three years.&#183;Bernard Payne asks: "Why do you not mention the in-built backup facility provided by Microsoft?" He uses it and it works well. The reasons are historical. Microsoft does not have its own backup software and has included different programs with different versions of Windows, leading to problems. Windows 2000 and XP used code from Veritas, which was bought by Symantec, which then sued Microsoft, demanding Veritas code be removed from all its products. I therefore removed Microsoft, Symantec and Veritas from my list.&#183;Charles Waterhouse writes to say that the German company Ashampoo (www.ashampoo.com) "seems to have recently adopted the policy of offering a free firewall, which may be another option in a rather diminishing field".
Perhaps to make the task of building an online suite of office-style applications harder for itself. The purchase of Jotspot - which provides a sort of multi-user editable (wiki) system for spreadsheets, calendars, documents and photo galleries - does seem to fit into the perceived grand Google plan of off ering the same sort of applications as Microsoft, but free and online rather than paid for and tied to one computer.But considering recent acquisitions such as the online word processor Writely and the Google Spreadsheets offering, one has to ask: how connected is the search giant's thinking?As Zoli Erdos notes (athttp://www.zoliblog.com/blog/_archives/2006/10/31/2462946.html), JotSpot's spreadsheet page can't import Excel formulas - "I'm sorry, but what else is there in a spreadsheet but formulas?" - and its calendar doesn't distinguish between personal and group events. In short, it's OK as a wiki but not great for other functions.Zimbra, by contrast, is a welldeveloped web application that does "email, group calendaring, contacts and web document management and authoring". Its Ajax client (think Google Maps) runs on all the major browsers and can even be used for internettelephony (VoIP) applications. It uses open source code (like Google), and is cross-platform (like Google's various software offerings). Buying Zimbra instead of Writely (which Google acquired in March) would also have saved the Mountain View coders the hassle of converting the latter over from Microsoft's .NET framework.Which reminds us: what exactly is Microsoft doing online, if anything? Thirteen months ago its new chief software architect, Ray Ozzie, sent out a memo (http://www.scripting.com/disruption/ozzie/TheInternetServicesDisruptio.htm) in which he said that "by January [2006] product groups [will] ... concretely map out scenarios and pragmatically assess changes needed in product and go-to-market plans related to services and service-based scenarios". That is, online services. Well, the code for Office 2007 was declared ready last week. So where's Microsoft's online offering? At least Google's doing something, even if it might not make any coherent sense to the rest of the world. These days, better to be first than to be too late.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Absolutely not! The deal that Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer has announced with Novell will involve Microsoft handing out thousands of vouchers for what he called "Novell's version of Linux" running on Windows servers. But as Ballmer said in San Francisco: "We're still competitors," and: "The right answer is Windows, Windows, Windows."For the past four years, Microsoft has been trying to resolve its conflicts with other companies. It has already done deals with Sun, AOL and Real Networks, and the Novell agreement is another step forward, though it doesn't end the anti-trust suit that Novell filed in 2004 alleging anticompetitive practices that hurt its WordPerfect Office business.The horsetrading over intellectual property rights should have some benefits for users, particularly with regard to virtualisation (running multiple operating systems on one computer). Both Microsoft and Novell have accepted that customers will use both Windows Server and SuSE Linux, and they have agreed to play nice.Novell has also been developing versions of Microsoft's Office XML file formats and, in Miguel de Icaza's Mono project, an open version of Microsoft.net. These are not believed to infringe any Microsoft software patents, but under the new deal, Ballmer has promised "technical collaboration" and his top lawyer, Brad Smith, has added "in effect, a patent covenant from Microsoft" for SuSE Linux users. This covenant explicitly covers Mono, Samba, OpenOffice and Microsoft.net. From the phrasing, patent protection appears to be bundled with Novell's service and support - not with the Linux code. Either way, Novell CEO Ron Hovsepian put it thus: "Very simply said, this announcement gives our customers interoperability and peace of mind all in one."The benefits for Novell are clear. It gets technical and marketing assistance from Microsoft, an unspecified chunk of cash from mutual royalty payments and an advantage over its main competitor in the business market, Red Hat.This may work against Novell with companies that are committed to Linux, but most big customers have mixed environments and might prefer a version endorsed by Microsoft. That's the bet Novell is making.The rest of the open source world will either react with hostility or try to do similar deals with Microsoft - or both.The purists are bound to be offended, but Novell - like Apple and Sun, which also did deals with Microsoft - has lots of proprietary software and, like Microsoft, is trying to find ways to work with open source while also exploiting its own intellectual properties. It's just business.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft Office goes goldMicrosoft said on Monday that it had completed the development of Office 2007 and there will be a launch on November 30. Windows Vista was due for completion yesterday.http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/press/2006/nov06/11-062007OfficeRTMPR.mspxCute TVs for cute kidsHannspree has launched its Kid-Chic range of 9.6in LCD TVs in Europe. The Hannspree.z (for zoo) models include a soft cuddly lion, zebra, an elephant, a giraff e and other animal designs, on sale at Amazon.co.uk for &#163;198.Healthier websiteThe NHS Direct Online website has been relaunched "with a fresh look and new features", according to Cimex, which did the job.www.nhsdirect.nhs.ukTough but lighter and smarterPanasonic is extending its Toughbook range of ruggedised notebook PCs with a smart new Toughbook Light range that will be sold to consumers online.www.panasonic.co.ukProject it widerMitubishi has announced the HD1000 projector (&#163;850 plus VAT), which is HDready and supports WXGA for compatibility with today's widescreen notebook PCs.http://vis.mitsubishielectric.co.uk/product.php?type=XXHD1000&amp;section=businessprojectorsQuit now on YouTubeQuit, the UK stop-smoking charity, has taken its message to YouTube with "Black Magic, from the people who brought you lung cancer".http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HZL_WaBvejAComputing costsThe National Computing Centre's latest survey of corporate IT spending in the UK says the median spending is &#163;3,891 per user, rising to &#163;9,864 per user in the fi nance sector. The median for corporate IT spending was 2.5% of turnover.www.ncc.co.uk/shop
A new vehicle purports to show "the next-generation law enforcement tool" in action. But what can it be, you ask?The T3 is a three-wheeled "personal mobility" vehicle designed "specifically for community policing and patrolling of campuses, malls, airports, events, high-density areas, and so much more." It is, in short, a 240lb electric tricycle, a sort of robo-chariot for the mall cop of the 21st century.Among its stated advantages are a top speed of 25mph, a zero-degree turning circle, a siren, flashing lights, a GPS tracking system and a range of
up to 75 miles on a single charge. Its principal disadvantage is that it looks like a cross between a Dyson vacuum cleaner and a mobility scooter.It is almost impossible to ride one while projecting the sort of measured authority that one normally associates with successful community policing.While it is undoubtedly faster than the much-maligned, two-wheeled Segway, with which it was designed to compete, the T3's extra wheel makes it look exactly 50% more ridiculous. None the less, some police in California have now taken to patrolling the streets on these futuristic crime-fighting trikes.Apparently, the T3 has so far proved to be extremely effective in subduing street robbers, but it is unclear whether the robbers in question were outpaced and caught, or merely reduced to fits of helpless giggles.Just imagine trying to keep a straight face when the pursuing officer turns on the siren.
Novell has made a filing to the US Securities and Excahnge Commission which includes financial details of its deal with Microsoft so it has alsoposted them here. Apart from the money, the most interesting bit of news is that this is a Novell exclusive deal:Additionally, under the business collaboration agreement, Microsoft agreed that for three years, it will not enter into an agreement with another Linux distributor to encourage adoption of Linux/Windows virtualization solutions through a Linux subscription certificate program.This makes sense in the context of how I expect the deal will actually work. For example, if a Microsoft salesman has a customer who wants to run Windows and Linux together, the customer might be a Red Hat user. In that case, the salesman can say, "Hey that's cool, but we have a development agreement with Novell, so we'd be happier if you used SuSE Enterprise for that. Why pay Red Hat $3,000 (or whatever), I can give you a SuSE coupon that gets you a year's free Novell support!"The coupon also includes a promise that Microsoft won't suethe customershould his Novell installation infringe any Microsoft software patents. Whether that's actually worth much is another issue. Microsoft isn't actually run by crazies like the RIAA.There's also a page whereNovell Answers Questions from the [open source] Community, which will grow as more questions arrive.
Microsoft breathlessly informs us that Vista has been RTM'd - that is, released to manufacturing. In other words, it's now safe to inflict on a breathless public. Something like that, anyway.If you've been wondering what Vista might include, you could do worse than have a browse overMicrosoft Vista: the features.Warning: the page(s) left Mac commentator John Gruber notably far from gruntled:Sometimes — like at WWDC back in August — I feel like Apple overplays the "Microsoft copies us" card. But jeebus, you look at this list of new features in Vista and it reads like a "best of Mac OS X 10.3" feature list.(Mac OS X 10.3 came out in October, 2003.)However, what Vista does that Panther didn't was to fit multiple different versions of the operating system onto the same DVD image. According to a conference call given by Jim Allchin, the chief of Windows (and quoted onABC News):[Vista] has already suffered so-called "pen" or penetration testing during its development, and is the first product to go through Microsoft's secure development lifecycle program, he said. "Thousands" of applications have been tested against the software. Allchin's own son uses a prerelease version of Vista without any antivirus software, Allchin said, although he advised customers not to do the same.Well, yes.Allchin also said that the new OS should see a reduction in the security bulletins the company typically issues, advising of potential flaws in the software. "We have been doing measurements all along," Allchin said. "I believe the severity of the [security] bulletins will be less and the number will be less, [although] that remains to be proven.""I need to say the following: Windows Vista will have issues with security — the bar has been raised over time," Allchin added. "But in my opinion, it is the most secure system available and will be the most secure system we've shipped."Talk about your hostages to fortune. We'll be examining what sort of improvement Vista might offer in security in Guardian Technology in the future.
Windows Vista has now been released to manufacturing and there's aQ&amp;A on the Microsoft press site. It ends:PressPass: Looking ahead, has a date yet been set for the availability of Windows Vista for business customers? And what about general availability in 2007? Is everything on track?Hallauer: Microsoft is hosting a series of events around the world on November 30 to officially recognize business availability of the 2007 Microsoft Office system, Exchange Server 2007 and Windows Vista, and we announced today that the worldwide general availability launch is January 30, 2007. So yes, everything is on track and we're very excited about it.There's also aJim Allchin videoon Microsoft's Soapbox video site.
It's been rumoured for a while, but now Team 17 has confirmed on itsown website forumthat a version of turn-based combat classic, Worms, is being readied for Xbox Live Arcade. Apparently the game is in "the final stages of certification".I love Worms. Like Lemmings (which is coming to the PS3 download service, also courtesy of Team 17) it allows you to believe your approach to the game is unique - that no-one else has ever thought of using the tools in the way you've conceived. Brilliant design, in other words.Just one question: what did you used to name your worms when you played in the olden days?Via1up
Tim O'Reilly bringsJeff Bezos, the founder, CEO etc etc of Amazon onto the stage and calls him "the energiser bunny of web 2.0".And he's got another name, too: a dark horse. After all, isn't Amazon moving intoweb servicesa bit, well, weird?Bezos disagrees."I don't know what the opposite of dark horse is," he says. "Maybe a lightning-coloured horse?"But whatever it is, he doesn't think that there's anything strange in Amazon moving into the provision ofcomputing in the cloudor online storage. "This is what we've been doing for 11 years: we know how to be efficient."He wants to take the heavy-lifting out of work - the"muck"that stops businesses from operating because they have to worry about making lots of infrastructural decisions which impede their central goal.O'Reilly suggests that it's strange because companies likeMicrosoftshould be providing these services, rather than buying them from aretailer, for goodness' sake. "Well, it's what they do if they want to work quickly," says Bez, eliciting laughter from the crowd.OK, so his ultimate pitch is that Amazon does these things well, androbustly. They build web services capacity on a massive scale in order to run Amazon.com for 60 million users. They have 10 million square feet of space in fulfilment centres. Learning how to better utilise their spare capacity is sound business, even if it's not big business yet.But can they scale? O'Reilly wonders if the issues of power, server space, and size of data centres will be problematic (just as they prove for people like Google)."Actually the biggest cost isn't power or servers," replies Jeffers. "It's lack of utilisation."So, Amazon has this already - it's just opening it up and making some cash in the process. His analogy: it's like if you bought aBoeing 747and left it on the runway most of the time.·More Web 2.0 Summit coverage here
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It seemsBo Stefan Eriksson one of the co-founders of the Gizmondo handheld gaming platform, has been sentenced to three and a half years in jail by a court in California. The ex-gangster apparently pleaded guilty to embezzlement and drunken driving - in February he crashed a rare Ferrari Enzo while under the influence of alcohol and it later emerged his company had run up debts of over USD300m before he fled his London Gizmondo HQ in favour of Los Angeles. (ReadWired's enthralling investigation).
Like.comdoes image searches, which is both extremely hard and processor intensive, so you won't expect the alpha version of the site to cover the whole web. However, if you are interested in jewely, handbags, shoes, watches or celebrities, it has something to get you started.Why celebrities? Before Like, the team didRiya, which I blogged about last year, a site that focused on face recognition. This turned out to be somewhat hard for today's technology....According to TechCrunch:A key feature that Like.com will be launching in the next month or so is an image uploader and a toolbar. Upload an image to Like.com to see similar results. Or, simply use the toolbar to use any image found on the web as a search query. Either way, Like.com will return results for similar items.Robert Scoble has covered the site atScobleizer, and donea video interview with Munjal Shah, Riya's CEO, plusa video demo of Like.com.A British company, Pixsta, is also working in the visual shopping area, and has a shoe site online atChez Imelda.
Reporters Sans Frontières (RSF) has published its annual list ofenemies of the Internet, which stretches alphabeticaqlly from Belarus to Vietnam. The group explains why each country is listed, which makes interesting reading.Three countries have been removed from the list this year: Libya, Maldives and Nepal.The RSF has also launnched its own blogging site athttp://www.rsfblog.org/where you can create your own ad-free blog for €5.90 or €14.90 a month.
The Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, yesterday vowed to resist attempts by US president George W Bush's administration to obtain private information on internet users.On the day when the Republican administration faced dispiriting results in the US mid-term elections, Dr Schmidt launched a stinging criticism of the government's attitude to privacy.Earlier this year, Google succeeded in having a subpoena allowing access to huge banks of data on the habits of web users overturned by a federal judge.Dr Schmidt said the search giant "would fight very hard" against any repeat performance from the White House."This was a complete violation of our users' rights," Dr Schmidt told the Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco."We, as a society, came to a rational outcome, and if we don't like it we can replace the people who pass those laws."Coming alongside a series of other attacks on privacy, such as the warrantless tapping of telephone lines, the Bush administration's actions caused a furore among privacy groups and internet activists.Although many online companies, including Microsoft and AOL, were prepared to capitulate to the administration's subpoena, Google refused to assist.Dr Schmidt led a challenge to defeat it, in a result that was hailed as a victory for individual privacy.But despite that success, Dr Schmidt admitted that further attacks would be highly likely in the future."There's clearly going to be someone who tests the limits of the Patriot Act, and it's an important constitutional issue," he said."It's not clear to me whether it will be the internet or libraries, but there's this tension between freedom of speech, terrorism, right and secret trials."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Over tea and cake last Saturday afternoon, my friend Matt commented thatPaul Gambacciniwould make his fantasy dinner party invitation list, "because he'd be a walking encyclopaedia of music information".It was an idea that captured my imagination, and over the next hour or so, we concocted lists of people who we think would make an entertaining evening around a dinner table. People were added (Stephen Fry- witty repartee,Germaine Greer- controversial character who might unwittingly provoke interesting male flirting behaviour) and rejected (John Peel- no longer with us,Mark E. Smith- penchant for peeving people), but in the end the gathered 20 or so only featured one game-related person,Sir Clive Sinclair.It's not that games people aren't worthy candidates for a fancy dinner party; we simply felt that they might not contribute as much to the dynamics of conversation and chit chat as the others we'd nominated. But we could be wrong. What gaggle of games luminaries do you think would sit well around your table?
He's got a history of disruption, thanks to his creations Kazaa and Skype. But these daysNiklas Zennstromis in with big business, thanks to the sale of Skype to eBay a little over a year ago.Or is he?ApparentlyKazaawas built with the idea of people sharing files, videos and pictures using a peer to peer network - but they were too early and people just used it for music. If it had been a little later, executives from the media companies that basically killed Kazaa would perhaps have held back. Unfortunately, he notes, most legal departments haven't necessarily caught up with everyone else.Skypehas obviously had a big influence on the telecoms world. But pressed about the relationship with American networks, he doesn't say much - no great surprise given that he's most familiar with Europe, although it leaves the overwhelmingly American audience here.So why did Zennstrom sell toeBayof all people? Apparently it was a great fit: he calls eBay "the first web 2.0 company". But also he admits that there were financial factors at play - the revenue model needed to develop outside of telecoms (ie e-commerce and advertising).So what about another disruptive firm that was bought for big money -YouTube? Zennstrom says "the timing was phenomenal"... "A year earlier and they'd have been sued, but all the media companies were thinking about new models," he says. He compares it to Skype, which also had great timing but mainly through luck.He trails Skype 3.0, which will include greater sharing features and moderated conference calling, and then talks about his other investments:Fon, the sharing network for Wi-Fi hotspots, andThe Venice Project, which is hoping to revolutionise TV over the web using peer-to-peer technologies. It's not a competitor for YouTube, he says... which is the kind of thing that should leave the BBC et al trembling.
He's the internet king of China, and the man who has seen off the likes of Yahoo and eBay. But what does Alibaba.com'sJack Mathink of the web?Well, not a lot. He reveals that he's not a computer guy. "One reason Alibaba survived is becauseJack Ma knows nothing about computers," he says, displaying a disturbing habit of talking about himself in the third person which I usually ascribe to Craig David and professional boxers. "If I can't use it, it gets thrown in the rubbish."He's got some interesting insights on why big internet corporations have often struggled to make an impact in China. A lot of people, he says, assume that money, technology and brand is enough for them to take the market. Butyou can't throw money at Chinabecause it's too big, and brands mean nothing."You have to build little by little, to cultivate the market," he says. It's about good people and lots of patience. He's got a particular dislike ofcorporate culture, it seems: "Professional managers are making their bosses in the US happy, not the Chinese users."Yahoohanded the keys to its Chinese operation to Ma a year ago, and he says trying to whip their struggling operation into shape has been the toughest year of his life in business. "It was like adopting a nine-year-old child," he quips. He's stripped Yahoo right back and started all over again.But he doesn't like following the herd (he won't read books about eBay or Google because "I want to influence others, I don't want them to influence me"). This is especially important because he thinks search is the next big scrap back home.And of course, the question of relations with the Chinese government come up. His tactic is simple: do what they ask you to do. "The internet is changing China rapidly, you can do something to help people," he posits. "If you upset them [the government] you can do nothing."It's a controversial view, but I'd argue that it makes much more sense for a native operation than for the money grabbing investors ready to invade from the US.Talking of invasions, when is Alibaba going to invade the USA?"What do you mean by invading? I'm here to help," he smiles.·More Web 2.0 Summit coverage here
The publisher of the New York Times and the boss of InterActive Corporation (Ask.com, Match.com and others) come on stage.Following on fromEric Schmidtpreviously, the pair are asked about Google: is it a friend or foe?Arthur Sulzbergersays it's clear that they aren't competing in the news journalism space, but yes, in advertising there's huge competition - but "it's exciting".Barry Dilleris less circumspect: it's impossible not to compete and co-operate at the same time. It's about knowing which of your multiple hats you're wearing and if you do that you can be friends in one room and beat each other up in the other.The world doesn't cove to one place, he continues. The media market is big enough to have many, many players - it's not all or nothing.What aboutprofitabilityfor news organisations online? Sulzberger admits that the New York Times couldn't pay the wage bill of its journalists on web revenues alone - but "we don't have to". The paper is still profitable, which gives the web time to continue growing.Diller goes on to discuss the future for IAC. He says the company is interested in more acquisitions (see his recent Guardian interview for more), but also says it's a good time to startcreatingproperties too. We're interested in hybrid programming, he says - and we're going to put capital into it.Politics comes into play, and Diller's vocal.Net Neutrality, he says, isn't even an argument. "How could we let it go?" he asks, to a round of applause. "The danger is that we screw up the very thing that makes the internet work."The talk moves ontograssroots media, which Sulzberger admits that the Times has been behind on. He gets a dig in, too: "It's wonderful that people can post opinions - and, rarely, knowledge - on the web."Diller says editorship isn't going away, and while small audiences are great there is finite pool of talent that can really hit huge general audiences. ·More Web 2.0 Summit coverage here
Google CEOEric Schmidttakes the stage to explain what's happening at what the 'plex.He says that Google didn't set aside a substantial amount of money in theYouTubedeal to sweeten media companies - but that "we visited as many media companies as we can because we have to respect copyright".So, the Plex is now influential in so many ways. But is getting too big a bad thing? Look at the way consumers have turned against large, dominant companies in the past. Users keep Google under control, says Schmidt: the company prides itself on thinking about end users (although I think that's debatable in a number of their short term launches) and so he thinks that things will be good as long as that is kept in mind. He's happy to be open, and let users migrate away from Google in order to keep the company's collective mind sharp (they're developing this kind of stuff right now, he says)."It's a pressure valve on bad business practice".Things turn toregulation, and the way Google stood up to the American government over the release of user data. The audience gives Schmidt a round of applause, but John Battelle asks what happens if somebody. "There's clearly going to be someone who tests the limits of the Patriot Act," says Schmidt. "There's always going to be tension between freedom of speech and terrorism." But the crucial thing is to keep federal judges who make sensible decisions (he then descends into a vaguely cringeworthy "America is great" moment).Now he speaks about the web as a platform; the long-awaited battle withMicrosoftfor the future of the office suite. Politics come into play, and Schmidt denies that there's straight-up competition, that Docs.google is not the same as an office suite. "Our focus is on casual sharing, not business," he says. "Except in as far as they [businesses] need to use them." Neat sidestep, but who's he kidding: it fooled nobody.Part of this battle is between the speed and flexibility of Google and the perceived tepidity of its rivals. So how does Google stay fluid? If the company hires thousands of sales people and thousands of engineers, won't itslow down progress? Schmidt's answer: engineers always win out, and there has not yet been a limit to the company's approach of giving workers work time to spend innovating. The company may appear to be chaotic from the outside, but internally it's very focused.So who runs Google? Larry, Sergey and Eric are a"triumvirate", but Schmidt says that the founders always win - "but they'll give you a different answer". Ultimately he says its about experience versus innovation - Larry and Sergey are often right but too early, Eric is often right but late.Sounds good; as long as you keep being right, of course.
I wouldn't usually write about Disney's interactive offshoot, but its press release caught my eye today. The company has just announced Fall Line Studio, a development team dedicated to 'creating innovative games for Nintendo platforms':"Built around a core of industry veterans, the studio will focus on small-team, creative projects that leverage the Disney brand in new and innovative ways."Alright, try and forget the gruesome use of the phrase 'leverage the Disney brand' for a moment and focus on the positives: an extremely mainstream publisher has realised that Nintendo's machines cannot be squidged into a multiplatform production line, and that the spirit of innovation that exists behind Wii and DSmustbe embraced - even if you're just cranking out Disney tie-ins.It is, of course, a realisation that others in the industry are coming to. In July, for example, Electronic Arts revealed that a section of EA Canada would be set aside purely to work on Wii titles and that six were already in production.This is sound business. When Wii is released later this year the rudimentary quality of the visuals compared to PS3 and Xbox 360 is going to hit a lot of gamers quite hard - even those who currently insist that graphics don't matter. The reality is, this machinecannotcompete on the same graphical playing field as its next-gen brethren. Innovative use of the controller is the only answer.As for DS, it's an idiosyncratic little machine that just doesn't provide an easy fit for lazily ported console games. Even if you do manage to haul something over from, say, PS2, DS users are unlikely to be impressed - the charts are dominated by carefully crafted exclusive titles.With lots of studios apparently dedicating themselves to downloadable console games and others going down the Wii/DS route, it's an interesting time for the industry - there's a sort of creative ghetto-isation taking place that may well break, or at least threaten, the bland 'one-size-fits-all' uniformity of most multi-platform releases.In the future, publishers may bid for a major film license then just hand the DVD over to their specialist studios saying 'interpret this in the way most befitting your platform', rather than 'here you go, we want a 15 level 3D platformer by next year - oh and here's the 300 page highly detailed design document which must be adhered to with festishistic accuracy'. Okay, so the management of perhaps 11 different interpretations of a single movie is going to be more complex - but then who cares about middle managers? The end result could be a vibrant, creatively buzzing industry.And in this age of multiple viable platforms, with more and more households owning two or more machines, it could even be profitable to diversify in this way. Perhaps more customers will start buying the same conversion on, say, Xbox 360, WiiandPSP because they know each one will be entirely different.In this way, the industry could eventually go full circle, back to the days of the 8bit computers when single platform titles developed by isolated teams dominated the industry. Freed from the tyranny of stretching single game experiences across barely similar technologies, maybe we'll see an end to the genre obsession that's been strangling creativity over the last decade.No wait, perhaps I've gone a bittoofar...
Although the conference proper - now renamed theWeb 2.0 Summit- doesn't start until this afternoon, the first morning is replete with a host of workshop events.First up I made it to one whereJohn Battelleled a discussion among advertising executives on "Marketing: Where are we now?", which didn't prove hugely enlightening. Despite all the talk of relevance and revolutions, it seemed to me that the underlying tenets were still very "1.0" - after all, advertisers are still in the business of raising awareness and getting you to buy something.But then I hate ads.Later on I caughtDanny Rimer, a London-based investor with Index Ventures, who took control of a talk titled "Europe has come of age". The panel, consisting of Lastminute founderBrent Hoberman, Kelkoo founderPierre Chappazand Jamba founderMarc Samwer, picked up on areas that Europe might take the lead on, such as location-based services and next generation telephony. And there some interesting thoughts on how Europe should work more closely with China and India to muscle America out of the market.Today's big question, though should really be "How do you say Web 2.0". The fashion in these parts appears to be "web two oh", which brings everything down to just three syllables. But I hanker after "web two point oh", and there's a sprinkling of "web two dot oh". Very lazy people just say "Web 2".
Sony has been through the mill over problems with the PlayStation 3 and Blu-ray in particular (let's not mention rootkits or batteries), so when Dave Karraker went to be interviewed for the PR job in the US:they asked 'how are you with crisis communications,' and I really kind of looked at them and said 'you're kidding me, right?' I mean, I worked with Martha Stewart during her incarceration, I think I can handle it!The quotation is from Gamasutra's lively and interesting 5-page interview with Karraker,A Tough Nut To Karrak: Sony's New PR Boss Talks PlayStation 3 PlansKarraker worked on both the 3DO and the Dreamcast, so he wouldn't be going for 3 out of 3, would he? ;-)
If you're so foolish as to only read the Guardian online, you've missed out on all the wallcharts that we have been including with the paper for the past few weeks and months. But relief is here! If you go to YouTube you can see them, set to music...So here is Donal from Channel 4's thisisaknife doing his thaaaang about wallcharts. Are we bovvered? Oh no hang on that's someone else.>
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Keen gamesblog watchers will knowI have a bee in my bonnetabout games console energy consumption, so it comes with regret that I have to announce another power hog in the next-generation line-up: the Sony PlayStation3.It comes with even greater regret that I have to report that the Japanese console will eat more than twice the ghastly amount of energy consumed by the Microsoft machine, adding a whopping increase to annual household energy bills.FromNewslaunches:The PS3 is a power hug and consumes around 380 watts of power more than double the Xbox 360's 160 watts and eight times the PS2's nimble 45 watts. So spending an average of 4 hours a day on the machine will add approx $ 80 to your yearly power bill.Worth it?viaCNetand bambino_tostare
There are about ten PSP games gathering dust on my desk. Metal Gear Acid 2, 50 Cent Bulletproof, LA Street Duel, Power Stone,Tenchu - the list goes on. The problem is I just can't get excited about the PSP at the moment. If I'm out I'll take the DS and if I'm home I'll play a console/PC game. The PSP just seems to slip through the cracks.But what about that pile of games? Obviously the likes of 50 Cent and LA Street Duel are unlikely to appeal to any sane person, but Power Stone? I used to love that back in the day, but it still isn't enough to tempt me back to the PSP. And to think at the start of the year I couldn't get enough of Sony's handheld. Watching films, catching up with the West Wing on the train, admiring the screen, even playing the odd game (i.e. Daxter). But somewhere along the line I fell out of love with the PSP. Too many average games, in fact too many games all together - I dread to think what the average PSP game sells in the UK. Maybe it will change when the PS3 launches, maybe something will click, but for now my PSP will continue to gather dust. How is yours doing?
No suprises in this announcement: if you have an Xbox 360 then it's almost certainly connected to your TV set and to the net, so downloading and streaming videos is an obvious feature, and Xbox Live already has Microsoft Points as a way of paying for them. From November 22, the US service will offer both "downloads to own" and "videos to rent".The New York Times says:Microsoft has negotiated the rights to rent or sell more than 1,000 hours of material from CBS, MTV Networks, Paramount, Warner Bros. and Turner Broadcasting, along with the martial arts show "Ultimate Fighting Championship." Some programs will be available in high-definition video.The video store will work much like that of Apple Computer, with some important differences. While users will be able to keep television shows, movies can only be rented for a 24-hour period. The videos will not be playable on other devices and cannot be burned onto DVDs, but the online service will keep track of purchases so users can log in to watch their videos on a friend's Xbox.Microsoft has a list of the initial offerings in itspress release. CNet hasscreen shots.Comment: A couple of years ago, Microsoft announced TV and movie downloads for playback on portable media center devices, which failed to catch on. In the future, it's not hard to predict that the Xbox Live service will be extended to include portable Zune players.
So, as we pointed out on the blogat the weekend,Sir Tim Berners-Leetook issue with an article I wrote last week headlined"Creator of web warns of fraudsters and cheats".It's been a few days since then, but I've avoided responding publicly for reasons which I explain below.However, I think it's worth pointing out a few things just to clear up. A fair few people have blogged about it, and wondered what our response might be (herearejustahandful).Well, since you asked...Tim's accusation is fairly straightforward:In a recent interview with the Guardian, alas, my attempt to explain this was turned upside down into a "blogging is one of the biggest perils" message. Sigh. [...] Some editors are tempted to just edit out the opportunities and headline the fears to get the eyeballs, which is old and boring newspaper practice. We expect better from the Guardian and BBC, generally very reputable sourcesSo what happened?First off, nobody made Tim's quotes up - he did indeed say that there is a danger the web, without serious thought and design, is in danger of becoming a place where "untruths start to spread more than truths".However some of his quotes did unfortunately lose their context - particularly the ones about blogging. In the process of reaching the dead-tree version of the Guardian, they lost their grounding and certain aspects were then amplified down the chain. I take responsibility for that.But unfortunately, mistakes do happen - and that's why we have a procedure to fix them. After a long conversation with Tim on Friday, before he published his post, he did as I suggested and put his complaint in an email to ourindependent ombudsman, readers' editorIan Mayes. It's not necessarily as quick as we'd all like it to be, but it is thorough and effective.As of now, that process has yet to be concluded - which is why I have been loathe to discuss it. In fact I suppose I might have put a spanner in the works by writing this, but I think the demand of openness trumps procedure at this point. So far W3C, for Tim, have asked for the headline to be changed, but I think everyone would be better served by a couple of small changes to the offending text.I think implications of sensationalism are ill-founded, as hopefully anybody who reads the Guardian's wide spread of technology coverage will realise. The same goes for the hint that it was deliberate obfuscation that comes as the result of an anti-blogging mentality; that's especially galling for me, a fairly passionate advocate of blogging who has been writinghis ownfor six years.Unfortunately the news mangle is imperfect, and the manner in which the web works - just as Tim said - means that can unsavoury things can spread.Yes, we get things wrong sometimes. But when we do, we work hard to fix it.
Tim "2 point " O'Reilly (photograph courtesy of Wikimedia)I've arrived here in an unseasonably warm San Francisco for the event of the season (well, the week, at least) -Tim O'Reilly'sWeb 2.0 conference, organised along with CMP Technology.OK, OK, thanks to massive media saturation (not least ourspecialfrom last weekend) you're most likely sick to death of Web 2.0 as a phrase, a meme or a piece of marketing nonsense (not for nothing did a friend suggest "web2con" was an appropriate monicker).But this is the third year this event's been running - and with any luck, it isn't just going to be a lot of dotcommers fannying about and slapping each other on the back. The big boys are all out to play - the speaker list includes Bill Gates' heirRay Ozzie, Amazon bigwigJeff Bezosand Yahoo founderDavid Filo. I get the feeling that those of us in attendance are going to be able to separate the wheat from the chaff pretty quickly: if you talk rubbish, this is an audience that's going to find you out.For those who can't make it into the O'Reilly event (fairly exclusive as usual, and with a hefty price tag), there's aWeb 2.2 Unconferencerunning too. Unfortunately, asJohn Battellepoints out, with around 100 speakers in the space of just a couple of days it's going to be pretty busy and I don't think I'll be seeing both in action.Stay tuned for updates, on the blog and on the maintechnology.guardian.co.ukpages.
After bringing anger and controversy to Nottingham's GameCity event, I'm back on the road this month, hosting the videogame component of theBradford Animation Festival. I'll be overseeing the two main days - November 16-17 - introducing the likes of Charles Cecil, William Latham, Mike Cawood of Rare and Introversion, the ridiculously talented indie developers behind Darwinia and Defcon. All will be discussing what life is like working in the industry as well as where videogames are going and how the movie, games and animation industries are unstoppably moving together.Here'sthe full line-up.Once again, it would be great to see a few Gamesblog regulars up there - and it'll certainly be a worthwhile trip if you're thinking of getting into the games industry, or if you enjoy introductory speeches delivered by nervous videogame journalists.
Are there currently more competing videogame systems than ever before? It would seem that way, going by THQ's press release today. The company has announced that it's working on videogame translations of Pixar's forthcomingRatatouille movie, due for release in Summer 2007. Naturally, to make the most out of this no doubt costly franchise the publisher is thrusting its game onto as many profitable platforms as possible. So how many are there in the current industry?Eleven.Yep, Ratatouille will be out on 11 systems: Xbox 360, PS3, PS2, PSP, Wii, GameCube, Game Boy Advance, DS, Windows PC, Mac and mobile phone. According to the release, THQ's Heavy Iron Studios will be leading development for Ratatouille across the company's 'Studio System', which takes in 1,300 people spread throughout 15 wholly-owned studios and 25 indie codeshops throughout the world. Surely a logistical nightmare - especially if the company has a consistent vision for quality and content across its range. Which, this being a movie tie-in, is bound to be the case...
Bobbie Johnson has an audio interview with Tim Berners-Lee (you know - he invented this web thing).Download thelatest Science Podcastand find out why he thinks that "studying the world wide web is like peering inside the brain".
Katherine Chisnall, a 13-year old schoolgirl from Trowbridge, has won the nationwideDoodle 4 Google ­ My Britaincompetition, and her doodle -- Five wonders of Britain -- will be at www.google.co.uk until 5pm Tuesday. Around 15,000 people entered. Google says:As well as winning the opportunity to have her work seen by 20 million people, Katherine has won a trip to Google¹s HQ -- the Googleplex in San Francisco -- to work with Dennis Hwang, Google¹s webmaster and original doodler. She has also won a laptop for herself, and a state of the art Hitachi interactive whiteboard for her school, St Augustine¹s RC School.Google also got a specialist education consultancy to analyse 2,000 doodles. Key findings include: * 45% drew monuments and historical figures ­ compared with 3% that featured celebrities. * Over half (52%) used the Union Jack. * One in three (33%) included Big Ben. * 31% of the children depicted the monarchy. * The sterling currency was drawn by 5%.After the Queen, Shakespeare was the most depicted person, drawn by 1% of entrants, against just 0.4% for Harry Potter and 0.3% for James Bond.
Over the weekend there's been a slow dribble of posts about a virus called "Macarena" that can do things to files on Apple's OSX operating system. Like, copy itself if the user opens a file in the same folder, and infect that file.Symantec seems to have beenfirst to identify it; the risk is described as "very low". The actions are pretty unexciting: "Infects other files when they are executed in the current directory, regardless of file name or extension."The first post to cross my radar (doing a backsearch on the name) came on November 3, from theSecuriteam group, which called it a proof of concept (POC) - ie, something which proves you can do something, but tends not to do anything.Those with long memories might recall theWord Conceptvirus. That was a POC, the first "macro virus" to affect Microsoft Word; since which the number of macro viruses has blossomed. So just because something's a POC doesn't mean that bad versions won't follow in its wake. (Such asWazzu, which used the same idea.)Amit Singh, Google's Mac program manager, isnot quite completely dismissive of this, but does imply that weaknesses like this are inherent in the operating system.It'shit Digg(well, discussion about it has). And Paul Ducklin, formerly found in the UK, can be found talking toZDNet Australia about the source code(which has been distributed; be interested to see what weakness that exploits):However, in the source code, Ducklin said the author had expressed what appears to be frustration at trying to make the virus effective on Apple's platform."In the source code, which is a mish-mash of stuff, there is a comment where the author says 'so many problems for so little code'," he said. "So it does look as though virus writers, fortunately, still have a way to go before they are able to write Mac viruses with the proficiency and fluidity that they can for Windows."Finally, this exploit does not affect PowerPC Macs, only Intel-based ones (ie, every machine Apple's making from now forward, for those who'd like to say "oh, it's not relevant for most of the installed base then.."). No clues at the time of posting about why that distinction exists, but must be something in the executable. Clearly, a VX writer who doesn't useXCode...Meanwhile, there's a goodrundown of malware for OSXby Ryan Russell. Halloween was a few days ago, but shiver anyway.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
The latest additions to Xbox Live Arcade have been announced. Konami's Contra launches this Wednesday while troubled Atari rummage through their back catalogue once more for January launches of Centipede/Millipede, Battlezone, Asteroids/Asteroids Deluxe, Missile Command, Tempest, and more interestingly, Warlords. So, fairly dull unless you fancy the five minutes of nostalgia that these retro games normally offer. No, the real excitement on Live will be Sensible World of Soccer - my tip for a potential game of 2007, assuming developers Codemasters don't tinker with it too much.
Jeff Howe atWired Newsreports:According to internal documents provided to Wired News and interviews with key executives, Gannett, the publisher of USA Today as well as 90 other American daily newspapers, will begin crowdsourcing many of its newsgathering functions. Starting Friday, Gannett newsrooms were rechristened "information centers," and instead of being organized into separate metro, state or sports departments, staff will now work within one of seven desks with names like "data," "digital" and "community conversation."According to Wikipedia: "Crowdsourcing is a term coined by Wired magazine writer Jeff Howe and editor Mark Robinson in June 2006."There's a discussion atSlashdot.
Google is on its way to becoming the world's biggest advertising agency, which involves not just selling ads online but in newspapers and magazines, and on TV. Now it's going to run an alpha test with 100 advertisers and 50 US newspapers, with a system that could be launched next year.The New York Timessays:Google's plan will give the publishing business a high-tech twist: the company will expand its computer system, which already auctions off advertisements on millions of Web sites, to take bids for newspaper ads as well. Hoping to reach out to a new crop of customers, such as small businesses and online retailers, many of the largest newspaper companies, including Gannett, the Tribune Company, The New York Times Company, the Washington Post Company and Hearst, have agreed to try the system in a three-month test set to start later this month.Business Week has more detailsof how the system will work, and notes:Comments from other media executives suggest that Googlephobia is abating somewhat. Google appears to have decided "they'd like to keep [publishers] well-fed rather than eat us," said Jack Kliger, CEO of Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S. and chairman of the Magazine Publishers of America.
