Can Twitter give you cancer? That was the question racing (usually accompanied by the tag "rubbish") over social networks today, based on a new article in the journal Biologist, and then covered by some organisations (sample headline: "How using Facebook could raise your risk of cancer").The piece in question is by Aric Sigman, a fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine and Associate Fellow of the British Psychological Society, and is entitled "Well connected? The biology of 'social networking'".It isn't written in the style that I'm familiar with from Nature and Science, the two most eminent peer-reviewed journals. It's rather more like a New Scientist feature, except that those will aim to present both sides of an argument. So this feels (to me, being used to reading science papers for years to try to extract journalistic stuff from them) like science-lite. True, there are lots of graphs and citations. But there's no single experiment that's been carried out. It's more like a meta-study, with a few guesswork-y knobs on.Sigman's thrust is that "Couples now spend less time in one another's company and more time at work, commuting, or in the same house but in separate rooms using different electronic devices." At this point I'm looking for a citation... though none is forthcoming. But his point feels fair - at least if it said "families" rather than "couples". These days, I'd have thought that couples spend the time in the same room even if they're on different devices.His next point: ONS data say one-third of adults live alone, "a trend that looks likely to continue." Again, feels right, though no citation.Then it goes somewhere quite different: into "differential gene expression in lonely individuals", which is the findings of a paper (full text online) from Genome Biology of 2007: "high-lonely" individuals have lower levels of various blood chemicals than those who, um, aren't. Which is an interesting finding in itself. More social contact = reduced morbidity (likeliness to die); less social contact = the other way.There are plenty of studies showing that real, human physical contact is good for you. Sigman points to a 1998 study that suggested that greater use of the internet "was associated with declines in communication between family members in the house, declines in the size of their social circle, and increases in their levels of depression and loneliness."OK, that was 1998 though. In fact, Sigman doesn't really have anything to say about social networking systems such as Facebook and Twitter. His article ends with "presiding over a growing body of evidence, we should now explain the true meaning of the term 'social networking'. At a time of economic recession our social capital may ultimately prove to be our most valuable asset."Er... OK. Nothing about Twitter giving you cancer then? No. There are some older studies which suggest that "women with small social networks [which I don't think means their Facebook friend or Twitter follower count] show more than twice the death rate."Basically, there's a lot here about social networks - but used in the old-school sense, of the number of people you physically meet, cuddle, interact with face-to-face. What isn't dealt with is the question of whether social networks such as Facebook, MySpace, Twitter, even Skype, which let you interact - at a distance - with people in real time count, for the purposes of sociology, as "real" social networks or as intermediated communication.And those headlines you've been seeing? All based on a tenuous extension of that Genome Biology study, which Sigman quotes (entirely fairly: he's making a point about living alone). So it's not so much Bad Science as, yes, Bad Journalism that has conflated this into "Twitter gives you cancer".Except if you go over to the Institute of Biology site, the press release seems to besuggestingthat that's roughly what you should think:Dr Aric Sigman warns us of the dangers of sacrificing old-fashioned social contact for the current trend towards more online interaction. It seems that there is no substitute for face-to-face contact with our family, friends and communities, when it comes to maintaining good health. A Facebook poke cannot replace a good old hug, it seems.That's not my precise reading after a careful read. You could at least think that it's ambiguous, because it never deals with or cites any papers looking at virtual social networks.I prefer the observation of one Twitterer the other week about the network's effects: "it's a problem of paucity of language - we don't have a word for friends you haven't met and might never meet in person."What's needed now is some real research into what happens when you're using online social networks, and to what extent they can supplant face-to-face interaction. Not forgetting that online networks can facilitatereal-life meetings, of course.Update:the Institute of Biology has now made the paperavailable for you to read.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Don't show this to your childrenA VHS machine that has been converted so that it functions as a toaster? Clever enough - though judging by the number of sandwiches kids try to feed them, they think that's their purpose anyway.And Windows will be bug-freeAh, the good old days when Bill Gates worked at Microsoft, and he was talking up the Tablet PC - the computer form that we would all, of course, adopt, with the help of the now-defunct Compaq.It's a zero-billion-dollar industryHamsters! Wheels! Electricity! Make one from the combination of the others. Obvious, if horribly underpowered.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments...
I took some video clips on my old Samsung Digimax L60 camera. These show as AVI files. They play back fine using Windows Media Player on XP, but will not play in Windows Media Player on my friend's newer Dell Inspiron running Vista.Bill AshtonAVI (Audio Video Interleave) is a container file format, and it can be used with a very wide range of video-coding/decoding software, or codecs for short. A video player will not play an .avi file if you don't have the right codec installed. Windows Media Player will usually download codecs automatically when you need them, but unfortunately this does not include independent codecs such as DivX and Xvid. You can find out which codec a movie needs, and whether you have it installed, by using a small utility, the GSpot Codec Information Appliance.My quicker solution is to install theK-Lite Codec Pack 4.6.2. This includes most of the codecs and filters you are likely to need, useful tools such as GSpot, and Media Player Classic. This looks like an old copy of Windows Media Player but it has nothing to do with Microsoft. It's far less bloated than current versions of WMP and similar players. The minor drawback is that it's Windows only, but it works well in Vista. The cross-platform equivalent isVLC, which is also worth a look.Codecs.com is a reliable source of codecs, which is important now that on-the-fly fake codec downloads are being used to distribute malware.
We would like to improve the online content of our student newspaper by including a series of video reports from around campus. We need to buy some equipment, but we only have around £300. Hosting for the videos will presumably be done through YouTube.Neil PooranYouTube has made mediocre technical quality acceptable, as long as the content is interesting, so you can now shoot video with a mobile phone or a pocket-sized camcorder such as the Flip Video Ultra. But these are limited, and you would be better off with a standard zoom camcorder that can handle a wider range of conditions. It probably doesn't matter which you buy, but you don't need high definition or widescreen for web video. You will, however, need something with a tripod bush and an external microphone socket. Putting the camera on a tripod, getting a microphone close to the subject and adding plenty of light are more important than minor variations in the specification of the camera.For making short reports, you may find it handier to use a camcorder that can record to SD Flash memory cards: they're cheap, you can change them quickly, and it's easy to copy the results to any PC for editing. However, miniDV cameras still offer the best value for money for serious movie-making. As these are becoming increasingly unfashionable, you can probably pick up an excellent outfit secondhand for around half your budget.
I have several RAR files containing downloaded music which always come up as "archive damaged or incomplete" when I try to open them with SuperNZB. Is there a way of fixing these files or at least extracting the music in them?Phil GoodlandWinRAR is a very efficient and deservedly popular compression or archiving program, somewhat like Zip, and it is frequently used to split very large files into smaller ones (part1.rar, part2.rar, etc). WinRAR is commercial and proprietary, so some alternative compression programs try to handle its encryption system. However, you have a much better chance of success using WinRAR itself. A trial version is available fromhttp://www.rarlab.com/. The program will also save whatever it can extract from damaged files, which are quite common with Usenet downloads. Click the Extract icon, and on the General tab, check the box that says "Keep broken files".
I'm planning to add the new Asus Eee Box B204 to a 32-inch, 720-line HDTV set as a space-saving combined PC and entertainment centre. The Eee Box is designed so it can be clipped to the back of a TV. It has an ATI Radeon HD 3400 graphics card and HDMI output. I'm also thinking of getting an external Blu-ray BD-RW/DVD-Rom. Would this combination work?Peter SkillernAs you know, the Eee Box is based on netbook technology: it has a 1.6GHz Intel Atom with 1GB of memory and Windows XP Home. This should be OK for playing 720-pixel HD videos, and the graphics card can certainly handle Blu-ray, but I share your suspicion that the processor is underpowered for the job. Asus has just brought out a new Eee Box B203 with a 1.2GHz Intel Celeron 220 chip, which it also uses in the low-cost Asus X58C laptop. This should be a better bet for Blu-ray, but it would be safer to let someone else try it first. Have any readers tried it?
I use Dreamweaver at school, and I obviously can't fork out £400-odd for the program. Do you know of any free equivalents?Cormac Ó MaoláinCompanies that sell high-priced software are aware of the problem, and you should be able to find a student version of Adobe Dreamweaver CS4 for about £100. However, there are plenty of alternatives, though I don't know which ones will have the features you need. Check the list of open-source alternatives atOsalt.com. There's also a review:Web design on a budget: six free alternatives to Dreamweaver.
DAB, the digital radio, is a finalist in the Fiasco Awards 2009 in Spain, which just goes to show it's not just the British DAB that's turned into a fiasco.The nomination textruns through the history -- yes, the European Commission was involved -- and says:the Spanish and the Catalan Governments launched from the year 2000 onwards, and for the last eight years they have been broadcasting with no audience. The estimated investment on digital radio has been of 50 million euros in Spain, an amount that got to 350 million thanks to the help of the other six European countries that believed in this technology. In Catalonia the fiasco was accomplished in November 2008, when after ten years without an audience, the Corporació Catalana de Mitjans Audiovisuals -- the Public Catalan Media Corporation -- brought digital radio broadcasting to a halt.The UK has done a little better, of course, but we don't know how it would have fared without massive amounts of free DAB advertising from the "neutral" BBC, and regulators who don't appear to be giving much serious consideration to anything else.Do you think it's worth contacting Spain's broadcasters to find out if they blameSteve Green?Either way, you can go to theFiascoAwards.comsite and vote.
Perhaps. After years of being criticised by environmental campaigners for their poor green credentials, companies were falling over each other at this week's Mobile World Congress, the sector's biggest annual get-together, to proclaim their transformation.The industry's trade body, the GSM Association, has coralled handset makers and mobile networks to create a universal mobile phone charger (hopefully to be introduced later in the year), as chargers often outlast phones.Meanwhile, LG and Samsung unveiled handsets with built-in solar panels: 10 minutes of sunlight and you can make a short phone call. Samsung has a track record in green technology and its current SGH-F268 was named by Greenpeace in its most recent audit as the "world's greenest mass-market phone". LG, meanwhile, has pledged to remove brominated flame retardants, chlorinated flame retardants and PVC from its manufacturing process by next year. Both companies are also working hard to create "green" packaging, even down to the use of soy-based inks instead of traditional dyes.Last year, Nokia unveiled a green concept clamshell phone named Remade. While the Finnish giant - which makes four out of every 10 handsets sold worldwide - did not show any new green devices, its chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, told the press that "being green should be about more than creating one-off green devices and features". The company can recycle phones in 85 countries and its chargers are greener than most, but we are still waiting for the Remade to make it into production. Greenpeace named Nokia's 6210 Navigator as the greenest smartphone in its survey - although it scored lower than Samsung's device.China's biggest handset manufacturer, ZTE, has its sights set on the developing world, where a solar panel could help in areas where electricity supply is patchy or relies upon environmentally unfriendly diesel generators.Those generators are also often used to power the mobile phone masts that provide signals in rural areas. Several mast providers were showcasing solar and even wind-powered masts at the show. Digicel, which has operations in areas such as the South Pacific islands, is one of many companies rolling out solar-powered base stations.However, the mobile phone industry has a long way to go before it can count itself as "green", because the industry retains customers by throwing ever shinier mobile phones at them, based on replacement cycles of one to two years.Ultimately, "green" phones need to be accompanied with proper recycling programmes. Steps are being taken - just ask your operator how you can dispose of your old handset in an environmentally friendly way - but too many old mobiles are still cropping up in landfill sites in the developing world.
Dima Damen is one of hundreds of PhD students around the world working hard on a challenging problem: how do you make CCTV smart? Later this year, she'll finish her studies at the University of Leeds having created prototype computer vision applications to detect bicycle theft and carried objects. Her research work is a small step towards building the smart CCTV systems of the future.Nobody would like to spend their time staring at a CCTV image of a bicycle rack and trying to spot a thief. Prompted by her PhD supervisor, Professor David Hogg, Damen realised that a computer vision application could help detect suspicious activity. "I thought that whatever vision could do would certainly be better than the current situation," she says.The need was clear - half a million bicycles are stolen each year - but how could it be done? "In computer vision, there are techniques to track people when they're walking in front of the camera," says Damen.She then realised that if a smart CCTV system tracked people dropping off and picking up their bicycles, perhaps any differences could be noted. In computer vision terms, this meant comparing moving blocks of pixels from different times. The initial tests - where 11 out of 13 simulated thefts were successfully detected - involved using clothes' colouring to compare individuals and raising a theft warning when they looked different.People-watching"The hard bit, actually, is to link the drop at the beginning of the day to the pickup at the end of the day," says Damen.Another part of her PhD work at Leeds is to detect carried objects based on shape and colour. "The application that we developed is capable of highlighting all the objects that have been carried," says Damen. "Now, we are at the stage of doing the final step, which is people going into buildings with objects and leaving without them."Dr James Orwell works in the Digital Imaging Research Centre at Kingston University London, and appreciates the wider issues."If you wanted to try and cover everywhere, you'd need a whole army of people watching CCTV," says Orwell. "That's essentially the driver for this technology - it's automation, it's doing things more efficiently."Like other researchers in the field, Orwell is driven by the intellectual excitement of solving computer vision problems, which, invariably, rely on complex mathematics. The biggest challenge today? Researchers in Australia are aiming to provide robust recognition of faces from low-resolution CCTV footage.Tracking people effectively in cluttered conditions - such as a busy street - is another goal and a Kingston PhD student, Alberto Colombo, is working on just such a project. To do this with smart CCTV, Orwell says you look for "invariants" in the image data such as shape, size, or clothing colour. "You can track people and you can even track people between cameras."It's not just people in the frame for smart CCTV. Norbert Buch, another PhD student at Kingston, is working on motion silhouettes to distinguish between vehicle types for urban traffic analysis. His project is funded by Transport for London.So what would we like smart CCTV to do in future? Orwell talks about the "gold standard" of a human operator who, intuitively, can spot anomalies. For example, a person wearing a bright pink ski jacket on a railway station platform may stand out - but more significant is somebody who doesn't get on to three successive trains.Smart CCTV finds meaning in what you see and that, in computer vision terms, requires high-quality data from more cameras, better definition, and a faster frame rate. Your digital camera with built-in face detection illustrates simple video analytics - the technology that analyses video for objects, people, or behaviour.Computer vision academics are already trying their new algorithms on hundreds of gigabytes of Home Office CCTV test data. This research involves looking at abandoned baggage, parked vehicles, doorway surveillance, sterile zone object tracking, and multiple camera tracking."There are hundreds of PhD students in the world chipping away at these problems. Everybody agrees on the basics," says Orwell. Today, face recognition is achievable in controlled environments with face detection possible in uncontrolled environments. "I think in five years' time you'll see usable results in face recognition in uncontrolled environments," Orwell adds.Another notable project is being carried out by Professor James Davis and PhD student Karthik Sankaranarayanan at Ohio State University. They are developing a computerised surveillance system that attempts to recognise whether a person is acting suspiciously.By analysing and modelling behaviour patterns, the system learns what's normal and what's not. "If you're doing something strange, we want to be able to detect that, and figure out what's going on," says Davis. The system may spot people who stop in an unusual place, wander suspiciously around car parks, or leave a bag behind.Big Brother BritainShould we worry about smart CCTV's growing abilities? It concerns Liberty, AKA the National Council for Civil Liberties, which points out that Britain is currently the most-watched nation in the world."Technology in this area has come a long way from when CCTV videotapes first came on the scene. Unfortunately legislation has not kept up," says Isabella Sankey, Liberty's director of policy. "Sophisticated systems that can identify and track individuals need proper regulation so that appropriate safeguards can be built in." Being intelligent about using smart CCTV will be important too.
In the latest sign of a wind of change blowing through government IT policy, the organisation responsible for registering property titles has invited businesses to build a pioneering new information system rather than trying to do the job itself.Land Registry, which handles property titles in England and Wales, last week offered to support commercial developers of websites that display details of each stage in a housebuying chain. The move follows the 2007 shelving of the registry's "Chain Matrix" system after a &pound;4.6mpilot.The idea of the system was to reduce the uncertainties of housebuying by allowing all parties in a chain to see what stage of the process had been reached by everyone else. It was to be the centrepiece and public face of a scheme to computerise the entire conveyancing process.However, the scheme was postponed at the end of 2007 after a pilot showed little interest from conveyancers or their clients. "Many citizens were either not aware or not convinced of the benefits of Chain Matrix and many prevented their conveyancer from entering their transactions on to Chain Matrix," an evaluation reported. The plan also alarmed some businesses, which feared being squeezed out of the property information market.Last week's announcement may assuage some of these fears. The registry offered to "support developers and commercial enterprises that want to develop Chain Matrix and electronic funds transfer-type services". Although Land Registry is a self-governing trading fund, the move reflects the government's "Power of Information" agenda, which encourages public bodies to make their core information freely available to developers of "value-added" information services, rather than trying to do everything themselves.Peter Collis, chief land registrar and chief executive of Land Registry, defended the original move to develop the system: "Land Registry's decision to launch Chain Matrix was taken at a time when no private investor was prepared to be the first to establish such a wide-ranging cross-industries initiative." By "seeding the market with the prototype" and "developing good examples of technical functionality", the registry had paved the way for the private sector, Collis said.• A proposal to abolish the term "Crown Copyright" may appear in the final report from the Power of Information taskforce. A commenter on the taskforce'sbloghas proposed adopting the term "Common Copyright" or "Crown Commons" as "a symbolic move". In response, John Sheridan at the Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI) agrees with the need to do "something symbolic", but warns against confusing Crown copyright, which "is about ownership", with the Creative Commons licensing scheme. He says OPSI's existing click-use licence "is already more liberal ... and less legalistic" than crown copyright.In its comment, the government's advisory panel on public sector information  welcomes proposals to simplify licensing. "If an organisation or individual uses data from several public bodies then there is a risk of it being difficult to use the resulting product. What appear to be small fees can quickly add up. These factors tend to inhibit innovation."• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Video reportingWe would like to improve the online content of our student newspaper by including a series of video reports from around campus. We need to buy some equipment, but we only have around &pound;300. Hosting for the videos will presumably be done through YouTube.Neil PooranJS:You can now shoot video with a mobile phone or a pocket-sized camcorder such as the Flip Video Ultra. But these are limited, and you would be better off with a standard zoom camcorder that can handle a wider range of conditions. It probably doesn't matter which you buy, but you don't need high definition or widescreen for web video. You will, however, need something with a tripod bush and an external microphone socket. Putting the camera on a tripod, getting a microphone close to the subject and adding plenty of light are more important than minor variations in the specification of the camera. For making short reports, you may find it handier to use a camcorder that can record to SD Flash memory cards: they're cheap, you can change them quickly, and it's easy to copy the results to any PC for editing. However, miniDV cameras still offer the best value for money for serious movie-making. As these are becoming unfashionable, you can probably pick up an excellent outfit secondhand for around half your budget.Movies don't playI took some video clips on my old Samsung Digimax L60 camera. These show as AVI files. They play back fine using Windows Media Player on XP, but will not play in Windows Media Player on my friend's newer Dell Inspiron running Vista.Bill AshtonJS:AVI (Audio Video Interleave) is a container file format, and it can be used with a very wide range of video-coding/decoding software, or codecs for short. A video player will not play an .avi file if you don't have the right codec installed. Windows Media Player will usually download codecs automatically when you need them, but unfortunately this does not include independent codecs such as DivX and Xvid. You can find out which codec a movie needs, and whether you have it installed, by using a small utility, the GSpot codec information appliance. My quicker solution is to install the K-LiteCodec Pack4.6.2. This includes most of the codecs and filters you are likely to need, useful tools such as GSpot, and Media Player Classic. This looks like an old copy of Windows Media Player but it has nothing to do with Microsoft. It's far less bloated than current versions of WMP and similar players. The minor drawback is that it's Windows only, but it works well in Vista. The cross-platform equivalent isVLC, which is also worth a look. Codecs.com is a reliable source of codecs, which is important now that on-the-fly fake codec downloads are being used to distribute malware.Decoding problemsI have several RAR files containing downloaded music which always come up as "archive damaged or incomplete" when I try to open them with SuperNZB. Is there a way of fixing these files or at least extracting the music in them?Phil GoodlandJS:WinRAR is a very efficient and deservedly popular compression or archiving program, somewhat like Zip, and it is frequently used to split very large files into smaller ones (part1.rar, part2.rar, etc). WinRAR is commercial and proprietary, so some alternative compression programs try to handle its encryption system. However, you have a much better chance of success using WinRAR itself. Atrial versionis available. The program will also save whatever it can extract from damaged files, which are quite common with Usenet downloads. Click the Extract icon, and on the General tab, check the box that says "Keep broken files".Eee Box TVI'm planning to add the new Asus Eee Box B204 to a 32-inch, 720-line HDTV set as a space-saving combined PC and entertainment centre. The Eee Box is designed so it can be clipped to the back of a TV. It has an ATI Radeon HD 3400 graphics card and HDMI output. I'm also thinking of getting an external Blu-ray BD-RW/DVD-Rom. Would this combination work?Peter SkillernJS:The Eee Box is based on netbook technology: it has a 1.6GHz Intel Atom with 1GB of memory and Windows XP Home. This should be OK for playing 720-pixel HD videos, and the graphics card can certainly handle Blu-ray, but I suspect the processor is underpowered for the job. Asus has just brought out a new Eee Box B203 with a 1.2GHz Intel Celeron 220 chip, which it also uses in the low-cost Asus X58C laptop. This should be a better bet for Blu-ray, but it would be safer to let someone else try it first. Have any readers tried it?Alternatives to DreamweaverI use Dreamweaver at school, and I obviously can't fork out &pound;400-odd for the program. Do you know of any free equivalents?Cormac &Oacute; Maol&aacute;inJS:Companies that sell high-priced software are aware of the problem, and you should be able to find a student version of Adobe Dreamweaver CS4 for about &pound;100. However, there are plenty of alternatives, though I don't know which ones will have the features you need. Check the list of open-source alternatives atOsalt.com. There's also areview: Web design on a budget: six free alternatives to Dreamweaver.Backchat• Mark McCann wanted one screen to work as a PC monitor and an LCD TV. Niel Anderson recommends "Avermedia's AverTV Hybrid STB 1080i, a separate Freeview and analog tuner box about the size of a VHS cassette. It allows any monitor with a DVI connection (or suitable adaptor) to be either a TV or a monitor. You don't have to switch your PC on to watch TV, or you can watch TV picture-in-picture in a resizable window on the PC desktop. The quality of the TV picture is better than some dedicated TVs I've seen." TrustedReviewsliked it a lot less. There are also some useful comments on the Ask Jackblog.• Ben Murtagh points out that free Acorn emulators are listed at the Dmozopen directory.
A simple system for exchanging money via mobile phones is proving to be a huge hit in Kenya, where cash machines and banks are few and far between, but where the cell network is universal.One entrepreneur thinks there's an opportunity for a similar service in the UK. His mobile money platform,Beem, went live just two weeks ago; 1,500 people have signed up so far.In Kenya, the M-Pesa service has attracted more than 4 million users in 18 months. This success has prompted similar launches in Uganda, Tanzania and Afghanistan. M-Pesa is separate from the banks, although it's possible to transfer money from one to the other. Many rural Kenyans do not have bank accounts, but they do have phones.Edward Obiko, a 23-year-old engineering student at the University of Nairobi, uses M-Pesa about once a week. While it's not quite possible to stop using cash completely, he can see that time coming."Just yesterday I paid for a course at Strathmore University in Nairobi using M-Pesa. And last month I paid to register a domain name with it," he said. "It has also become popular as an online payment platform for Kenyan websites. Utility companies are encouraging people to pay bills through M-Pesa. Kenyans living in urban regions can send money to family members who live in rural areas with no bank or even no electricity. This, I think, is its most typical use."M-Pesa operates through a network of agents who handle cash transactions linked to M-Pesa accounts. Anyone can register as an agent, and thousands of businesses and shops have done so.Transactions are simple. All you need to know is the recipient's phone number and your own pin (which isn't stored on the phone). The network operator, Safaricom, takes a small variable fee for most transactions.The UK version, Beem, is being promoted by Kerl Haslam. A veteran of the mobile phone industry and a former strategist at Orange, Haslam spent many years pondering the nature of mobile banking before starting his own business in 2002.Although the bank payments organisation Apacs forecasts that by 2015 cash payments will have been overtaken by other forms, many challenges remain. And one key problem for the mobile network operators, Haslam says, is constant change. "It's hard enough to get two networks to agree what colour the sky is, let alone standards for payments," he says.Richard Martin, a business security consultant at the Payments Council, the body that oversees these standards, agrees. "It's not the technology that's the problem," he says. "There was an attempt to set something like this up a few years ago, called Simpay. All the big mobile companies backed it, but it fell apart because they couldn't make it stack up from a business point of view."Haslam was against Simpay from the start, precisely because he knew how hard it was to get networks to agree. And this is why he thinks Beem will work: because it is independent. "With us, it doesn't matter which bank, which network, which handset you use," he says. "If you can send and receive text messages, you can use Beem. It's open to everyone."Independence and simplicity sounds like an ideal combination, and the instructions for new users on Beem's website are impressively brief. But can it succeed without backing from the banks?Beem's simplicity also exposes a weakness. To complete a Beem transaction, you must send a text with your Beem password in it. And to keep that password secret, you must remember to delete those sent messages. Every single time. If your phone is stolen with the password stored on it, the thief has access to your account.Beem makes money by charging merchants a small fee per transaction, just as the banks do, but there's no fee for person-to-person transfers. Interest has been strong from taxi and pizza-delivery firms keen to avoid their drivers carrying cash. Haslam himself makes a habit of sending small sums, or phone credit top-ups, to his teenage children.Simpay failed for the network operators, but the banks - despite their wider worries about the global economy - are watching with a close eye. There's not the demand for direct person-to-person payments here that there is in Kenya; but perhaps, given the right tools to make such payments easy, there may be.
Facebook is under unprecedented scrutiny for its policies on retention of personal data after users criticised the site for breaching privacy. After a wave of protests, the world's largest social networking site yesterday announced that it was reversing its recent decision to keep copies of users' messages online, even after they had left the network."Over the past few days, we have received a lot of feedback about the new terms we posted two weeks ago," the site told users. "Because of this response, we have decided to return to our previous terms of use while we resolve the issues that people have raised."Until recently, Facebook - the world's most popular social networking site with more than 175 million users - deleted all online traces of a user if they chose to deactivate their account. However, two weeks ago the controversial new policy was introduced, which retained a copy of all messages, actions and updates online, even after people quit the site.The change led to outrage among Facebook users and privacy campaigners, who began lobbying for the site to revert to its old terms of service. Hours after defending the policy this week, Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, announced yesterday that the site would be reverting to its previous terms.Lawyers remain concerned, however, about privacy issues affecting users of social networking sites such as Facebook."There is a wider issue regarding the complexity of the terms, the fact that very few people read them, and [that] they probably don't understand Facebook has an indefinite right to keep material that gets posted," Frances Anderson, a commercial partner specialising in media and technology, said."Even after this change, Facebook still say they are retaining archive material - there is a lack of clarity about what the policy actually is. There is also the problem that if you want to deactivate your account and remove everything, you would have to go in and delete all your data yourself," Anderson added. "It may be that this is too onerous on individual users."The decision to revert to the old legal terms of use is just the latest negative publicity for Facebook. In 2006 the site was forced to amend plans to provide a news feed updating the activities of shared friends, following concerns that it disproportionately invaded privacy. The news feed, now considered the central selling point of the site, was reintroduced with greater controls.Last week it was revealed that the site had paid up to $65m (&pound;46m) to settle a court case claiming that Zuckerberg had stolen the idea for Facebook from friends at Harvard University.Information from previous court documents also showed that the company valued itself at $3.7bn - substantially lower than the $15bn estimated when Microsoft bought a 1.6% stake for $240m in 2007.
There's plenty of hype behind this puzzle game, thanks to an extensive TV ad campaign, and while it's nowhere near as groundbreaking as something like Brain Training, it's certainly original. You're cast as a detective, tasked with finding the heir to the eccentric millionaire Phil T Rich, who is missing. Which, rather oddly, mainly involves finding specified objects amid the astonishing clutter accumulated by the game's various characters. This exercises your powers of observation, and whether that counts as a brain exercise is debatable, but it certainly makes spots swim about your eyes after a while.Your searches are aided by various objects, such as an x-ray torch and goggles that let you see underwater. Find enough objects and you're given mini-games to complete, which are quite diverting. MillionHeir may sound strange, but it proves to be both addictive and pleasingly quirky. Not a classic, but another clever, mass-appeal DS game.
Piracy debate in WestminsterThe Policy Exchange thinktank will host a debate on online piracy at 1pm next Tuesday. To attend, mailevents@policyexchange.org.ukDell does music downloadsDell UK has opened a download store for software and DRM-free MP3 music.Hello Kitty netbook!Medion is now selling a limited edition S1211 Hello Kitty netbook (&pound;349.99).Galaxy Zoo questThe Galaxy Zoo 2 site has been set up for visitors to write a "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxies" for OUP.Quick weightThe Balanzza Ergo pocket-sized digital scale (&pound;19.99) will weigh your luggage, and other things, to within 0.1kg.Just the jobLeonard Cheshire Disability, a charity, has launched Suitability, a resource for disabled jobseekers and employers.YouTube sells downloadsYouTube is testing a system that lets users pay for MP4 video downloads.Truphone anywhereTruphone says it plans to launch Local Anywhere, a single-sim, multi-country mobile service, later this year.Listen and learnGCSEPod is creating audio revision guides for music players and mobiles.
There seems to be a growing feeling within the games industry that the two-dimensionality of the TV screen is holding us all back. Developers and graphics hardware manufacturers have pushed polygons, texture maps and shader effects almost as far as they can go, but we remain separated from the intricately realised worlds of Killzone and Grand Theft Auto by an impassable flattening barrier.The virtual reality headsets of the 1990s didn't help much: the slosh and lag of minutely inaccurate movement sensors led to migraines and nausea, plus very few people actually want to wear a helmet to have a good time. But past failures haven't dampened the spirits of today's pioneers. At the Consumer Electronics Show last month, Sony revealed stereoscopic versions of its hit PS3 games Wipeout and Gran Turismo 5 Prologue that - when viewed through the Jackie Onassis-style spectacles - provided the same sort of out-of-the-screen "3D" experience as cinemagoers are getting with movies such as Bolt and My Bloody Valentine. It's possible Sony will announce full support for stereoscopic PS3 gaming this year.The UK developer Blitz Games has been in Hollywood, showcasing its true 3D games engine at the3D Entertainment Summit. The studio had a demo running via an Xbox 360 and a 3D cinema projector. The resulting image was said to be so authentic attendees felt they should be able to reach out and touch it. Domestic 3D displays are rare and expensive, but more manufacturers are working on getting them to the market over the next year. Blitz, it seems, is ready for them.Meanwhile, the graphics card giant Nvidia has just released its GeForce 3D Vision kit, a combination of "stylish" glasses and a GeForce GPU, which automatically transforms hundreds of PC games into stereoscopic 3D. However, the kit itself is $199 (&pound;140), and a compatible 120HZ monitor will cost another $299 - there's also no UK release date.The big question here, though, is not how and when this technology will be disseminated, but why? In what way will an image that pokes out from the screen involve us any more than one that sits just behind it? That great philosopher of virtual environments Jean Baudrillard would have us believe it is all part of the postmodern condition, a need to break down the barriers between simulation and reality, to throw open our arms to blissful hyperreality. Maybe we're just looking for the cheap thrills of a 3D horror movie: we want axes and entrails flying out at us. Whatever the case, the technology is looming and games are escaping from the screen. They are coming to meet us halfway.
The Foxsat-HDR Freesat recorder (&pound;299) levels the digital TV playing field for Freesat against Sky, cable and Freeview. Increasing numbers of lounge lizards opt for hard-disk recording, and with the UK switching from analogue TV to digital, there are significant numbers of potential new customers. Freesat boasts 140-odd TV and radio channels but differentiates itself from rivals by offering subscription-free high-definition satellite viewing, and is the only platform with ITV in HD.With its fine pedigree in Freeview PVRs and Freesat receivers, Humax is expected to deliver a strong product. The specification includes a 320GB hard disk, which can store up to 200 hours of standard TV recordings, or 80 hours of HDTV. HD viewing consists of the BBC's excellent bespoke channel and occasional movies, dramas and sport broadcasts on ITV - but not Sky.An unexpected bonus is that unlike the current most popular hard drive recorder - the Sky+ (and its HD cousin) - the Humax's hard disk can act as a media hub, storing MP3 and jpeg files. These can be transferred painlessly using the front USB port and accessed via the remote control. It's a shame that you can't import external video files as well.Assuming you already have a suitable satellite dish (with dual LNBs), installation is easy. (Dish installation costs around &pound;80.) The box is slow to boot up but a pleasure to operate. Sky's delayed EPG upgrade is long overdue and the Foxsat-HDR sets a new standard, combining better flexibility with attractive high-resolution graphics and icons.The fancy EPG fails in one respect. To find ITV's HD transmissions you have to trawl through ITV's schedule until an HD icon pops up. It's arguably quicker to check ITV's listings website.Recording is also easy. A large LCD window on the fascia displays the name of whatever you're watching, though it's a distraction in low light. An HDMI output delivers 720p/1080i video (standard 576p is upscaled but the improvement in quality is slight), while a digital optical audio socket provides multichannel surround sound from HD transmissions.Playback options trump the Sky+ with 64x normal speed (rather than 30x); there's also slow-mo at 1/2x, 1/4x and 1/8x normal speed, plus you can add bookmarks to recordings as you go.The quality of both live transmissions and recordings is excellent, albeit dictated by the original bit-rate. At one end, HD viewing is sensationally detailed, but many of ITV's standard definition transmissions are at such a low bit-rate you'd suspect a conspiracy to drive customers into the arms of Freesat.Even though Sky offers a subscription-free service (Freesat from Sky) with 240 channels, if you want HD or Sky+ you have to pay. The Foxsat-HDR is a pricey beast but its excellent quality, ease of use and media hub functionality make it highly compelling.Pros:Versatile; BBC and ITV in HD; excellent media hub functionalityCons:Lengthy boot-up; distracting LCD display; needs more HD contentwww.humaxdigital.com/freesat
Kindling problemsAmazon is getting hung up on Whispernet (Newly asked questions, 12 February). It's a great feature, but I would happily buy a Kindle and download the books directly to my PC. What I really want is access to their 230,000 books and journals.George LemonofidesCowes, Isle of Wight• From conversations down the pub, people over here [in the UK] are jonesing for the Sony Reader instead.brightmeadow.co.ukAnswers on a wikiAnswers.comhas been a donor and supporter of the Wikimania conference over the years, as has Wikia, which makes this showdown all the more intriguing (Read me first, 12 February).www.andrewlih.comThe cost of contactApparently the sole use [of .tel] will be a single web page showing the contact details of the person who owns the domain (A mobile point of contact, 12 February). As most people do not have unique names, this immediately invalidates the whole point; and as there is no protection as to who can register names in the first place, it is merely an exercise in internet greed.goruislip.blogspot.comTake noteVictor Keegan writes that "the easiest way to record thoughts is to speak them into a mobile phone and have the message converted into text message or email" (Memory isn't what it used to be, 12 February). I wonder whether he has tried speaking into a tape recorder and playing it back?Ken BalkowSheffieldParanoid over AndroidToday, Samsung's Kim Titus said the phone isn't delayed - they never planned to show an Android phone at the Mobile World Conference (Samsung delays launch of Android-based phone, 12 February). It's not their fault if we were all jumping to conclusions.www.gearlog.com• Ouch! A definite no-show at the MWC. Of course Samsung is doing a bit of smart manoeuvering, waiting for other manufacturers to get Android's act together before putting the revolutionary-yet-in-infancy-stage OS on their conveyor belt.www.freshphonenews.comMore Mac MiniAlan Gent is right again (Letters and blogs, passim). My original point was that it was not style that attracted me to the Mac in 1993, but price and performance. With the Mac Mini, Apple came within reach of that again, and should not abandon it. Apple would like people to believe they are "green" - keeping the Mac Mini would help people to believe that. But that's another story.Roger Larkinson,Bedford• Since 2006, both PC clones and Apple have developed their systems around an Intel processor and, while PC users have ample choice over what OS they choose (provided that it is the current Windows operating system), or may choose to install Linux, Apple users conversely have the option of Unix BSD supporting Apple WIMPs or Linux, can boot up from whatever Windows operating system is available, or even run both Mac OS and Windows simultaneously. The Apple v PC debate has moved on.Jewel StaiteLondon• Alan [Gent] is wrong in his suspicions regarding my Mac ownership. I have been a Mac user since the IIsi and am the proud owner of two iMacs, a Mac Mini, an Apple TV, a MacBook Pro and several iPods. Oh, and I sent this email from my iPhone! I wrote my original letter so people who may be interested in jumping over from the "dark side" would not be discouraged by the idea that non-Apple peripherals would need to be replaced at additional cost.Will GoreDublin• Email us attech@guardian.co.ukRead all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Apart from Apple's iPhone and LG's KC910 phone, touchscreen mobile phones are disappointing customers who have bought them, according to shopper feedback collected byReevoo.com.More than 19,000 people have given reviews of 226 phones, rating them for criteria such as style and function, and focusing on the pluses and minuses of the products. The findings suggest that the "me too" efforts of many of the phone manufacturers who are trying to catch up with the iPhone's success are not pleasing users.Five out of 10 of the bottom-ranked phones use touchscreens, while only two of those in the top 10 do, Reevoo noted.Jo Reale, mobile phone category manager from Reevoo.com, says: "Manufacturers are keen to jump on the touchscreen bandwagon but most of the current efforts are just not pushing the right buttons for shoppers. We love the look of touchscreen phones, and the ability to watch videos on a large screen, but touchscreen phones are hard to get right and many shoppers are complaining that the interfaces are just too fiddly."Among those receiving brickbats is the BlackBerry Storm, RIM's move into the pure touchscreen market, where Apple has already sold 17m iPhones.Though the Storm wins a 7.3 rating out of 10, that leaves it far down the listings: most phones reviewed by Reevoo users get at least an 8.0 rating or higher.The top-rated phone at present, the Nokia 5220 XpressMusic, uses a standard keypad and gets an 8.8 rating. The iPhone and LG's "Renoir" are the highest-ranking touchscreen phones, both receiving an overall score of 8.3.Mobile phone companies scrambled last year to bring out touchscreen phones (In touch with smarter phones, 19 June 2008), which promoted Tony Cripps, an analyst with the consultants Ovum, to note: "What people want is an easier way of interacting with their phones and devices. As long as a touchscreen is allied to a well-designed user interface, they can go a long way to making this happen."It seems, though, that this is not happening. Among the critical reviews was one commenting: "The 'virtual' keyboards are rubbish, takes ages to type anything ... you could always employ a five-year-old with small fingers. They should have used a stylus."Even so, the feature ranked most important is "style", followed by compactness, camera quality, and being good for music. The lowest-ranked criteria are web browsing and email - the two features that Apple and RIM focus most heavily on.
At first glance, it looks like a remarkably clean and dull branch of PC World. Banks of laptops are cycling through Windows Vista promotions, a wall of flatscreen televisions are showing Seinfeld ads, and Xbox 360s are quietly burbling to themselves in a corner. Then comes the Stepford Wives moment: the realisation that everything in the shop is a Microsoft product, and that the only door "outside" leads to an anteroom plastered with photos of a busy carpark.This is Microsoft's Retail Experience Centre (REC), a 1,900 sqm facility hidden deep in the heart of the company's Redmond, Washington campus. If you want an idea of what the branded stores Microsoft announced last week may feel like, look no further.Clicks or mortar?From its RFID (radio-frequency identification) security system to its Windows-powered NFC (Near Field Communication) tills, the REC was designed as a hands-on test environment for Microsoft's technology solutions, a showcase to woo retail partners and brainstorm store-within-a-store concepts. When I visited the REC, just days before Microsoft revealed its plan for branded stores last week, staff there were still denying that Microsoft had any plans to move into retail itself."We're not in competition with retailers," says Stephen Sparrow, Microsoft's senior retail team marketing manager in the US. "But if we wanted to take money here, we could. It's all live products, 90% of which a retailer could implement immediately. When we show the REC to retailers, we tell them: 'It's not the store of the future, it's the store you could be running today.'"But why would anyone want to? With the recession turning shopping centres into ghost towns and the internet retailer Amazon claiming its best Christmas ever, it seems to be the worst possible moment to begin bricks-and-mortar retailing."It's no secret consumers have scaled back spending," says Brendan O'Meara, the retail industry managing director for Microsoft. "But the companies that will come out of this recession in the strongest position are the ones that increase market share during it. Successful retailers are ones where the consumer is learning to shop the brand, not the channel."Internet shopping has trained the consumer to adopt a new set of behaviours. Everything is very instantaneous, very transparent. Online, you can easily get in-depth product information, compare products and make sure you're getting a good price. Now, we want that same capability in stores, together with the hands-on experiences that shops offer.""In the past, Microsoft has stepped back a bit," admits Sparrow. "We haven't given consumers the full experience. Now we're asking: 'How do we change the perception of Microsoft?'"The REC is their answer, an extravaganza of multitouch computers, smart trolleys and Windows 7 kiosks married with the latest merchandising strategies to create a multichannel union of online and traditional retail.It's a sure bet that any future Microsoft store will feature its "Surface" touch-sensitive, coffee table-style computer, which can already be found helping Americans choose mobile phones in AT&amp;T shops. The REC version goes one step further, reading a customer's loyalty card and recommending high-definition TVs based on the shape of their living room. A Windows 7 kiosk also tailors its marketing messages to different shoppers, presenting personalised product pitches and tweaking prices depending on whether it's wooing a big spender or a penny-pincher.The ultimate retail gadget, though, is the REC's smart shopping trolley. This RFID-equipped cart senses when I linger in front of a display and flashes up themed offers on a built-in screen. "I've got your eyeballs," claims Sparrow. "With the cart, I can cross-sell or up-sell. It even has a store map with directions to help you find items that suit you and help my bottom line."The REC has an arsenal of Microsoft technology behind the scenes. A bank of whisper-quiet virtual servers control everything from videos playing on the PCs for sale to digital signs that change with the shop's demographic over the course of a day. And with anti-theft RFID tags on every product, the manager can call up a snapshot of his sales and inventory, or track incoming deliveries by sat nav.Price TagsFinally, Sparrow demonstrates Microsoft Tags - small, colourful codes that can be printed or displayed just about anywhere. When you take a picture of a Tag using your cameraphone (and a free application), the handset automatically opens a URL with product info, special offers or ringtones to download. "If retailers can leverage technology that consumers are already carrying, they'll save a whole lot of money," he says. "Any time a consumer is doing self-service, you're also driving labour dollars out of your business."With fewer greeters and checkout staff, Microsoft stores will presumably abound with its in-house product specialists, the Microsoft "Gurus". An army of 220 of these experts is already deployed in electronics stores around the US.Microsoft's rationale for embedding Gurus with retailers is telling. "Technology is still very challenging and it is difficult for us to ensure that the benefits of our products are being communicated to consumers," says O'Meara. "Gurus walk consumers through their purchases, giving them confidence in their decisions and improving the brand experience of Microsoft. They're for shoppers who think: 'I'm not sure I have a trust relationship with my retailer yet.'"It could be suggested that Microsoft's own trust relationships with retailers are similarly uncertain. I ask O'Meara about the recent demise of one of the US's biggest electronics chains, Circuit City. "Circuit City had Microsoft Gurus but not our in-store technology," he says. "I think the lack of adopting technology can lead to the demise of a business, in particular with consumer expectations shifting. If you can't provide a high calibre of experience in terms of self-service and in-store information, you're going to fall behind."Opening its own stores will give Microsoft control of the entire supply chain to consumers. It's a strategy that has worked extremely well for its rival Apple, whose 251 Apple Stores contribute more than a quarter of the company's profits and employ nearly 16,000 people - including hipster-geek Genius trainers that are strikingly similar to Microsoft's Gurus.Bite of the Apple"Apple does a really nice job of presenting in an integrated way," says O'Meara. "Apple has a limited product portfolio but it all plugs and plays. The Microsoft ecosystem of solutions is much broader, providing lots of things that go beyond the Apple experience. The challenge is how it all works together."That challenge falls at the feet of the new corporate vice-president, David Porter, who joins Microsoft this week following a brief stint at DreamWorks and 25 years at the world's largest retailer, Wal-Mart. Again, it's hard to avoid the conclusion that Microsoft is following Apple's lead, whose success has been forged by its senior vice-president of retail operations, Ron Johnson, previously of the big US retailer Target.Porter's first order of business will be defining the time-frame and locations for the Microsoft-brand stores but not, strangely enough, making any money. A Microsoft statement reads: "The purpose of opening these stores is to create deeper engagement with consumers and continue to learn first-hand what they want."The question, of course, is how Porter and Microsoft will respond if they learn first-hand that consumers want MacBooks, iPhones and Apple Stores rather than Vista PCs, Windows Mobile phones and semi-automated retail sheds. It's Gurus v Geniuses. Let battle commence.
Despite stealing its major shocks from Hideo Nakata's horror film Ringu, F.E.A.R was a distinctive first-person shooter. So it's no surprise the mind-bending Alma is back - all grown up and still frying anything she touches. Picking up the story 30 minutes before the end of the prequel, you fight with better weapons in more convincing locations but it's still you against a world of evil scientists and genetic experiments.F.E.A.R.2 plays like a hallucinogenic mashup of Halo and Doom 3, beautifully designed and totally absorbing until the typically unresolved ending. On the downside, it's a bit short and the limited multiplayer mode won't tide you over till the inevitable sequel. It is, however, the first unmissable game of 2009.
The cult Japanese role-playing game Chrono Trigger was released in the US and Japan in 1995, but never made it to Europe. Until now. Initially, at least, Europeans may be underwhelmed. This is Japanese gaming from the old school - think spiky-haired teenagers, clumsy dialogue and cutesy graphics. But while the look may have dated, the game has aged well, especially the core time-travel component. This sees you whizzing back in time to fix a problem that in turn solves your current-day conundrum.The game is made up of typical RPG elements such as combat, exploration and chitchat with the locals, and great fun it is too. The combat flows well and the time-travelling elements really give a sense of place to the relatively small environments. The powerful soundtrack deserves a mention too. Chrono Trigger won't convert the DS's more casual audience, but gamers should be very pleased.
Don't show this to your childrenA VHS machine that has been converted so that it functions as a toaster? Clever enough - though judging by the number of sandwiches children try to feed them, kids think that's what they do anyway.And Windows will be bug-freeAh, the good old days when Bill Gates worked at Microsoft, and he was talking up the Tablet PC - the computer form that we would all, of course, adopt, with the help of the now-defunct Compaq.It's a zero-billion-dollar industryHamsters! Wheels! Electricity! Make one from the combination of the others. Obvious, if horribly underpowered.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
This may be the worst of times to be looking for a job but it is among the best to be starting up on your own. One thing distinguishing this recession from previous ones is there are lots more young entrepreneurs and lots of low-cost opportunities to exploit. Whether they will create jobs to make up for even part of the loss caused by the financial collapse is arguable but we must nurture them.I was reminded of this at a recent workshop hosted by the Brunel University entrepreneurs society, where nearly 150 youngsters, mostly from ethnic minorities, turned out in their spare time to hear a panel of speakers and do five-minute mock pitches for funding before a mini Dragons' Den of judges. An event such as this, full of energy and enthusiasm, was unheard of in my youth and you would have been pushed to find it in the dotcom boom of the 1990s.It is part of a flowering of entrepreneurial talent in London and other regions. Christian Ahlert's MiniBar in east London, for instance, regularly attracts 300 people to network and hear people with ideas pitching for funds and sometimes has to turn people away. This month's theme, "Hyper-Local", features embryonic start-ups such as Richard Pope's StreetWire, HopHive, Spoonfed, and AudioBoo - an iPhone app about sharing contextual broadcasting, not yet public. Ahlert, who is launching Yumshare, for joint buying to reduce the cost of food, says MiniBar is still growing despite a recession that has made venture capitalists pull in their horns.And the James Dyson Foundation announced last week it is giving &pound;5m to the Royal College of Art to fund a new building, including 40 business "incubator units" where graduates can take their designs from drawing board to marketplace. Saul Klein'sOpenCoffee Clubmeets once a week on Thursdays in London, as does The Tuttle Club on Fridays. For meet-ups near you try meetup.com.What makes this exciting is that a wave of new entrepreneurs is coinciding with unprecedented opportunities to develop. Don't think depression, think opportunity. Not only is the cost of web startups barely 10% of what it was in the dotcom boom, but there is a vast new market opening up for the bedroom entrepreneur thanks to the exploding possibilities of the mobile phone. On some counts more than 15,000 applications have been developed for Apple's iPhone and iPod Touch. Apple has created what our mobile operators were too myopic to see: a market where small creators can sell their wares in an easy way to customers that lets them keep most of the income. The iPod Touch is also a big outlet for casual games, itself a huge growth area. And this is only the beginning of a new market as the pursuit of fairly rewarded creativity spreads to other phones using Google's Android operating system or Nokia's ovi.com, launched this week and aiming to get 50 million users quickly in an assault on Apple.Trade generated from mobiles - from music to books - is already massive and hasn't yet got into its stride. Half the planet has a mobile, creating a networked market the like of which has never been seen before. The ecosystem of the mobile phone is a unique economy in its own right, in which consumers merge with producers fired by something the web never had: a simple micropayments system.How best to exploit this unprecedented opportunity? The joint stock company - first popular in Elizabethan times - looks inappropriate after the financial collapse. We need new corporate forms for a new era. Maybe people with ideas should join together in groups of 20 or 50, donating their business plans as their equity and inviting potential investors on the web to put up money in the hope that enough ideas will be viable to give them a decent return. I'd rather put my money in something like that than leave it to banks to invest in the next black hole they find.•vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Since January, the Conficker.B worm has been spreading like wildfire across the internet, infecting the French navy, hospitals in Sheffield, the court system in Houston, Texas, and millions ofcomputersworldwide. One of the ways it spreads is by cracking administrator passwords onnetworks. Which leads to the important question: why are IT administrators still using easy-to-guess passwords?Computer authentication systems have two basic requirements. They need to keep the bad guys from accessing your account, and they need to allow you to access your account. Both are important, and every system is a balancing act between the two. Too little security, and the bad guys will get in too easily. But if the authentication system is too complicated, restrictive, or hard to use, you won't be able, or won't bother, to use it.Passwords are the most common authentication system. They're easy to implement and use, which is why they're so popular. But, as computers have become faster, password-guessing has become easier. Most people don't choose complicated enough passwords to remain secure against modern password-guessing attacks. Conficker.B is even less clever - it just tries a list of about 200 common passwords.To combat password-guessing, many systems force users to choose harder-to-guess passwords - requiring minimum lengths, non-alpha-numeric characters, etc - and change their passwords more frequently. The first makes guessing harder, and the second makes a guessed password less valuable. This, of course, makes the system more annoying, so users respond by writing their passwords down and taping them to their monitors, or simply forgetting them more often. Smarter users use a secure password database such asPassword Safe.Users forgetting their passwords can be expensive - customer service reps have to field phone calls and reset passwords - so some systems include a backup authentication system: a secret question. If you forget your password, you can authenticate yourself with some personal information that only you know, such as your mother's maiden name, your favourite schoolteacher, the street you grew up on, the name of your first pet and so on. This may make the system more usable, but it also makes it much less secure: answers can be easily guessed, and are often known by people close to you.A common enhancement is a one-time password generator, such as aSecurID token. This is a small device with a screen that displays a password that changes every time the button is pressed. This is called two-factor authentication, and is much more secure, because this token - "something you have" - is combined with a password - "something you know". But it's less usable, because the tokens have to be purchased and distributed to all users, and far too often it's "something you lost or forgot". And it costs money. Tokens are more frequently used in corporate environments, but banks and some online gaming worlds have taken to using them, although sometimes only as an option, because people don't like them.In most cases, how an authentication system works when a legitimate user tries to log on is much more important than how it works when an impostor tries to log on. No security system is perfect, and there is some level of fraud associated with any of these authentication methods. But the instances of fraud are rare compared to the number of times someone tries to log on legitimately. If a given authentication system lets the bad guys in one in a 100 times, a bank could decide to live with the problem, or try to solve it in some other way. But if the same authentication system prevented legitimate customers from logging on even one in 1,000 times, the number of complaints would be enormous and the system wouldn't survive one week.Balancing security and usability is hard, and many organisations get it wrong. But it's also evolving; organisations need to tighten their security and continue to push more involved authentication methods; and more savvy internet users will then be willing to accept them. And IT administrators need to be leading that evolutionary change.•Bruce Schneieris BT's chief security technology officer
What a fortnight. The founders of The Pirate Bay appear in the Swedish courts, accused of assisting copyright infringement. And in the UK, a wad (I think that's the collective noun) of bankers appear in front of MPs to be quizzed. Imagine - a group responsible for the destruction of many of the UK's most important industries, finally brought to answer for their deeds. And, meanwhile in Sweden, those Pirate Bay guys in a court, determining whether a search engine is a copyright infringement.The fascinating thing has been the claim by music and film industries of how much business they lost. No doubt about it - The Pirate Bay serves a hell of a lot of torrents: thestatisticssay that it had 14.75 million unique users in the past 24 hours. And I'll wager that they're not all after the latest Ubuntu package or the Wikipedia selection for schools (which is, let me say, excellent).The Motion Picture Association of America claimed damages of $15.4m (&pound;10.8m) - though I couldn't find it on its site, there was alistof legal cases, most of which seemed to be pyrrhic victories. I'm sure the music industry would claim the loss is far higher. ISPs have reported torrents making as much as 80% of their data traffic, although the BBC's entirely legal iPlayer is muscling in on that.The merits of the Pirate Bay case are mixed. If it didn't exist, there would probably be less illicit filesharing; but, equally, running a search engine that offers links to potentially illicit content isn't an offence, or else Google would be in the dock for all those people who copy content off newspaper websites wholesale and stick it on their blogs arrayed with Google AdSense ads.What should be worrying the music and film industries is the possibility that they may actually win in Sweden. We've all seen those counter-intuitive studies that suggest people who get content via filesharing buy more content than those who don't. Frankly, I don't believe them.However, I've never seen any studies about the purchasing habits of people who used to use filesharing networks but have had that access removed. Do they buy more than they did? I'm guessing ... not. I'd guess they would move to informal networks - borrowing from friends, from libraries, or buying pirate copies. (The latter representing surely the worst of all worlds: it encourages organised piracy and exploitation.)And the bankers played a part in this too. After years when money was easy - enabling, for example, the buyout by the private equity company Terra Firma of the venerable music company EMI - credit is being squeezed like never before in the lifetimes of those teenagers and young adults most likely to use The Pirate Bay, who face tough choices. Want to buy a house? Better save up &pound;20,000. Want to borrow on your credit card? Sorry, we've lowered the limit. Feel like splurging on a Blu-ray DVD player and the more expensive disks to play on it? Go ahead - if you're that confident about your job.How do you persuade those people to spend money on CDs with two good songs and eight mediocre ones? The scary thing for the music and film industries is that the times of easy money are over, and yet - whether because of The Pirate Bay and associates, or because their products just aren't compelling enough, or both - they weren't able to grow their businesses. Now, the economic brakes have been put on, and things will never be as they were.Ironically, losing the Pirate Bay case may be the best thing that could happen to the film and music industries. At least it would give them an excuse to give their shareholders as their results continue to get worse.
"Last week, for the second known time, surgeons Twittered a surgery by using social-networking site Twitter to give short real-time updates about the procedure,"reports CNN.comfrom Detroit, Michigan.Dr. Craig Rogers, the lead surgeon in the Henry Ford surgery, said the impetus for his Twittering was to let people know that a tumor can be removed without taking the entire kidney."We're trying to use this as a way to get the word out," Rogers said.It quite takes me back to the early days of the web, and then the early days of MySpace, Facebook and Second Life. You could get news sites interested if you were the first (or second) to do something novel on the service: the first pizza ordered on the web, the first board meeting on Second Life, or whatever. We've already had the first Twitter user in a plane crash, the first birth, the first celebrity stuck in a lift, and so on, but I'm sure there are plenty of opportunities still to be exploited.Is this your chance to be famous for 15 minutes? What could you be first to do on Twitter?
DigiTimes reportsthat: "The global netbook market reached a scale of 14 million units in 2008, and with shipments continuing to rise, the scale will reach 25-30 million units in 2009, and 40-45 million units in 2010, according to Scott Lin, president of Acer Taiwan."This is rather more than even the Taiwanese were predicting last year. For example: back in August,MIC (Taiwan's Market Intelligence Center)predicted "that the market size of mini-low price notebook PC will reach 8.02 million units in 2008, and will reach 18.3 million in 2009, a 128% growth from 2008." Western analysts were, I think, predicting rather smaller numbers. As I reported,Gartner was predicting5.3m for 2008, and 7.8 million in 2009.But netbooks are still a rather small part of the market. There should be around 300m PCs sold this year, based on actual sales of 271m in 2007 and 302m in 2008.  (You can make your own guess about how bad things might get.) Anyway, 30m netbooks (topside) out of 300m PCs would only give netbooks 10% of the market.Or, if you want to look at it another way, netbooks would have at least 20% of the market for portable PCs, probably more.It would be interesting to know what Apple is thinking at the moment. It does not usually compete in low volume markets -- tablets, convertibles, handheld PCs etc -- and it does not compete at all in low cost markets. However, Apple has roughly 3.3% of the PC market today (based onApple's November 10-Kstatement that it sold 9.7m Macs in fiscal 2008), and I reckon it could sell at least 10m Mac netbooks, if they were competitively priced. And since Apple uses exactly the same Taiwanese contract manufacturers as everybody else, I don't see why they shouldn't be.Yes, it might well hurt sales of more expensive MacBooks, but the gains -- including market share gains -- might be worth more than the losses.
Just in case you haven't seen this, here's the Weazel news trailer Rockstar has released to accompany theLost and DamnedDLC. If you've played GTA IV you'll know that Weazel is Liberty City's news channel, reporting on in-game events in the sensationalist style of a certain Rupert Murdoch-owned channel.This trailer points Rockstar's sardonic creation at the city's biker gangs: "as you can tell by this gratuitous graphic and urgent sound design, the biker menace is a real problem," intones the breathless reporter. It's a fun dig at the way channels like Fox are able to manipulate and orchestrate public responses to the news agenda. Whatever you think about Rockstar, there aren't many game developers who are willing or indeed able to indulge in media parody of this sort.
On the third day of the Pirate Bay trial, prosecution witnesses such as IFPI's Peter Danowsky presented Pirate Bay as a source of content, claiming damages on the basis that it should have obtained worldwide licences for the content it distributed. Where content wasn't officially available -- a Beatles song, for example -- that should be charged at 10x the going rate. (The usual multiplier is x2, apparently.) This sort of calculation was behind the prosecution claim for damages of 117 million kronor (£9.3 million, or $13 million).IFPIis the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry.According to the report onTorrentFreak:Peter Danowsky disputes the claims of the defence that they have no funds and cannot pay damages. He called TPB "organized crime on a grand scale," which netted "significant revenues."Danowsky reckons the defendants can afford to pay a lot of this. In response, defendant Peter Sunde twittered: "If I have all this money they claim, someone has apparently stolen it from me."After further testimony about compensation for downloaded films, and so on, the defence opened its case. As the Pirate Bay'sSpectrialsite puts it:Fredrik Neij's lawyer pointed out once again that no copyright-protected material ever passes The Pirate Bay servers. If The Pirate Bay is found guilty, a major search engine like Google (search for filetype:torrent) is too. Also, the figures on the amount of downloads the prosecutors use to calculate how much money they should get are inaccurate and should not be used as evidence in court. Not every .torrent download results in a successful file download.The material on the Pirate Bay belonged to the users, not to the Pirate Bay, they argued.Finally, Carl Lundström's lawyer used what's known as theKing Kong Defence. As TorrentFreak puts it:EU directive 2000/31/EG says that he who provides an information service is not responsible for the information that is being transferred. In order to be responsible, the service provider must initiate the transfer. But the admins of The Pirate Bay don't initiate transfers. It's the users that do and they are physically identifiable people. They call themselves names like King Kong," Samuelsson told the court."The prosecutor must show that Carl Lundström personally has interacted with the user King Kong, who may very well be found in the jungles of Cambodia."Proceedings stopped at lunchtime. The four accused -- Hans Fredrik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, Peter Sunde and Carl Lundström -- are expected to be cross-examined, starting tomorrow (Thursday), with the trial scheduled to end on March 4. At the moment, it's ahead of schedule.Spectrial has a16-minute video summaryof the day's events, with another update planned.
There's a Ronseal element to theAds of the Worldwebsite, which will prompt most UK users to remember thelong-running slogan: "It does exactly what it says on the tin". Ads of the World is a great place to find advertisements from around the world, though not all of them. Searching for Ronseal, for example, finds no results. AotW is selective rather than comprehensive, but there are more than enough creative ads to keep you browsing for some time.Ads of the World reckons it's "the biggest online advertising community (almost 50,000 members) in the world". It was started by an individual –Ivan Raszl– in 2005, then taken over by a large corporation. In this case, Alan Meckler'sJupitermediaadded it to itsGraphics.com network. Raszl, a Hungarian, also founded the CreativeBits blog and community in 2004, and 7Field, a boutique ad agency, last year. He also runs an ad blog on Ads of the World.If you're in the advertising business, there are lots of reasons for using the site, and even for registering online. It lets you explore ideas, either to make sure they haven't been done before, or to find something that you can exploit in a different context. As one of the site's campaigns, by JWT, put it: "One leads to another. adsoftheworld.com".Registering lets you rate and comment on works, discuss things in the forums, and set up your own profile page. Other visitors can approach you with job offers or freelance assignments. (The Jobs link goes to another Jupitermedia site: MediaBistro.) You can also sign up for a newsletter.To increase the appeal to professional users, AotW has recently added a research database from GlobalAdSource that, it says, "currently has 2,839,135 ads, spanning 5 media types, 51 countries, and 27 languages". The media types are print, video, audio, internet and outdoor.For casual web surfers, the site provides a good way to see creative and entertaining adverts from all round the world. If there's nothing you fancy on the main page, you can hit the Blogs link, or use a drop-down menu to jump to a specific section. For example, you can choose a region, such as Europe or Africa, or pick an industry topic from Agency self-promo to Transport &amp; Tourism. There's also an advanced search facility, if you want to look up something specific. For example, you might want to find out about an advertising campaign you've seen in a magazine.Another attraction is that the thumbnails on the site generally lead to good quality images. The top ad at the time of writing – it shows a mattress – can be viewed and saved as a 1.3MB jpeg, and files from 350K to 1MB are common. The original of theHitachi tent ad, above, art-directed by Sameer Ketkar in Dubai, is almost 400K. If you see something you want to use as desktop wallpaper, or convert into a postcard or whatever, you can probably do it.
In days gone by, motorcycle club the Hells Angels seemed to follow a legal code not found in any American law book. Anyone who crossed it would face judgment in shades of black and blue.Now, the famed and feared motorcycle club is seeking a more refined path to justice: It is suing a Visalia, California woman in federal court, alleging cyberpiracy and trademark infringement. The club says Fawn Myers illegally registered more than 20 internet domain names associated with the Hells Angels and then placed them up for auction on eBay.Myers, the club says, registered domain names such as ha-mc.com and 81ca.com through the internet hosting service GoDaddy.com, which is also named in the suit. It was filed this month in US district court in Fresno, California.The number 81, the suit says, has not only long been an identifier and pseudonym for the Hells Angels, but it also has been used on licensed merchandise such as hats, beanies, bikinis, pins and belt buckles. The letter H is the eighth in the alphabet; the letter A the first.In her eBay listings, the Hells Angels allege, Myers specifically mentions the association of the domain names with the motorcycle club. The club says that amounts to trademark infringement and cyberpiracy, among other violations of federal law.The Hells Angels is showing no mercy in its legal demands.The motorcycle club wants a court judgment that Myers violated its rights under federal and California state statutes. It wants the domain names to be transferred to the club. And they want any profits derived from the domain names, as well as $100,000 (£70,500) in damages for each domain name found to belong to the club.One legal expert thinks the Hells Angels might have a good case.David S Welkowitz, an expert in trademark law at the Whittier Law School in southern California, said lawsuits such as the one filed by the Hells Angels are common - as are victories for the trademark owners.Welkowitz said the key question is whether Myers has any legitimate claim to the domain names, and whether she can withstand a federal cybersquatting statute and prove she didn't make a "bad faith attempt to profit" from the domain names' association with the Hells Angels."Putting it on eBay is not going to help you," he said.Fawn Myers could not be reached for comment, but a man who answered her home telephone number said the case isn't as clear cut as the court file makes it appear.Terry Myers declined to say how he's related to Fawn, but he said he registered the domain names, not Fawn. And he said there is no way he can fight the Hells Angels."I have no money to defend this," he said. "They're going to win in court."
As a hideously middle-class Guardian reader, there's a very real chance you've experienced the disappointment of "charity gifting'. The horrible moment when you tear open a birthday present from a "friend" only to discover that, in lieu of an actual gift – a decent bottle of wine, a hot air balloon ride, a nice cat – they've decided to FedEx a goat to an African village "in your name". It's perverse, really. Your friend spends the same amount of money they would have spent buying something for you, but instead it's them who gets to enjoy the feeling of warmth, while you're left to wallow in a cocktail of disappointment and guilt. Could there be a more selfish approach to charity?Well, yes, actually, there could – and I'm proud to say I came up with it. It's called UncharityGifts.com and it's the perfect way to get revenge on your smug friend, while restoring the karmic balance in your friendship. For just £20, we'll send a poacher to an African village to steal a cow in your friend's name! Or, if you're feeling generous, for just £50 we'll pay local workers to fill in a much-needed well with concrete or raze an entire school to the ground. Of course, as with normal charity gifts, you'll receive no actual proof that we've done any of the above, rather than, say, pocketing the money to cover admin costs, but who cares? The important thing is that your friend will receive a handsome certificate of authenticity to make them think long and hard about what they've done.Remember: if you steal a man's fish, you'll make him hungry for a day, but steal his nets and you'll keep him hungry for a lifetime.Now, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, "Paul, that's the most hideous thing I've ever heard. The people who buy these charity gifts have nothing but honourable intentions. Only a truly sick mind would assign selfish motives to such an obviously generous and charitable act." And you're probably justified in your thinking. Furthermore, I imagine you're disgusted that I would use an attack on charity as a theme for a column. And, once again, justification would be your wingman. You might even go so far as to describe me as the most pathetic, snivelling excuse for a hack that has put finger to keyboard this week.But that, dear reader, is where you'd be wrong. Because that title has been taken – fair and square – by Andrew Orlowski from geek news site,the Register. More on him in a moment. But first, some background.On Thursday of last week a slightly amazing thing happened. So amazing, that you've probably already read about it in one of the (literally) hundreds of news outlets that covered the event. In almost 200 cities across the globe, from London to Lagos, tens of thousands of people came together for a global party calledTwestival. The ridiculous name comes from the fact that the entire event was organised using Twitter while the ridiculous attendance numbers stem from the whole shindig being held to raise money forCharity: water, an organisation that aims to bring clean water to some of the world's poorest people. The global task of collecting all of the pledged money is only just beginning, but already the total raised is well into six figures, every penny of which will go to building wells in Uganda, Ethiopia and India.By any metric you choose to use, the event was a gigantic success. On top of raising a shitload of cash, Twestival brought together strangers from across the world and raised a huge amount of awareness of an inspiring charity. My mind may be capable of coming up with the concept of uncharity gifts but even I, in my darkest moments, couldn't think of a single negative thing to say about Twestival. But then again, why would I want to? I'd have to be mental.Which brings me back to Andrew Orlowski.Orlowski, in the highly likely event that you haven't heard of him, is what I would call a professional troll. A "journalist" whose oeuvre is to spout views so calculatingly dumb – global warming? scientific evidence, schmientific evidence – and to rely on wordplay so pathetic – Wikipedia users? "wiki fiddlers" more like! – that the editors of the Register regularly disable comments on his diatribes, lest a child accidentally crawl across a keyboard and beat him in an argument. He hates Wikipedia, he hates peer-to-peer filesharing ("freetards!"), he hates basically anything popular or successful or fashionable. Which all serves to explain why, above all else, he really, really hates Twitter.In fact, Orlowski hates Twitter, and its users, so much that he decided to summon up all of his trollish powers to write an article hacking Twestival, and its charitable intentions, to death. Faced with a forest of positive statistics and coverage of the event, he sniffed around – like a pig nudging aside truffles in search of a turd – until finally he dug up a single negative fact. Donations to Twestival's online radio station, Twestival.fm, had failed to reach their $20K target, with pledges coming in at a little over $4K. Compared to the huge totals pledged through other channels, it was an irrelevant disappointment. An irrelevant disappointment on which Orlowski based hisentire coverage of the event.I quote ..."A much-trumpeted charity event called 'Twestival' (from the people who brought you blooks, perhaps) received breathless coverage worth hundreds of thousands of pounds this week. 175 cities around the world took part. And it's raised just a measly $4,180 from the Twestival.fm pledge … According to one Twitterer at the Guardian, Twestival is 'a global charity event that has become the Live Aid of the tech world'. Um, let's hope not, since $4,000 isn't going to save many lives."He then went on to liken the event to the famousThe Day Today sketchwhere Chris Morris's newsreader tears strips off the organiser of a jam festival because she only raised £1,500.Even putting aside the fact that, actually, $4,000 would save quite a lot of lives (and resisting the urge to add "you little prick" to the end of that fact), I find Orlowski's attitude breathtaking. So rabid is his hatred of Twitter and the people who use it that he doesn't care – possibly doesn't even notice – that he's taking the piss out of a huge charity effort. It's actually made me sick to read. How sick? You can readmy correspondence with Orlowskion my blog.But here's the even more sickening thing – Orlowski's attitude may be wrong, but it's far from unique. Here at the Guardian, Jemima Kiss'scoverage of Twestivalreceived similar bile from a small-ish selection of readers.One commenter – "Plissken" – complained that "the people involved says it all, really", referring to the fact that several of the people quoted in Kiss's piece work in, gasp, marketing. "Itchybollix" agreed, asking whether "looking at that front-page photo should it be 'twatter'?" Seriously – what the hell is wrong with these people? Is it really more important for them to attack the people who use Twitter than to admit that, while they may not be a fan of the medium, the message it sends out with events such as Twestival can be pretty incredible?Yes it is, but not for the reasons you might think. What's really going on – with Orlowski, with the commenters, with all of the techno-trolls who dismiss any coverage of Twitter, and Facebook and Wikipedia and web 2.0 services in general with a passion that borders on romantic hate – is not an expression of hate. But of fear.For as long as these people can remember, they've been the early adopters. The kings of the cyber hill. The people who learned everything there was to know about new technology precisely because the crowd didn't know it. That's where they got their sense of worth and power: by knowing something no one else did. (You see a similar attitude in magicians. A lot of them are wankers too. And I should know, I used to be one. Long story.) For all of Orlowski and co's snide allusions to the "Nathan Barleys" who use Twitter, what they fail to realise is that it's actuallytheywho are the Nathans – the pathetic self-parodies who take great pains to hate things, just because the masses like them.(In fact, there are several ironies in Twitter haters appropriating the character of Nathan Barley to try to make their point, given that Charlie Brooker, Barley's co-creator, has embraced Twitter with both arms. Also, it's worth noting that one of the writers on that "jam festival" episode of The Day Today was Graham Linehan, who now organises aBad Movie Clubon Twitter. I mean, if you're going to use other people's jokes, like some simpering fanboy, to make your anti-Twitter points, do at least try to ensure those joke writers aren't huge Twitter fans.)Anyway, where was I? Oh, yes, these old-school early adopters have suddenly found their special, secret world is being blown apart. Ordinary people – office workers, journalists, postmen and – yes – PR people – are embracing new technology in their droves, and what matters to them is not how these magical new tools work, but how they can be used to make the world a more interesting place. Or, in extreme cases such as Twestival, a better place. Geek has gone mainstream.But rather than moving with the times and welcoming this new era of mass technological accessibility, people such as Orlowski stand their ground, waving their fists, yelling and cursing like elderly lunatics. "You young whippersnappers with your wiki-fiddling and your twatter and your stupid haircuts, you look ridiculous … and call this music? It's just noi…", totally oblivious to the truth that each passing day brings them closer to total irrelevance. Sans teeth, sans iPhones, sans everything.Until this reality hits them, all the rest of us can do is watch and point and laugh. Oh, and perhaps one other thing: if I were Amanda Rose or one of the other organisers of Twestival, I'd send Orlowski a thankyou card. Thanks to his preposterous hack job of a column, the vast majority of sane Register readers who automatically believe the opposite of whatever Orlowski spews are surely now flooding to the Charity: water Twestival site to find out more about ways to get involved. You're probably planning to do the same yourself. To save you the hassle of Googling, the address ishttp://www.charitywater.org/twestival.Twestival might be over, but it's never too late to donate whatever you can afford. If not because it'll save lives and make you feel warm and fuzzy inside, then because it will annoy the living fuck out of Andrew Orlowski.And that's an uncharity gift that will just keep on giving.[Technology editor's note:Twestival.com presently reports that it has raised more than $250,000 in total, with about 80 cities still to report.]•Paul Carr is author of a book. But you shouldn't buy it this week. Instead, you should donate toCharity: water. Do it. Do it now.
It's a bounty of gamey-galleons this week in our gamesblog newsbucket.• Top 10 iPhone Games, as Voted by Wired.com Readers &gt;&gt;blog.wired.com• 10 games for your MacBook &gt;&gt;infinitelives.net• NPD: January market sees 13% growth &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• $823 million spent on games marketing in 2008 &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• UK university develops massive games emulator &gt;&gt;techradar.com• Video games are good for children - EU report &gt;&gt;guardian.co.uk• Ways to make your social space more gamey &gt;&gt;raphkoster.com• Greenland: the next synthetic world from Indiana University &gt;&gt;swi.indiana.edu• Computer games programming course receives national acclaim &gt;&gt;hull.ac.ukFollow us throughout the week ondelicious.
Facebook has a problem. Every time it looks as though it's going to wriggle its way to creaming just a bit more money from its millions of users' comings and goings, they spot it - and get vocal enough to force a reverse. The latest example, in which founder Mark Zuckerberg announced to the world (via that well-known medium for major corporate announcements, a blog post) that the company will not after all retain a copy of all of your messages, actions and updateseven if you leave the site.We've known for a while that Facebook is a sort of Hotel California of the web - that, as Andrew Brown put it back in December 2007, you cancheck out but you can't leave. That's because its only hope of making money is retaining as much information as possible about all its users, for as long as possible, and somehow mining that and selling it to advertising and marketing companies eager to get an insight into what wedoonline.Facebook has more than 150 million users. You would think that that must be valuable. The problem that "social networking" sites are throwing up, though, is that while you might have a lot of users, how do they ever become something that's actually valuable?That's something which we discuss in the latest Tech Weekly podcast, and the examples are all around to see. AOLbought Bebo for $850m in March 2008; now, according to Mike Butcher at Techcrunch, it islooking to sell it for a quarter of that price, or has at least written down its value. (AOL denies it has any plans to sell.)CBS bought Last.fm, a music site, for $280m in May 2007, but I've seen little evidence that people use it as anything other than free radio; there's no giant uplift in music sales from its millions of users. Friends Reunited had a model which personally I admired from a distance: it would tantalise people by semi-connecting them, but charge them to actually communicate with each other. ITV bought it for £170m. Now, with Facebook having made that communication free, Friends Reunited's value has been written down to around £20m.The question is still: how can social networking sites make money? Advertising is drifting away with the economic downturn, but it still costs money to run servers all over the world so that people can tell Facebook their status updates. Hoping that it could mine that data and sell it to whatSteven Baker calls the "numerati"- the people who will crunch the numbers so that they can target us even more minutely.Without raw data, though, the numerati go hungry. And so do the networks. Zuckerberg's about-face isn't surprising. But it won't be the first time that Facebook tries to find some way to extract saleable data of some sort from its users.The difference from businesses of the past - the market research, mail-order shopping, even the supermarkets with loyalty cards - is that we're all watching what it does like hawks, ready to analyse every tweak to its privacy policy. Supermarkets, after all, gather huge amounts of data about us from loyalty cards: when we shop, where we shop, what we buy, how we buy. And in return what do they give us? More chances to buy through them. It's a perfect closed loop.Indeed, Zuckerberg might do better to just offer loyalty cards. You know, after all, thatnobody bothers to read the small print on those.(Corrected: Stephen Baker wrote The Numerati, not Steven Levy. Also added link to Numerati site.)
Pretty surprising - and it's even drawn in Björn Ulvaeus from Abba. It was billed as a showdown between the internet's biggest piracy website and traditional media – a court case against notorious Swedish downloading service The Pirate Bay that has been largely instigated by the music industry.But the news thathalf of the case collapsed yesterday- when the prosecutor in Stockholm dropped many of the charges, despite two years of preparation - elicited strong reactions.Gothenberg's Metro newspaper claimed it was a "fiasco", while filesharing news website Slyck.com wasdefiant: "The bigger picture is clear. BitTorrent, file-sharing and P2P technology isn't going anywhere."The news seemed to justify the Pirate Bay's technical defence - that it is merely a search engine of content - but it may not affect the accusations that the site encourages copyright infringement. Indeed, the music industry made the perhaps strained claim that the failure of half of the charges was in fact a partial victory for them."It's a largely technical issue that changes nothing in terms of our compensation claims and has no bearing whatsoever on the main case against the Pirate Bay," said Peter Danowsky, who has been acting as the legal counsel to the music companies, in astatement. "In fact it simplifies the prosecutor's case by allowing him to focus on the main issue, which is the making available of copyrighted works."As the situation unfolded yesterday, the IFPI also found itself another high-profile supporter: , Ulvaeus, the former Abba star. (He played the piano.)Writing on the Swedish website Newsmill, Ulvaeus attacked those who said piracy was acceptable."Their representatives talk solemnly and with trembling voices about their 'freedom' on the internet," he wrote. "This is the 'freedom' to be lazy and mean."For the defence, meanwhile, any restraint from the Pirate Bay's lawyers was abandoned as the accused continued to treat events with trademark disdain.Famous for responding to legal threats with rudeness and profanity, the three Swedes who run the site have taken to referring to their plight as a "spectrial": a court spectacle put on by the media industry.That attitude remained as they appeared to gloat over their partial victory. One defendant, Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi, has been making regular Twitter updates."EPIC WINNING LOL,"wrotePeter Sunde Kolmisoppi, following up later bytweeting"My friends, we're so winning the spectrial".The Pirate Bay's political supporters, Piratbyran (Pirate Bureau) say they think the case could go all the way to Sweden's Supreme Court. But Sam Sundberg, a journalist and author of the book The Pirates, said it was vital that the case came to a conclusion."It would be an anti-climax if the case ended up falling on pure technicalities, so that the jury does not need to consider whether it's permissible to run a website that allows filesharing but is largely used for illegal purposes," he said.*NAQ: Newly Asked Question. But you knew that.
A consortium of academics announced at theAmerican Association for the Advancement of Sciencethat they have accessed a phenomenal amount of data captured from Everquest 2 that they will use to inform new theories in human behaviour.The data was scraped from the Sony computer servers and includes 60 terabytes of information about what players do when they're online.Researchers have been exploring the opportunities that the logs of online games offer social science since the early text-based MUD and MOO days, using chat and activity records to inform our understanding of online interactions. Now, however, the academy is interested in applying the knowledge they gain to offline life.According toArs Technica,Noshir Contractor described how the data was allowing him to explore social network dynamics within the game. He described a variety of factors that are thought to influence the growth and extent of social networks, such as collective action, social exchange, the search for similar people, physical proximity, friend-of-a-friend (FoaF) interactions, and so on. Because these are well-developed concepts, statistical tools exist that can extract their signature from the raw data by looking at interactions like instant messaging, partnerships, and trade.My own researchmakes use of similar data, and I have explored the ethical implications of this movehere, on myresearch blog, in several academic chapters (forthcoming) andpublic presentations. It clearly presents issues of privacy and online identity ownership that need to be explored between companies and players. However, I and other social scientists like myself argue that the knowledge that is gained from the real world-like social interactions that exist in online games and virtual worlds offer extraordinary insight into how relationships are made and broken, how epidemics spread and how prejudice and other social norms develop.What rights do you, as playing (and paying) customers, feel you have in the ownership of your online game data and virtual identity?
Facebook has backed down on controversial changes to its terms of service that angered users and caused protests across the social networking site.Two weeks ago the site altered its terms of service so that it continued to retain a copy of all a user's messages, actions and updates – even if they left the network. Until the change, Facebook's policy was to delete all traces of a user if they chose to quit the site.After the potential scope of the new legal wording became clear, thousands of outraged Facebook users and privacy campaigners lobbied for the world's largest social network to revert to its old terms of service.On Monday it seemed these calls were falling on deaf ears afterFacebook founder Mark Zuckerberg defended the changes in a blogpost, and suggested that users should trust the site with their data.However, just 24 hours later the company decided to back down. In a message to users last night, Facebook said it would be reverting to its previous terms and conditions for the time being."Over the past few days, we have received a lot of feedback about the new terms we posted two weeks ago," the site told users. "Because of this response, we have decided to return to our previous terms of use while we resolve the issues that people have raised."However, with Facebook's record of backing down on controversial changes before re-implementing them at a later date, privacy campaigners will be keeping a sharp eye on the company's moves.In 2006 the site introduced its news feed – updates of activities shared between friends on the site. At first the change caused a major row, with users saying it was badly implemented and a gross invasion of their rights. However, after substantial tweaking took place and new controls were added, the news feed was reintroduced and is now considered the central selling point of the site.The decision to revert to the old legal terms of use is the latest in a string of bad news for Facebook, which recently overtook MySpace as the world's most popular social network and now boasts more than 175 million users worldwide.Last week it was revealed that the site hadpaid up to $65m (£46m) to settle a court case claiming that Zuckerberg had stolen the idea for Facebook from friends at Harvard.Information from previous court documents also showed that the company valued itself at $3.7bn – substantially lower than the $15bn estimated when Microsoft bought a 1.6% stake for $240m in 2007.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
I'm on my – gulp – fourth Xbox 360 and I've got friends who have suffered even more. Yes, manufacturing issues – better known as thered ring of death– have plagued the Xbox 360 since launch. But could the worst be over? Microsoft's Aaron Greenberg certainly hopes so.Speaking to Edge, the Xbox exec seemed confident:We've improved that [repair] process. It's very quick, and they may upgrade your system with the latest technology. So that works really well. What it comes down to is isolating and figuring out the issue, fixing the issue, and the more that we can fix the issue, and know it's fixed, then we're good going forward. We've put the worst behind us on this, but we know there are a few lagging systems, and so we want to take those and make it right.Greenberg wouldn't go into specifics but it's obvious Microsoft are pinning their future hopes on the recent launchedJasperXbox 360 – essentially a component improvement that allows the console to run cooler and, theoretically, more reliably.Anecdotally things seem to have improved in the last few months, with no one I know succumbing to RROD. But how has it been for you? Is your 360 hanging on in there? Or are you currently waiting for it to be sent back from repair?
A little misinformation meme started spreading around today that I want to comment on. I think you'll see why.Earlier today someone calledBrooks Baynepicked up on the fact that a few Twitter users have grown massively in popularity recently - including@guardiantech(which is moderated mostly by me).His hypothesis: thatsomebodywas creating spam accounts to boost their audience, and then following the other people to make it look less obvious). Sounded fair enough - after all, some people will do anything for a bit of validation. But the account he singled out for suspicion? You guessed it.I was trying to do a quick analysis of this to see if there was one account that was followed more than others to determine the source. After looking at 50 pages of these bogus followers, I found that @guardiantech was at the top of the list. This seems to be corroborated by the numbers on Twitterholic. I don't know who @guardiantech is, or if they have the resources to be behind this, but it's worth noting.Now, I've definitely seen our Twitter crowd grow by an order of magnitude over the past month, from a few thousands users to more than 60,000 today. I didn't know why, apart from a few basic things - creating connections, sharing our best content with people and responding (where appropriate) to messages from other users. But I certainly know that I haven't been scripting spam.Twitter chief executive Ev Williamsrespondedby offering his thoughts on why we've seen big jumps recently:Each of these accounts is listed in our Suggested Users list, which is now the last page of our signup process. The followers aren't fake, they're just new users -- which is why they don't have updates or profile icons.The reason we created this feature is because lots of people sign up to Twitter but aren't following anyone, so we're trying to help get them started. This is a v 1.0 of this functionality, and we hope to make it a lot better. But I don't believe there's anything nefarious going on.That was interesting; I hadn't realised we were a suggested user. Although  I think there are plenty of spam accounts on Twitter I know there are plenty of newbies too, and if twitter.com/guardiantech was being promoted by the site itself that explains a lot (you might have noticed, but we're pretty obsessed by Twitter right now).But what gets my goat is the statement that "I don't know who @guardiantech is, or if they have the resources to be behind this, but it's worth noting".Apparently it's worth accusing us of something without bothering to find out who we are or asking us whether we've involved. How incredibly lazy is that? And, to make things worse, he even responded grumpily to somebody who said he hadn't done his legwork by claiming "i've done the research". Ha!I'm not knocking Brooks for not knowing who we are - even I'm notsoegotistical to expect that somebody in LA can't survive without knowing the details of successful British news websites. But I am saying he started throwing around accusations without bothering to find out the facts.Ask around: most people who are Guardian regulars will probably balk at the idea that we'd bother with something like this. And there are, after all, plenty of people to ask. Brooks could have even visitedour Twitter pageand clicked on the link to the Guardian to get an idea of who were are.And hey, he could have even bothered to actuallyused Twitterto ask us a question. I respond to messages, and a handful of characters would have cleared that little thing up without him even having to break a sweat.So, to clear things up: the Guardian hasn't created lots of fake Twitter followers in order to try and win some tedious popularity contest. And if Brooks Bayne had bothered to ask, he'd have realised that his accusation had no foundation.
Picking up the buzz from theMobile World Congressin Barcelona, where I am not, the second HTC Google Android phone seems to show promise.Gizmodo gives it a cheer:HTC and Google are getting closer to perfection with the new Android G2, the HTC Magic. Nice finish, great form factor. Check out our video, including the obligatory comparison with Apple's iPhone, and hands-on impressions.However, it has some gripes about the software keyboard.Engadget has a couple of videos and even more photos, and sums it up:Overall, we love the phone -- it's pretty much exactly what keyboard-hating, touchscreen-addled folks (like this particular editor) have been waiting for in an Android phone, other than the ones hoping we'd see Android on a Touch Pro2, that is. HTC is keeping the look and feel of its Android devices distinct from its Windows Phone lineup, and that's looking like an increasingly good idea. We could use a bit more slim, and some of the other more advanced hardware features of those Windows Mobile-running brethren, but this is still a great phone for the time being. Unfortunately, it's only in Europe for now, and the lack of US 3G bands means it'll probably be in Europe for the foreseeable future, so folks stuck Stateside are currently out of luck. We await your next move, HTC.Indeed, the HTC Magic smart phone will be aVodafone spring exclusivein the UK, Spain, Germany and France, and also available in Italy.Although I've not had my hands on one, it still doesn't look like a phone I'd buy. Also, there doesn't seem to have been a flood of hot Android phones, and you might have thought there would have been something more challenging by this time. Still, signs of improvement are welcome, and while it's not much to brag about, Android is doing better than previous attempts at doing a Linux phone.
The seeming omnipotence of social networking sites coupled with the rise of casual online gaming has recently given rise to a strange new type of interactive experience that floats imperceptibly between a communication tool and an actual game.The latest example isDistant Shore, an iPhone app released at the end of last month by part-time studio,The Blimp Pilots. The set-up is simple - you're on a simple representation of a beach, and must sift through the sand to find shells; discover five and you can write a short message, stick it in a bottle, then cast it out to sea. The message will eventually wash up on the shore of another player's island, and they can then reply to your message. At the same time, other bottles will also wash up on your own lonely beach.The messaging is all completely anonymous, and there's no real point to it all, you're just communicating for a few short moments with a complete stranger somewhere else in the world. The game could be a comment on the essentially ephemeral, impersonal nature of many online 'relationships', it could be symbolic of the yearning for human contact in the solitude of cyberspace, or it might be just be a silly app that seems to have caught the imagination of thousands of iPhone owners.Whatever the case, the array of topics ranges from superficial questions to intimate confessions - it reminds me, in a way, ofPostSecret, the ongoing community art project in which members of the public are encouraged to scrawl a secret onto a postcard and send it to artist Frank Warren. There's a similar sense of abandon for the sender, and voyeuristic pleasure for the reader. It's weirdly addictive, and I'm surprised more mobile games haven't tried something similar after all these years.
T-Mobile announced today that Android Market, the Google handset's version of App Store, is due to step up a gear with the introduction of paid-for content. Currently, everything on the Market site can be downloaded for free, which has naturally led to a paucity of professionally produced content, at least in terms of games. Pac-Man and Arkanoid are up there, and mobile publisher Glu has uploaded several of its key titles including the excellent Brain Genius Deluxe and Bonsai Blast, but that's about it for recognisable brands.To kick off the monetised service, T-Mobile announced  a version ofGuitar Hero World Tour Mobile, which will be hitting the Market soon. T-Mobile's PR agency claimed in their email to me that this was an exclusive, although they must have meant an exclusive new or updated version, as GHWT has been on Java phones since the end of last year.According to the press release, "gamers will use the G1's sensitive touch-screen to play along with 15 rock classics including Deep Purple's 'Smoke on the Water', Guns'n'Roses' 'Welcome to the Jungle' and Black Sabbath's 'Paranoid'. There's also a bonus song available every month, and users can log on toguitarheromobile.comto create their own rock star persona."Apparently, mobile versions of Who Wants to be a Millionaire, Tetris, and Monopoly are also on the way - a predictable stab at appeasing the casual gaming crowd. Interestingly, T-Mobile has also published a list of the ten most popular apps downloaded onto its G1 handset since the launch three months ago - there arenogames on there. The Weather Channel is the most popular, followed by MySpace Mobile. And there arethreesupermarket barcode reading apps. It's probably too early to talk about differing demographics between Android and iPhone users, but games dominate the latter's top ten chart.On the subject of Android, you may haveseenthat Vodafone has lined a temporarily exclusive deal to offer the new, improvedHTC Magicphone. Not strictly relevant to Gamesblog, but what the heck, someone might be interested.Anyway, I'm currently testing a G1 and I'll blog about its game offerings soon...
On Tech Weekly this week: Aleks Krotoski speaks to Shannon Spanhake about the personal pollution monitor that she has created.  The gadget could be fitted into a mobile phone, and could mean taking readings of air quality could be much cheaper and the data become much more comprehensive.  But is anyone interested, and what are the implications?  Could this affect your health insurance if you can be traced and identified as living in a heavily polluted area?Aleks is joined in the studio by Bobbie Johnson and Charles Arthur, and on the line from Barcelona by Richard Wray.  Richard is at Mobile World Congress where the world's phone companies are launching their new handsets  for 2009.  Richard tells us all about a new universal charger, Microsoft's new version of Windows for mobiles, and why Apple is the elephant that is NOT in the room.  He also has wise words for anyone in Barcelona at present.There's a look at your comments from the blogs and our Twitter feed, plus this week's other news, including the value of social networks, after an estimate that ITV's Friends Reunited could be worth as little as £20m.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
The prosecution has dropped the most serious charges against the irreverent Swedish filesharing service The Pirate Bay on only the second day of its trial for assisting widespread copyright infringement.After being unable to prove in court that illegally distributed files had used The Pirate Bay site – despite clear markers in the files, which are labelled with the Pirate Bay name – the prosecution, representing a swathe of high-profile music and film companies including Warner Bros, MGM, Universal and EMI – had to abandon almost half the charges.Co-defendant Fredrik Neij said that prosecutor Håkan Roswall had misunderstood the technology and that his evidence did not implicate The Pirate Bay.The prosecution then had to drop all charges relating to "assisting copyright infringement", leaving the lesser charges of "assisting making available copyrighted content", with Roswall adding that "everything related to reproduction will be removed from the claim".Per Samuelson, the lawyer representing the defence, claimed the prosecutor's slip-up was a sensation. "It is very rare to win half the target in just one and a half days, and it is clear that the prosecutor took strong note of what we said yesterday," he commented, referring to an earlier comment that supplying a service that can be used illegally is not in itself illegal.The prosecution immediately down played the setback, claiming that dropping the charges related to copying copyrighted works would simplify the case against The Pirate Bay."It's a largely technical issue," said Peter Danowsky, legal counsel for the music companies that brought the case."It changes nothing in terms of our compensation claims and has no bearing whatsoever on the main case against The Pirate Bay. In fact it simplifies the prosecutor's case by allowing him to focus on the main issue, which is the making available of copyrighted works."The Pirate Bay does not host content itself, but indexes files hosted by users of the peer-to-peer filesharing tool BitTorrent. Users search the site to find the files they want, and then download them directly from other users' machines.The site, based in Sweden, has been a persistent thorn in the side of the big media companies since it launched in 2003, already dodging one legal threat and repeatedly baiting what it sees as an outdated industry."It's not defending the technology," said co-defendant Peter Sunde in a press conference."It's more like defending the idea of the technology and that's probably the most important thing in this case – the political aspect of letting the technology be free and not controlled by an entity which doesn't like technology."If you want to follow coverage of the trial, seeour previous blogpost.
