My daughter, trying to get out of Orange, has been absolutely refused her MAC, which I thought was required practice of all ISPs in the UK.Bernard KeeffeOn February 14, Ofcom introduced new rules to force broadband service providers to supply a MAC or Migration Authorisation Code, though it does not apply in all cases. Ofcom has published advice onhow to switch providers.If an ISP refuses to issue or to accept a MAC, Ofcom says "you should make a formal complaint to the ISP using the company's normal complaints process". If that fails, you can makea formal complaint to Ofcom. You can find tips from people struggling with Orange atmoneysupermarket.com.Also, get your daughter to check her options by entering her post code and phone number atbroadbandchecker.co.uk.
Today, we live in a world where poor-quality audio is becoming the norm. From portable MP3 players and DAB radio to mobile phones, selling a higher-quality audio format to consumers who don't seem to care was never going to be easy. Such a format - Super Audio CD (SACD) - has been out there since September 1999. And now, it's dying.You may have an SACD without knowing it, as a "hybrid" CD (a normal audio CD and SACD in one disc). It'll play fine as a CD in a CD player; if you own a universal DVD player, it might play the "super" audio part. Or you could play them on a Sony PlayStation 3 videogames console. That assumes that you've heard of SACD, or its extinct rival DVD-Audio, two audio formats which came along to boost the music and hi-fi industries and instead sank.Technically, SACD is better than CD, or MP3 or AAC. The disc can store almost 8GB of data compared with 703MB for an ordinary CD. SACD captures more detail while extending the top of the frequency range from CD's 22kHz up to a possible 100kHz - far beyond the range of human hearing - and providing greater dynamic range (from soft to loud).But it appears to be a format enjoyed by only a small number of audio enthusiasts. The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) says only 2m SACDs were sold last year, compared to 1.7bn CDs. (This may understate sales, because IFPI doesn't track hybrids separately, and almost all SACDs are now hybrids. But how would we know if buyers were going to play the SACD layer?)Downloadable contentEric Kingdom, Sony's European technical marketing manager and a hi-fi enthusiast, insists that "SACD is doing fine". He says: "The range of SACD titles continues to grow steadily" - 4,651 titles have been released since 1999 - and Sony is still launching new players. "There is always a premium sector of the market that will pay for the best quality," he says.True - but the money's in the mass market, where 26,000 CDs are released in the UK in a single year, and 4 million tracks are available for (lower-quality) paid-for digital download right now. Yet the aim was always to make SACD a mass-market format, wasn't it? "But the mass market has changed with the arrival of downloadable content," Kingdom says.And how. Back in 1999, Napster and broadband were unfamiliar and PC users were just getting the hang of ripping and sharing CDs. The Apple iPod was still three years from launch. With no obvious signs of impending doom, the record and hi-fi industries turned their eyes to the sunlit uplands of a new format.With SACD, the music industry envisaged people rebuying higher-quality versions of all their favourite albums - the ones they'd already bought on vinyl and CD - and in copy-protected form. But as Carl Gressum, an analyst at Ovum points out: "Just because technology permits us to move forwards with new products does not mean that there is a viable business model to support it."James McQuivey, an analyst with Forrester Research in Boston, takes a similar line. "The desire of the music industry to have things out in a protected format is obvious. Customer desire to pay for higher audio quality is not obvious," he says. "They think they can take back the music industry from the pirates. I'm afraid that train has already left the station."So where do we go from here? Well, if the music industry can't establish a new audio disc, it can still piggyback on a video format. Both Blu-ray and HD DVD provide storage far beyond the needs of traditional CDs, and could carry a range of stereo and surround sound mixes.This isn't a new idea. SACD had to fight a standards war against DVD-Audio, which delivered music on a DVD-compatible disc. DVD-A flopped. Another attempt was illustrated by Bj&ouml;rk's Surrounded boxed set, which includes all her studio albums inDualDiscformat. These have CD on one side and DVD on the other. The DVD sides provide the same albums remastered in multi-channel Dolby 5.1 and DTS (Digital Theater System) surround sound.Connected experienceMore recently, Warner Music has launched a new DVD-based format calledMusic Video Interactive. MVI discs will play on any DVD player, but they are also intended for use in PCs and Macs. As well as better-than-CD audio, MVIs can include MP3 files, videos, booklets and applications such as mixers and UrTone, which is Warner's ringtone editor.MVI also delivers what Warner calls a "connected experience". Every MVI has an online component that lets fans download extra content when it becomes available. So far there are only two MVI titles, with Linkin Park's Minutes To Midnight being first out on May 15. But a Warner Music PR says "fans really appreciated it" and there will be more.Of course, high-quality audio is also arriving on hi-def movie discs. But again there's a format war between Sony's Blu-ray and Toshiba's HD DVD, which will probably put consumers off buying either until one of them wins. And although some people like the idea of a Blu-ray audio format, that doesn't seem to include Sony. Kingdom says: "There is no plan for a dedicated BD-Audio format."Still, Blu-ray and HD DVD players support uncompressed audio, Dolby Digital AC-3 and DTS, and they can support two lossless formats: Dolby TrueHD and DTS-HD. We could therefore get an upgrade from CD's 16-bit/44.1kHz sound to 24-bit/96kHz. Even people who are not audio buffs could find that attractive.But do people still want to own silver discs? CD sales are falling. IFPI's chairman John Kennedy says: "By 2010 we expect at least one quarter of all music sales worldwide to be digital." As Forrester's McQuivey notes, the trend indicates a decreasing need for discs "because the album, as a format for delivering music, is gradually giving way to the track". We have become the audio version of a fast food nation, consuming low-quality music on the run never sitting down to savour a higher-quality experience. In retrospect, SACD and DVD-A never had a chance.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Windows XP SP2 will no longer install 16-bit programs: nothing happens when I double-click the relevant setup.exe file. Sometimes at close down I get a message saying "the Win 16 subsystem may be unstable".Iain MainJS:Windows XP is a 32-bit operating system and runs 16-bit programs via a bit of a bodge known as Windows NT Virtual DOS Machine support (NTVDM). Microsoft's Knowledge Base suggests checking that this has all the required files: see Cannot Install Program Using Its Setup Utility (search for Q222975). You can then make sure the WOW (16-bit Windows on Windows) subsystem starts correctly by following article Q153544.
My PC, built by a friend, has the hard drive divided into four partitions. Unfortunately the C: drive (12GB) is far too small and pretty full, while the others are large and empty. Is there any (preferably free) software that can resize the partitions without reformatting the hard drive? Unfortunately, I don't have anything on which I can back up the drive.John HindmarchRepartitioning a live hard drive is possible but hazardous, so your first prioritymustbe to back up your essential data. You could do this by installing a CD-R or other optical drive, or attaching an external CD/DVD writer or hard drive via a USB port. After that, you can change the partition sizes using a commercial program such as Acronis Disk Director Suite 10 or the more expensive Partition Magic, now owned by Symantec. There are some free alternatives such as Ranish Partition Manager, and Visopsys Partition Logic, which "boots from a CD or floppy disk and runs as a standalone system, independent of your regular operating system".With Windows XP, you should keep at least 10% of the C: drive free (preferably 20%), and never have less than 1GB free (preferably 2GB). You may need to get some temporary relief by running Windows' disk clean-up utility, and perhaps by moving the My Documents folder to a different drive. You can do this by right-clicking the folder, selecting Properties and then Move. I suggest you keep the folder name the same. The Microsoft Knowledge Base explains how to do it in an article calledHow to Change the Default Location of the My Documents Folder.
Do you ever regret getting that tattoo? People often do - and then discover that removing it is a long, slow, often expensive and sometimes painful process whose results are by no means guaranteed.But thanks to Professor Edith Mathiowitz of Brown University in the US, you might never need to again. Whenever you fancy new body art, a single laser treatment will clear the way - because the first durable, but easily removable, tattoo is just around the corner.Trapped inkThe secret lies in microencapsulation, a process already used in many other applications, from drug delivery to magazine scratch-and-sniff perfume advertisements. This traps a useful substance inside a harder polymer which only breaks under controlled conditions - being rubbed in the scratch-and-sniff perfume, or in the gut for some drugs.Here, the plan is to trap the tattoo inks in microscopic polymer beads. But whoever thought of applying it to tattoos?"The idea began at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston by Dr Rox Anderson and by Bruce Klitzman at Duke University," says Mathiowitz, whose expertise lies in encapsulation research for pharmaceutical delivery systems. "Both of them approached me to take their idea further so that we could create a permanent but removable tattoo. Our challenge is to find the right combination of polymer and dye, and make it still hard enough so that you can push it through the skin and have it stay there."That will be done conventionally, using sharp needles - tattooing is a painful process, and making the end result removable hasn't changed that. But when you want to remove the tattoo, the polymer beads can be burst with a single laser treatment, releasing the ink which then degrades naturally. The now-colourless bead coatings remain inert in your body, although bio-erodable ones - which would create a tattoo that would fade over time - are also possible."Traditionally, black ink absorbs all wavelengths of light. Our particles, however, were engineered to absorb more light at specific wavelengths, focusing the energy better on the beads and allowing the body to remove the tattoo ink," says Mathiowitz. "The non-erodible polymers will be left behind in the body. The bioerodable ones will be more challenging. You can design them to disappear after three months, six months or a year."A New York company, Freedom-2 Inc, expects to start selling the new ink to tattoo artists in December. This will use biodegradable and bioabsorbable dyes encapsulated in microscopic (5-6 microns) polymethylmethacrylate beads suspended in solution.Dr Nick Lowe is a consultant dermatologist and skin laser expert at the Cranley Clinic in London. He's also a spokesperson for the British Skin Foundation, the charity for skin disease research. He deals with all manner of skin problems, including tattoos which are painfully removed using lasers that shatter the pigments into pieces small enough for the body's immune system to deal with.Fascinating conceptHis advice about getting a tattoo? "Don't run in and get these done. It's a lot easier to have one put in than it is to have it taken off," says Lowe. "The laser treatment can damage the skin and permanently give you white scarring".When shown Freedom-2's before and after publicity photographs of a tattoo trial, he points to areas of remaining tattoo and, more significantly, the removal of normal skin pigment and a loss of freckles. He also worries about possible allergic reactions, as well as simple lumps and bumps from the polymer."Has there been enough study done on this type of ink-polymer system to make sure that it is not, in some instances, difficult to remove?" asks Lowe. "I think that it's a fascinating concept that needs considerably more research."Ta-ta, tattooTattoos are normally situated between 1mm and 2mm under the skin. Before the arrival of pulsed medical lasers in the late 1980s, the options for removing an unwanted tattoo could be painful and disfiguring.ExcisionCutting out pigmented skin is only suitable for small tattoos, because it leaves a scar. Taking a skin graft to replace the excised flesh just makes a scar elsewhere.SalibrasionThe skin is aggressively "sanded" with salt to remove the tattoo by abrading the covering layers of skin. This is probably one of the oldest methods of tattoo removal.DermabrasionSurface layers of the skin are removed with a surgical sandpaper or special rotary tool.InjectionsSaline injections may help blur or break up a tattoo.Chemical peelingAlso used for other skin conditions. It progressively removes the skin and, eventually, the tattoo.Covering upAn unwanted old tattoo can be covered up or concealed with a new tattoo that uses darker inks.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the incidental pleasures of events featuring Richard Stallman, who founded the Free Software Foundation (FSF) in 1985, is that someone will always inadvertently refer to "open source". The miscreant is then told, in the nicest possible way, that Stallmandoesn't do open source.Open source isn't quite the work of the devil. It's the invention of Eric Raymond, who decided to remove free software's ethical chastity belt to make it more attractive to businesses. AsRaymond explained, there are anti-commercial people who take the view that "commercial software is theft and hoarding. I write free software to end this evil." But there are also commercial people who might say: "Commercial software is OK, I just use and/or write open source software because I like it better."In 1998, Raymond and Bruce Perens set up the Open Source Initiative (OSI) to redefine free software as open source software. This removed the confrontational weight of the FSF's approach while retaining the practical benefits. Since then, one of the OSI's self-appointed functions has been to confer approval on a range of open source licences that can be used instead of Stallman's "free software" GPL (general public licence).The schism in the free/open source world has become more interesting with Stallman's release of version three of the GPL. This contains new features to prevent what's called "Tivoisation", after TiVo's use of GPL software (Linux) in a non-free system. It also aims to stop the patent licensing scheme Microsoft is using to do deals with Linux distributors such as Novell. For Microsoft, the GPL is clearly a poison pill, but the company has no objection to open source as a software development methodology. Microsoft has an Open Source Software Laboratory, and contributes code both to open source projects on Sourceforge and its own site, CodePlex. There are also thousands of open source programs that add to the appeal of Windows, and Microsoft has been actively helping some of them, including Firefox.Last week, at the O'Reilly Open Source Convention in Portland, Microsoft announced several more initiatives. These included the launch of anopen source microsite. Microsoft also announced that it would submit its "shared source" licences to the OSI for approval. The Microsoft Permissive License (Ms-PL) looks as though it should qualify, though it could be rejected on the grounds that it does the same job as an existing licence that Microsoft could use instead. Either way, if GPL v3 exacerbates the split in the free/open source world, it's a good time for Microsoft to get cosy with the OSI side while trying to avoid Stallman's FSF side. This may sound unlikely, because many people in the open software camp appear to define themselves by their hatred for Microsoft. But it wouldn't be the first proprietary company to get itself accepted. IBM has already made a similar transition.However, IBM did it when the open source movement was weak. It doesn't need Microsoft now. Also, Microsoft isn't pretending it has been converted: it is simply being pragmatic. Microsoft sees open source as having four areas: it is a software development model, a licensing system, a business model and a philosophy. There's no chance of it adopting the business model or the philosophy, but it really would like to get more benefits from the software development model. If that requires an accommodation on licensing, it's willing to have a go.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Could one of the inventors of the webcam transform the economics of computing for the poor? In 1991, when he was a doctoral student at Cambridge, Quentin Stafford-Fraser hooked up a camera to monitor the department's coffeepot so his fellow workers could know when it was fresh.This was years before websites could host images or browsers display them, so he and a fellow student had to write all the code required to transmit and display a succession of changing images. Two years later, when the web's protocol had caught up with the idea of images, other students rewrote the project and the modern webcam was born.You couldn't say the webcam has transformed the world, but now Stafford- Fraser has another idea for pushing pictures over networks which very well might do. Instead of making PCs cheaper, he wants to make them easier to share  so that one computer can work for half a dozen people.There are about 1 billion people online in the world today, but even the cheapest PC costs more than a year's income for about half the world's population. This is ludicrous - there is more than enough computing power around to give affordable portions to maybe another 1 billion.Stafford-Fraser says: "I do some consulting for a friend with a small business in Sheffield. And he buys a new computer every 18 months or so for his office. While Moore's Law holds true, each one is twice as powerful as its predecessor; in fact, each new computer will be as powerful as all the ones the business has previously owned put together, so it could do all the work that all of them are doing."No licensing costsCalculations like that led him to foundNdiyo, a company named after the Swahili word for "yes": the name itself illustrates the condition he is trying to cure. "When we were looking for a name, we needed something that would make a domain name, and almost all the short domain names in English have been taken. But Swahili is an important trading language, spoken by 15 million people, yet hardly any domains have been registered using Swahili names."All that was needed, he thought, was a simple way to hang additional screens and keyboards off the one computer, and an operating system that would make this possible.The operating system was not a problem. Even Windows could manage this, technically, though the licensing costs would destroy any savings. But any form of Unix (they are using the Ubuntu distribution of Linux) is a multi-user system out of the box - reliable, capable and with no licensing costs at all.The real problem was the hardware. Connecting extra screens would normally need a new, expensive video card for every screen, as well as long, expensive video cables. Lots of companies had tried, and largely failed, to make successful thin clients - computers without hard disks that would get their operating systems and their programs from a server. But even the smallest of these was bulky and expensive: they all looked like small computers. Stafford-Fraser wanted to build a widget, something so small and elegant it could be made in millions as a single chip that would cost not much more than a video cable.In this light, this was very like the problem with which he made his name. After he had got his doctorate and had made the department coffeepot a star, Stafford-Fraser became one of the original developers at AT&amp;T of VNC, a free and extremely useful protocol that lets you see and operate on the screen of a distant computer: descendants of this are now built into to both Apple Macs and Windows PCs to allow remote troubleshooting.VNC works - very well - but you do notice the difference between using a VNC connection and sitting in front of the original screen. For Ndiyo, the idea was that there should be no discernible difference. This has been achieved: there are demonstrations showing fullscreen DVDs playing down an Ndiyo link, which would be impossible with VNC.The solution, the Nivo box, is about the size of a cigarette packet, and most of this size is actually the five ports around the sides: an Ethernet port for the incoming signal, two PS/2 sockets for the keyboard and mice, a VGA socket for the cable to the monitor and one for the power.In the centre of the box sits a custom chip. This was needed for performance, but custom chips are expensive to design and the need to fund their development drove the second innovation of the company.Although Ndiyo is a non-profit organisation built around free software, the funding has to come from somewhere. Stafford-Fraser set up a company, now called Displaylink, to design and develop the custom chips it uses. This raised more than &pound;20m in venture capital, because there are all sorts of commercial applications for a system that will ship pixels fast down ordinary network cable.Power savingsFor an example, Stafford-Fraser points to the railway station in Cambridge which for months had three display screens high on a wall in the main hall: one said "arrivals"; one "departures"; and one "Press Control-Alt-Delete to log in". There must have been a complete PC behind the display, waiting for a technician to climb up on a ladder, plug in the keyboard and press the right keys. With a Ndiyo system, there would be nothing but a screen up there, and all of the display screens would be managed from one central server.Even in the developed world, this saves a lot of electricity. Stafford-Fraser reckons that a Nivo box draws about three watts, a 20th or 30th of the power of a full PC. Nor will it ever need upgrading. All these facts open commercial opportunities, and he is eager to weave the profit-making world into the non-profit-making one. Though he is in favour of the much more famous $100 One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) project, he points out that they are really aiming for a different market. The $100 laptop is very clearly aimed at children, and will be less use when they grow up. That is where Ndiyo systems should be useful.Many of the uses he envisages for Ndiyo systems in the developing world would themselves be profitable: cybercaf&eacute;s, for example, where one mobile phone connection could support six terminals.Stafford-Fraser points out that flatscreen displays are cheap, getting cheaper, and pretty much ubiquitous. On the wall of the Ndiyo offices is one that has been framed in wood and is used simply for a display of webcams around the world. He sees cheap, centrally managed terminals like that ending up almost everywhere in modern houses, and it is clearly more sensible to run them from distant servers than for each to have its own computer.Just last week, the company took delivery of the first flatscreens from Samsung that have their Nivo chips built in, so that beside the normal video inputs, there is an Ethernet socket to allow them to be plugged directly into a Ndiyo network and start working at once.At the moment, the project is just him and his friend John Naughton, the open university professor who is also a columnist on the Observer, and one programmer. A fresh company, Camvine, has been set up to fund and expand the further development of the software that streams the signal down cables. It is still all shifting pixels, just as the coffeepot webcam did; but this time around it might just really matter.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I downloaded Microsoft's PowerPoint Viewer, but when I try to open a file I get an error message: "This file does not have a program associated with it for performing this action. Create an association in the Folder Option control panel." Which box should I tick?Ken BrownFirst, find the PowerPoint data file in Windows Explorer. Right-click it, select Open With, and then Choose Program. This will produce a box containing a list of programs. PowerPoint Viewer should be among the Recommended Programs Select this, and tick the box that says: "Always use the selected program to open this kind of file." Click OK and you're (probably) done.
I am so enraged with Skype that I need to lie down in a darkened room. A year ago, I installed Skype version 2 on my PC and bought a USB handset, with the intention of making free phone calls over the internet.When I took on regular work from Russia, Skype became a lifeline. Russian emails often disappear into a black hole, never to be seen again. Skype's file exchange facility turned out to be fast and reliable and the chat facility meant I could send queries instantly too. So far, so good.My troubles began when I upgraded to version 3.1. I like to catch up with The Archers over the net while working. Following the upgrade, however, my speakers appeared to have died on me. But hark! What was that tinny hiss coming out of my USB phone? Why, the dulcet tones of Barwick Green, sounding like  someone's headphones on the tube.Skype, it turned out, had unilaterally declared war on my speakers. Nothing I did made the slightest difference. I got stuck in an endless loop of clicking through Tools, Options, Sounds Devices as I frantically tried to reset Skype's settings. My speakers remained resolutely disabled and my handset continued its hissy fit until I yanked it out of the USB port and flung it across my office. The silence was wonderful until someone tried to phone me via Skype.The phone rang through the speakers: time to reconnect the handset. However, simply plugging it back into the USB port was clearly far too straightforward; it didn't work. I toyed with the idea of stamping on the USB phone while fantasising about disembowelling Skype's coders with a rusty blade - but that wouldn't have solved the problem.I sent my caller an instant Skype message asking them to call back shortly. Then I rebooted the PC and faffed with all the sound device settings once more in a desperate attempt to get the USB handset working as a phone again instead of imitating someone else's Walkman. This worked perfectly, until I needed my PC speakers again later on and discovered Skype had reset them again. Once more, the wretched USB handset was leaking a faint sibilant whine. I yanked it out anew.I'm now tempted to wipe Skype off my hard drive forever - except that it's the only software I can use with my Russian clients. Upgrading to version 3.2 has not resolved the problem, and I am trapped in a cycle of resetting my speakers, unplugging the phone and rebooting at inconvenient times.I remain convinced that internet telephony and listening to the Archers online are not mutually incompatible. But I wish someone would tell Skype.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Do you remember the SETI@Home project? The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence was a hit, oh, what feels like so far back in the internet's youth that I'm surprised it hasn't been optioned into a Hollywood blockbuster. SETI@Home exploded into the online consciousness in May 1999 with the release of downloadable software that would use your spare CPU cycles to crunch away at data to see if it contained meaningful alien communication. It was used by 5.2 million people and was acknowledged as the largest single computation in history, with 265 teraflops of processing power at its command.Yeah, well - small beer. I know where there's far more computing power that can be marshalled right now. Unfortunately, it's not in the hands of people you'd like to meet. It's in the hands of the people who control the botnets of home and business PCs. So SETI@Home involved 5.2m PCs? Botnets have about 150m. That's 30 times as much computing power - or very likely more, since where SETI@Home would only operate when you weren't doing something, the programs controlling bots have no compunction about sucking up tons of your computing power, leaving you staring at an unresponsive cursor.You've heard about people talking about the grid of computing power? It's like the electricity grid: you need computing power, you plug in, and there it is. Well, botnets are the grid. They're computing power available on demand, for the right price, if you know the right people, and can do whatever the person with the money wants: send billions of spam emails every day, bring gambling sites to their knees for ransom demands, spam blogs with comments about pharmaceuticals, host pornography and phishing sites, crack passwords ... how long a list do you need? The money involved isn't trivial, either. Three years ago, I was told by SecureWave (which looks after clients including the Ministry of Defence) that the going rate for taking out a site was about $10,000. Anestimate in 2005reckoned a botnet of about 1,000 computers will earn its "herder" about $1,000 (&pound;500) per month. Apparently now you can hire a botnet for about 25c per machine.By that measure, the underground grid economy is worth roughly $400m a year. Of course, these botnets aren't in the hands of any single group; warring sides sometimes send out sweeps of viruses that aim to knock out their rivals' botnets and claim them for themselves.That there are so many computers beyond their owners' control is a damning indictment of Microsoft's failure to understand the fundamental weaknesses of the systems it sold for connection to the internet in the late 1990s. Partly this was because the internet sneaked up on it; Bill Gates's famous memo of 1995, in which he alerted the company to the net, meant that Windows 95 and its successors, right up to Windows XP Service Pack 2 in August 2004, were open invitations for hackers to take control. Nine years is a long time to leave the computing keys under the doormat.What do we do now? Yes, individuals have a responsibility to fix their own machines; but in many cases people don't realise that their machines are being used by someone else. Thus the responsibility must fall on ISPs to get the botnet problem under control. ISPs can see the signs: emails trying to connect beyond their networks to standard ports, odd patterns of pings (testing a remote website's response) and so on. Rooting out this grid of illegality matters. It's the only way to get email back to some semblance of usefulness; the only way to be sure our blogs won't be spammed to death with rubbish comments; to be able to put up a website and know it won't be held to ransom. Then we can get on and do something useful - such as looking for aliens.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Walt Disney has joined the media industry's race to make money out of online social networking by snapping up Club Penguin, a popular website aimed at children, for up to $700m (&pound;350m).The deal is Disney's biggest since its $7.4bn purchase of animation studios Pixar last year and was announced as the company produced a 5% increase in third-quarter profits to $1.18bn.Often characterised as a MySpace or Facebook for youngsters, Club Penguin allows users to create personalised penguin cartoon characters and to chat in a tightly moderated environment. Enthusiasts, largely aged eight-14, can chat, play games, go ice-fishing, decorate a virtual igloo or attend penguin "parties".Based in the western Canadian town of Kelowna, the website has attracted 700,000 subscribers since its launch in October 2005. Unlike rivals, it does not rely on advertising but charges a $5.95 monthly fee to members.Disney will pay $350m plus a further $350m if performance targets are met by the end of 2009.Disney's chief executive, Bob Iger, said: "Club Penguin embodies principles that are of the utmost importance to Disney - providing high-quality family entertainment and fostering parental trust."The deal is likely to intensify the buzz surrounding Facebook, the popular yet still independent networking site which is attracting an estimated 150,000 new members every day. Facebook's main rival, MySpace, has already been swallowed by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation.Last night's deal will mean a windfall for Club Penguin's three founders - Lane Merrifield, Dave Krysko and Lance Priebe - who will each take home an initial $115m. They are all fathers and they started the site to create a safe online organisation for their children.Disney's earnings were boosted by strong income from the ABC television network in America and box office receipts from movie releases Ratatouille and Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End.
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room forin print- but here's the full text of those we chose from.DYING IN GAMESSorry to trot out one of the single most over referenced episodes in gaming history but... Aeris died at the end of disc one of FF VII: she was gone, no matter how much grinding one put into her on that disc -and there are Youtube videos of people who have gone so far as to get her level 4 limit break, psychos - she died, it was real, and man did it sting. RPGs - apart from the MMOs - do just kill you when you die, usually fairly abruptly - I'm thinking of the fairly savage "And they were never heard from again" in Secret of Mana here. It has always seemed to be a way of telling the player that they have seriously underthought or mis applied their tactics - bringing these narrative games to a jarring halt but providing you with a reflective moment to assess exactly what you did wrong in that last encounter - the bad ones leave one with the answer that you didn't spend enough time grinding and force to to either go back 3 saves or start again altogether - damn you disc one of FF IX. Another aspect of 'dying' - Guitar Hero - you die on stage and they just chuck you off. Its proably very true to life minus the savage beatings a real band would no doubt meter out to a real lead guitarist as awful at hard mode as I currently am Paul Derham, BelfastI just wanted to say how surprised I am that your article about dying in games totally ignored Myst, which is one of the biggest sellers of all time and had absolutely no deaths. Mike NightingaleA whole front page wasted on 'Why do we have to die in games?' (Technology Guardian, 26 July)? For heaven's sake, they're only games, get a life, Kate Bevan - and I mean a real one, not some pathetic electronic make-believe. Richard Carter, LondonEnjoyed your article, especially the paragraph about not being teleported out to Starbucks' safety. Hilarious! Augustine Reilly, Kew&gt;&gt; [I] have to admit that it makes some very strong points about our expectations in game mechanics, weighed against some interesting new ideas coming out of Molyneux and others.http://www.brassbaboon.com/&gt;&gt; Rock, Paper, Scissors has the edge over other quirky sports partly because it allows for so many ways for players to create diagetic [play method] goals for themselves.http://www.worldrps.com/&gt;&gt; It strikes me that death in games is the equivalent of a toddler's interpretation of what death is all about. Here today, gone tomorrow. Death is just a word to a little one and fairly meaningless at that.http://kindalearning.blogspot.com/&gt;&gt; Even where death isn't overtly part of a given game, some of what happens in the game can seem to the participants or spectators a bit like dying. Hence chess and the dance of death, or the symbolic death of a dismissal at cricket. Hence the feeling of despair that comes over the supporters of a football team which is only a minute away from not losing a game when they see that ball sailing across the wrong goal-line. Games, to state the obvious, are often of the type that they can be lost, and death happens to be a powerful representation of the experience of losing.http://normblog.typepad.com/&gt;&gt; I wish someone would do that in a film adaptation of a computer game. There've been enough of them, but so far, not one has featured a character dying and starting the level again.http://www.itpro.co.uk/blogs/IPHONE SECURITYYour article echoes the line that iPhone has been shown to have a security hole because of its popularity (the converse of the "security through obscurity" argument about why the Mac is not subject to viruses and the like). A better explanation is that it has a poor security architecture: all applications run as root (system administrator). Java, for example, is an extremely widely deployed technology, and has not been subject to many serious attacks because it is an inherently secure design. It may not currently be the subject of much hype, but it was when it was a fashionable new technology. Philip Machanick, School of ITEE, University of QueenslandGOOGLE THREATENING PRIVACY?Protecting one's privacy from Google is easy for Firefox users. Cookies from given sites can be blocked thus: Launch Firefox; Tools &gt; Options &gt; Privacy In the Cookies section click: Exceptions. Enter the website address (ie. google.com) and click: Block. Now cookies from that site will not be received/stored. Andrew Gilmour (no post town given)SPREADSHEET AND INVENTION (ANDREW BROWN)The attribution of the invention of the modern spreadsheet to Bob Perez and Pete Polash about 15 years ago is quite wrong. I was using a spreadsheet program in the '70s on an IBM/360. Just Google the terms apl/360 and spreadsheet and you will see plenty of evidence. Could be a story in it for you. The chap who wrote the original program was an IBM systems engineer who had a insurance company to look after somewhere in Massachusetts if I remember correctly. He said that spreadsheets were in common use in the insurance industry, and all he had to do was to transfer the process from large sheets of paper to inside the computer. Of course, the conversion of the spreadsheet idea to full-screen usage was a great improvement over the typewriter terminal version, but the idea was the same. Neville Holmes, School of Computing, University of TasmaniaHOSPITAL TAGGINGThank you for the commercial for an RFID tagging system for hospital patients. (Technology Guardian, 26/7/07, p6) Just to correct a mistake - Trusts have every incentive to implement identiity safeguards, just not this one. Patients on their way to theatre now have serial checks, from the ward where the surgeon marks the operation site to the actual theatre where a member of the scrub team, not the surgeon, checks we have the correct patient and the correct site. Paper systems like this, documented and trailed, must be in place else Trusts will have difficulty in getting the insurance they must have. And until the patient record goes wholly electronic, it is what we must work with. And then a practical point - patients for surgery need an anaesthetic and that means a drip, usually in the hand or wrist area. Frequently, when a patient has few veins, those under a bracelet tag need to be used and the tag must come off. Paper procedures provide for the immediate use of a fresh bracelet, on the other arm or even ankle, with the patient's details checked again. Unless an RFID system can provide new tags in theatre, immediately, then they will be less safe than good old biro. Dr.John Davies, Consultant Anaesthetist, LancasterA SPELL OF DOWNLOADINGJust read your interesting article about the economics of downloading books from file sharing sites. You did not however give any mention of a group of people who desperately need access to the text files of books. Like myself, many other blind people are just not able to obtain books in an accessible format for many years after publication, if ever. In order for me to be able to enjoy the seventh Harry Potter book at the same time as everyone else required me to download a plain text file from a sympathetic individual who had gone to the expense of buying a print copy and scanning it &amp; ocr'ing in order that blind people could have it on Sunday [the day after publication]. Publishers will not make their books available for blind people at the time of publication despite the fact that they have computer files of the books already - why? Do they think blind people are capable of operating pirate book printing groups who will flood the market with dodgy copies? Wish I had the degree of sight required to be able to. BTW I get my Guardian from the talking newspaper association by email every morning and it is a great boon. Thanks Guardian for being so helpful. I would be most grateful if you did not reveal my name or contact details to anyone as I fear being hauled away by the copyright police and who would feed my guide dog then! Gordon [full name and address withheld by request]]Just read the piece on downloads and totally agree on the expense involved and the speed of access to what you want. I have to disagree on some things: the main one I can see with your ink and paper expense is that you don't really have to go that way. I haven't downloaded the book myself, preferring to buy it very cheap in my local supermarket, but if the scanned pages are clear enough - I haven't seen them - then some good OCR software could nicely convert all those scanned pages to a small text file of around 1MB and ready to be read on my Iliad, http://www.irextechnologies.com/home . This device is by no means perfect, but getting there. There are numerous little ebook operations going on in a few newsgroups, which seem to cater for all types of fiction/nonfiction which seems to break many copyright laws. I presume there is not as much money involved as the music industry and the fact that reading ebooks on a PC is not all it's cracked up to be. Get an ebook reader like the iliad or Sony ereader and the internet is your new bookshelf for free. The reason I'm writing is because it's so quick and easy to write to you, I'm reading your column via the digital guardian on my Mac and just had to click on your email address at the bottom of your piece, keep up the good work. Jon Barker, Llantwit Major!!! You still use Amazon!!!! There are so many other sites with free postage that match or beat Amazon's prices and are just as reliable. Why would you factor the cost of buying a PC? I bought mine for games, family &amp; friends bought theirs for photos and the word processor etc, being able to buy cheap from the web is an added bonus. Brian West, Crawley&gt;&gt; Yes, but you can't put a price on the satisfaction of getting it for free.http://blog.booklistonline.com/POST OFFICESSo Michael Cross (High street e-government shops could sell stamps, too, July 26) wants "a network of high street e-government shops, staffed by sympathetic and knowledgeable people"? They already exist: they're called public libraries, they all provide free internet access, and many (including those in my local area) have staff trained to help customers access council services. Libraries (and their People's Network) seem to be the Cinderella of the e-government strategy, which is unfortunate as they need continued funding to allow IT maintenance, ongoing staff development and pay to match their increasing role, as well as longer opening hours so all members of the community can gain access to their vital services. Edith Speller, CrayfordLibraries have computers available free to anyone who wishes to use them &amp; the staff are trained to assist anyone who asks. Caroline Cooksey (no post town given)DEMOLISHING PAYWALLS&gt;&gt; ...with economist.com now freely accessible, comments threads are now open to everyone, not just thoughtful Economist readers with their comfortable incomes and luxury cars. The paper no longer has any control over who reads the site, and with its apparently laissez-faire moderation policy*, it also seems to have largely opted out of controlling who contributes to it.http://web2watch.blogspot.comIPLAYER CONT'DRe the letter "Come on BBC, I pay my licence fee, why should I need Windows XP to watch your programmes? Matt Woolner, Berkhamsted" - perhaps for the same reason that you need a PAL 625 line (or whatever it is - please check and insert correct fact, Editor) TV set and not an NTSC 525 line (ditto re facts) one to watch their programmes. When you guys get iPlayer on Mac etc, I will campaign for broadcasts in NTSC (and probably SECAM too). George. PS Actually I fully agree about "why XP?" - a proprietary 'monopoly'. At least nobody "owns"PAL - though perhaps SECAM is the minority interest equivalent of Linux, in the TV world. :-) George Andrew, ReigateTRAIN TIMETABLES REDUXBill Harvey would be advised to take Justin Krish's recomendation carefully (Letters; July 26). Good as the German timetable system is it can't cope with a British railway system that is recovering from decades of neglect. There are frequent temporary line closures at short notice that they just don't pick up. I gave up using it after the Hatfield accident, when all mainline train services where rewritten. Two weeks in and the German system was still not updated. I bet they haven't reponded to the changes resulting from the recent flooding either. So far I haven't caught out the National Rail (not Railtrack - that was years ago) system. Martin Bond, NantwichI agree that you can build and download a pdf pocket timetable but try finding this on a search for 'rail timetable'. The system also puts the user in a processing queue. If I read the terms correctly, pocket timetables aren't guaranteed to be correct. But try getting a dowloadable bus timetable for a particular area served by X companies. That's real fun. Graham Turnbull, Edinburgh
Gizmodo has thephoto....
Mac Mojo, the Office for Mac team's blog, says "Office 2008 for Mac will be released to manufacturing ("RTM") this December, which will allow for retail availability in the US in mid-January (planning for Macworld)." It was supposed to ship late this year.The blog says: "it was clear from our June and July quality checkpoints that no matter how hard we tried, we couldn't release our product in time for the Christmas season with the kind of quality we wanted."It's a tough release. The Office for Windows developers have changed the whole interface in Office 2007 to something that's impossible on a Mac*, used a new Windows Presentation Foundation, and introduced new default file formats with Office Open XML. Also, with Apple swapping processors yet again, they've been forced to dump their FreeScale CodeWarrior development system and change to Apple's Xcode system.* because the Mac has menus at the top of the screen, divorced from the application window.And while the MacBU guys are struggling with all that, they have to take a kicking from Mac owners who haven't had an update to Office for years.When Mac Office 2008 finally appears, Office 2007 will have been out for a year on Windows. Actually, there was a usable beta out for six months before that, giving the Windows version a pretty good shakedown that the Mac version won't get.
You may have read the report in Tuesday's G2 magazine about attempts to use the internet and mobile phones to market to children. The kids are all online these days (they're not allowed out, of course), so big corporations are going out of their way to communicate with mini-consumers via their virtual hang-outs.Which is good news for New Horizons Interactive, the company behind child-friendly virtual world,Club Penguin. Disney has just purchased the property for 350 million dollars and,according to Gamesindustry.biz, may double that figure if certain earnings targets are reached."This acquisition is consistent with our strategy of leveraging technology to create and deliver high-quality entertainment around the world and our commitment to investing our capital to generate growth and value for our shareholders," intoned a scary Disney cyborg in theofficial press release.It's another reminder that virtual space is just real estate to the big corporations who'd very much like to hoover up as much of the entertainment content as possible to stick their brands on. "As parents of young children, we wanted to create a fun, online world we'd be comfortable letting our own kids visit," say the creators of Club Penguin on theofficial website FAQ. I wonder if parents will feelascomfortable now that the Disney machine is hanging around?
While the marvellously talented game developers get back to work after the revelry that wasDevelop, the riff-raff that orbits around their labour has a busy few weeks ahead. As Ren Reynolds points out over on Terra Nova, there aremany splendoured game-related eventson the rise between now and the end of October; just in time to whet our appetites for the Christmas release rush.Keep reading for inspiration...Edinburgh Interactive13 - 14 August, Edinburgh, UK [Ren is] running a panel on virtual worlds as societies vs commercial services. There will also be a talks on Virtual Reality TV and a Second Life how-to by TN alumni Dr Jim Purbrick. [Plus loads of other things, including the famousGame Screeningsprogramme, panels, discussions and keynotes from Ubisoft, Sony and the BBC]Digital Interactive Symposium: Edinburgh15 August, Edinburgh, UK ...It's an industry academia mash-up ... We have a panel on virtual worlds and regulation from a EU perspective expect tax, communications law and other EU directives to be covered: IBM, Offcom, Jessica Mulligan, the Edinburgh Fringe festival to retire to in the evening who could want more! [For those philosophically opposed to academics looking at games, Jessica may offer some answers in her keynote, "Industry &amp; Academia talking: what's the point?"]State of Play V: Building the Global Metaverse19 - 22 August, Singapore Obviously /the/ pointy headed event of the year for those in the know, locating it in Asia this year is genius. Hmm, and an EU one next year perhaps? [I'll be there, talking about research ethics in virtual worlds]Game Convention, 23 - 26 August, Leipzig, Germany Europe's answer to the Tokyo Game Show and E3.Austin Games Conference5 - 7 September, Austin, TX, US People, even people that are not on the organizing committee, keep telling me that this year is the year to catch Austin, especially if you missed SXSW and don't know quite how cool Austin is. It's more tech focused than the other events listed here, but understating practice does actually come in handy sometimes.Serious Virtual Worlds13 September, Coventry, UK A new entry from the UK, and another very welcome event looking at the serious  end of virtual world applications. There are few details yet, but it's worth keeping an eye on especially if you are EU based.Tokyo Game Show21-22 September (Business), 22-23 September (Public), Tokyo, Japan Quite possibly the biggest game event of the year. Seriously.DiGRA: Situated PlaySeptember 24 - 28, Tokyo, Japan The party event of the year for Games Studies scholars, already my Hello Kitty budget is not big enough. If past DiGRAs are anything to go by this will be a huge sprawling conference with paper that range from the tepid to the inspiring.Virtual Worlds Fall 0710 - 11 October, San Jose, CA, US The East Coast Virtual Worlds event goes West for the fall. The NYC event earlier this year was, for many, more of an event marking the popular arrival of virtual worlds as a medium (something many of us have known for some time) than anything else. The East Coast's version is ridiculously star-studied with luck it will tell the audience something other than things they either fail to comprehend or already know.AoIR 8.0: Let's Play17 - 20 October, Vancouver, Canada This year AoIR gets game. For the last few years the Association of Internet Researchers' annual get together has been infiltrated by a crack squad of game studies scholars intent on spreading insidious ideas like the fact that virtual communities might exist on more than just BBSs (at the first event I went to non of the virtual community panel had ever heard of virtual worlds).Virtual Worlds Forum23 - 26 October, London, UK More EU goodness: not content with the East Coast / West Coast ding dong that the Virtual Worlds group has established in the US, there is now a UK based event by the Virtual Worlds Forum that will cover very similar issues but with a uniquely European focused, global outlook.The virtual worlds ones are from Ren, the games ones are from me. I've added an occasional 2p in brackets []. The blockquoting facility on the blog's not working properly at the minute, just so's you know.So much to do, so little time.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
The US immigration authorities are well known for arbitrarily bizarre decisions, and they've just stopped Thomas Dullien (akaHalvar Flake) from talking at the BlackHat security conference in Las Vegas, where "he's been a popular speaker for the past seven years".BlackHat'sBlackPagesays "he was detained by immigration officials upon entry to the US, interviewed by said officials for 4.5 hours, and finally denied entry into the US and returned to Germany." It says:In the process of checking his luggage, some portion of his printed materials for his training were discovered. This triggered a series of questions about his business and his immigration status, with the US officials finally settling on the position that if he was going to profit as an individual speaker at Black Hat, he was a de facto employee of the conference and could not enter the States without qualifying for and obtaining an H1B visa.An H1B to talk at a conference? That's insane.On his blog,Halvarwrites:Had there been an agreement between my company and Blackhat, then my entry to the US would've been "German-company-sends-guy-to-US-to-perform-services", and everything would've been fine. The real problem is that the agreement was still between me as a person and Blackhat.Technically, he shouldn't have been travelling under the visa waiver programme (being squeaky clean, I don't use it myself, and no journalist should*) and now he won't be able to use it at all. However, surely somebody in the US must realise that the hostile legalistic approach to legitimate visitors is extremely damaging to US interests. It discourages people from going, damages trade and commerce, and encourages people to do more business outside the US.It's damaging even when people don't suffer from it, because they read about it.* A particularly fine example concernedElena Lappin, who wrote about it for The Guardian. She was handcuffed, imprisoned, and deported for using the visa waiver form with her British passport. The great thing about the story is that her husband is a US citizen, her daughter was born in New York, and she had lived in the US as a permanent resident.
Computer security consultant Neal Krawetz showed a different way to look at al Qaeda images in a talk at the BlackHat security conference in Las Vegas. He looked at the quantization tables in a jpg file to how the image had been compressed.Wired's blogexplains:Error level analysis involves re-saving an image at a known error rate (90%, for example), then subtracting the re-saved image from the original image to see every pixel that changed and the degree to which it changed. The modified versions will indicate a different error level than the original image.Krawetz examined an image from a 2006 al Qaeda video of Ayman al-Zawahiri and reckons it was videotaped in front of a black sheet; a desk and banner were added later.
Windows XP SP2 will no longer install 16-bit programs: nothing happens when I double-click the relevant setup.exe file. Sometimes at close down I get a message saying "the Win 16 subsystem may be unstable".Iain MainWindows XP is a 32-bit operating system and runs 16-bit programs via a bit of a bodge known as Windows NT Virtual DOS Machine support (NTVDM). Microsoft's Knowledge Base suggests checking that this has all the required files: seeCannot Install Program Using Its Setup Utility(search for Q222975). You can then make sure the WOW (16-bit Windows on Windows) subsystem starts correctly by followingarticle Q153544.However, 16-bit Windows programs will not work at all when we move to 64-bit Windows (and 32-bit programs are run using WOW), so it's time to start replacing them. You can identify 16-bit programs by right-clicking the exe file and selecting Properties: they don't have a Version tab. Sadly, some 32-bit programs have 16-bit installers....
The latest reviews are in the paper today. Nintendo titles fill two of the three slots, with a Civilization expansion pack - yes, the gaming drought is upon us - getting the other review. ActuallyCiv 4: Beyond the Swordscores highly and proves there is still some life left in the venerable franchise. Likewise with the newPokemon games, named Diamond and Pearl, for the DS. Often dismissed as childish entertainment the Pokemon games still pack a gaming punch, especially with the addition of online. It can be hard to ignore the twee heritage but filter out the merchandise and pre-teen marketing campaigns and you've got some deep, clever and sneakily addictive gaming.Last up isMario Party 8, the latest in the increasingly tedious mini-game series. Not even the Wii can save this one. ElsewhereAleks urges EAto use their creative clout and start a gaming revolution. Fingers crossed eh?
Rockstar is appealing against the BBFC's decision not to grant Manhunt 2 a ratings certificate.Accordingto MCV, the company registered its plea with the Video Appeals Committee yesterday (morehere).So what will be the crux of the appeal? Rockstar has vociferously defended the game as a legitimate work of art since learning of the BBFC decision in June. In a letter to Gamesindustry.biz, responding to an article that backed the ban, the companyargued:"We are still exploring our options for Manhunt 2, but how does banning our game support the industry or further the development of the medium? Unlike a heavy-handed editor or a critical review of a game, a ban is punishment for deviating from tradition.A ban denies everyone the chance to consider, experience, or discuss the actual game. The only obvious victor is the status quo.You seem to view banning Manhunt 2 as a way to protect the industry from scrutiny and unfair attacks. In fact, a ban is a triumph for the industry's harshest critics, not an act of diplomacy."It'll now be up the the VAC, an independent body, to review the BBFC ruling. The case and its resolution will no doubt be watched closely by other publishers of adult-themed games. The creators of Condemned 2 have already complained of having to remove decapitations and torture scenes from their game in the wake of the Manhunt 2 banning.
Fake Steve Jobs has anotheroutstanding post, this time jumping off ahysterical opinion pieceabout Microsoft beating Linux in China (according to Fortune magazine, bloggedbelow).As my mother used to say, there's many a true word spoken in jest. Namaste, FSJ. Can't wait for thebook....
In June, EAannouncedthat it would be splitting its activities into four key strands: EA Sports, EA Games, The Sims and EA Casual. The latter has been one of the fastest growing elements of the company's business with the casual gaming site,Pogo, at the heart of its operations. I wanted to find out a bit more about the site - who it's aimed at, who uses it and what kind of money EA is making out of it. So I mailed a few questions to Todd Heringer, Vice President of Pogo International Operations.He'sjustgot back to me with a very serious, corporate set of answers (and he wouldn't answer my money question), but there are some interesting stats in here about the Pogo community for those with an interest in the casual sector.One thing he does point out is that the site attracts quite a large audience of 'hardcore' gamers who turn up to play bridge, poker, etc, presumably as a respite from all the killing in Battlefield and Medal of Honor. It's a weird thought - taking a break from gaming by... doing some more gaming.Anyway, casual game business junkies, here's what Todd had to say...Can you tell us a little about how and why EA set up Pogo?EA acquired Pogo.com in 2001 as it looked to expand its online gaming portfolio. The site attracted a diverse audience from the teenage hardcore gamer taking a quick break to the grandmother playing bridge online, and the player base is as diverse today as it was then.In the US, Pogo.com is now the number two online games site in the US with over 11 million unique visitors per month. More recently, we brought Pogo to the UK and also introduced a German-language site. With 30-45% of the online population in the UK and Germany playing casual games, we were working from a strong base to give experienced players and newcomers a fresh destination to experience fun, accessible games and socialize with the Pogo online community. The UK site hasn't even been running for a year and we're already getting 900,000 unique vistors to the site.What were your objectives with the site? How did you plan to compete with the other big casual game providers?We know there is high consumer demand for casual online games, and not just in the US. Research has told us that the majority of our community log on to Pogo to take a break and pass the time, and they also enjoy the mental stimulation it brings them. We're competing on the strength of the Pogo offering: we have one of the most fun and engaging casual game experiences around. The majority of games do not require downloads and are free to play. Players of our English speaking Pogo sites can mingle in the various chat rooms and play together and share their profiles and rankings.Pogo is also one of the only sites with an integrated prize and points system that gives you a chance to win something no matter what game you're playing. Consumers in the UK a customized experience with an updated prize system, custom news and community pages, and word games in the Queen's English.Your emphasis seems to be on free games and prize games - are these the key traffic drivers in the casual sector?Free games and prizing are a great way to bring users to the site but this is only half of the equation. Quality of experience and engagement are probably the most important factors. The games have to be fun to play and easy to access. Being able to socialise with the Pogo community is the reason that consumers keep coming back.So community is as important as the games themselves?We often say the formula for Pogo is: Pogo = Great Games + Community. Consumers come for the games but stay for the community. We stress community in all aspects of the site design, features and games. Virtually all our games support chat, even the single player experiences. The game provides a common denominator for the players and gives them something to talk about or share. In fact, roughly 60% of the female Pogo.com audience chats when playing a game, and of those that chat, over 70% chat about the specific game they are playing.From this initial interaction friendships develop. We also create events on the site to bring players together for a common goal. This provides a critical mass of audience and a strong sense that you are playing with other people.You don't seem to make much use of key EA brands from the console or PC gaming sectors - no FIFA, Tiger Woods or Battlefield - was that a temptation or do you feel this is atotallydifferent audience?Actually the EA console and/or PC gamer represents one of many audiences Pogo.com attracts. When these gamers play casual games they actually want a different experience from their core console/PC products. While we've built some sports and arcade games, we've seen that the most popular games for this audience of mainly male 13 -34 year olds are actually casual games like Pool, Poker and Chess.Who develops the games on Pogo? Do you have a dedicated casual gaming team at EA?We have a dedicated casual game development studio that builds the majority of the Pogo games and features. This has been crucial to the success of our business. It's actually fairly difficult to create a game that can be learned in 5 mins and fun to play for anything up to 2 hours.What would you say are the three most important game archetypes for a casual service like Pogo? Why?Accessibility, Engagement, and Community. The initial experience players have with a game is very important: they need to have some sense of familiarity or interest in the game, the game must be compelling and build their confidence quickly, and they need to have a shared experience with others. Combine all of these components and you get Pogo: an easy, fun, and entertaining experience.How much research do you do into the sorts of people playing on Pogo? What form does this research take and what does it tell you about your users?We research the needs and behaviors of people playing online casual games globally on a regular basis. We are always looking to better understand how casual gaming and Pogo fit into consumers' lives, as well as the cultural differences of our players in each country and region of the world. We have learned that, regardless of the region or culture, people play casual games for the same reasons - to take a break, de-stress, and exercise their brain. Whether in the US or UK, our research shows that the site is incredibly popular with women - they make up around 57% of the Pogo population. Over half of the women on Pogo are 35 and over.The community benefits of Pogo are also universal. Players embrace the ability to meet people from around the world while on Pogo, and many have made international friends who they travel to meet in person. In addition, we check in with our players regularly to ensure that their satisfaction with playing on Pogo remains high. The methodologies we use range from online surveys to in-person focus groups and usability tests.Do you think any users are channeled into 'hardcore' retail videogames by way of Pogo?I think there is some crossover, but I don't believe that casual games represent training wheels for hardcore gamers. Most hardcore gamers are playing to be deeply immersed and to compete against others, while casual gamers are playing to relax, have fun, and socialize.What are the emerging trends in casual gaming at the moment - both in terms of technologies and game genres?In my opinion there are three important trends right now: 1) A wider use of accessible technologies like Flash, which make casual games both easier to develop and easier to play; 2) A move towards online content and communities, which represents a shift away from downloadable and try-before-you-buy types of casual games; 3) The growing popularity of Nintendo's Wii and DS platforms, which appeal to a casual gamer audience.How will the culture of convergence and wireless entertainment change your business?Online persistence will play a key roll. Players will be able to play games online, or on their connected console or mobile phone, which will all be linked to a central service. This way the players can stay in touch with their friends and advance their status on whatever device suits their lifestyle at the moment.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
How do you cut online crime, tackle child pornography, halt crippling viruses and get rid of spam? The answers could lie in a 200m successor to the internet that computer experts are already referring to as the next rendition of the virtual world.Researchers in the US want at least $350m (175m) to build the Global Environment for Network Innovations (Geni), touted by some as the possible replacement for today's internet. In Europe, similar projects are under way as part of the EU's Future and Internet Research (Fire) programme, which is expected to cost at least 27m.With online crime rising and traffic increasing rapidly, some academics believe it is time to have a serious discussion about what succeeds today's internet."There's a real need to have better identity management, to declare your age and to know that when you're talking to, say, Barclays bank, that you're really doing so," said Jonathan Zittrain, professor of internet governance and regulation at the Oxford Internet Institute.At the moment we are still using very clumsy methods to approach such problems. The result: last year alone, identity theft and online fraud cost British victims an estimated 414m, while one recent report claimed 93% of all email sent from the UK was spam.The backers of Geni are hoping that it can find answers to problems like this. It is supported by America's National Science Foundation and has a timescale of 10-15 years.Many ideas revolve around so-called "mesh networks", which link many computers to create more powerful, reliable connections to the internet. By using small meshes of many machines that share a pipeline to the net instead of relying on lots of parallel connections, experts say they can create a system that is more intelligent and less prone to attack.Dipankar Raychaudhuri, a professor at Rutgers University in New York, is working on alternative systems but says making progress is tough. "People keep trying to evolve the network, but it hasn't really changed in 20 years," he said. "Once you've built something as large and complex as the internet it is difficult to start over again."One of Prof Raychaudhuri's projects involves short-range communication. The technology could be put inside cars, allowing them to talk to each other, and other systems, to bring long-held visions of safer, automated driving into reality.Another option is to spread information around the planet in a different way: rather than scattering small pieces of the network across hundreds of millions of computers like puzzle pieces, each containing one tiny piece of the internet, alternative systems could be able to keep a local copy of the net. Instead of surfing in public view, users would spend much of their time wandering around inside their own computers - leaving them less vulnerable to attacks from hackers and criminals.Millions of pounds are being pumped into academic research, bringing to mind the early days of computer networking such as Arpanet, the forerunner of today's internet. Arpanet was funded by the American government for experimental research and began operating almost 40 years ago. But while American computer scientists in the past relied on government money, they have had less support from the Bush administration, which has substantially reduced funding and channelled money instead into homeland security projects.With those limitations in mind, some experts have warned that starting from scratch is a gamble. Jon Crowcroft, Marconi professor at Cambridge University and one of Britain's foremost internet engineers, is among those who do not believe a clean-slate approach is necessarily the way forward."There's a risk in doing completely blue-sky research that fixes a problem but then turns out to be useless at the things the internet did well," he said. "There aren't that many who can do a clean-slate design  and you don't want to throw the baby out with the bathwater."
One of the blogs I read is the amazingly sexyFrequency X, which provides the vulnerability du jour as seen by X-Force, IBM's bought-in Internet Security Systems team. Well, the X-Force guys recently published their annual security report (PDF), which ranks the companies that provide the most vulnerabilities.I don't think a bookie would take any bets on which company tops the list: it's Microsoft. However, it was only responsible for 3.1% of the vulnerabilities found in 2006, which is actually not that bad considering thevast amount of softwareit ships. For example, Microsoft has at least 32 server products, from Antigen to Windows Storage Server, and Office now includes a couple of dozen programs.The runners up are Oracle (2.1%) and Apple (1.9%). Of course, Mac users are familiar with the floods of multi-megabyte security updates that come out of Cupertino -- Apple fixed dozens of bugs and vulnerabilities only yesterday -- but fortunately there seem to be very-few-if-any real exploits.Mozilla is doing rather badly in fourth place with 1.4%, considering it ships almost no software at all by the standards of the companies above it. In fact, on page 31, the IBM team credits Firefox with 64 critical vulnerabilities in 2006, which compares with 34 for Internet Explorer. Amusingly enough, Mozilla is currently in an egg-on-face situation re URL handling afterit had to admitthat what it thought was a problem in IE was a problem in Firefox as well. (At least Mozilla gets its patches out quickly, and it's fixed in Firefox 2.0.0.6.)IBM takes fifth place with 1.2%, which is the same as the Linux Kernel Organization. The team blog says:Thankfully, after a little wrangling (and some concerned, if not skeptical, looks from the marketing team) we managed to keep it in..., but there was no reason to censor. It's an impressive result given that IBM probably has as much software as Microsoft, if not more, though much of it is very old. Not too many people still hacking on IMS, are there?
Semi-offical PS3 blogThree Speechhas posted some new shots of Gran Turismo 5. Mightily impressive they are too, although Sony'suse of video instead of real in-game footage at the E3 2005 press conferencemeans I'm still slightly wary. But assuming these are in-game shots then this could be the first true indication of what the PS3 is really capable of. The shots certainly look better than Forza - GT's main competitor on the Xbox 360 - although the continual lack of damage in the GT games does grate. Still, for the first time in a while PS3 owners have reason to be optimistic.
in 2005,Keith expertly coveredthe palaver surrounding a US film critic's dismissal of games. Claiming they could never be "art", Roger Ebert instantly became persona non grata in the digital entertainment world and was bombarded with nasty letters from passionate gamers from all corners of the globe. In arecent column, he lashed out at one famous letter-writer, horror film-maker Clive Barker, who threw a few stingers back at Ebert during a/a&gt; at the recent Games &amp; Hollywood conference.It's all gone a bit schoolyard. From Ebert's response to Barker's keynote quotes:Barker:"I'm not doing an evangelical job here. I'm just saying that gaming is a great way to do what we as human beings need to do all the time -- to take ourselves away from the oppressive facts of our lives and go somewhere where we have our own control."Ebert: Spoken with the maturity of an honest and articulate 4-year old. I do not have a need "all the time" to take myself away from the oppressive facts of my life, however oppressive they may be, in order to go somewhere where I have control.Meh. At the heart lies Ebert's unwillingness to accept that the current spectrum of games might offer artistic merit to their beholders, and Barker's fan-tastic assertion that the critic just doesn'tgetgames.I'm inclined to side with Ebert here. Sure, there are some pretty things in games, but no game has yet been created with art in mind. Some of the more auteur-driven products, like American McGee's Alice for example, which have an overallvisionare artistic products and push games in the right direction, but there are no commercial products which stand out as particularly noteworthy museum-pieces. Even if there has been an exhibition dedicated to them.I'm not suggesting it won't happen. Some of the serious game products have real artistic quality. A game like September 12th, for example, really makes youthinkwhile you're playing it, and its message and quality stick with you for years afterwards. However, the current library of commercial games are too obsessed withdoingrather than creating - an important part of the medium, yes, but not the only one. The one commercial game series I would categorise as "almost art" is the Odyssee trilogy (Abe and Munch).From Ebert's perspective as a film reviewer, a man who works in an industry which has its own art house ghetto, "art" means allegory, it means symbolism, it means subtleties which games - in their technological infancy - can't yet produce because there isn't an audience large enough for it. Once the costs of making viable games goes down and the tools are accessible to more people with more ideas, then we might have some new, artistic ideas.But until then, I'm going to stay out of the schoolyard and let people with more conviction fight their corners without me.
I'm on my way to Wikimania, the annual conference for the community involved with Wikimedia, including Wikipedia (which will take place this year in Taipei between the 3rd and 5th of August). I'm thinking this could well be a momentous occasion both within the Wikimedia community and in its external perception  perhaps it will crystallise for the wider world that Wikipedia is not a pet project of the developed "West" (or "North"), particularly the English-speaking part of it. Rather, it's a global community of volunteers working to create quality encyclopedias in over 200 languages, some of whom have never had such a thing, or which themselves are in danger of extinction.Similarly, Wikimedia's focus is not exclusively on Wikipedia  though it is undoubtedly its flagship and most successful project  but is also behind a number of individual but complementary projects: Wikibooks (textbooks), Wiktionary (dictionary), Wikimedia Commons (images and other media files), Wikiquote (quotations), Wikisource (library), Wikispecies (species' taxonomies), Wikinews (journalism), and my personal focus, Wikiversity (educational materials and activities). Within these projects, I have met many extraordinary people with a clear sense of doing something to improve the world en masse. It's a groundswell of goodwill.Perhaps you're wondering what these strange names signify, where they've come from, and why they're all so confusingly similar. At the heart of it all is a 'wiki', which is a website that is editable by its users, or readers  generally this means (as in Wikimedia projects' case) that anyone can edit almost any page, whether they have logged in or not (i.e. anonymously). This fact of being able to add anything  without always knowing 'by whom'  has of course raised questions about the validity of information presented on the site, as well as laying itself open to vandalism.But Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects work through the ever-watchful participation of a large number of people, who usually deal with the most obvious vandalism in a matter of minutes, and who will discuss other edits to see whether they should be kept, modified, or deleted. In this way, wikis work through a dedicated, distributed, and ever-expanding community, and their ongoing dialogue about what is appropriate content or even user behaviour for the site.Wikipedia, in particular, has its critics. It has been called mediocre, cult-like, and even unethical, and it has been through a number of high-profile incidents over the last year, such as the case of John Seigenthaler Sr., an American journalist whose biography was vandalised with false information. It is true that Wikipedia is often imperfect and constantly in-progress (and it readily acknowledges this), but it is compelling to many people because of these qualities. Its openly editable modus operandi is itself a self-reflexive statement about its openness to feedback, criticism, and continuous development.My perspective on Wikipedia's open model is that it makes transparent the process of article construction and representation, and actively encourages the reader to read critically. I further see Wikipedia as a "learning community", in which participants share and discuss information in order to build a shared sense (consensus) of meaning  constituting a social gathering around, not just the dissemination of knowledge, but its active construction. And, despite being banned by certain academic institutions and departments from being cited in coursework, Wikipedia, Wikibooks, and now Wikiversity are being used by many educators in order to provide learning opportunities for their students in accessing and even writing resources on their subject of study.Wikimania is somewhere between an academic conference and a community get-together. It's an opportunity for community members to meet up and discuss face-to-face what is normally done through an on-screen interface. And it's also a way for community members to present to peers, academics, and journalists about salient aspects of their part in this wiki-world, as well as a space for academics and other professionals to apply their own theories, perspectives, and experiences to this world  thereby opening up an often sparkling dialogue.It's exciting to be part of this community, and to be travelling to the other side of the globe to meet my good friends (some of whom I've never met in person), and, of course, to make new ones. The conference itself has a wiki address, http://wikimania2007.wikimedia.org, which will be kept updated with details on online participation  and you are cordially invited to join the discussion. Given the dazzling array of participants, anything's possible. For more on this topic,read Cormac Lawler's research blog.
Shelf life. Photograph: Graham Turner/GuardianHere's one you might like. New blogBiologists Helping Bookstores- spotted viaJason Kottke- features a crusading scientist called Ste who tries reorganising bookshop shelves to prevent pseudoscience featuring in the science categories.Takethis recent entry, where the target was work by individuals like intelligent design "pioneer" Michael Behe:Four copies ofThe Edge of Evolutionwere discovered once more in the science section. I flip a copy and read the back. Here's the beginning of the first quote from the back cover: "Until the past decade and the genomics revolution, Darwin's theory rested on indirect evidence and reasonable speculation..." (Dr. Philip Skell, Evan Pugh Professor of Chemistry, Emeritus, at Pennsylvania State University, and member of the National Academy of Sciences). That's not true! I am emboldened by this bare-faced lie from this well-respected elderly chemist, pick up all four copies, and stroll upstairs.Now, I aim for accuracy in my recategorization... so I sought out the most appropriate section of the store: Behe's lie-covered volume now rightly resides in the Religious Fiction section. A job well done.Behe (if you didn't know) is one of the leading thinkers behind the intelligent design movement - and the fellow that honed the theory of irreducible complexity that underpins many a Creationist argument.I've heard of people doing this with political books (usually for party political reasons) but I'm liking this effort to increasing amounts of pseudo-scientific gabble that's taking over.Now I'm trying to think of some offensively-labelled titles that could do with a little guerrilla librarianship. Hmmm.
Wired has published a huge story -- more than 7,000 words -- aboutthe search for Jim Gray. The Microsoft Research staffer, one of the world's great computer scientists, set sail from San Francisco on Sunday January 28 in his red 40-foot fibreglass cruiser and was never seen again.The Coast Guard, US Navy, National Park Service and some of the world's smartest people from NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab, the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute and other places have contributed to the hunt, to no avail. How can someone just disappear in 2007?
Listen up. Photograph: Ian Waldie/GettyApple has just announced that it has stretched past three billion cumulative downloads: meaning that there is now, roughly, one iTunes download for every two people on the planet.The most interesting thing about the headline figures, for me anyway, is that the rate of growth is really increasing. From the launch of the service in April 2003, it took nearly three years until the service passed 1 billion downloads in February 2006. Eleven months on from that, in January 2007, the company announced it had passed the 2 billion milestone.The third billion, though?Just six months.It's astonishing, but it might reflect a number of things: huge iPod sales, more homogeneous digital sales, more artists available on iTunes or an increased appetite for digital music. Or possibly all of the above.So how much has three billion tracks made Apple? Well,the Registerrecently suggested that Apple takes 30c from each 99c download, but after all costs are taken out of the equation I've seen figures of around 4 cents put forward as profit. Given those back of the envelope estimates, that means iTunes has made approximately 60m of profit for the company in its lifetime. For some perspective: Apple made $818mlast quarter. So it's not insignificant, but the music business is still totally in thrall to hardware.With research suggesting that illegal downloadingis also growing, what are the next steps for iTunes development?Perhaps in getting all that music that's not there already? Classical music is not greatly served, and big back-catalogue sellers like Led Zeppelin, Radiohead (and, yes, the Beatles) still keeping away from the service.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Some interesting hands-on reports of Assassin's Creed are coming through after the game's showing at E3.This onefrom PSM3 magazine's Dan Dawkins, seems to sum up opinion quite nicely - the game is massively ambitious, has moments of genius, but is also frustrating and demanding:"It pays little respect to convention - instead of holding L1 to lock-on, you simply tap it on/off to engage combat mode, which takes adjustment, especially since you can't always tell whether you're locked on. All controls are context-sensitive, with different abilities available when you're locked on. The R1 button is used as an 'Aggression Modifier'. Your main buttons are displayed in a tiny icon (e.g. X to blend into the crowd, circle for push, square to punch), but hold R1 and they're aggressively modified (e.g. X to free run, circle to barge, square to attack). 'Punch' may become 'assassinate' when you're holding the right weapon, and alter according to where you're stood, and by whom."What some journos have told me is that these context-sensitive controls work well when you're relaxed and have time and space. But when you're being chased through the city by armed guards, the foibles of the free-running system can have you fruitlessly clawing at brick like a frightened cat.Dan earlier compares this lack of intuitive interaction with Metal Gear Solid 3 - here, too, the controls took several hours to master. The recent Metal Gear Solid 4 trailer also hints at a complex control array, with players able to shimmy across the floor, change camouflage, kneel, wrestle and quietly subdue guards via a complex series of interlinked moves.In the winter season these two 'brands' are going to be the standard bearers for 'hardcore' action adventuring. It will be interesting to see how the scope of these games and, of course, the stunning visuals - can counter the lack of immediacy some players may feel when engaging with their worlds.The context-sensitive control system for Assassin's was meant to be about simplifying the action, but, it turns out that moving away from standard 'this button does that and only that' thinking has turned up new problems. I know that the mechanism has gone through several changes over the last year, the designers making concessions to the habitual expectations of gamers. Have they gone too far, or not far enough?One thing's certain: everyone seems pleased - relieved even - that games of such single-minded ambition are still being created. With development costs spiraling out of control thanks to the complexities of PS3 and Xbox 360 development, it is questionable how many more of these titles we'll see. Assassin's has a staff of over 170 people. Creative Director Patrice Desilets has been working on the project for three years - how many publishers will be able to support that kind of indulgence in the future? Sure, the movie business still manages to produce 200 million dollar blockbusters, but the retail, distribution and funding models are totally different.Interestingly though, Assassin's wasn't a big player in the2007 E3 Game Critics Award Nominations- it's only in the running for Best Action/Adventure. Rockband, Call of Duty 4, LittleBigPlanet, Bioshock, Fallout 3 and Mass Effect were among the most nominated titles. The results are announced today.
The squawking across Guardian Towers is reaching fever pitch this morning as - omigod - Facebook becomes inaccessible. I'm surrounded by people suffering serious FB withdrawal symptoms: quivering, teary eyes and, yes... even talk of using MySpace instead.Let's see how long the outage lasts.But, as media luvvies across the nation weep onto their keyboards, the blame game will now begin in earnest. What's responsible for this outrage? Al Qaeda? Global warming? Paedophiles?Answers on a postcard, please.Update:ah, the power of blogging. No sooner does this appear than the site comes back up. What world problem shall we solve next, then?Update on the update:Message from Facebook's PR team saying the following:"This morning, we temporarily took down the Facebook site to fix a bug we identified earlier today. This was not the result of a security breach. Specifically, the bug caused some third party proxy servers to cache otherwise inaccessible content. The result was that an isolated group of users could see some pages that were not intended for them. The site has now been restored, and we apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused."Sounds like there might have been some privacy issues (as noted by a commenter earlier on). The Great Facebook Outage of 2007 is over, people. Breathe easy.
Ian McEwan. Photograph: Andreas Rentz/GettyFor the latest episode of our weekly science and technology podcast, we're pleased to welcome one of the heavyweights of British literature along for a chat. Ian McEwan, the award-winning writer, has been turning increasingly to talk of science in his recent novels - and he told us who his scientific heroes are.There's lots more, including discussion on thepoker-playing computerand the fall-out of theexplosion at the test site for Virgin Galactic.Click hereto listen straight away, or go to our podcast blog formore information.
Out intrepid gaggle of gamesblogging text adventurers have spent the past week honing down the backstory of theWikiGameand, bar any last-minute new additions, popular opinion seems to be swaying towards CunningStunt's Douglas Adams-inspired Reds vs. Blues and Edible Visions' 28-days-later-like Contamination. I'm afraid my Withnail and I-inspired suggestion isn't forthcoming DennisChow; if someone can pass me one of the time turners Hermione Granger uses in the third Harry Potter book, I'd be extremely grateful.The two front-runners have surprisingly subtle senses of humour, intriguing plots laced with satire and are odd enough to be penned by Spike Jonze. How in the world we're going to split them up into scenes and characters is beyond me, but I'm sure the brains behind the wikigame will devise a way. The detailed story will be decided by close of play Wednesday, therefore, in fierce democratic fashion, anothervotehas been called! Get yourself over tothe wikiand get involved.Now, it's come to my attention that we need something concrete. I've suggested that the next step is to get a workable playing version ofChapter Onedone, rather than work out the nitty gritty of the whole story. That means everyone gets to do something towards a playable thing which will give us feedback about the story, the characters, the puzzles and the locations, and will provide feedback on how the process will continue - and will get gamesbloggers watching from the sidelines something to talk about too.After all, the designers and coders are chomping at the bit to get their fingers dirty after watching the storytellers have all the fun over the past four weeks. And after continuing lively debates in the coders camp about the language best suited for this purpose (the favourite is still Inform6), they're about ready to sink their teeth into the designers' dreams.So getvoting!
In Stalin's Soviet Union, a madman named Lysenko was put in charge of the nation's wheat growing. Lysenko rejected the idea that genetic traits are inherited from your parents, and instead believed that you could change an organism's offspring by changing the organism itself.So if you cut one leg off a mouse and bred it, he reasoned, the little mice would have one leg smaller than the rest. Do it for long enough and you'd get a three-legged mouse.It's rubbish, of course, but it was ideologically comforting rubbish. Stalin loved Lysenko's theories because they suggested that the Soviet programme of changing the current generation would change the generations that followed, making an ever more perfect worker's paradise.Every media business has, by now, entertained a sales call from a digital rights management company - purveyors of copy protection tools that supposedly stop people from copying your works and sharing them with the world.Not one of them has ever stopped the widespread, unauthorised copying of media. Not one of them ever will. The companies that sell this stuff are, at best, bunkum peddlers and, at worst, out and out fraudsters. Their wares simply can't work - not without changing the laws of physics, maths and information science.DRMs are often designed by ambitious, well-funded consortia, with top-notch engineers from every corner of the industry. They spend millions. They take years. They are defeated in days, for pennies, by hobbyists. It's inevitable, because every time you give someone a locked item,you have to give them the key to unlock it too.The industry admits this. The pitchmen will tell you that DRM is a sleeping policeman; a bump in the road that "keeps honest users honest".This is silly: DRM can't make an honest person more honest. In fact, once a person has opted to buy - rather than pinch - your movie, all it can do is cause frustration. Why? Because DRM stops people from doing legitimate things - like using a new device (for example, playing a song from the iTunes store on a non-Apple player); like backing up a file; like selling, loaning or giving away a movie.Unfortunately for those selling DRM today we inhabit a networked world, where every customer is seconds away from a computer, a browser and a search engine. You don't have to be a genius hacker to get a copy of Ratatouille - you just need to plug "download ratatouille" into Google and get the copy that some more skilled person has thoughtfully made available to you.Computers are machines for copying data. A good computer is one that copies well, quickly and cheaply. The internet is a machine for moving copies of data around. When the internet works well, it copies data quickly and cheaply.Ideologically, this is difficult for some people to accept. If your fortune has been based on stopping people from copying information, it is an inconvenient truth indeed. If you earn your living by preventing copying, the only options are to change everything, or deny everything.Lysenko thought he could change the laws of nature. But his theory wasn't harmless rubbish  it was fatal. When the state applied Lysenkoism to the business of planting wheat, famine followed. Millions starved. The Soviet Union fell into a long, grinding, corrupt decline.DRM is Lysenkoism for the digital age. It's an ideologically correct lie that's been concocted to bilk the entertainment industry out of a fortune. DRM products make buying media less attractive, but its peddlers don't care - their industry won't crater when a hopeless strategy is defeated by brutal, uncaring mathematics. They want to make their fortunes and move on to the next bunch of luvvies: yesterday it was software, today it's movies, tomorrow they'll be peddling their junk to the healthcare industry for "protecting" health records.The wheat won't grow under Lysenkoism, and you can't stop people from copying files on a computer. But you can still get rich - just sell the same stuff, without the DRM. We're the same customers, and we'd buy just as many DVDs if there was no anti-copying magic on them.&#183;Cory Doctorow is an activist,science fiction authorand co-editor of the blogBoing Boing.
Ask someone to name a website and it's a virtual certainly they will say something ending with "dot com": Amazon.com, eBay.com, Facebook.com, it doesn't matter what, it's the same suffix. Dotcom is the internet for most people.But that may all change next year when the top level of the net  the part after the dot  is liberalised. From 2008, anyone wanting their own piece of the internet is welcome to apply for it. It won't be cheap (there will an application fee of around $100,000) and it won't be simple (you have to prove you are capable of running a complex piece of the net's infrastructure)  but it could mean a change in the way the online world works.This article for example may appear on www.guardian.news, rather than guardian.co.uk. Or perhaps at www.technology.guardian. You may have clicked through to it from http://latest.google, or from someone's personal.blog address. You may be reading it in a cafe you found on www.uk.coffee. The possibilities are seemingly endless, but despite two limited extensions of the internet's top-level domain space in 2001 and 2004, no one  including the experts  is sure what will happen this time around."It's all about awareness," says Geir Rasmussen, who has been running the ".name" suffix for six years. There are now over 250,000 .name domains, but that's small change compared to the 60 million .coms. Rasmussen says the one thing holding .name back is that people don't know it exists. "We offer people their own brand. They don't want to be somebody at aol.com. But in the UK, all people really know about is .com and .co.uk."Another person keen on new top level domains  also called TLDs  is Neil Edmonds, head of the company running .mobi. There are over 500,000 .mobi domains and the pitch is that .mobi websites are specifically built for use by mobile phones. "I don't believe new TLDs will provide more awareness," Edmonds says. "But it will be more competition and that's a good thing. Just by adding a TLD you don't create anything unique. You have to offer something unique."One of the people planning to do just that is Dirk Krischenowski. Mr Krischenowski wants the top level domain ".berlin" and has gained the backing of a number of big businesses based in the German capital."I am often asked why don't I just go for 'berlin.de'," Krischenowski says, "but berlin.de is owned and managed by the city government. Ordinary people don't have the chance to have their own web space or email." There are 3.4 million Berliners, many of whom, he believes, would like to make their identity clear online.Ironically, it is uncertainty over what use top-level domains can be put to that has led to the existence of so few of them. Aside from .com, there are no less than 271 other suffixes out there. The vast majority (250) represent the countries of the world, and are generally known within that country. Germany's .de for example contains over 11m domains, making it the second-largest of all. The UK boasts 6m .uk domains.But while these country codes are defined by an international standard, the list of "generic" top level domains, is decided by the non-profit US company ICANN."The TLD space is 100% man made," explains special advisor to the French government on the internet, and a member of ICANN's governmental advisory committee, Bertrand de la Chapelle. "We can have it as open or as closed as we like. At the moment, it is closed."In the two previous extensions of the TLD system ICANN took a cautious approach, but the determination this time is to introduce what its CEO Paul Twomey calls a "steady-state liberalisation regime". That decision brings with it a wealth of complex social and political issues and ICANN has been working for two years on the best method for dealing with them.The problems surrounding the introduction of Mr Krischenowski's .berlin, for example, is nothing compared with possible applications for controversial or offensive top-level domains like .nazi, .god, .coke or .nigger. "The challenge," Chapelle reasons, "is opening it up in an orderly way for maximum social and economic value."Mr Twomey has been at the cutting edge. "There have been an intense set of discussions over the rules," he admits. "But we have learnt from the past and there is now a third-party arbitration process for strings that might pose problems."The determination is there to open up the internet despite all the arguments on the way. "One of the key principles in the development of the internet has always been the concept of running code," explains Mr Twomey. "Put it up there, let people test it and see if it works. If it needs to be changed, change it."What gets approved and what doesn't, and what impact the new TLD's will have on the internet should prove fascinating viewing. It may only be a matter of time before people start talking about internet 3.0.&#149;Journalist and author Kieren McCarthy is currently ICANN's general manager of public participation
At the oubreak of the second world war, Sir George Macfarlane, who has died aged 91, applied for a Royal Navy commission. Instead, he was directed to join the Air Ministry research establishment, soon to be renamed as the Telecommunications Research Establishment (TRE), the secret team working on the development of radar.Thus began a career that was to see Macfarlane become a key figure at what, in 1957, became the Royal Radar Establishment (RRE), where he stayed until 1960. From 1971 to 1975, he was controller of research establishments and research programmes at the Ministry of Defence. At the TRE after the war, he pioneered a research centre which, serving civil and defence interests, became one of the most prestigious centres of electronics research in Europe. In the 1950s, he also designed and developed RREAC, a digital computer using transistors instead of valves.The wartime TRE was, from May 1940, based at Worth Matravers, near Swanage, Dorset, moving to Malvern, Worcestershire, in May 1942, to avoid the risk of a German commando raid. In the mid-1930s, it had been led by Sir Robert Watson Watt, and had conducted the vital first work on radar. At that time, the government had seen no effective defence against attack by bombers, but Watt had argued that "it should be possible to detect them by radio energy bouncing back from the aircraft's body."Radar was central to the RAF's success in the battle of Britain, to the later Bomber Command offensive, and in the development of effective nightfighting techniques. Microwave radar also played a key role - via the cavity magnetron - in the allied victory in the battle of the Atlantic.As a young scientist, Macfarlane was detailed to assess the capabilities of radar from first principles. With his grasp of mathematics, he soon became involved with the TRE mathematical group in a variety of theoretical studies. Those on the propagation and reflection of radio waves enhanced the effectiveness of the ground radars used to direct RAF fighters in the night blitz. Daytime interception entailed the radar guidance of groups of fighters against masses of bombers for visual engagement. Not so nightfighting, which was revolutionised by the arrival of radar-equipped aircraft, such as the Bristol Beaufighter and the de Haviland Mosquito. Each individual bomber had to be engaged by a fighter positioned within two miles of its tail.German radar, meanwhile, had added to Bomber Command's heavy losses. Macfarlane was among the scientists advising on Window, the technique of dropping clusters of metallic strips to blind German radar systems. He was also involved in the development of Oboe, radar which vastly increased the accuracy of Bomber Command's operations, and in the development of the equipment used to detect U-boats. In 1945, commissioned as a squadron leader, he was involved in the interrogation of captured German scientists.As a child, Macfarlane had watched ships and yachts passing down the Clyde and was greatly intrigued when he was allowed into the wireless telegraph cabin of a cargo boat. It was out of such experiences that a passionate interest in engineering was born, and he chose it as his profession against considerable opposition. Born into a Presbyterian family in Airdrie, Lanarkshire, the son of a successful grocer, he was educated at Airdrie academy and Glasgow University, graduating in 1937. He then spent two years on a PhD at the Technische Hochschule, in Dresden, completing his work two months before the outbreak of war.After the war, convinced that basic science and electronic engineering had to advance together, Macfarlane refused lucrative offers and remained at the TRE. He published more than 20 significant research papers on electronics and semi-conductors. His classic 1955 study of the optical properties of germanium and silicon was central to the development of infra-red detectors for medical and defence use. In addition to RREAC, he helped to develop friendly computer languages and initiated the advanced computer techniques project - a government-industry programme of research and development to strengthen the computer industry.In 1960 he was appointed deputy director of the National Physical Laboratory at Teddington, Middlesex, which maintains the national standards for time, length, weight and all measurable quantities used in industry. The laser research programme he introduced thrived, but two years later he was back at the RRE as director, promoting the work being done there through lectures and open days for government ministers, service chiefs, civil servants, industrialists - and local people.The election of Harold Wilson's Labour government in 1964 marked the era of the "white heat of the technological revolution", and in 1967 Macfarlane was appointed controller of research at the new Ministry of Technology. His job, which involved some 23,000 staff - of whom more than 9,000 were scientists and engineers - was to bring together the work of all r&d; establishments from the Ministry of Aviation, the recently disbanded Department of Scientific and Industrial Research and the non-nuclear activity of the Atomic Energy Authority. Macfarlane's objective was to give technological support to manufacturing industry as well as continuing the Ministry of Aviation's defence work.With the election of Edward Heath's Conservative government in 1970, the Ministry of Technology was split up. The aviation part joined the Ministry of Defence and Macfarlane became controller of establishments and research programmes with the task of reorganising the 24 r&d; establishments of the three services into a single unit - and persuading the staff to accept his plans.After retiring from the civil service in 1975, he served on the 1976-77 Carter committee reviewing the Post Office, which recommended hiving off telecoms into a separate business. The then Labour government rejected this idea, deciding instead to embark on an experiment in industrial democracy in which trade unions filled half the seats on the board, with the rest divided between management and independents. Macfarlane served on the Post Office board, with responsibility for engineering policy.The GPO engineers were at the forefront of research into digital computer-based switching and optical fibre networks, but the telephone system itself was obsolete. Britain was losing out both as a supplier and user of communication services. In 1984 Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government privatised British Telecom; Macfarlane remained on the BT board until 1987.He also served on the National Enterprise Board (1980-85) and was a trustee of the Imperial War Museum (1978-86). His many awards included an honorary doctorate from Glasgow University, the Glazebrook gold medal of the Institute of Physics and the Heaviside medal of the Institution of Electrical Engineers (IEE). He was deputy president of the institution (1976-78), but refused the presidency in protest at its refusal to admit physicists. He was a founder member of the Fellowship of Engineering in 1982 and helped it become the Royal Academy of Engineering. He was knighted in 1971.Macfarlane is survived by his wife Barbara, whom he married in 1941, and their children, Anne and John.&#183;George Gray Macfarlane, engineer, born January 8 1916; died May 20 2007.
Sony is still busy trying to skew theexclusives-o-meterback into PS3's favour. After making those Haze, Unreal Tournament and Metal Gear Solid 4announcementsat E3, the company has tied up another couple of juicy deals.First up, God of War creator David Jaffe (pictured above) announced that he'd left Sony to set up his own studio, Eat Sleep Play. He cushioned the blow for his former employer, though, by committing to a multi-year deal to develop exclusively for PlayStation. The first title - a sort of trial run - will be Twisted Metal: Head On for PlayStation 2. Another game is expected next year but hasn't been named - Jaffe has made no secret of the fact that he'd like to work on smaller, more personal games. PerhapsManof War? (Morehere.)Then, over the weekend, Rockstar announced that it was working on a new PS3-exclusive 'franchise' - perhaps to make up for the fact that last week they were telling everyone tobuy an Xbox 360. Michael Shorrock, Director of 3rd Party Relations at SCEA,told the US PlayStation Blog:"Everyone knows to have success in this business you need to look ahead, identifying the talent and titles that are going to give consumers new kinds of gaming experiences that help set the bar for the rest of the industry. Rockstar has a heritage for doing just that."Just a hint though, chaps - you might want to keep the graphic castration and evisceration scenes to a minimum in this one.On that subject, CVG spoke to Constantine Hantzopoulos, senior producer on Condemned: Bloodshot, last week and hetold themabout edits his team were making to their violent crime caper in the wake of the Manhunt 2 debacle. "An example of what we cut would be putting someone's head in a vice. That was too much, you know. There are also some decapitations we've lost," he shrugged with a palpable sense of tragedy and dented creativity.Hantzopoulos' disappointment islampoonedby Victor Godinez of the Dallas News: "Geez, if I can't squeeze someone's head in a vise until his noodle explodes in a red mist of brains and eyeballs, haven't the terrorists won?"I suppose there's a 'slippery slope' argument to be made here, but while the ramifications of the BBFC/ESRB decisions are confined to worries over the number of decapitations allowed in horror shooters, few liberal campaigners will be irked into action.
There are loads of technology videos all over the web (where "technology" means things you build, which means that putting fizzy mints into fizzy cola counts asscience, not technology).So come on - what are the best technology videos you've found?Your starter for ten is the guys whomodded an industrial robot to respond to a Wiimote- and then gave it a sword. Careful with that.. sword, Eugene!Somewhere out there, I'm sure, is an industrial robot modded to whirl a guy on a chair around.. perhaps in response to a Wii. Damned if I can remember where it is.Come on - if we can do this well enough, we can put the Guardian's Sport section to shame.
The Guardian Gamesblog's magnificent team of many dedicated members ran tall and proud in all manner of avatars this weekend as part of the thirdSecond Life Relay for Life. I don't think I can thank Clarence Kamachi, JoannaTrail Blazer, Helter Alexandre and Stigsson Lundquist enough for their support and time and for the hours they spent running around the track during the 18 hour race! In total, we raised L$101,435 - that'sUS $485- for the American Cancer Society, ran 10 laps on a track that took a full hour to runwithout stopping(it took me 4 hours to run my first lap and I didn't get to see half of what I wanted to!) and clocked over 120,000 virtual metres. Pictureshereandhere. I'm the panda.Our efforts, in conjunction with those of the other teams, helped to raise overUS $115,000in total - 1.5 times 2006's record. WOW.Thank you to everyone who supported the team!Donations are stillacceptedfor this year's total until Friday.The SL Relay for Life has consistently offered a template for successful engagement with the new digital consumer (for more on this, you can read my ranthere). May it continue to succeed until we have found a cure. In the meantime, I'm taking suggestions for new avatars for 2008.
Founded:2004Staff:17Backing:Undisclosed funding from Accelerator Group, Atlas Venture, Index VenturesUnlike many dotcom startups, Moo is a business that makes real world products. The on-demand printing company is based in a small office in Clerkenwell, London  just a stone's throw from the Guardian's offices  and is hotly tipped to be one of the most successful hybrid businesses coming out of the UK.Founder Richard Moross originally started out with the idea of creating a quirky replacement for business cards, but the idea was put on a back burner. After coming up with some fresh ideas and launching in 2006, Moo quickly gained traction among the web's creative cognoscenti.Initial buzz was driven by an engine which allowed users of photosharing website Flickr to use their own pictures on cards. The company now has deals with a number of social networking and photo sites including Bebo, Fotolog and Second Life. It is also expanding its range of products, with note cards and stickers recently added to the pool. Moross says he wants to be "Hallmark 2.0".Visit:Moo.com
Yes, I know I'm the last person on the internet to link to this, but for those readers who haven't yet seen it,here'sa fascinating account of life within Rockstar Games, written by an ex-employee. Jeff Williams was brought in as a web designer for the firm at the beginning of the GTA III heyday, but was gradually driven to distraction by mis-management and steadfast corporate incompetence:"Every Rockstar project turned into a huge clusterf**k. I mainly blame this on a horrendously inefficient company structure combined with a few individuals who thought they were hot s**t but really didn't know anything about either video games or marketing. By that time, Rockstar was arrogant to the point of absurdity."And that's the upbeat stuff. Amid Williams' revelations are some lovely descriptions of the Rockstar creative approvals process as well as a heartening revelation that many workers within the company had reservations about Manhunt.Last week, some rather inaccurate characterisations of the post appeared onKotaku,Joystiqand others drawing in a witless backlash from commenters. Is Williams a whiny self-publicist as many have claimed? No, and I'm not quite sure what they were reading - it certainly wasn't the mild-mannered and considered piece I read. Plus, it appeared on hispersonal blog, a forum essentially designed for subjective, autobiographical writing.One thing that seems slightly disingenuous or just extremely naive isWilliams' apparent surpriseat the coverage given to his post, and the subsequent mega-boost in his daily hits. Rockstar is one of the most high-profile publishers in the business and certainly the most controversial - yet the company very rarely comments on the hysterical media attacks it provokes. Here, though, is an inside account of several infamous episodes - including the 'Hot Coffee' scandal. It's what we've all wanted to know about.The phenomenon that wasEA Spouse(a heart-breaking plea to EA from the wife of one of its hard-working employees) showed that there is considerable interest in industry expose. There are few outlets for this kind of piece - certainly not though dedicated videogame magazines which rely on the patronage of the key publishers, and not through the traditional media which is more concerned with inflating the one or two high-profile scandals that break out each year, rather than analysing the industry that creates them. (But, to be fair, there are few movie or music business exposes either.)So this is a unique glance behind Rockstar's cooler-than-though corporate persona. And it's not pretty.
I missed this last week but Kate Bevan's look atdeath in videogamesis pretty timely. I was revisiting 360 zombie-fest Dead Rising over the weekend and I remembered why I stopped playing it - the bloody awful save system. Life really is too short to replay the same stuff time and time again. Thankfully Dead Rising is a rarity - today's gamers generally have it easy. There were no saves or checkpoints in the 80s. Three lives, possibly five, and that was your lot. Some games had passwords to allow you to skip levels but most of the time you had to throw the Competition Pro orKempstonjoystick out of the window, calm down and try again. Veterans of Green Beret or Prince of Persia will know the physical anguish of a really tough game.Of course, this was acceptable in the 80s when economics meant games had to last longer - 9.99 was a HUGE amount for a teenager in 1985 - but not so good today when you're trying to fit in an hour of gaming after putting the kids to bed. So I don't miss the days when death in games really mattered. A challenge is still important - I want to feel I've achieved something when I make progress in a game. But there has to be a better way than "dying". Maybe game death can be incorporated into the narrative? This is something The Darkness did very well. But I'll let Kate ask the questions:"There are bigger questions, of course. In real life, death is more than an annoyance. So should games reflect real life? Or should we redefine "dying" in the context of games? Isn't it more like tennis, where you can lose a set but go on to win the game? Or are there bigger lessons to be learned from games?"
Sokratis Papafloratos and Walid Al Saqqaf, TrustedPlaces.com. Photograph: Felix Clay/GuardianWe're running a feature today looking at some of thedotcom firms that are leading the way for UK's online businesses.It's a pretty good time for the British internet industry right now. There are lots of entrepreneurs with interesting ideas, and the money men aren't going so crazy that they are sowing the seeds of another bust. Most of these are people who are shrugging aside some of the complications of setting up in the UK and Just Doing Stuff (as I said in a recent column).Browsing through our ten tips for the top, some of these names will be very familiar to those who watch the online business in this country. Others may be a little less well-known - but they are all independent and well-regarded.What do you think? Who are your tips for success? Tell us the companies and services we should be looking out for.
Founded:2006Staff:12Funding:undisclosed funding from Benchmark Capital (now renamed Balderton)The recruitment industry has already seen a large proportion of jobs advertising go online, but Zubka takes things a step further. It allows people to recommend their friends and associates into new jobs, and gives them a slice of the action along the way.The company charges far less than a traditional recruitment agency, and gives back around 80% of the fee to the person who puts forward the winning candidate  turning every user of the site into a potential headhunter. Finders can scoop thousands of pounds per referral, and there are currently more than 1m of rewards available on the site at any given time.With a small team and clear ways to make money it's tipped as the eBay of jobs, and founders David Shieldhouse and Armando Ruffini have a track record in building and selling new businesses.Visit:Zubka.com
Founded:2005Staff:35Backing:$20m from Wellington, Benchmark, Bessemer, Tim Draper and the Rowland FamilyEver looked for a loan but got sick of the banks and building societies? "Social lending" site Zopa is changing the financial business by using the model used by betting exchanges allowing people to borrow money in a different way.People with cash to lend offer it up online, and pick from a number of potential investments. For those taking out Zopa loans, the interest rates are often better and more negotiable, while on the flip side risks can be spread across many lenders.Like Garlik, another one of our top 10, Zopa was formed by a number of former executives from the internet bank Egg. They are joined by a gang of experienced financial types, including a new chief executive with a track record in the US lending industry.With the consumer credit market booming but customers often complaining of bad deals, the company has strong backing  and has already raised serious money to start expanding its American operation.Visit:Zopa.com
