Apologies for being a little late on this, but it's too fine to miss. Jack Tretton, the new head of Sony Computer Entertainment in the US,promised in an interviewin January with Electronic Gaming Monthly in the US to pay a $1200 bounty on every unsold PS3 on retailers' shelves there longer than five minutes.The precise quote:"If you can find a PS3 anywhere in North America that's been on shelves for more than five minutes, I'll give you 1,200 bucks for it. I can get any retail buyer on the phone with you and get them to verify that there's not a single retail location in America where there's a PlayStation 3 on the shelf for sale. They've all been sold in a matter of minutes."Which of course led the lads atPenny Arcade going out locallyand finding, oh, more than ten thousand dollars' worth of bounties..Will Tretton make good? Interesting that heonly moved up to the job in December. Well, he didn't wait long to make the PS3 joy even more unconfined.
For previous posts, see:Technology blog posts for January, 2007Technology blog posts for February, 2007
The tiny Baltic nation of Estonia, whose parliament once declared internet access a basic human right, has become the first country to allow voters in a general election to cast their ballots online.More than 30,000 people had voted via the internet three days before tomorrow's parliamentary poll, officials said. Voters used their state-issued digital ID cards, which are swiped on readers that can be bought for about &euro;4 (&pound;2.70), and input two passwords. Estonia says security issues are dealt with by this use of microchip cards and by allowing multiple votes, each cancelling out the previous one.Observers said the vote was a sign of advances since the nation of 1.3 million split from the Soviet Union in 1991, when half the population had no telephone. The capital, Tallinn, has more free wireless internet hotspots per head than almost any other city, cabinet meetings are held online and most people bank on the internet.Online voting has been tested in local elections in the UK and Ireland, but security concerns have prevented wider use.
MondayGame Cube back from deadUn-PerplexedPublishers playing it safePS3 titles GBP39.99The business sense of EmotionTuesdayCrazy Frog to usher in Olympic yearDarwinia goes multiplayerDave Perry returns with Top Secret projectWednesdayPS3 online impressionsThursdayIs Emotion Engine a 'custom component'?Reviews, etcPlayStation download detailsKorean flatulence simIt's all about experienceFridayPS3: rumble is onPolitical game survey
Come on, it's a Friday afternoon. Why not spend a few stolen moments ignoring the piles of work on your desk and visitthis siteto take a survey on political video games towards research at the University of Amsterdam. You know the ones, like those mentionedhere,hereand (most recently)here.viaWatercooler Games
End of the week time again, and we all know what that means.For those of you whodon'tknow what that means, then here's the deal: Friday Afternoon Questions... the chance for you to tell us something insightful, funny or stupid and (hopefully) earn yourself a prize in the process.But before we get to this week's question, first up I need to round up the winners of weeks past.The question ofbest kept secret on the webwas tough because although there were some stonking entries, I'd actually seen most of them. Special mentions toLibrary Thing, a resource for anal bibliophiles, as well as the slightly mournful airs of theLeamington Changelog. But the top pick was goes toInfosthetics, a fantastic blog about data visualisation (much better than it sounds) and therefore the kudos to Jack Mottram, who suggested it.And last week when I askedwhat one thing you wish you'd invented, there was only one winner in my eyes. Given that I've just moved house and spent my days rolling around in packing tape, I give the gong to Nutkhut's "sticky tape, of course".So, business done there and now on to this week's question. This week I thought I'd take a more esoteric bent and throw things wide open:What's the best book you've ever read?Now, given that this is the Technology Blog, I imagine some of them will be techy related or work lifesavers. But they don't have to be; give us your trashy novels, high literature, mind-boggling non-fiction: anything goes. It's the why that's as important as the what.
Wired News ran an amusing story yesterday, headedI Bought Votes on Digg. The writer, Annalee Newitz, created a pointless and boring blog,My Pictures of CrowdsBuilt from templates, My Pictures of Crowds exhibits all the worst aspects of blogging. There's an obsessive theme -- photographs of crowds -- but no originality and absolutely no analysis. Each entry is simply an illogical, badly punctuated appreciation of a CC-licensed picture taken from Flickr. Also, there are a lot of unnecessary exclamation points!She then used a Digg-gaming service calledUser/Submitterto buy some Diggs, and this useless blog made Digg's front page.When I woke up in the morning, my story had been awarded the "became popular" tag and had 121 diggs. U/S had done what it promised: The company had helped me buy my way into Digg popularity, and my site traffic had gone way up -- overnight, I'd been hammered with so many hits that the diggers had to set up a mirror.Point made.However, Michael Arrington at TechCrunch has responded with a post that saysDigg Should Sue Wired. He has two complaints. First, he says, "Wired Magazine's parent company, Condé Nast, owns Digg competitor Reddit". Second, "because Wired isn't just reporting Digg news -- they are actively engaged in using Wired to undermine Digg."Digg can't treat Wired like any other user that's engaged in fraud. Wired is the press, and the press has tremendous power. Wired is putting Digg in an impossible situation, and they should be called on it. Reporting news is one thing (although they should note the conflict of interest there as well), but actively creating negative news about a competitor and then using the massive reach of Wired to promote that "news" is way over the line.Journalistic ethics, then. Hm, is Arrington right or not?
Keznews reports thatWindows Vista activationhas been cracked by brute force using Keygen. There's nothing clever about this: it just makes about 20,000 attempts per hour until it finds a valid key. Which can take hours or days. The instructions conclude:DISCLAIMER: under no circumstances should anyone sell the key that they generate. I do not support Piracy, this was simply an experiment in which i used to practice my vbscripting. This was just for fun and was a complete accident! sorry for cracking your beautiful operating system BILL GATESI strongly encourage everyone to purchase windows vista, and be a genuine customer!The "valid key" could be one that a genuine customer is already using, so it will be interesting to see how the WGA site handles cracked keys, and how Microsoft responds. It will, after all, have the IP address of most of the naive users who try this.....Update: Afollow-up postnow says: "fact is the brute force keygen is a joke, i never intended for it to work. I have never gotten it to work, everyone should stop using it! everyone who said they got a key a probably lying or mistaken!"There's some discussion atSlashdot.
The European Commission's continued (Oh no, it's not a) vendetta against Microsoft is bringing Neelie Kroes and her cash-thirsty crew into further disrepute with the threat of even more huge fines. The latest bit of nonsense is that Microsoft will be fined because the protocols that the EC is forcing it to license are not innovative enough. To be specific, Kroes said: "The Commission's current view is that there is no significant innovation in these protocols. I am therefore again obliged to take formal measures to ensure that Microsoft complies with its obligations."David Mitchell from theOvum consultancycomments:If the logic is to be followed then the Commission had better start recruiting and acquiring lots of new office space. If it is taking on the role of arbiter on whether IT is innovative enough to protect then it must pursue this process with a huge proportion of companies in the entire industry. This will require initiating thousand of cases that will increase the utilisation of legal firms in Europe and elsewhere. On this basis it is going to need a lot more staff and the offices to house them.I have said before that this case was taking increasingly bizarre turns and that it needed to be brought to a rapid conclusion. The process could only be more farcical if the European Commission made its next announcement in a clown suit, complete with big red nose and ridiculously large shoes.As a strong supporter of the overall European initiative, I can only look on this decision with shame. It will make tend to make the European market look unattractive, protectionist, and a place that should be avoided by thriving new technology companies. The European Commission is damaging the prospect of the European economy and the European Parliament needs to intervene to bring sense to the situation.Partly, of course, it's Microsoft's fault. It divided its protocols into four categories and charges most for the most innovative and nothing for the ones that aren't innovative at all. That was calculated to maximise its profits, which is what any capitalist company is expected to do. However, when dealing with the EC's schoolyard-style bullying, it was ultimately a dumb thing to do.Neelie Kroes has already proved her Competition Commission is clueless about the computer market and incompetent at software design by forcing Microsoft to produce the utterly pointless N versions of Windows, which don't have Windows Media Player. Where on earth does it get the arrogance to think it can make rulings on "innovation"?The problem is that this whole thing is done behind closed doors. It appears that the EC's CC can do whatever it likes, for whatever random reasons it chooses, and enforce its whims with fines set at any level it likes. If the EC believes in open source (which is fair enough), why doesn't it believe in open justice?We must be approaching the point where the "cure" is worse than the "disease", if we have not already passed it....
It has been attacked many times in its short life, most notably by a former aide to Robert F Kennedy and the editor of Encyclopaedia Britannica. But now the online reference site Wikipedia has a new foe: evangelical Christians.A website founded by US religious activists aims to counter what they claim is "liberal bias" on Wikipedia, the open encyclopedia which has become one of the most popular sites on the web. The founders of Conservapedia.com say their site offers a "much-needed alternative" to Wikipedia, which they say is "increasingly anti-Christian and anti-American".Although entries on Wikipedia are open for anyone to edit, conservative campaigners say they are unable to make changes to articles on the site because of inherent bias by its global team of volunteer editors. Instead they have chosen to build a clone which they hope will promote Christian values."I've tried editing Wikipedia, and found that the biased editors who dominate it censor or change facts to suit their views," Andy Schlafly, the founder of Conservapedia, told the Guardian. "In one case my factual edits were removed within 60 seconds - so editing Wikipedia is no longer a viable approach."Among his criticisms listed on Conservapedia, Mr Schlafly explains how many Wikipedia articles often use British spelling instead of American English and says that it "refuses" to give enough credit to Christianity for the Renaissance. "Facts against the theory of evolution are almost immediately censored," he continues.Mr Schlafly, a lawyer by day, is the son of a prominent American conservative, Phyllis Schlafly, renowned for her opposition to feminism and the Equal Rights Amendment. He says Conservapedia was created last November as a project for home-schooled children - and believes it could eventually become a reference for teachers in the US. "It is rapidly becoming one of the largest and most reliable online educational resources of its kind," he said.Wikipedia has come in for criticism for its open approach, notably from Dale Hoiberg, the editor-in-chief of Encyclopaedia Britannica. Mr Hoiberg disputed a survey in the scientific journal Nature which found that the website was just as accurate as its venerable counterpart. Meanwhile, a Tennessee journalist, John Seigenthaler, attacked the site for suggesting he had been accused of involvement in the assassinations of both John and Bobby Kennedy in the 1960s.The arrival of Conservapedia has been met with derision by much of the internet community. But Jimmy Wales, the co-founder of Wikipedia, said he was not upset by the rightwing site's claims."Free culture knows no bounds," he said. "We welcome the reuse of our work to build variants. That's directly in line with our mission."How they compare:DinosaursWikipedia, logo above"Vertebrate animals that dominated terrestrial ecosystems for over 160m years, first appearing approximately 230m years ago."Conservapedia"They are mentioned in numerous places throughout the Good Book. For example, the behemoth in Job and the leviathan in Isaiah are almost certainly references to dinosaurs."US Democratic partyWikipedia"The party advocates civil liberties, social freedoms, equal rights, equal opportunity, fiscal responsibility, and a free enterprise system tempered by government intervention."Conservapedia"The Democrat voting record reveals a true agenda of cowering to terrorism, treasonous anti-Americanism, and contempt for America's founding principles."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Further to yesterday's article onbiomass fuelsas a renewable energy source, today's Times reports that Shell will be launching anew road fuel along similar lines:A new road fuel made from wood chips and straw will be launched in Europe later this year from a pilot plant developed by Shell and Choren Industries, the German biofuel company.The synthetic diesel, made using a novel biomass-to-liquids (BTL) process, will shift the biodiesel industry into a higher gear by using waste plant material instead of valuable food crops.The pilot plant, near Freiberg, will produce 15,000 tonnes per year of synthetic diesel, which Choren has dubbed Sunfuel. Construction of a much bigger plant in Schleswig-Holstein, costing €500 million (£336 million) and capable of producing 200,000 tonnes of BTL, will begin next year in an effort to quickly bring the product up to commercial scale.None of these things will be without teething problems, of course, and a number of people have already emailed in to question whether biomass is really carbon neutral (since the manufacturing process must have an impact). But is this a step in the right direction?
Second Lifemight not be as big as it has claimed in the past, but there is political agitation taking place on its cyberstreets.First Jean Marie Le Pen'sFront National HQsaw a storm of protest, now US presidential hopeful John Edwards has had his virtual base mobbed by Republicans. (note: their identities have yet to be confirmed)Donna Bogatin at ZDNetpicks up the story, from the Edwards website:Shortly before midnight on Monday, February 26, a group of republican Second Life users, some sporting "Bush '08" tags, vandalized the John Edwards Second Life HQ. They plastered the area with Marxist/Lenninist posters and slogans, a feces spewing obsenity, and a photoshopped picture of John in blackface, all the while harrassing visitors with right-wing nonsense and obsenity-laden abuse of Democrats in general and John in particular.I witnessed this event, taking names and photos, including the owners of the pictures. I also kept and saved a copy of the chat log. I have filed an abuse report with Linden Labs, and am awaiting their investigation.Of course, things like this are bound to happen in an online space where people are less accountable. But it happens in the real world from time to time as well. And complaints shouldn't be seen as party political, since this is going to happen again to people all over the political spectrum.However, I'm slightly confused about how they were because I thought the owner of a particular landspace could boot all foreign objects off - asWarren Ellis recently documented.But really, it's the same problem with the newly developing virtual worlds that exists on the rest of the web, and in meatspace too: idiots exist everywhere - but when they're in 3D, things can get out of hand.
Sony andImmersionhave settled theirlegal disputeover the use of rumble technology in PlayStation products, which means PS3 may soon get a Dual Shock Sixaxis. Sony originally claimed that rumble had been left out of the PS3 controller for technical reasons, later changing tack and asserting that the technology would be too expensive to implement. However, most industry watchers have known all along that the real reason was a patent infringement case brought against Sony by Immersion Corp, the inventor, and patent holder, on a number of rumble technologies.Immersion has made it clear over the last few years that it's been keen to settle with Sony and start licensing its new TouchSense motion sensing technology to the console manufacturer. Now that the lawsuit has been settled such a deal would be the next logical step. Indeed apress releaseon the Immersion site claimns that the two companies have entered into a business agreement, with CEO Vic Viegas stating:"We are pleased to have put this litigation behind us. Our new business agreement with Sony Computer Entertainment is specifically intended to enable advanced vibration capability for the benefit of the PlayStation gaming community. We are happy to provide our technology in this regard and hope to make technical proposals very soon with respect to use of our technology in the PlayStation products."From the release it looks like Sony has coughed up the full USD90 million in payments decided on by the District Court presiding over the infringement case. Ouch.You see, just as Sony removes one technology from PS3, it brings back another. However, it'll be interesting to see if Phil Harrison broaches this in his forthcoming GDC keynote. The head of worldwide game developmenttold GameDaily Biz recently, that he feels Rumble is a last-generation feature. Well, maybe he still does - it's just that many, many PlayStation gamers disagree with him.UPDATE: As a few commentators have mentioned below, this means PS3 will now be launching in the UK with, whatsomemay see as an underspec controller. But let's be fair - that's been the same in Japan and the US and it'll be several months, possibly even longer, before a new controller materialises.
What determines house-buying choices? Location, say estate agents: location, location, location. But what do people want around that location? According toononemap.com, an enterprising property search site, two things that they don't want are neighbours with antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) and a mobile phone mast in the area - singled out by 86% and 72% of those responding to a survey on the site.Those used to be difficult to ascertain: there are no maps of Asbos, and until recently working out whether there was a phone mast near a prospective purchase would involve tedious back-and-forth checking with Ofcom's Sitefinder system (sitefinder.ofcom.org.uk) on one web page against the property's details.But now ononemap's team has acquired the data for the 60,000 mast sites - including standard mobile and the emergency services' Tetra masts - and integrated them on to its own site. There is no definitive evidence that living near a phone mast has any effect on health, though some people simply find them unsightly. But it could become a bargaining point in a house negotiation.House purchase decisions are not made only on negatives, though. Philip Sheldrake, one of the site's co-founders, says: "A friend of mine said that what matters to parents is 'location of schools, location of schools, location of schools'. So we added the locations of secondary schools in England, taken from the Department for Education and Science's site." Ononemap also increasingly shows the locations of supermarkets. For the future, Sheldrake hopes to add the locations of primary schools, preschools, cash machines and post offices.Ononemap launched in 2005 after Google created its Google Maps application, with a system that lets users create mashups locating objects of interest on the map at various scales. "The attraction of using Google Maps rather than the Ordnance Survey's online maps is that Google Maps is free," Sheldrake says. Instead, the cost of running the site - which is free to use - is covered by payments from Google adverts appearing on it.But the provision of such data - particularly on phone masts - outside government sites creates the condition for a test of Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign, which calls for impersonal data collected by government agencies to be made available without charge. Will making data about phone masts available to everyone encourage economic activity?Ononemap is not a commercial site; instead, it acts as a portal to estate agents' own sites. There are already 700 companies uploading house details. So how could Sheldrake prove the commercial value of free data, and make the site into a moneyspinner? "We have said that we won't charge to show property on the site," he says. "But Google has sponsored links - maybe we'll have sponsored houses advertised on it."&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If only a week could elapse without another PlayStation 3 controversy. This time, Sony has announced that, unlike the versions being sold in the US and Japan, in Europe its next-generation console will lack the Emotion Engine - the chip that powered the PlayStation 2. Which means that European gamers, unlike their American and Japanese counterparts, have no guarantee that the PS3 will play their favourite PS2 games.Sony says it will handle PS2 backwards compatibility through software emulation - as Microsoft does with the Xbox 360 - and that the list of playable PS2 titles will be frequently updated via new versions of the PS3's firmware, which will download automatically via the PlayStation Network. (Of course, that will require an internet connection.) It also has a site that will provide details of which PS2 games will be playable on the PS3, atfaq.eu.playstation.com. Alas, even that sop has merely served to enrage committed PlayStation consumers still further - the site will remain blank until the PS3 launches on March 23.Alex Kwiatkowski at Datamonitor managed to find a positive spin in the removal of the Emotion Engine: "It will have a positive impact on the PS3's long-term cost profile. By launching the PS3 in Europe with the new chassis, Sony has removed one of the barriers to future price reductions." Only one apparent flaw in that argument - Sony has manufactured more than 100m Emotion Engine chips, and economies of scale suggest that it can't possibly cost the company more than a few pence to manufacture.Custom componentBut Phil Harrison of Sony reveals that it may, after all, be a valid point: "What has previously gone into PS3s on sale elsewhere in the world was a custom component, which we have now removed." Harrison won't be drawn on precise details of which PS2 games will be playable on the PS3 at launch, but says: "We expect the list to encompass over 1,000 PlayStation 2 titles." So, will Sony concentrate on making the big PS2 titles - the Grand Theft Autos, Gods of War and Gran Turismos - compatible with the PS3? "I can't give information on individual titles, but clearly, that would be our aim."Kwiatkowski reckons he has identified a shift in policy from Sony regarding the PS3. Sony has been criticised for not securing exclusivity on games such as Grand Theft Auto IV, whose predecessors have initially been available only on the PlayStation and PS2. GTA IV will come out simultaneously for the PS3 and Xbox 360.He says: "It shows where Sony is putting a lot of its focus - on developing new titles in-house." Harrison confirms this shift in policy: "That's absolutely the strategy. When we launched the PlayStation, there were no accompanying games developed by Sony. When we launched the PlayStation 2, there was one: Fantavision, which, beautiful game though it was, was no game on which to launch a platform. But the PS3 will launch with more exclusive, high-quality games from our studios than we've ever done before."Speculation is still rife that, as habitually occurs with console launches, the PlayStation 3 may not sell out when it launches. Big high street retailers such as Game, HMV and Virgin are still accepting pre-orders. To be fair, there have never been anything like the PS3's 220,000 units made available for a console launch, but unsold PS3s on March 23 would embarrass Sony. Says HMV: "We are still taking pre-orders, in line with expectations. Because the PlayStation 3 is more expensive, that will slow it down in comparison with, say, the much cheaper Wii. But we're confident all stock taken in advance will be accounted for by pre-orders."Even if the PS3 does sell out at launch, there is a suspicion that subsequent sales will be sluggish compared with the Wii and the Xbox 360 - a suspicion reinforced by sales figures from Japan and the US. In Japan, between January 22 and 28, the PS3 was outsold by the all-but-moribund PS2 - 21,000 PS2s sold compared to 20,000 PS3s; meanwhile more than 80,000 Nintendo Wiis flew out of the shops. But there have been encouraging signs from the US that PS3 sales are picking up, although it is still thoroughly eclipsed by the Wii and Xbox 360. In January, Sony sold 243,554 PS3s in the US, compared to 436,000 Wiis and 294,000 Xbox 360s. The PS3 was, however, also outsold by the PS2, which shifted 299,352 units during the same period. The fact that a brand-new PS2 can now be picked up for &pound;50 would seem to highlight the importance of price to console consumers.UK retailers are bullish, however. Tricia Brennan of Game says: "From our customers' reaction to date, we anticipate that demand for the PS3 will be high for many months to come post-launch. At the end of the day a console's success has always been driven by great games, and the PS3 has a huge range of titles available for launch."Sustaining momentumAt Datamonitor, Kwiatkowski says: "I think it will sell well. But it's about sustaining momentum by making attractive titles available during the first year of the PS3's life. It's not just about hardcore gamers making their choice, but finding broader appeal. Once the early adopters are out of the way, it's much harder to attract the hearts and minds of the second wave."One thing is for sure: it's a nerve-racking time at Sony Computer Entertainment Europe. But if removing the Emotion Engine is a factor in paving the way for a PS3 price cut well in advance of the crucial Christmas market, then the entire games industry - bar Nintendo, Microsoft and everyone who paid &pound;425 for a PS3 - will breathe an audible sigh of relief.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
After-sales support, or the lack of it. But that's just part of it. There has been a significant decline in satisfaction with broadband in the UK in the past 10 months, according to the latest consumer survey of more than 5,000 people, undertaken by YouGov and Ipsos MORI for Point Topic (point-topic.com)."From 92% of respondents saying they were 'very' or 'fairly' satisfied in February 2006 with the service they receive overall, it has dropped to 77% in December 2006," says Point Topic. "Of particular note was the change in users who reported being 'very' or 'fairly' dissatisfied with the 'after sales support' which went from 7% in Feb 2006 to 18.3% in Dec 2006."You won't be surprised to find there is a pattern to the dissatisfaction. According to Tim Johnson, chief consultant at Point Topic, it's "the whole movement to free and bundled broadband, which was accompanied by a big move to LLU or 'local loop unbundling'. The evidence is that LLU customers are less satisfied by every measure than non-LLU customers, even if they don't know they've got it."LLU involves other companies taking over the line from the telephone exchange to the home. The idea was brought in by Ofcom, the telecoms regulator, to reduce prices and increase competition. It's the initiative jumped on by Talk Talk, among others. "It's not as simple as LLU bad, old-style good," says Johnson, "but Talk Talk customers have quite a high level of dissatisfaction."In fact, the move to LLU appears to have depressed the whole market slightly. "People who haven't done anything are also unhappier," says Johnson. "They may be thinking, 'perhaps I'm paying more than I should be'."On the other hand, Johnson feels that this has also shifted consumer feeling against buying purely on price - especially in the London suburbs where LLU take-up is greatest and where many people can afford to pay a bit more. "There's an awareness that price is not the only factor [in broadband]. It's not worth the money if it doesn't work."It will be interesting to see whether the next survey shows further decline or a recovery. Johnson seems optimistic that things will improve as new suppliers are "bedded in", catch up with the backlog created by price-cuts and expand LLU use even further.He's also optimistic about Ofcom's new MAC (Migration Authorisation Codes) process, introduced on February 14. This stops suppliers from holding on even when they believe they are owed money ("debt blocking," it's called), and should make it much simpler for consumers to change their broadband provider. "I hope that means people will have less to complain about," says Johnson.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
UMPC for nursesMotion Computing, the NHS and others have been testing the world's first/only MCA or "mobile clinical assistant" - a sealed, disinfectable Windows-based ultramobile Tablet PC targeted at the health care industries.&#183;motioncomputing.comThe lady is for TuringAfter 40 years, IBM's Frances Allen has become the first woman to receive computing's highest honour, the AM Turing Award.&#183;awards.acm.orgPhotographic milestoneCanon has launched an advanced 10 megapixel digital SLR, the EOS-1D Mark III, marking 20 years of EOS systems.&#183;canon.co.ukBluetooth luggableFrance's Sagem thinks it has launched the world's smallest Bluetooth earpiece. The H4 measures 35 x 18 x 12.5mm, weighs 8g and costs &euro;79 "which equates to 53 of your great British pounds".&#183;sagem.comPhotoscreens for wallsFotoInsight is offering to turn your family snaps into art by printing them on wood-framed canvas using fade-resistant "archival" inks - just in time for Mother's Day.&#183;photo-canvas-printing.co.ukGoogle Apps for cashGoogle is now offering a Premier Edition of its online applications - such as Gmail and Calendar - to businesses for $50 (&pound;25) per user account a year.&#183;google.comOnline StatesmanshipNew Statesman has opened nominations for its 2007 New Media Awards, which "celebrate UK new media projects that benefit society, government or democracy".&#183;newstatesman.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Do you copy?In order to copy a DVD there is no necessity to decrypt the contents, as a bit-for-bit copy will be identical to the original and therefore playable on the same equipment and producing the same output (Hollywood faces up to DRM flop, February 22). The real intention of these technologies is to restrict the equipment on which DVDs can be played, to allow the publishers to maximise revenues by preventing free trading of DVDs between countries, and to enhance the position of those equipment manufacturers and software producers who are willing to cooperate.Jeff TaylorHassocks, West Sussex&#183;Hollywood should understand that it's pointless to keep throwing resources at DRM and copy-protection technology, because it simply doesn't work. It will be interesting to see how AACS and the movie studios respond: breaking current players' compatibility with new movies would certainly undermine the claim that DRM makes things better for consumers.kizo.com&#183;It might even be that we get something analogous to Moore's Law for breaking encryption: the ongoing expansion of computing into our daily lives can only mean that the cracking of new encryption formats gets quicker and quicker.inmyhumbleetc.co.ukSnipping SnapHaha, awesome! Thanks for telling me how to get rid of those hateful popups! (Is Snap Preview the most hated Web 2.0 function ever?, February 22)Anatoly VorobeyJerusalem, Israel&#183;Firefox also has the Cooliris plugin, which is much better. It works with everything except Flash. The point is that you control when you want it. I hate Snap.Paul KimelmanWalnut Creek, California&#183;Hundreds of thousands of sites use the Snap Preview Anywhere service totally voluntarily. Anyone - site or user - can easily turn this service off. There have indeed been a few dozen blog posts criticising the service - some vehemently. However, you neglected to mention the hundreds of posts that praise the service for its usefulness and the benefits it provides. The point is that the perceived usefulness of previews is highly dependent on the user and we empower then to adjust or remove the previews. Moreover, your article doesn't mention the constant stream of revisions/improvements/additions we've made to SPA since its initial launch less than three months ago. Snap.com is the fastest growing and largest Web 2.0 search engine. Our technology and approach have been lauded throughout the industry, including being named among Time magazine's 50 coolest web sites.Tom McGovernChief executive, Snap&#183;Is Snap Preview the most hated Web 2.0 function ever? Short answer: absofuckinglutely.moi.st/ure/297/&#183;Is Snap Preview the most hated Web 2.0 function ever? Totally, dude.vare2yang.spaces.live.com/BlogDigg its grave, pleaseI just wish this wisdom of the crowds/user democracy notion would dry up. (Victor Keegan, February 22). It will only lead to bland, whitewashed sameness-of-thought. All you can get from a crowd, especially an unpaid crowd, is group-think, not innovation; banality, not originality.lagtime.com/cib/Tune in, switch offI was surprised to read that "Toshiba doesn't allow users to switch off its televisions" (Time to switch on energy-saving TVs, February 22). In my house all appliances are connected to the mains via plugs and sockets, and all the sockets are switched. How are they going to prevent me carrying out an action which has positive effects on both safety and the environment?Andy TaylorStokesley, North Yorkshire&#183;Send your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number
This morning, everyone who cares about IT must hope that Microsoft is $1.5bn (&pound;765m) richer than it was at the end of last week. That was when a Californian jury decided the company had infringed some patents held by a French company, Alcatel, on the MP3 compression scheme which you and I and almost everyone else uses to store their music in. MP3 is as close to a universal standard as you will find in this business. It was invented in the early 1990s, in the course of a collaboration between Bell Labs, the legendary research arm of the American telephone company, and the Fraunhofer Institute, a state-sponsored German research organisation.Without Bell Labs' inventions, the modern world would not exist. The transistor came from there, and so did Unix. Along with IBM, it was one of the most effective examples of American innovation by private enterprise. In Europe, pure research was far more often funded by the state, usually through the university network.But it is one thing to change the world; another to profit from these changes. Bell Labs sold off its wonderful research lab in 1996, and it was acquired by Alcatel. The patents arising from the MP3 technology joint venture were thought by everyone to belong to Fraunhofer, which duly licensed them, and made a reasonable amount of money from this. Microsoft, for example, paid $16m to incorporate MP3 support into Windows Media Player.But when Alcatel brought the remains of Bell Labs, now known as Lucent Technologies, it behaved as any modern company would, and tried to squeeze maximum value from the patents it had acquired. It asserted that these covered some of the MP3 technology that everyone assumed Fraunhofer owned, and sued two PC companies - Dell and Gateway - for selling computers equipped to play MP3s. Microsoft promised to fight the suit on their behalf and so the case came eventually to court.It's hard to escape the suspicion that if any other company had been involved, the award might have been smaller; but if the decision stands, almost every other company in the business is threatened too. It's not just that Microsoft would be liable for royalties on every copy of Windows sold; Apple could be damaged by this decision, since every copy of iTunes can encode and decode MP3. Although Apple switched its default encoding to AAC with version 4 in the spring of 2003, that won't escape the patent. But at a cost of 5c per copy of iTunes, and billions in the bank, it might be less hurt than Microsoft.It would be hard to find a better illustration of the madness of modern intellectual property law. The real value of Bell Labs' work is almost immeasurable, yet in monetary terms nothing can have paid off so much as this one claim on a peripheral technology which most observers, before the verdict, were inclined to dismiss as quite unfounded. It might not have been quite as outrageous as BT's attempt to patent the hyperlink, or the claim which surfaced at the end of last week, by a Texan company to have patented the idea of an MP3 player, rather than the format itself. But it was an example of a widespread and dangerous trend.Submarine patents - those that surface only after the technologies they protect have come into wide use - are obviously dangerous. But even ordinary, open, honest patents now function as a brake on innovation. Microsoft itself, though the victim in this case, aggressively patents all that it can, and has lobbied for the extension of the American system to the EU. The idea that software should be possible to patent (rather than copyright) raises philosophical difficulties, but these pale beside the practical problem that only experienced software engineers can tell whether something is a real innovation in the field.The EU is considering the problem carefully. With any luck, the Microsoft judgement will serve as a terrible warning, even though Alcatel is in fact a French company. After all, if you wanted an illustration of the superiority of the European model of research and intellectual property formation, you could not find a better example than this case.&#183;thewormbook.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Warning: this column is going to suggest a surefire way for IT to cut the use of cars on Britain's roads. But you won't like it. First, however, let's celebrate the arrival of digital engagement between government and citizens.The idea of carving a direct e-channel between government and the electorate, bypassing the mainstream media and pesky backbench MPs, appeals deeply to ministers. The reality, of course, is messy. The first attempt, the absurd Citizenspace forum, was created in the apparent expectation that the internet would inspire Britons to an Athenian level of deliberative democracy. It foundered in a storm of conspiracist passion, including death threats against the poor saps who moderated it.Since then, a realisation has emerged that, like other forms of political conversation, digital dialogues need boundaries. Within these boundaries, a certain amount of e-engagement now seems to be working. The interim report of the Digital Dialogues project, conducted by the Hansard Society on behalf of the Department for Constitutional Affairs, evaluates 16 attempts to engage citizens electronically in policymaking. They range from the Food Standards Agency's web forum to environment secretary David Miliband's ministerial blog. 
The Hansard Society cautiously endorses such initiatives. While any influence "must be small given the numbers participating online", e-participants have not been the usual suspects. The report says policy teams have "attested to the value in the participation of these new stakeholders and the different - sometimes unique - qualitative and quantitative data they generate".A further Digital Dialogues report is due out next month. By then, it may be possible to evaluate the latest and most spectacular phenomenon in e-engagement, the e-petition service set up by MySociety on the Downing Street website. Thanks largely to the furore around road pricing, the site, set up in November, has already created its own urban mythology - "750,000 signatures are required for the government to take any notice" - and conspiracy theory - "now they have the email address of every member of the awkward squad".Although still very much a beta test, my guess is that it's here to stay. Whether or not the PM actually reads the petitions - constitutionally, why should he? - it is already a valuable barometer of public opinion. It also graphically illustrates the limitation of direct e-democracy.Take, for example, the third most-signed petition on the site this week. It opposes "proposed restrictions" on photography in public places. More than 35,000 people apparently agree that there is no right to privacy when in a public place. This appears at odds with many of the 1.8m who signed against the "sinister" scheme for road pricing - yet many people I know claim to have signed both. The need to reconcile such irreconciliable viewpoints is why we have representative democracy rather than government by petition. 
So, here is my proposal for reducing car use. Install the road-pricing infrastructure, but don't worry about collecting tolls. Simply feed data to a website that would publish to all the position of every motor vehicle in Britain.Now, I have no idea how many tonnes of CO2 are generated by journeys that we would not want our employer or spouse to know about, but I bet the total is not insignificant. Post details of every journey online, and congestion would surely ease.There. I said you wouldn't like it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It very well might, even though the newly commercial site has done all that film studios, music companies and games publishers wanted by wrapping their wares in digital rights management (DRM) to protect them while offering them for download.Bittorrent is best known for illicit use: it's the download protocol of choice for more than 80m savvy net users to get legal files (such as Linux distributions) and, far more frequently, copyrighted ones (such as feature films).This week it morphed into a commercial service - BitTorrent (bittorrent.com) - offering new films such as Superman Returns and favourites such as Chinatown, as well as music, TV and games for to download. (Only US users can buy from it at present.)The problem for the content companies is, some of the music and other content on BitTorrent is free - helping to acquaint people who'd not otherwise understand how to use the protocol with the process of getting torrent files legally. ISPs will also now be unable to rely on Bittorrent content being illicit - which some use to throttle its bandwidth. How now can they distinguish Bittorrent transfers that have the approval of the content owners, and those that do not? Illicit Bittorrent use could explode: "You can even search for torrents by putting in what you're looking for, then adding 'torrent' in any search engine," the site says helpfully. That'll surely turn up a lot of illicit material if you don't like the prices the film studios have made BitTorrent charge.Interestingly, in a post on hisown blogin September, BitTorrent's chief executive Ashwin Navin said: "I now know that a lot of people in the entertainment industry agree when we say: DRM is bad for artists, and it's bad for consumers. Period. There will be a day however when entertainment executives will see DRM as a risk to their business." They might find that the risk has already been run.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Ted Kenyon doesn't like being pursued for money by his computer. Retired and living in the west country, he prefers using his PC to download MP3 files. But whenever he turned it on recently, he was confronted by a large popup window demanding payment. He closed it - only to see it instantly appear again.While advertising popups often plague net users, Kenyon's experience seemed worryingly different. He saw that the window was from a company in Leeds called Micro Bill Systems asking for &pound;19.99, with the explanation that his computer had been used to sign up to a website. After suffering the annoying problem for some time, he emailed the Guardian for help.Kenyon is always careful about protecting his PC. He was using fully updated Windows XP Professional along with Norton Internet Security 2007, Spybot Search &amp; Destroy, AVG anti-spyware and Sophos anti-rootkit. He'd seen popups before but this one stayed longer each day, hindering his computer use. "The popup starts about 30 seconds after the PC is turned on and lasts for about four minutes before the window can be closed. While the bill is displayed, you cannot minimise it or open any other window in front of it, as it always hogs the top window slot," he says.Locked outThe Guardian soon found Katie Singleton, who runs her own web business, with the same problem. One day she noticed a window on her PC - headed "MBS direct billing" - demanding money."They were charging &pound;19.99 for something called Sexpassport, which I had never heard of and certainly never used. The popup started appearing intermittently and could be clicked out of, but after a few weeks it started to appear more frequently and would then lock me out of the system for up to two minutes," says Singleton. Kenyon and Singleton insist that they never signed up to a website; both fought to regain control of their PCs.After several unsuccessful attempts, Singleton bought some anti-spyware software from Pareto Logic to do the job. Also struggling, Kenyon eventually followed advice in a user forum and deleted the unwanted files manually.Other people have been reporting the same thing - an unexpected bill that increasingly disrupts PC use. The website involved is sexxxpassport, operated by an Australian company using billing software provided by Micro Bill Systems. The site offers a three-day free trial for anonymous access, following which charges are made - there's a long list of terms and conditions too.Simon Briskman, a partner in the technology law group at Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP, worries about the effects such problems have on consumer confidence in the internet. "I think it's very clever," he says. "We haven't seen something like this before and it looks like somebody has thought very carefully through the issues of producing the terms. But all the same, nearly all the victims are going to be consumers and consumer contracts have to be fair - I don't think these terms are fair."According to the terms, unless the bill is paid, the software will disrupt your computer use for longer each day. There are up to four daily periods of 10 minutes when the window demanding payment is locked and cannot be minimised. Restarting the computer offers no relief and may result in even more disruption.Briskman also reckons that, if the billing software is installed without consent, it may breach the Computer Misuse Act 1990. But leaving aside the embarrassing suggestion of telling the police you've been involuntarily signed-up to a pornographic website, Briskman offers another solution: "I'm extremely sympathetic with people suffering from this because it's difficult to do anything other than pay these people off. More effectively, complain to the OFT [Office of Fair Trading]."As the director of malware research at computer security company Prevx, Jacques Erasmus has spent days investigating the software involved. Erasmus started hacking in his early teens, a self-taught skill that led to a challenging IT career. Prevx provides solutions to protect PCs above and beyond the ordinary security software that Kenyon used.Erasmus signed up a test PC to see how the billing software works. After user permission was given, two mutually protected files were installed in a system directory and the registry modified. The software is then hard for non-technical users to remove. "Once a user's free period has expired, the application installed on the machine will start popping up relentless messages and fullscreen popups that cannot be closed instructing the user to pay their bill," says Erasmus. "These activities are both ruthless and on the borderline of ransomware applications."So how did Kenyon and Singleton get it? Erasmus has searched hard for an "exploit" where the billing software might be dropped silently onto PCs visiting malicious websites or distributed through other methods such as a botnet. "There is no evidence of it being installed by a dropper of any kind," says Erasmus. "The best way to remove this is to use Prevx1, which will scan your machine to check if you are infected and cure the infection if it is infected." Prevx1 also prevents the software installing in the first place.Ashley Bateup, the managing director of Micro Bill Systems in Leeds, rebuts any suggestions of silent installations. He says his company has developed a new internet billing system which is used by its only UK customer, sexxxpassport, and claims 100,000 users.Software removal"The most common situation giving rise to these complaints is where a member of the household downloads the software without actually reading the terms and conditions or warning, and once they realise they have contracted for a service they refuse to admit their use to the computer owner, who then assumes their PC has been infected in some way," says Bateup. "Our customer service team's experience is that people seem to move into denial with their spouses or partners when pornography use is at question."If another member of the household is responsible, then the browser history may show this; the company claims to have comprehensive access logs too. Bateup says that one woman who rang to complain was shocked to discover her husband had visited the porn site many times despite his denials. However, Kenyon and Singleton categorically deny that they or anyone else in their households visited the website. So what about software removal for cases like theirs?"If the software was easily removable few people would pay for the service they had already consumed," says Bateup. "The software operates a reminder procedure to encourage people to settle their accounts. If the consumer settles their account and cancels their subscription, the software can be uninstalled simply."As to the terms and conditions being lawful and fair, Bateup adds that he contacted the OFT - as well as Trading Standards - last October to inform them of the company's business intentions. Asked about this, the OFT said it does not normally comment on individual cases - which does not resolve whether it thinks MBS's tactics are indeed fair and lawful. The mystery remains, though. Someone must be mistaken. But who?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thinking about HDTVI've been a happy owner of a JVC GD-V 4210PCE plasma screen for some time now. Although it is listed as a lowly 853 x 480 pixel resolution, it's able to do a very good job with an HDTV signal (I can't believe it could be bettered, to be honest) and is listed as being 1080i compatible. If I bought a screen with a resolution of 1920 x 1080, would I see a discernible difference?Karl LearJack Schofield replies:If you bought a similar 42-inch 1080p screen, fed it with a 1080p signal from a high-definition player (Blu-ray or HD DVD) and sat up to 6ft away, I'd bet you probably could. However, if you were watching standard or HD broadcast television or a DVD movie from 10 feet, I'd bet you probably couldn't. Your new set might even look worse than your old EDTV (enhanced definition TV) set. For newcomers, standard television in the UK is 720 x 576 pixels, and there are three HD standards: 720p (1280 x 720), 1080i (1920 x 1080 interlaced) and 1080p (1920 x 1080 progressive scan). "Interlaced" means the screen image is painted in two scans covering alternate lines, whereas "progressive" means it is all done in one scan. In theory, 1080p is the best.At the recent Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Panasonic ran tests on its stand and most people couldn't tell the difference between its 1080p and 720p screens, so I'm sure they couldn't tell 720p from 1080i. I therefore don't think it's worth paying the extra today for a "true" 1080p HD set unless you have 1080p content from a next-gen player or games console (gamers sit closer to the screen). In general, you should get the best result if the resolution of the signal matches the resolution of the screen. It rarely does. Most sets upscale or downscale (and interlace or de-interlace) whatever they are sent to fit the native resolution: 853 x 480 pixels, in your case. JVC and Panasonic are among the companies that seem to be good at this. A set that does a bad job of upscaling a TV signal to 1080p - and it's a mammoth processing task - could end up with a noticeably worse picture, in spite of it being "theoretically" better.Drive failureI have an external USB hard drive that just refuses to work. My wife and I are upset at the prospect of losing pictures of our children. I have quotes from data recovery companies and they are all in the range of &pound;350 to &pound;400 plus VAT. Is there a cheaper alternative?Joaquin BlancoJS:Not unless you know what you are doing. It might be that the drive would work if you extracted it from the enclosure and installed it in a PC, or if you replaced the electronics board, but who knows? Inexpert attempts to recover data can make things worse, and basically you have only one chance. If it's any consolation, I've been quoting &pound;1,000 as a ball park figure for expert disk recovery. Otherwise, Schofield's Second Law of Computing says data doesn't really exist unless you have two copies of it. In the case of important family photos, I'd suggest four copies: PC hard drive; CD-Rom; external storage (eg a USB drive or thumb drive) and online - Xdrive or Google email will do.Broadband woesMy broadband went down and now I seem to be caught between Virgin (which charges 25p a minute) and BT (which takes forever to reply). I am now connected directly to the BT test socket in my house so there should be nothing in the way. While talking to Virgin, I found I could log on to the internet while I was on the telephone, but when I put down the receiver, my broadband disconnected. Virgin called this "high open" - a phrase I have never heard before.David PollardJS:I'm surprised Virgin didn't go on to say something like: "That means there's a fault on your line." Tell BT that you have a crackly line and ask for "loop test" - but don't mention broadband. Seedslreports.comandgoogle.com(it's a search) for more information. It seems that if you were not connected to the test socket, the fault could have been with your house wiring.Graphics crashesWhen I reboot my PC from standby, it says: "The IALMRNT5 display driver has stopped working normally. Save your work and reboot the system to restore full display functionality."Glyn TraffordJS:IALMRNT5.dll is an Intel Express graphics driver, andIntel's websiteacknowledges a problem running the Sims 2 game - which doesn't apply here. There's not much you can do except download the newest graphics driver you can find. You can also try changing the graphics resolution and removing any start-up programs in case there's a conflict.Processor hogsThe Windows Task Manager shows that two programs running on my PC take 90% to 100% of my CPU the majority of the time, making it almost unusable. These programs are appsvc32.exe and svchost.exe.Robert AlleyneJS:Well, appsvc32.exe is part of Norton Internet Security 2007, and can hog the processor in some circumstances. As its name implies, svchost.exe is a program that hosts a variety of different services, but Windows Task Manager doesn't tell you which. Download SysInternals'Process Explorerand it will tell you, if you hover the mouse over the filename. You may find it's another part of Norton, in which case you will have to trySymantec's help site.Backchat&middot;Spybot panic over: having now had chance to check, I did not in fact give an incorrect address for the Spybot site on February 15. If you downloaded spybotsd14.exe from one of the approved mirrors then you should not have a problem. Spybot is freeware and works with no payment, though donations are invited. I can't explain why some readers reported otherwise.&middot;On recycling: Mike Hunter says his old Pentium PC with Windows 98SE isn't worth anything: "I have offered it to local computer recycling charities and they said no." Douglas and Julie had mixed luck: Dell agreed to recycle their old Dell. But: "They offer a collect service via DHL. Unfortunately after waiting in all day they haven't turned up."
Technology Guardian: What has surprised you most about the rise and spread of the internet over the past 10 years?Irving Wladawsky-Berger:What I find most amazing about the internet and the web is how quickly it has settled to become almost part of everyday life. It wasn't that long ago, maybe a dozen years, that nobody knew anything about it, except people in universities and research labs. If you talk to most people now and ask them about what life was like before the internet, you may as well be asking them about London in the world of horse and buggies.TG: To what extent did you foresee this rapid rise when you became general manager of IBM's internet division?IW-B:We were very, very excited but I don't think we knew how big it was going to be. People were saying in 1997 that if you were an existing business, you were toast, that the internet was reinventing all the rules of business, and only those businesses born to the web were going to make it because they had a special sensibility - where they realised it was only about eyeballs, it had nothing to do with revenue and profit and cash. We were maybe among the most aggressive saying No, no, no: anybody can leverage the internet for business value. And of course that's what turned out, that the internet became a major part of every business.TG: To what extent did the success of your internet strategy make IBM's early embrace of open source much easier?IW-B:There is no question whatsoever. As part of our internet strategy, we had already started to work with the Apache community. We had our own HTTP stack, which is the basic software that you need in every web server, and we abandoned it for [the open-source web server] Apache after a while, when our people told us that Apache was far better than anything we had.And that got us working with the open communities. When Linux came along, our heads were already pointing in the right direction, and so it was much easier to embrace open source than it would have been otherwise.TG: Sun has committed to releasing all of its code as open source. Do you think IBM will do the same?IW-B:I don't think so, because I honestly don't think everybody wants to see all your code. Remember, the key to open source is not the ability to see the open software, it's the forming of a community around it that will participate in its development and its maintenance.You cannot go in your closet and look for old code and throw it out there and tell people to form a community around it. They may say, Irving, that's legacy code that we have zero interest in working on. We continue to open source quite a bit of code, but we are fairly selective, and we work very closely with communities to decide whether to open source or not.TG: Unlike, say, Microsoft, IBM seems not be to interested in competing directly with Google by developing its own web search engine. Are you not worried that you might be missing out on a huge sector of the future computer market by letting Google dominate this area?IW-B:That's not our business model - to go after the consumer market. It's as if you said, well, Irving, why don't you, when you retire, become a professional football player? Look at David Beckham, look at the money he's getting in Los Angeles. Just because we are a powerful company with good R&amp;D, doesn't mean that we have the skills that Google has in the consumer space. Frankly, the probability that we would score any goals is incredibly low.TG: The latest emerging technology that you have championed is that of virtual worlds. How did you come across these?IW-B:One of things I was very involved in IBM pre-internet was our supercomputing initiative, and parallel supercomputing in particular. In supercomputing, in scientific computing, in engineering, people work very hard at visualising the results of what they are simulating. Because if you don't visualise it, it becomes almost impossible to make sense of what you've calculated. So when games started being able to do more and more realistic visualisation, at far, far lower prices than with supercomputing, and they were applying it to whole different areas, virtual worlds and games, I thought about it as an extension of supercomputing.TG: Recently, Sam Palmisano - IBM's president and CEO - appeared in Second Life. What was his reaction to both the suggestion and experience?IW-B:Sam loved it. Sam has been following this for a while, because of IBM's involvement in the technologies for game players. Remember, we now have done the basic microprocessors for the three major game players: Nintendo's Wii, Microsoft's Xbox and Sony's Playstation 3.We've held a number of technical strategy meetings with Sam, showing him the evolution of the gaming capabilities, including the world of massively multiplayer online games. So Sam was already attuned to this, and when we held the meeting in Beijing, and we recommended holding part of the meeting in Second Life in the Forbidden City virtual world, he loved it.TG: Many people are sceptical about virtual worlds. IBM obviously thinks they are more than just a game: how will we be using them in the years to come?IW-B:We see all kinds of things. It gets back to our ability to simulate just about anything and provide people with far more visual interfaces. For example, it would be fascinating to see where shopping goes as one of these applications.The possibilities in learning and training are enormous: I've just been reading about using these kind of virtual visual capabilities to train surgeons for sophisticated surgical procedures. We are experimenting a lot in IBM on virtual meetings - in fact, IBM iis using Second Life extensively to hold virtual meetings with colleagues around the world.TG: Does IBM have its own internal virtual world system - an intraworld running on its intranet?We plan to build them; exactly how is all under discussion. We very much feel that many of our clients will want intraworlds in the same way they have intranets.Then you want to make the navigation between the intraworlds and public worlds as seamless as possible.TG: Looking back over your varied career, what do you see as the unifying thread?I think that what I have enjoyed doing through the years is be very, very involved with advanced technologies, but figuring out how to make them successful in the marketplace.And that requires you to have one foot in the labs and one foot firmly grounded in the marketplace - working with clients and others to understand their needs.Curriculum VitaeAge61EducationUniversity of Chicago, Masters and Ph.D in physics.Career: 1970Joined IBM, Thomas J Watson Research Centre, technology transfer programme1985Joined IBM's product development division2004Vice- president, technical strategy and innovation2006Visiting professor of engineering systems at MIT's interdisciplinary Engineering Systems DivisionBlogirvingwb.typepad.com/blog
I hate upgrades. Yeah, yeah, I know, security holes. Yeah, yeah, web keeps changing. Who needs new features? Everyone said, "You have to get Firefox 2.0." I said, "Why?" And they said ... well, I'm not exactly sure what they said. But one day after it seemed everyone else was using it I downloaded and installed Firefox 2. And something like three weeks later I uninstalled it again in a fit of frustration.I could do this because I am a pack rat and unable to throw anything away, which means that safely stowed in my download directory was my old copy of Firefox 1.5.07, which has otherwise vanished from the official Mozilla site.I don't know what happens on other people's machines, but on my machine every time I tried to download anything with Firefox 2 it would freeze until the download was finished. If someone wants to tell me the problem was a recently downloaded extension or something, I have only one extension installed (Tab Mix Plus). Nor do I want to hear about my browsing habits. ("You are about to close 98 tabs," it warned me the other day. "Are you sure you want to continue?")The older version of Firefox doesn't have this problem, and looking around the Net I see I'm not the only one whining about version 2. Is software bloat an inevitable consequence of increasing age and success? Is there no software developer who can ever say, "You know, it's good the way it is?"I do have software that doesn't suffer from this problem. And to a program they are all things that were last "improved" in 1995. People think programming has made progress, but the telnet client (for logging in to remote machines), FTP client (for file transfers), Usenet reader (for newsgroups), and personal information manager (hey, it syncs with a Palm) all still do what they said on the tin. If I didn't have editors screaming at me because I couldn't track the changes in their fancy-schmancy post-2000 versions of Word correctly, I'd still be word processing back in 1995, too. I mean, what's changed? I put words in a row. I could do that in SuperScripsit on the TRS-80 Model III in 1981.To be fair, Firefox is overall some improvement over its precedessor, in that routinely, once a day, that either crashed or had to be restarted, and my installation of Firefox only needs that sort of bullying once every few weeks. But compared to the error-free days of 1993, when I used the lovely pre-Netscape browser Cello, life is not better. And it is true that some problems are due to memory leaks in Firefox extensions - in fact, you can download a Firefox extension to keep track of which extensions are leaking memory. Recursive, or what?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
They say there's nothing like the feeling of driving a brand new car out of a showroom. But the purr of the shiny engine and the smell of fresh upholstery can distract drivers from one of the longer-term implications of buying a new car - paying for it.Every March and September, when new number plates are launched, brings a frenzy of car buying. More than 435,800 new cars were sold in March last year, a fifth of the total number sold all year.How you pay for your car can make the difference of around &#163;1,200 over the repayment term, according to price comparison websiteuSwitch.com, which means with the right choice you could opt for those leather trimmings after all ...Hire purchaseHire purchase, also known as a car loan, motor finance and conditional sale, financed 43% of all new car purchases in 2005. This method is popular because, as the borrowing is secured against the car, it's easy for applicants to qualify. A hire purchase agreement can be arranged in a matter of minutes before you're given the keys to the vehicle.How much you borrow depends on the value of any vehicle you offer in part exchange or the amount you put down as a deposit. Typically, this will need to be at least 10%, which tends to be in cash, the value of your old car, or a combination of the two.The dealer then contacts the finance company, which, subject to a healthy credit rating, pays the loan amount on your behalf. When you buy a car this way it is registered in your name. However, if you default on your payments it becomes the property of the finance company, and you cannot sell the vehicle until you make the final payment.Most car loans are available for between 12 and 60 months, although you typically choose the time period over which you think you will keep the car. Interest rates at a current average of 10.12% are not competitive, according to uSwitch.Take this example of buying a Ford Focus TDCi Sport, which costs &#163;12,995. If you can afford to put down a &#163;3,000 deposit you would then have to borrow &#163;9,995. If you took a hire purchase agreement fixed at 10.3% APR, currently available through the Perrys dealership, you would pay &#163;318.23 in the first month, followed by 58 payments of &#163;208.23, and a final payment of &#163;298.23. Your credit costs a total of &#163;2,698.80.If you had opted for a personal loan from Moneyback bank, with a typical APR of 5.9%, the same credit would have cost just &#163;1,538.80, saving you the considerable sum of &#163;1,160.IncentivisationTo soften the blow, some dealerships offer incentives such as free breakdown cover or guaranteed asset protection insurance, which protects a final agreed value of your car. But many perks are already part and parcel of buying a new car, regardless of how you pay, says Tim Bowdler, deputy editor of What Car? magazine."Three-year warranty and breakdown cover are standard features when buying a new car, although the dealer may 'gold plate' your hire purchase option by mentioning them. You can buy extended warranties separately but they are expensive," he says.There are some deals worth looking at, however, such as Vauxhall's 0% APR finance over the entire course of the loan. You will need a bigger deposit for this, though, which would usually be in the region of 30%-40%.However, according to Nick White, director of financial services at uSwitch, hire purchase usually turns out to be an expensive long-term burden. "The average interest rate for a car showroom finance deal is 4.22% higher than the best personal loan rates available, and nearly double the current Bank of England base rate."Personal contract purchasesMore expensive still is a personal contract purchase (PCP). These deals work in the same way as hire purchase, but allow you to defer repaying part of the loan until the end of the agreement, which usually lasts for three years.This means that during the term you only pay the difference between the full loan and the deferred amount, plus the interest on both parts. "This is known as a balloon payment and although the rates advertised are cheap, over the course of the term you will be paying well over the odds," says Bowdler.As well as establishing how much you want to borrow and running credit checks, with a PCP you will also need to agree on a final minimum value of the car at the end of the term. This is the sum that will be deferred, and will hinge on anticipated annual mileage. After this time you can pay off the deferred amount and buy the car outright, hand the car back and walk away, or transfer to another PCP.Although in most cases PCP schemes prove expensive, they can work well for people with small business that can claim back the VAT on what is effectively the lease of a vehicle.At least customers taking finance straight from the car showroom are well protected - any car retailers offering motor finance agreements must hold a consumer credit licence from the Office of Fair Trading. The motor finance agreement itself is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.External financeIt is worth considering a personal loan when making any vehicle purchase. This type of finance is available up to &#163;25,000, and depending on your balance can be taken for up to 10 years, which has the effect of keeping monthly payments low. The cheapest personal loans are usually found online -MasterloanandMoneyback bank, for example, are both offering APRs of 5.9%, while theAAis offering 6.5%."Not only is a personal loan cheaper, by organising the loan before visiting the car showroom, people will not feel pressured to get the cash quickly to secure the car of their dreams," says White.You could also put the deposit or even the entire purchase on plastic. But this only makes sense if the credit card offers a 0% introductory period. Marks & Spencer's &More; MasterCard currently offers 0% interest for 12 months, while the Halifax Online One MasterCard is 0% for nine months. However, these rates revert to 16.9% and 9.9% respectively after this time.It's therefore crucial you have plans to transfer the balance before the first interest payment bites. "If you transfer it to a 'life of balance deal' such as the 3.9% available from Marks & Spencer it could work out the cheapest finance option on the whole market," says Michelle Slade, researcher for cards and loans atMoneyfacts.Lastly, there is the old fashioned way of paying cash, which means you know where you stand and don't pay a bean in interest. However, the inevitable depreciation incurred when purchasing a new car, might be harder to bear."As soon as you drive off the forecourt, you have lost money, although how much will depend on the car," says Bowdler. "Minis, for example, keep their value well, while you could have lost &#163;2,000 off a new Citröen by the time you get home."For more information, the Financing and Leasing Association has developed a new website to enable car buyers toasses their funding options.
Dell's fourth-quarter sales and profits were both down in results released today, though profits were a cent per share higher than reduced expectations.AP sums it up:Dell said it earned $673 million, or 30 cents per share in the quarter ended Feb. 2, compared to $1.01 billion, or 43 cents per share a year earlier. Revenue fell 4 percent, to $14.4 billion.AsThe New York Timesadded:No one was expecting a good quarter as evidence mounted that Dell's PC sales were flagging. IDC, the technology market analysts, reported that Dell's worldwide shipments in the fourth quarter dropped 8.4 percent while they grew 8.7 percent overall for the industry. It also said Hewlett-Packard surpassed Dell as the world's biggest PC maker as its shipments grew 23.8 percent in the final three months of the 2006.Dell was caught out as rivals such as HP sold stocks of Windows XP machines, before the release of Windows Vista, and by the continuing shift away from desktop PCs to notebooks. Dell-style customisation is much less important in the notebook PC market. Also, customers can easily pick up a notebook PC on the high street, rather than order a Dell they've not even seen.
I wasn't going to post about this, then I noticed my sensible friends over onWaterCoolerGameshave so that means it's okay.What A Fartis a Korean indie game in which you must pass wind without the businessman standing next to you hearing. This can be achieved by hitting the space bar as cars pass by. It's also possible to press the left direction key to silently release gas if the guage gets too high, although this should be employed sparingly as you're on a limited supply.This is one stealth challenge that has yet to appear in either the Splinter Cell or Metal Gear series' to the best of my knowledge. As WaterCoolerGames point out, it would be better if the challenge became tougher as your score increased - instead the difficulty level remains constant.I can't even believe we're thinking about this though.(ViaTigsource. I'm so sorry)
Software giant Microsoft could face new fines of up to 3m (&#163;2m) a day in its ongoing antitrust battle with the European commission.Brussels competition chiefs have warned that the penalties could be levied to prevent the computer firm from abusing its monopoly in the software market.After several years of wrangling, the Seattle-based firm finally handed over a 1,500 page defence to Brussels in November.But competition commissioner Neelie Kroes today rejected the submission, saying that "there is no significant innovation in these protocols".Microsoft has four weeks to respond, but accused the commission of trying to regulate markets outside the EU.
I've come to an unfortunate realisation: what I do with my life is considered by the majority of the adult population to be an utter waste of time. I play. Now, if I were a kid, playing would be acceptable, but something happens during the transition between childhood and adulthood. It's called the Protestant Work Ethic, and it's forced upon us through unspoken rules which demand that we take ourselves and our tasks very seriously indeed. Even if they are meant to be fun.Once we leave school and hit the job market, things get worse. Everything we do is expected to have a purpose, or it's just not worth doing. We go to the gym to stay fit. We read novels to expand our minds. We go to the cinema to be entertained. We watch TV to have something to talk about over the watercooler. But as so-called adults, we certainly don't play. And not on our own. Heaven forbid, no. What a waste of time!So, we stop. And what a shame! Because unless it's an acceptable form of social release which involves recognised, measurable output, we're not supposed to tinker, test and fiddle. There's no time for wanton exploration. No room for preposterous hypotheses. No lackadaisical meandering through the fields of fun and frolic. Sure, we can support our team for solidarity or kick a ball around for exercise. It's OK to play music to create something beautiful, and we can go to the pub to socialise. In fact, it seems that going to the pub is the national form of play. But I don't play that. I play games instead.This makes me some kind of curiosity to be stared at and studied. Egads! A time waster! In public situations, I have been asked questions like, "What's wrong with your life if you have to retreat to some fantasy world for entertainment?" and "Why don't you go outside?" This from people who readily lose hours to the latest series of a fashionable TV programme.Pah! I retort. I have quite a fulfilling time playing, thank you. I create things, write my own stories, collaborate with people and develop transferable skills. What lies at the heart of people's problem with my play is that because I do these things via computer, I'm seemingly missing out on something critical. Like the latest adventures of Jack Bauer, I guess.So while I've not solved the world's problems, found the cure for cancer, sorted out this pesky environment issue or run a marathon backwards for charity while wearing an oversized panda bear costume (yet), I feel that my playtime has been much better spent than sitting comatose in front of the latest Wife Swap. If nothing else, my computer gaming will save me years of therapy. I'm undoubtedly still in touch with my inner child.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Little BritainPC/PS2, &pound;19.99, cert 12+Blast Entertainment, 1/5Whether you think TV's Little Britain is comedy gold or a glimpse of a less tolerant time, we can agree on one thing - the game's a pile of pants. Eight minigames built around "hilarious" voice samples from the performers that outstay their welcome after the second hearing. And, given the games are over-long and under-challenging, you'll be hearing them a lot. There's speed-skating with Vicky Pollard, biking with Daffyd, projectile vomiting from the WI racist etc. Each game concludes with a clip of the punchline - a format that must have taken the developers minutes to come up with. Cheaply put together (even the samples are badly recorded) and boasting a button-bashing control system that would have been clumsy in the mid 1980s, Little Britain is best avoided.Mike AnderieszCrackdownXbox 360, &pound;39.99, cert 15+Realtime Worlds/Microsoft, 4/5The first Xbox 360 big-hitter of the year, Crackdown is almost guaranteed success - if you buy it, you get access to the beta for the multiplayer side of the hugely anticipated Halo 3. Not that it needs such devices to generate sales, as it's a very ambitious and impressive effort - it has no storyline, but plays like the free-roaming part of Grand Theft Auto. With a twist: you get to develop five superpowers - agility, firearms, explosives and driving abilities, plus strength - according to how you play throughout the game. The real star of Crackdown is the city in which it is set, with its towering skyscrapers and three distinct precincts each terrorised by a different breed of gangster. So, when you tire of exploring and rooftop jumping, you can take out lieutenants and kingpins. The control system is admirable, the comic-book-influenced graphics are great and Crackdown is a must-buy.Steve BoxerExcite TruckNintendo Wii, &pound;39.99, cert 3+Nintendo, 3/5Unlike many Wii games, Excite Truck requires a certain amount of skill. The Wiimote controller is held horizontally with the buttons used for acceleration and boosting. Sounds easy? Think again. Beginners can blunder though, twisting their arms as their jeep launches through the air, but it soon becomes clear that subtle twitches are more rewarding. The setup is standard racing game - placing wins medals wins points - although there is enough leeway given so that less able drivers can progress. And when you're speeding along, hitting ramps and swiveling in the air, the title makes exhilarating sense. Unfortunately the graphics are less interesting - all clich&eacute;d and blurry - but at least this allows the zippy pace to be kept up. There is more depth than the average Wii game, but the action is over too quickly. And with little of the party appeal of Wii Sports, Excite Truck lives up to its name for a brief time only.Greg Howson&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sony has been revealing some more details about its downloadable game release plans in the UK. On the big launch day, Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection will be available for GBP 6.99, while the Robotron-esque Blast Factor will set you back GBP 3.49. Gran Turismo HD will be free - it's a nice demo, but there's only so many times you can drive that single alpine course without getting bored. I played until I unlocked the Skyline, then had some fun with that and I've never touched it since. The photographic mountains in the background reminded me of Mega Drive game backdrops. I don't know why.Super Rub-A-Dub, Sony's rubber ducky simulator, is set for release on March 30th. Looks nice too. After that we'll get interesting experimental title, flOw, on April 6, Sumo Digital's Go! Sudoku on April 13, and Go! Puzzle on April 20. The likes of Lemmings and Gripshift should follow soon after. No word yet on David Jaffe's Calling All Cars.
It has been attacked many times in its short life, most notably in the form of bombardments from a former aide to Robert F Kennedy and the editor of Encyclopaedia Britannica. But now the online reference site Wikipedia has a new foe: evangelical Christians.A website founded by religious activists in the US aims to counter what they claim is "liberal bias" on Wikipedia, the open encyclopaedia that has become one of the most popular sites on the web.The founders of Conservapedia.com say that the site offers a "much-needed alternative" to Wikipedia, which they believe is "increasingly anti-Christian and anti-American".Although entries on Wikipedia are open for anyone to edit, conservative campaigners say that they are unable to make changes to articles on the site because of inherent bias by its global team of volunteer editors. Instead they have chosen to build a clone, which they hope will promote Christian values."I've tried editing Wikipedia, and found that the biased editors who dominate it censor or change facts to suit their views," Andy Schlafly, the founder of Conservapedia, told the Guardian. "In one case my factual edits were removed within 60 seconds - so editing Wikipedia is no longer a viable approach."Among his criticisms listed on Conservapedia, Mr Schlafly explains how many Wikipedia articles often use British spelling instead of American English and says that it "refuses" to give enough credit to Christianity for the Renaissance. "Facts against the theory of evolution are almost immediately censored," he continues.Mr Schlafly, an attorney by day, is the son of prominent American conservative Phyllis Schlafly, renowned for her opposition to feminism and the equal rights amendment. He says Conservapedia was created last November as a project for home-schooled children - and believes it could eventually become a reference for teachers in the US. "It is rapidly becoming one of the largest and most reliable online educational resources of its kind," he said.Wikipedia has come in for criticism for its open approach, most notably from Dale Hoiberg, the editor-in-chief of Encyclopaedia Britannica. Mr Hoiberg disputed a survey in scientific journal Nature which found that the website was just as accurate as its venerable counterpart. Tennessee journalist John Seigenthaler, meanwhile, also caused a stir when he attacked the site for publishing defamatory comments suggesting he had been accused of involvement in the assassinations of both John and Bobby Kennedy in the 1960s.Despite such controversy, however, the arrival of Conservapedia has been met with derision by much of the wider internet community. A number of articles on the site have been defaced by those who are angered by its accusations - but Jimmy Wales, the co-founder of Wikipedia, said that he was not upset by the rightwing site's claims."Free culture knows no bounds," he said. "We welcome the reuse of our work to build variants. That's directly in line with our mission."Wikipedia v ConservapediaDinosaursWikipedia:Dinosaurs were vertebrate animals that dominated terrestrial ecosystems for over 160 million years, first appearing approximately 230 million years ago.Conservapedia:They are mentioned in numerous places throughout the Good Book. For example, the behemoth in Job and the leviathan in Isaiah are almost certainly references to dinosaurs.Harry PotterWikipedia:Since 1999, the Harry Potter books have sat atop the American Library Association's list of most protested books, with some American churches banning the books altogether.Conservapedia:The English 'public' schools Hogwarts resembles are Protestant institutions; but at Hogwarts, chapel is conspicuously absent. A failure to mention Christianity, combined with the presence of wizardry, have led some to wonder whether Rowling is substituting paganism for Christianity."US Democratic partyWikipedia:Since the 1890s, the Democratic party has favoured 'liberal' positions. In recent decades, the party advocates civil liberties, social freedoms, equal rights, equal opportunity, fiscal responsibility, and a free enterprise system tempered by government intervention.Conservapedia:The official platform of the Democratic party emphasizes strengthening America. Rightwing critics claim, however, that the Democrat voting record reveals a true agenda of cowering to terrorism, treasonous anti-Americanism, and contempt for America's founding principles such as freedom of religion.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Corporate managers concerned about the amount of time employees spend sifting though mountains of unwanted e-mail may soon have World of Warcraft to thank for providing a solution. That's because a Palo Alto, Calif.-based start-up called Seriosity has come up with an e-mail management system that borrows heavily from the virtual economies and currencies found in WoW and other large-scale online games," reportsCNet.Known as Attent, Seriosity's system is essentially a new currency--called the Serio--that corporate e-mail users spend to indicate a message's importance: the more important they believe the message is, the more Serios they spend on it. Recipients keep the Serios in the messages they get.Similarly, when someone receives a message with Serios attached, they can indicate how important they believe it is by responding with an appropriate number: none or very few if they think the message wasn't valuable, an equal number if they want the sender to know they appreciated the message, or more than the original number to show they agree that it truly was crucial.Of course there's an overhead to using Serios as a currency, but the cost of dealing with vast amounts of email is so high that it could be "profitable" in the long run.Aside from the practicality (or otherwise) of operating a new currency outside a closed world like WoW, a few of things spring to mind. First, famous people and those in high positions will rapidly become Serio multibillionaires, which is going to distort the whole economy. Second, accessing an email to collect the Serios doesn't actually mean someone has read it. Third, vitally important messages from low-level employees may not get read or even sent because these people will inevitably be Serio-poor. I'm sure there will be other objections, too.Great idea. But does anyone think it will work?
Last Thursday I participated in a "Convergence Conversation" discussion about the relationship between online games, big media and business applications. There were a few planted people thrown into the mix of games industry professionals, social software designers, blue chip company bods and other interested parties to keep the discussion going (including myself, Jon Weinbren ofImaginary Productions, the inimitableMatt Jonesof Nokia and Adrian Hon ofMind Candy) but despite of our best efforts, all most people wanted to talk about was whether the virtual worldSecond Lifewas a godsend or whether it was a huge disappointment.Much more interesting to me was to avoid that giant black hole (recognising, of course, that its powerful draw is a testament to how much it has seeped into the consciousnesses of business folks - a real bonus for virtual worlds in general!), and to focus on what makes games unique from other media - compelling in ways other forms simply cannot.The results of the admittedly brief segment on play have been duly blogged by the evening's host Ved Sen ofThink Plank. The quotes below are taken fromhiscoverage.First and foremost: Experience.In a world of falling content prices, and uncontrollable piracy, digital natives migrating away from television, the magic word is "Experience". It's what customers and audiences pay for. It's the reason why we pay 5 times as much to watch a film in a theatre instead of at home. It's the reason why people stay logged in to Second Life or Habbo Hotel for as long as they do. The only way forward for big media is to focus on Experience. Highlighting it through multiple media, online and offline, games, interaction, engagement, community and anything else that does the trick.Second: InteractionIt was commonly felt that games designers are terrible storytellers. Of course, it may well be argued that writers aren't the best at designing compelling interfaces.A truism if ever I've seen one. I don't care how many people throw "Final Fantasy made me cry" arguments at me; I've never cried, been moved or even been compelled to advance through a game by its storyline. What keeps me interested is the personal challenge the self-directed interaction (as laid out by the best game designers) draws me to complete.Bringing it all together:Big media and big business are verrrry interested in computer games. They are powerful tools for getting mass audiences to engage with their brands, their products and their services. They keep bums on seats and eyes on screens longer than any TV show or movie (and arguably many books).Unfortunately, the way everyone's trying to converge games with their medium is by shoving game-like interaction into their output.Fightbox(Thanks Dennis!) on the BBC, mobile phone games, Big Brother. Dare I even say it:William Castle-like gimmicks in the movie theatre. Interactive storytelling on the Web. What about using each medium for what it's good for?Aha, says Ved and the conversationalists at last week's discussion:the ARG format appears to be one of the most powerful - primarily because of its flexibility - it uses each medium to its best use, rather than force all the experience onto one medium.While platforms like Second Life may be useful 3D web-like tools for brand and media extension, it seems that the best way for game-like elements to be incorporated into other forms of media is to converge them with some kind of meta-game, and to use each distribution tool for what it's good for.It makes sense. And it makes the experience much more fun.
"Hoping to get a jump on Google and other competitors, Adobe Systems plans to release a hosted version of its popular Photoshop image-editing application within six months, the company's chief executive said Tuesday," reportsCNet. "The online service is part of a larger move to introduce ad-supported online services to complement its existing products and broaden the company reach into the consumer market, Adobe CEO Bruce Chizen told CNET News.com."Adobe appears to be following the same line as Microsoft in the move to SaaS orSoftware as a Service(see note). Unlike the hosted version of Microsoft Office, which has been available online for half a decade or so, it seems it will be a cut-down version, and paid for by advertising. (Hosted software on the ASP or Application Service Provider model was core to the Microsoft.net strategy announced in June 2000. The ASP model flopped."There were elements of this (Web services concept) that were premature," Gates said. "We made a misstep.")The CNet story says:The company intends to offer entirely hosted applications, as well as "hybrids," in which Adobe uses the Web to introduce features to desktop products, such as Adobe Photoshop Lightroom, he added."We recognize there is a customer there--we recognize they are not going to pay us, necessarily, directly. But we could use ad revenue as a model. Google has demonstrated that it works pretty well for certain types of applications," Chizen said.It will be interesting to see what works. Ultimately, of course, people who think the Web is an either/or option for packaged software are still five years behind in their thinking. In reality, everybody running large applications will have code on their PC, PDA or phone or whatever,andcode on the server, and they won't know or care where a particular feature resides.For more hints about this direction, see myinterview with Microsoft's Jeff RaikesNote: See myComputer Weekly columnfor Wednesday 19 October 2005, based on an interview with Martin Taylor (who is no longer at Microsoft). He says:"We are talking about delivering software as a service: how do we deliver value from the cloud? This is not the hosted, or ASP, model, it is delivering a set of services that people might want to use," he says. "Internally, we have got a strategy for all of our products of how we deliver value to customers via the cloud. Stage two is how we monetise that value."
It's been inevitable, even if Adobe hasn't admitted it in the past, but Adobe is going to release an online version of Photoshop in the next six months.Driven by the move to the web, Google's increasing overtones and a plethora of online image editors, Adobe is going to release an online version of the grandaddy of image apps - and according toCNet, Bruce Chizen said it was going to be funded by on-screen advertising.Chizen said Adobe laid the foundation for a hosted Photoshop product with Adobe Remix, a Web-based video-editing tool it offers through the PhotoBucket media-sharing site.Like Adobe Remix, the hosted Photoshop service is set to be free and marketed as an entry-level version of Adobe's more sophisticated image-editing tools, including Photoshop and Photoshop Elements. Chizen envisions revenue from the Photoshop service coming from online advertising.I can't imagine it's going to be anywhere near as powerful as the desktop program (just the size of many large image files used in Photoshop would be problematic), but it does plug the obvious gap between online and offline. And of course given Adobe's other ventures - Flex and Apollo - it was only a matter of time before somebody else came up with a compelling solution that really bridged the chasm.
The late and great management guru Peter Drucker said he wasn't worried about Microsoft because no non-governmental monopoly had ever lasted more than 15 years. Well, Microsoft is proving him wrong. More than 16 years after the debut of its Office suite it still has nearly 95% of the world market for PC operating systems and around 95% for office software (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc). It is astonishing, considering how easy it is to set up new web-based businesses these days. Even though Microsoft was found guilty of illegally maintaining a monopoly by the US antitrust authorities it has made no impact on its monopoly position - and the enormous profits it generates. Is it impregnable?I had breakfast last week with T J Kang, who has been trying to dislodge Microsoft for years. In 1999 his company, ThinkFree, raised $24m (&#163;12m) to launch a free alternative to Office. At one stage it employed well over 100 engineers but by 2003 was down to under 20 and struggling to survive. Last year it was taken over by Haansoft, which has 70% of the word-processing market in South Korea, the only country in the world to have resisted Microsoft domination even though the Seattle colossus, he claims, tried to pay absurdly over its market value in 1998 to buy a minority stake and stop further development.Now, he says, the time is ripe to attack the company's soft underbelly because of the switch towards hosting services on the internet rather than on computer hard disks. This, he believes, makes Microsoft vulnerable because it doesn't want to put at risk the huge profits it makes from its computer-based Office suite by such a radical move (though it is planning to put the cut-down version, Works, online). Kang admits it is a big task since Microsoft has 95% of the market with the rest shared between Corel (WordPerfect), with around 2.5% and OpenOffice (2.5%), leaving Google Documents, ThinkFree and others competing in the tiny space lost in the rounding up of the others' statistics. It is going to be a hard task.I have been a very contented user of Google's free alternative to Office (called Google Docs and Spreadsheets) which has all I need for writing without getting into the labyrinthine complications of Word. But Kang claims Google, which announced a paid-for small-biz version last week, can't cope with heavy-duty corporate spreadsheets. Since we are in the throes of a mass migration to the web, Kang thinks there is a great chance to eat into Microsoft's market share. He claims the upcoming paid-for version of ThinkFree (thinkfree.com) has full compatibility with Office and enables users to switch seamlessly from working on their hard disks (say, on an aeroplane) to the web.The free version has some nice features - such as a link to Flickr, the photo-hosting site, enabling you to search for pictures - but it is much less easy to use than Google's alternative. It can take 30 seconds or more when it accesses the web whereas Google backs up your work seamlessly in the background.ThinkFree may be back on the radar, even though its 250,000 users are little more than a blip. But Microsoft will be very difficult to dislodge. It is also true that the migration of services to the web provides an unprecedented chance for an upstart company to seize the initiative. Google is best placed to do this despite its claim that it is not in competition with Microsoft. OpenOffice (openoffice.org), the main free alternative at the moment (which is now more user friendly) is not web-based. It would be nice to think that the revival of web companies in the UK and the rest of Europe will throw up an alternative. Competition would be good for Microsoft. Its Explorer browser improved when Firefox arrived and Xbox has done well against Sony's PlayStation. The stakes are high, but this is a multibillion pound market where the rewards are formidable.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've been the happy owner of JVC GD-V4210PCE plasma screen for some time now. Although it is listed as a lowly 853 x 480 pixel resolution, it still seems able to do a very good job with an HDTV signal (I can't believe it could be bettered, to be honest) and is listed as being 1080i compatible. If I bought a screen with a resolution of 1920 x 1080, would I see a discernable difference? Karl LearIf you bought a similar 42 inch 1080p screen, fed it with a 1080p signal from a high-definition player (Blu-ray or HD DVD) and sat up to 6 feet away, I'd bet you probably could. However, if you were watching standard or HD broadcast television or a DVD movie from 10 feet, I'd bet you probably couldn't. Your new set might even look worse than your old EDTV (enhanced definition TV) set.For newcomers, standard television in the UK is 720 x 576 pixels, and there are three HD standards: 720p (1280 x 720), 1080i (1920 x 1080 interlaced) and 1080p (1920 x 1080 progressive scan). "Interlaced" means the screen image is painted in two scans covering alternate lines, whereas "progressive" means it is all done in one scan.In theory, 1080p is the best. In fact, at the last Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Panasonic ran tests on its stand and most people couldn't tell the difference between its 1080p and 720p screens, so I'm sure they couldn't tell 720p from 1080i. I therefore don't think it's worth paying the extra today for a "true" 1080p HD set unless you have 1080p content from a next-generation player or games console. (Gamers sit closer to the screen.)In general, you should get the best result if the resolution of the signal matches the resolution of the screen. It rarely does. Most sets up-scale or down-scale (and interlace or de-interlace) whatever they are sent to fit the native resolution: 853 x 480 pixels, in your case. JVC and Panasonic are among the companies that seem to be good at this. A set that does a bad job of upscaling a TV signal to 1080p -- and it's a mammoth processing task -- could end up with a noticeably worse picture, in spite of it being "theoretically" better.Also, if you delay the upgrade, you can wait for HDMI 1.3 to settle in, and prices will keep coming down.
I have an external USB hard drive that just refused to work: it doesn't even spin. My wife and I are rather upset at the prospect of permanently losing some pictures of our children. I have obtained quotes from various data recovery companies and they are all in the range of £350 to £400 plus VAT. Is there a cheaper alternative? Joaquin BlancoNot unless you know what you are doing. It might be that the drive would work if you extracted it from the enclosure and installed it in a PC, or if you replaced the electronics board, but who knows? Inexpert attempts to recover data can make things worse, and basically you have only one chance. If it's any consolation, I've been quoting £1,000 as a ball park figure for expert disk recovery.Otherwise, Schofield's Second Law of Computing says data doesn't really exist unless you have two copies of it. In the case of important family photos, I'd suggest four copies: PC hard drive; CD-Rom; external storage (eg a USB drive or thumb drive) and online -- Xdrive or Google email will do.Backchat: Alan Gent makes an excellent point. He says: "I had a similar happening the other week and it turned out to be a USB port failure, so check the drive on another PC and/or USB port."
My broadband went down and now I seem to be caught between Virgin (who charge 25p per minute) and BT (who take forever to reply). I am now connected directly to the BT test socket in my house so that there should be nothing in the way. While talking to Virgin, I found I could log on to the internet while I was on the telephone, but when I put down the receiver, my broadband disconnected. Virgin called this "high open" -- a phrase I have never heard before. David PollardI'm surprised Virgin didn't go on to say something like: "that means there's a fault on your line." Tell BT that you have a crackly line and ask for "loop test" -- but don't mention broadband. Seehttp://www.dslreports.com/faq/11821andthis Google searchfor more information.It seems that if you were not connected to the test socket, the fault could have been with your house wiring. And if you didn't have a test socket, you could ask BT to fit one.
When I reboot my PC from stand-by, it says: "The IALMRNT5 display driver has stopped working normally. Save your work and reboot the system to restore full display functionality" and so on. Glyn TraffordIALMRNT5.dll is an Intel Express graphics driver, and Intel's website acknowledges a problem runningthe Sims 2 game-- which doesn't apply here. There's not much you can do except download the newest graphics driver you can find. You can also try changing the graphics resolution, and removing any start-up programs, in case there's a conflict. If the problem goes away, you can add them back, one by one.
The Windows Task Manager shows that two programs running on my PC take 90% to 100% of my CPU the majority of the time, making it almost unusable. These programs are appsvc32.exe and svchost.exe. Robert AlleyneWell, appsvc32.exe is part of Norton Internet Security 2007, and can hog the processor in some circumstances. As its name implies, svchost.exe is a program thathostsa variety of differentservices, but Windows Task Manager doesn't tell you which. Download SysInternals' Process Explorer fromhttp://www.microsoft.com/technet/sysinternals/utilities/ProcessExplorer.mspx(Microsoft bought the company) and it will tell you, if you hover the mouse over the filename. You may find it's another part of Norton, in which case you will have to try Symantec's help site athttp://www.symantec.com/techsupp/.Backchat: Bill Knowles says: "I solved the problem by turning off Symantec's Live Update. You then do a manual Live Update -- every day in my case."
Crackdown, Excite Truck and - please, no - Little Britain getreviewedin the paper this week. The first two are decent enough, with the free-roaming Crackdown, especially in co-op mode, far better than I expected. Note to publishers - co-op is the future, please include it in every game. My review was Excite Truck for the Wii. And to be honest, it was fine for an hour or two - the controls worked surprisingly well - but it soon got tiresome and I haven't gone back to it since. Like most Wii games it will remain in the cupboard until friends come over. And Little Britain? There hasn't been such a cynical piece of gaming dross since Crazy Frog Racer.ElsewhereAleksmakes some valid points as she discovers her inner child whilealternative gamingin the Middle East comes under the spotlight.
That's what Phil Harrison of Sony tells us today inPlayStation 3 loses all Emotion in Europe:"What has previously gone into PS3s on sale elsewhere in the world was a custom component, which we have now removed." Harrison won't be drawn on precise details of which PS2 games will be playable on the PS3 at launch, but says: "We expect the list to encompass over 1,000 PlayStation 2 titles." So, will Sony concentrate on making the big PS2 titles - the Grand Theft Autos, Gods of War and Gran Turismos - compatible with the PS3? "I can't give information on individual titles, but clearly, that would be our aim."(You'll recall that theEuropean PS3 won't have the Emotion Enginechip, thus limiting backwards compatibility of PS2 games.)When he says the Emotion Engine 'removed' he means 'won't be including in European editions'. Unclear when it will be removed from those being sold elsewhere.And can anyone in foreign parts who has got a PS3 and PS2 and has taken the top off both confirm that the Emotion Engine in the PS2 is not the same chip (part numbers, size, stuff like that) as that in the PS3? We'll ask our sources (which we didn't have time to do before having to go into print) but we're certainly intrigued by the idea.Meanwhile, it's nice to know there'll be 1,000 PS2 games that will play on the PS3 in Europe. Butwhich ones?It feels like a number plucked out of the air - though of course Phil Harrison will have solid data to back it up. He wouldn't just say it without being sure.
This week's print edition of theTechnology supplement is online too..My PC is being held to ransomIs it legal to lock people out of their own computers? Michael Pollitt examines an online billing system that uses what could be considered strongarm tactics.Location, location, location - of supermarkets, schools and mastsFree our data:Getting maps for free from Google and adding useful data beats paying for it.PlayStation 3 loses all Emotion in EuropeThe European version of Sony's console won't let gamers play many old hits, says Steve Boxer. Sony says it's focusing on new titles. Will it succeed?Why I take my playtime very, very seriouslyAleks Krotoski: I've come to an unfortunate realisation: what I do with my life is considered by the majority of the adult population to be an utter waste of time.GamesLittle Britain | Crackdown | Excite TruckNewly Asked Questions:Will a commercial BitTorrent lead to more piracy?It very well might, even though the newly commercial site has done all that film studios, music companies and games publishers wanted by wrapping their wares in digital rights management, says Charles Arthur.What's getting broadband users down?After-sales support, or the lack of it. But that's just part of it, writes Jack Schofield.Read me firstBeware the backwards-looking patents that can stifle innovation, says Andrew Brown.Is the writing on the web for Microsoft?Victor Keegan: The late and great management guru Peter Drucker said he wasn't worried about Microsoft because no non-governmental monopoly had ever lasted more than 15 years.TechnobileBring back Cello, a pre-Netscape browser, because Firefox 2 is a bloated, slow resource hog and I hate it, says Wendy M Grossman.IBM's innovation boss gets ready to bow outInterview: After 37 years, it is time for Irving Wladawsky-Berger, the Cuban-born vice-president for technical strategy and innovation to retire - but not before he looks back at his career.Here's how to fix the roads, but you're not going to like itWarning: this column is going to suggest a surefire way for IT to cut the use of cars on Britain's roads. But you won't like it, writes Michael Cross.Barking up a new tree for renewable energy sourcesCarbon-neutral and cheap, wood pellets look like a good fuel bet - as some schools and businesses are already discovering, says Kim Thomas.NewsbytesUMPC for nurses | The lady is for Turing | Photographic milestone | Bluetooth luggable | Photoscreens for walls | Google Apps for cash | Online StatesmanshipAsk JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
.Thursday February 1, 2007Dell struggles, Google profits upSony: it's not our fault PS3 is expensiveIn print: why 'unlimited' broadband isn't, anger at PS3 pricing etcYour Vista upgrade problems solved (chart)Say it with... widgets?!Friday February 2, 2007Jim Allchin says goodbye, Windows continuesZoho wins at Demo 07Return of the flying carFAQ: your dream featuresPirating Windows worked for us, says Romania's presidentSaturday February 3, 2007Google ramps up personalised searchSunday February 4, 2007Flickr stalwarts aggrieved at Yahoo mergerWii -- Hold on Tight! (YouTube)This week's letters and blog pingbacks in fullFrom text to Web 2.0 in five minutes (YouTube)Monday February 5, 2007Viacom spams YouTube with take-down noticesBears lit up Super Bowl skyline, but they lostOpen source ODF translator for Microsoft OfficeThe Times goes green -- and limes its Web siteTuesday February 6, 2007Teasers for AthenaTosh pushes flash prices way, way downKodak plans cheaper printer inksSteve Jobs suggests: get rid of the DRM on online musicWednesday February 7, 2007OpenID Gets a Boost From MicrosoftHackers strike out at web's root serversThree ARM chips in the iPhone, says ARMThursday February 8, 2007In print: would record labels drop DRM?, quantum computers, evasive ministers etcTell the BBC what you think about iPlayerYahoo Pipes -- or mashups for dummiesThis week's letters and blog pingbacks in fullWindows Mobile 6 has added OfficeFriday February 9, 2007The Independent's great Photoshop swindleFAQ: What would you ban?Net can't handle TV, warns GoogleOutlook 2007: broken, it seems, or at least significantly slowerBBC to trial Digital Radio MondialeSaturday February 10, 2007Gears of War the big winner in games industry's academy awardsEMI in talks to sell unprotected MP3sSunday February 11, 2007WeMedia -- more of the sameSo that's what dirtyfratboy looks like....Monday February 12, 20073GSM diary: Nokia, iPhone and mobile TV3GSM diary: Vodafone and GoogleTuesday February 13, 2007Google News loses Belgian newspaper caseMicrosoft announces PlayReady DRM for mobiles3GSM diary: Orascom boss tells it like it isWould Steve Ballmer or Bill Gates have written 'Thoughts on Music"?Wednesday February 14, 2007What Bill thinks about DRM3GSM diary: Omego's phone for kidsIt's not the iPhone but... Blackberry PearlThursday February 15, 2007In print: hackers attack home workers, the videophone calls again etcPlayStation 3 disaster -- Sony to outsource CellEuropean music executives criticise DRMFriday February 16, 2007Phish hack on home routersFAQ: your best-kept secret on the webSaturday February 17, 2007Dell 2.0 -- Michael brews up an IdeaStormPolish poets threaten Google's supremacyMacrovision's boss responds to Steve Jobs on DRMSunday February 18, 2007TBL's keynote on the Mobile Web13 Computer keyboards you never seen before, maybeMonday February 19, 2007Battelle mini-interview with WeschThis week's letters and blog pingbacks in fullIs the Wii another Hula Hoop?Tuesday February 20, 2007Microsoft releases Virtual PC 2007, freeSeven steps to remarkable customer serviceFuture of Web Apps bloggedWednesday February 21, 2007Ars Technica reviews Adobe's LightroomLife caching revisited -- Gordon Bell's digital lifeThursday February 22, 2007Month of Apple bugs contrib tells BBC "some [Mac] things need a closer look"Apple and Cisco agree -- both will use iPhone nameGoogle developing DRM as a priorityIn print: is next-gen DV cracked for good, are PS3 pre-orders that good, etcSteve Jobs sells Secret Diary blog sponsorship to WiredFriday February 23, 2007Sony saves money in Europe by slugging PS2 compatibilityDan Chung on Canon's "Holy Grail" of camerasIt's not the iPhone but... Palm Treo 750vCory Doctorow attacks Jobs over DRMFAQ: I wish I'd invented that...Sunday February 25, 2007BitTorrent to offer movies legally, using Microsoft's DRMThis week's letters and blog pingbacks in fullMonday February 26, 2007Sing along with the Sony PS3 brand-killing songThe movie magic is gonePaint your ATM, Windows styleTuesday February 27, 2007Plan B for YahooLife-Long Computer SkillsWednesday February 28, 2007Safari slows your systemSee the iPhone interface running on a Pocket PCWatching Digg's "bury brigade"Why can't programmers... program?Conservapedia goes into hidingDoes suspicion of child abuse excuse hacking?For earlier items, see:Technology blog posts for January, 2007
According to an admittedly unscientificonline poll by Sophos, a UK computer security company, "the majority of people surveyed disagree that it is acceptable to infect and hack into a PC if it is believed it may belong to a child abuser." That was 64% of 233 respondents.The poll wasprompted by a real case:66-year-old Ronald C Kline, a former senior judge from California, has been sentenced to 27 months in jail for possessing child pornography. Kline was initially brought to the attention of the authorities after his computer was infected by a Trojan horse planted by Canadian hacker Brad Willman.Willman planted the Trojan horse, disguised as images of child abuse, on an internet newsgroup visited by pedophiles in 1999. The hacker (who used the handle Omni-Potent) broke into the PCs of those he infected, focusing on those he suspected of being involved in child abuse.According to the story atInformation Week:Brad Willman, a Canadian known in hacker circles as Citizen Tipster, wrote the Trojan and embedded it in images of child pornography. He then planted the images on newsgroup sites frequented by pedophiles. Once users downloaded the images, their computers would be infected by the Trojan and Willman would have access to their machines so he could root around in them, looking for other child pornography or even molestation evidence.Willman has not been charged for the computer break-ins or for writing and distributing the malware.Kline pleaded guilty and was also found to be in possession of "24 videos of child pornography," so this is not a case of injustice done. But what if another hacker decided to plant a few extra images to help make the case?"A case without a Trojan is going to be a heck of a lot easier to prove," says [Keith Jones, a senior partner with Maryland-based Jones, Rose, Dykstra &amp; Associates], who has done forensic investigations on more than 100 cases, including the UBS PaineWebber case last year. "If there's a Trojan on there, you're no longer examining a computer that only the owner has been able to touch. Now you have the added job of figuring out if this picture was downloaded by the person physically controlling the keyboard or by the person controlling the Trojan. ... It lets the defense argue that someone else had the ability to do it."So someone who is guilty could get away with it.....
