I had a cold call from BT recently offering me a cut of &pound;2 a month on my broadband package plus free phone calls at weekends and in the evenings if I signed up for a fresh yearly contract. Since inertia would have made this happen anyway, I signed up. This at least shows that inflation isn't going up everywhere. Thanks to fierce competition, improving technology and the growing influence of "free" or very cheap calls from new web start-ups, telephone inflation is falling. The exception is using data from abroad for music or videos where roaming charges are still usurious.The ultimate vision is of cheap handsets using wireless hotspots to route calls through the internet to anyone in the world with a Wi-Fi connection. And all for free after paying a monthly fee to an internet service provider. This is already possible with some phones. The snag is that, like fax machines, it is not much use having one until everyone you want to talk to has one as well.There is an added problem. Skype is the runaway success of web telephony, even though it is mainly used for calls between computer users. It is free for all basic voice and video uses, but is proprietary and so far can't communicate with rivals using open standards such as Truphone, the first web phone company to put an app on Apple's iPhone.Truphone is impressive, but I also have a soft spot for 3's Skype phone, which is the only phone so far that employs Skype technology. This is because when I first tried it a year or two ago it worked straight out of the box, which hasn't happened with any other web phone - though they are getting better. Once I had typed in my login, all my existing Skype contacts (which are stored on the web) were on the screen and I had an hour's free chat with a friend using Skype from his computer.I had a similar experience with 3's new Skype phone, which hits the shops this week. It employs 3's global 3G network to originate and terminate calls while using the Skype network to route them around the world. This means that if you have a family scattered around the world - or run a small business - you could buy everyone a Skype phone for Christmas and gossip almost endlessly for nothing without needing Wi-Fi.The cost is only &pound;69 for the handset - plus, if you want to use the Skype facility, a pay-as-you-go tariff of &pound;10 a month. Not bad. The phone can also be used as a modem (or dongle) automatically by attaching a cable from it to the USB port of your laptop (PCs only) so you could use your computer abroad without incurring those ludicrous roaming charges.Other functions are also easy to use. A single button on the right side of the handset activates a "carousel" of services on the screen such as Google, web feeds, Facebook (which worked well), messages plus a "Quicklinks" button giving access to more sites from eBay to the BBC or music. There is a 3.2 megapixel camera and media player all packed into a device weighing less than 100g.Niggles? The keyboard didn't suit my fingers and it was tricky to bookmark new sites - not that you need them with so many embedded - and it takes at least six separate clicks to send each photo to a laptop via Bluetooth. But these are small gripes when you remind yourself that it costs only &pound;69 outright (or free on a contract).Sales of 3's first model have been expanding fast from a small base, but are still only a bit over 100,000 units - a minnow in an ocean of giant fish. It is hoping that word of mouth will eventually propel it to a tipping point where people want to get one because their friends have one. This is a very tough market to crack, but it is a very cost-effective product. It would be a tragedy, however, if we end up with two competing systems - Skype versus all the non-proprietary ones - which don't talk to each other.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Watching the IT penniesGeneralising IT spend among various and disparate public bodies to reveal just one newsworthy sum will surely only serve to heap yet more pressure on the sector (Public bodies will have to watch their IT spending, August 14). Surely it is disingenuous to bundle money spent by the MoD with that by a local authority, for example. Public bodies have always been tasked with keeping a keen eye on IT spend. What's changed is the massive pressure to improve service levels and operational "transparency" while demonstrating budgetary nous. One would hope ministers will see past these all-encompassing headline figures and look a little more closely at how individual bodies are transforming under enormous pressure.Richard Thompson,Pitney Bowes Management Services, HertsCharge me upSo how does Stephen Earl think that electric cars get their batteries charged (Letters, August 14)? This means mains electricity - though it might come from solar panels. And of course hybrid cars charge their batteries on the go using their petrol, CO2-emitting engines. Meanwhile I would be interested to find out the energy economics of electric cars charged from fossil fuel power plants - surely with all the losses in converting gas/coal to heat to steam to motive power to electricity, then via power cables to user, must produce more CO2 per mile than burning petrol/diesel in car engines?Michael Miller,SheffieldRisky businessDoes Pete Warren have exemption from the Data Protection legislation (Snapshots of our secret lives, August 14)? Surely it's illegal to possess/store personal data without permission? Come to think of it, doesn't that put anyone who buys a second-hand drive, regardless of whether they can read it, at risk of breaking the law?David Gordon,LondonKeep your Kindle, thanksWhat surprises me is that its even got this far - this generation of e-readers are still pretty hard to read and are expensive to buy (Newly asked questions, August 14). Also, as Jack says, there is not a body of low-cost books to read - book pricing for e-books still has not nearly discounted the move from physical products. After looking at the plastic ink e-readers now in development (disclosure: we have done work with the next generation e-readers), I think I'll pass for now.broadstuff.comJack Schofield asks if the Kindle e-book reader is becoming Amazon's iPod. Schofield argues that it may be newspapers, not books, that launch the e-reader revolution and draw the Kindle up to iPod status. But as Schofield himself points out, its more likely that e-books will proceed down the path they have already established, on general purpose portable media devices - PDAs, smartphones and even iPods themselves - rather than dedicated readers like the Kindle.Of course, the ugly head of digital rights management and intellectual Property is raised in the corner of my utopian vision. I wonder how long it can be maintained, or will it even manage to cripple the media entirely as it is currently threatening?damiengwalter.wordpress.comSpace for allIf SpaceX (as well as others) are successful, humanity may witness a new era of space exploration where the private sector begins to replace the government as the main transport service beyond the heavens, reducing the overall cost of launching material into space (A cheap shot at space - if it ever gets off the ground, August 14).colonyworlds.com&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&#183;Write to: Letters TechnologyGuardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. Telephone: 020 7239 9925, fax: 020 7239 9933, email:tech@guardian.co.uk
The details are out, and they aren't pretty.A fundamental flaw in DNSfirst announced on July 8 is even worse than people first thought. The flaw in the domain naming service affects everything from email through to internet phone calls and the SSL certificates that people thought guaranteed security on the web. And according to companies monitoring the internet, attacks are already being carried out.The domain naming service is what tells your web browser which computer to contact when you type in a web address. A nameserver translates web addresses, such asguardian.co.uk, into the IP address of the computer running the site, so that your machine knows which computer on the internet it should visit to find a site or other information. The bug found by Dan Kaminsky, of security consultant IOActive,  makes it possible for attackers to convince a recursive nameserver (which asks other nameservers for information) to visit the wrong IP address.Kaminsky, who discovered the flaw in March, unveiled the details of the security bug at the Black Hat security conference in Las Vegas earlier this month. And last week, executives at NeuStar UltraDNS, which manages the worldwide registry gateway for Taiwan and China's top level domains outside of those two countries, claimed that the attack has already been used against banks. If true, it means that some unwitting customers typing in their bank's details could be taken to fake sites.Poison bug"We are actively seeing cache poisoning attack attempts on a large scale using this bug. We have to imagine that they're still partly successful," says Rodney Joffe of NeuStar. "We monitor some open recursive servers online and we noticed that some have entries that are not the correct entries for banking sites." Some UK banking sites were being targeted, he adds."I know our government, defence and banking clients are extremely worried about this, and rightly so," says Steve Lord, founder of security consultancy Mandaloria. "This is one of those attacks that could have a significant effect on British industry and intellectual property."Kaminsky worked hard to get the large ISPs and other companies to patch their nameservers, but there are reports that even this effort hasn't been entirely successful. Hacker HD Moore quickly updated his hacking toolkit, called Metasploit, with code to exploit the DNS flaw. In the nearest thing that the internet gets to karmic justice, he subsequently found that the nameserver of his ISP had been exploited, and that when he tried to visit Google, his browser took him somewhere else.Even when ISPs do patch, smaller companies running their own nameservers internally could still be at risk. Small internal nameservers are just as vulnerable as larger ones. While a compromised ISP nameserver could affect thousands of people, compromising an internal nameserver would only affect the computers inside the company that owned it."You should not only have your ISPs bring their DNS versions up to date, but you should patch your own DNS servers too, even if it does cause a performance issue," warns Ken Munro of consultant SecureTest.Microsoft has already issued a patch for its server editions of Windows, while  Apple's patch for servers running its software, which came later, didn't solve the problem, according to Andrew Storms of security company nCircle. Apple declined to comment."Everything breaks when DNS breaks," Kaminsky told the audience at Black Hat. The bug affects more than mere web browsers. It potentially hits everything - from the auto-update systems that download software upgrades from vendors' websites to phone calls placed over the internet via Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technology.Kaminsky singled out email as one of the most worrying attack vectors. Computers use DNS to find out where to send email. Email sent from a company via a compromised nameserver could be intercepted and read by a third party. "Email has the highest sensitive information to total lack of encryption ratio of all the technologies that we use," he told the conference.He said that because of the way most ecommerce sites work, the flaw creates what amounts to a skeleton key for unpatched ecommerce sites. Most of them offer a "forgotten password" function, which enables users to request an email either resetting the password or a reminder. An attacker compromising the site's nameserver would be able to enter an email address in the site's forgotten password field, and then intercept the emails offering to reset that user's password - in effect giving the attacker access to the account. Technology Guardian has already highlighted the dangers of sendingpassword reset information via email.Ideally, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) - a technology that uses digital certificates to guarantee a company's identity online - would solve the problem. But SSL is also vulnerable, said Kaminsky. "SSL is occasionally used, and maybe it's used right, but more and more often it's not," he said, and added that 42% of the SSL certificates he checked online were self-signed. If Bob has a certificate saying that he's really Bob, but he signed it himself, how secure is that? Besides, when the certificate authorities that issue SSL certificates verify the owners' information, they often do it via email, which in turn relies on DNS.But there's a patch for DNS, so people should be safe, right? Not so fast. "There are entire classes of attacks that may still be very, very effective," Kaminsky said, and researchers are already proving him right. Reports are emerging that the patch has been compromised. Russian researchers are said to have been able to poison the latest patched version ofBIND- one of the most popular pieces of DNS software, in around 10 hours. However, Lord points out that this would have to be done using machines inside a network, rather than machines on the outside, to make suspicious traffic less noticeable.A patch in timeWhat does all this mean for you? First, ask your ISP if it's patched. Second, it might be worth switching to a specialist DNS service provider (you can do this by changing the DNS records associated with your computer's network connection). David Ulevitchof OpenDNS (opendns.com) says that his systems are patched and practically impossible to hack thanks to the way that his nameservers communicate with the rest of the internet.So what about the long term? After the first, hurried patch, interested parties will be sitting down to flesh out solutions to the problem. But one thing's for sure, said Kaminsky: "Architecturally, we need to stop assuming that the network is as friendly as it is."
We don't know: it's a secret. However, Microsoft has finally started to talk about its next operating system via a new blog calledEngineering Windows 7. This is being written by the top two people on the project, senior vice-presidents Steve Sinofsky and Jon DeVaan.So far, the plan appears to be to underpromise and overdeliver - the opposite of what happened with Vista. But Microsoft will soon have to spill the beans. Its huge Professional Developers Conference (PDC) will start on October 27, with the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference (WinHEC) following on.Microsoft can't keep its plans secret, because its business depends on more than 10,000 PC manufacturers developing hardware to run it and millions of software developers writing and testing their programs. It therefore tends to give PDC and WinHEC attendees code.In any case, several million people will be beta testing Windows 7, so every aspect will be explored in depth before it's launched. It's not as though it could spring any surprises by selling Windows 7 exclusively on Microsoft hardware from exclusive Microsoft stores.Still, Windows 7 may feature a SuperBar - a reworking of the old TaskBar - and the "touch" features familiar from the Tablet PC and UMPC (ultramobile) versions will be expanded to include multi-touch as standard. There should also be new versions of Internet Explorer 8 and Windows Media Center, and possibly of Paint and WordPad.But as with Vista, Microsoft will probably make many new features available to user of earlier operating systems, perhaps even before the launch.Otherwise, it's not in Microsoft's interests to change much: its main buyers are extremely conservative. They want to run millions of old programs, no matter how poorly designed and badly written. Ultimately it boils down to how much ground Microsoft is willing to give up, if any: it can always make Windows more compatible by making it worse.But ideally, Microsoft will draw a line in the sand with the 64bit versions of Windows, which started with Windows 2000. It seems 64bit Vista is now making rapid progress thanks to the availability of cheap RAM. While 32bit XP is limited to using a little over 3GB of memory, 64bit Vista machines typically use between 4GB and 8GB or more. The Window Server market has already moved to 64bit versions, for access to large banks of memory, and desktop users will eventually follow.Then backwards compatibility is solved in a different way. You have a multi-core processor, so just give that bad application its own virtual environment, where it can't hurt anything else. Virtualisation is the future, and Microsoft has the technology. But will enough of it be included in Windows 7?
There's plenty wrong with Too Human, the sci-fi action role-playing game for the Xbox 360. The main gameplay - taking out enemies and kitting out your avatar so he can kill and survive better in the future - is reminiscent of Diablo, but is let down by imprecise controls and average graphics. Then there is the frustratingly unskippable death sequence that delays your return to the fray for around 30 seconds at a time. However, Too Human does have its moments. You are never far from the next level - think access to new goodies. But then the realisation that most armour and gear looks pretty similar is crushing. Online has potential but with only two players - both of whom are the same character - it feels like a wasted opportunity. Much like Too Human itself.
It took a year for the love affair between fans and the Apple iPhone to sour. The original iPhone was greeted with round-the-block queues and near-universal praise. But its 3G successor has not fared quite so well. Within a fortnight of going on sale, complaints started to appear online from users who found the handset could not make it through the day without a recharge. The 2G iPhone was designed to last for eight hours of normal use; on anecdotal evidence, the 3G version gets about five hours.On top of that, people in the US and in some other countries found that their handsets kept dropping calls. BloggerDarlene McNeillclaimed she went from a Nokia Series 60 phone to the 3G iPhone and back in less than two weeks because the battery life "just couldn't cut it".Yet, in its tests with consumers, Strategy Analytics found the iPhone's battery held up well, although 3G phones generally do not last as long on one charge as 2G handsets. Standby time on the phone is average for a 3G handset; talk time is generally better. "As a phone, it's in the right ball park," says Neil Mawston, associate director at Strategy Analytics.The iPhone's power problem revolves around its big selling point: how it handles data and internet access. Apple built a device that makes people want to use those services, but they suck the life out of the battery. Apple was perhaps not prepared for the users who love the iPhone too much. "Because it is such a feature-rich device, people are using more of the functions than they would on a smartphone-type device," reckons Doug McEuen, senior analyst at ABI Research."Traditional [mobile] phones have been designed to cope just with voice and SMS. The iPhone came along with lots of data-intensive applications and features and they, naturally, consume more battery power," Mawston says.Running on emptyManufacturers do not yet understand how data usage affects battery life. "It is going to be trial-and-error at this stage," says McEuen. Some weaknesses could just be own goals. Gartner analyst Ken Delaney found a weak spot in how the iPhone deals with email pushed from servers running Microsoft Exchange."We seldom experienced a full day of use," Delaney wrote in areporton iPhone use for business. That was with limited browsing and no telephone calls (Note: paid-for report).Apple is not alone. Microsoft had to fix its version of Exchange for push email on Windows Mobile because of a similar problem, according to Delaney. Firmware changes are likely to address some of theapplicationsthat drain the battery, and Apple urges users to keep the product up-to-date for this reason.A firmware update could also solve the problem of dropped calls, although 3G experts are unsure whether the breaks in service are down to the wireless networks, the phone or interactions between the two.T-Mobilein the Netherlands at first blamed the phone, then claimed the problem is still under investigation. In the UK, O2 says it tested the phone extensively before launch but found no appreciable difference in behaviour to other phones.Francis Sideco, an analyst at iSuppli, says Apple and others have to go further to improve the performance of handsets and make software energy-aware. As more people use the data services, they are going to find their handsets running out of juice unless the manufacturers can find power savings: "They have accelerometers in there, so they can detect if the phone has moved at all. If it hasn't moved, there is no need to get an update from the GPS."With its $275m (&pound;148m) purchase of chip-design company PA Semi in June, Apple indicated it wants to have much more control over the iPhone hardware and power efficiency is the most likely beneficiary.Allan Yogasingam, technology analyst at TechOnline, says the purchase is a major change in direction for a company that prefers to use off-the-shelf silicon, often using older parts to keep costs down. Don Scansen, technology analyst at Semiconductor Insights, agrees: "Apple's value is all about the software. They don't need cutting-edge technology to do it."Apple's decision to delve into processor design appears to be tied to an unusuallicence dealthat ARM revealed at the end of July. Apple will not say whether it took out the licence and ARM chief executive Warren East says the mystery licensee demanded confidentiality.An architecture licence makes it possible for designers to alter the inner workings of the processor, although they cannot sacrifice binary compatibility with other ARM cores. Almost all chipmakers prefer to buy the ready-made designs produced by ARM. "We offer this as a choice," East says. "You can see by the number of architectural licences that we have that we don't go out of our way to sell them."In 1995, Digital Equipment became the first company to buy an ARM architecture licence. The result was theStrongARM. This processor ran four times faster than the ARM processors but needed 40% less power to run each instruction.Dan Dobberpuhl, a processor designer, led the Digital team up to its 1999 sale to Intel, where the StrongARM mutated into the XScale. Founding PA in 2005, Dobberpuhl recruited a number of the original project's engineers to help build the 150-strong chip-design company. Almost 15 years later, the PA team looks ready to repeat the feat.Jim Tully, vice-president at consultancy Gartner, speculates: "If they found a way of really reducing the power dissipation such that other companies had to go to a new generation of silicon to get the same power reduction, that would allow Apple to stay on a lower-cost technology for longer."Sideco points to the new generation of multicore processors as a way of making the hardware more efficient. Apple wants its Grand Central project to improve software speed on Macs by spreading the workload across processors. In a mobile device, there is another option. If each processor can run slower because many of them are working in parallel, you can design them to use far less power. And you can turn off processor cores completely if the phone is just ticking over.Lower cruise speeds"The car companies have done the same thing. If you are cruising down the highway, they shut down four out of the eight cylinders to save fuel," Sideco explains.Designing the new processor chip will take time. Linley Gwennap of The Linley Group, an analyst, says: "For this sort of chip, it could take anywhere from one year to two years to get to having the first test chips. It's closer to three years before I would expect to see an iPhone that had any kind of Apple-designed chip in there."The project could cost between $40m and $60m, Gwennap estimates, based on the amount PA raised from venture capitalists to design its first processor.Despite the credentials of the PA team, Gwennap says it is hard to see how Apple could really steal a march on other experienced chipmakers: "There are a lot of smart people focusing on low power at a lot of companies."By designing its own processor - possibly with many ARM cores onboard - Apple may be able to use its control over the iPhone software to achieve power savings that users of off-the-shelf silicon cannot. In the meantime, Apple will have to provide smarter software to deliver the battery life heavy users of the internet demand.
Are you looking forward to taking delivery of a shiny new 80GB PS3 this week? You may want to reconsider. Sony has got its Leipzig bandwagon off to an interesting start by announcing a new 160GB model, set to hit Europe on October 31 at £350. The bundle will include, "additional PlayStation Network content". What could this be? Perhaps a Home beta?The company also announced a release date for much-anticipated social platformer, LittleBigPlanet. You'll get to start playing with virtual rag dolls on October 29.
Peter Moore has been promising it since he took up his tenure as president of EA Sports - a sports sim that reacts to the events in its real-world counterpart. Madden already features regular roster updates, but now footie is getting in on the act. EA announced today that FIFA 09 purchasers will be able to sign up to a weekly update service, which updates the in-game stats based on occurrences in the English Premier League, La Liga BBVA, Ligue 1, Bundesliga, Serie A and Mexican Primera Division. From the press release:The adidas Live Season service is based on how real players performed in the most recent real-world matches. Gameplay will change dynamically as the performance of players and football teams in the real world experience the highs and lows during their campaigns.A global network of football scouts will monitor every player in the adidas Live Season leagues throughout the season to supply accurate and in-depth player and team data each week. Player attributes will be impacted and player performance will change dynamically. The adidas Live Season service is downloaded into FIFA 09 each week and will run from the launch of the game to the end of the 2008-2009 season.Ah, but there's an interesting wrinkle. The release points out that gamers get 'a free trial' to one league of their choice, until the close of the 2008-2009 season. After this, there will be a weekly subscription, which EA has not yet disclosed.Of course, this all ties in with the publisher's determination to create new revenue streams away from the traditional, expensive and risky retail model. Inspired by the Korean market, the company is already exploring billed downloadable content - hence the controversy over Bad Company, and the forthcoming Battlefield Heroes.EA is also keen on building a more 'intimate' relationship with its fanbase. At the moment the relationship between FIFA fans and FIFA publisher is confined to an annual purchase and maybe an email newsletter. But with weekly downloads, a much closer bond can be developed, and this bond alone - regardless of any subscription fee - can be monetised. Hence the Adidas sponsorship.The question is, how many gamers actually want their FIFA experience to be shaded by the vagaries of the real footie season? As A Man City supporter, I'd like to play Valeri Bojinov upfront, but if I downloaded the update, would he be out of action for six months? As for player form - this has been fictionalised for years in PES and FIFA; would a realistically timed version be any more compelling? It would perhaps, save keen football followers the chore of having to analyse in-game player stats to check who's in tip-top condition and who's coasting - just watch Match of the Day instead.The next step will be downloadable football boots, alice bands and goal celebrations. Then, the user-generated angle: customisable crowd chants, pitch patterns and commentary.Will you be partaking?
Gmail uses a cookie to keep you logged in. The problem is that "every time you access anything on Gmail, even an image, your browser also sends your cookie to the website. This makes it possible for an attacker sniffing traffic on the network to insert an image served from http://mail.google.com and force your browser to send the cookie file, thus getting your session ID. Once this happens the attacker can log in to the account without the need of a password. People checking their e-mail from public wireless hotspots are obviously more likely to get attacked than the ones using secure wired networks," saysHacking Truths.You can avoid the problem by using a secure SSL connection, eg by logging on via https://mail.google.comYou can turn SSL on permanently by going to Settings and the General tab. The bottom of the page offers:Browser connection: Always use https Don't always use httpsSelect "Always use https".The story says that Mike Perry, who told Google about the problem a year ago, is planning to release a tool that will help hackers exploit the insecurity.
"Sneak peeks" from Intel's IDFIt turns out thatFudzilla's leakabout the dual core Intel Atom was right on the money. At this week's Intel Developer Forum, Intel has announced the dual core Atom 330 and accompanyingmotherboard, reportsFudzilla.The Atom is cheap by Intel standards, and a dual core version should remove any worries about its performance for its target netbook market. (In real life, in anAcer Aspire One, I found it ran better than I expected.) However, as Fudzilla points out in a separate item (Is the dual core Atom worth the bother?), AMD is still cheaper and gives you better graphics. TheVia Nanoalso outperforms Atom.The problem is that AMD and Via, as minor players,have toprovide better performance than Intel for less cost just to stay in business. Whether the advantages are big enough to attract product designers and then buyers is another matter.It looks to me as though Intel will establish Atom as a winning brand, just as it did with Pentium and Centrino. One day, I may even be able to stop putting "Acorn" in front of it....
Here's one from the "aerialOld Spot" category: according toKotaku, the Xbox 360 is "so sold out that Microsoft Japan actually put out an official statement about the situation in The Land of the Rising Sun, apologizing for the lack of consoles. Since demand has eclipsed supply, Microsoft's supply has gone totally dry. The company is ramping up production, and the console will not be shipped to stores until next month."Xbox has famously flopped in Japan, and the sudden turnaround seems to be the result of the popularity of Namco Bandai's new role-playing gameTales of Vesperia, an Xbox exclusive, which almost quadrupled sales. According toAFP:Microsoft sold 28,116 Xbox 360 consoles in Japan in the week ended August 10, topping Sony's sales of 10,705 PS3s, game publisher Ascii Media Works said in a report dated August 14. But both companies lagged behind Nintendo, which sold 41,044 Wii consoles, it added.This probably won't last.....
Long awaited action role playerToo Humanis out next week. I recently spoke to Denis Dyack from the developerSilicon Knightsand asked him about controls, general reaction to the game and why he thinks Too Human is one of the most innovative games on the 360.Too Human has had a tortuous development. What are your overriding feelings at this point as the game nears release?It's kind of like a shock right now, it hasn't sunk in yet. There have been some positives, particularly in the number of downloads. The reception to the demo has been massively positive.Why do you think there aren't many Diablo/dungeon crawler type games around at the moment?Well it's kind of funny. When we first partnered with Microsoft we sat down with them and asked ourselves what kind of game could define itself on the console. Action RPG games are usually controlled by the mouse. By moving to dual stick analogue joypad controller and creating an automatic camera system we managed to jump that hurdle. We had eight years research into our camera system and have patented the technology. You're not seeing many of these kind of games on console because they wouldn't work without the dual stick controller and automatic camera. This is innovative and really hard to do, that's why these games are quite rare. I'll be shocked if there is any game in this genre that comes close to Too Human in the next couple of years.A lot of the feedback from the demo concerned the controls. Do you think players will eventually get used to them?I think so. You'll get some first time players who may not get it. The combat is incredibly deep and takes time to get used to. It's really funny, people say they want innovation. You know, this is probably too much hyperbole but Too Human is one of the most innovative games on the 360, period. This is because of the control and camera scheme. People don't know what they are seeing and their first reaction is I don't get that. But once they get it people love it.How important are the RPG elements?The RPG stuff matters just as much as the action. You can't get by on one alone. The RPG stuff is incredibly deep. The amount of loot customisation is out of control. We've had people playing through the entire game without really knowing what charms are. Once they get hold of that even more depth appears. But you need the action side too. We've had people say they they've got through the game and not had to use air combat. This means they're not having as much fun as they should as they won't be getting combos in combat. There is a lot of RPG and action bits, and loads to do.How important is the story?Well story has always been important to us here at Silicon Knights. The story of Too Human is three times the size ofEternal Darkness. This in terms of script and narrative. But Eternal Darkness was some gamplay with a lot of story while Too Human is more mixed. When you playthrough the game for the first time the story is very important. But when you want to replay and level your character to 50 the story is less important. So the story is important to us but it is not the be all and end all.How important is co-op?Co-op really adds to the game and works great through Live. Live is a great backbone as otherwise we would have had to build it ourselves. It is easy to invite a friend or play with someone else using Live. You can really customise your co-op game too and set things like loot sharing. It's all seamless too, you can play single player then go to co-op then back again very easily.What about puzzle elements in the game to break up the action?There are some light puzzle sections in the cyberspace. But we didn't want people getting stuck so we are generally very puzzle light.Can you explain a bit more about cyberspace?It's like an alternative realm. Cyberspace is host to what are essentially the librarians of the story. They are trying to preserve all the knowledge. It's the natural equivalent of the internet in our era. This lets us use some puzzles, so if you open a door in Cyberspace it opens in the real game world. It's essentially like hacking. You can find all these ancient technologies and find some great loot in Cyberspace. We'll be focussing more on it in the second and third games but we just wanted to give users a taste of it in here.How varied are the classes?There are five and this is a hybrid game so the classes are based on the archetypes. So Champion is your critical strike and air combat class, Beserker is your damage dealer, Defender is your tank, commando is your shooter an Bio engineer is your fighter/healer. We have 60 or so testers but that doesn't compare to the amount of users who will play when released so we will keep an eye out for balancing issues and patch if necessary. This game is built for downloadable content so we're not too worried.Eternal Darkness 2?It's possible (laughs). We get asked that all the time.Why do think people have such good memories of Eternal Darkness?It's really strange. I think it was such a different game that people put a lot on it. It sure wasn't a box office hit! I don't know, it was very content driven. A horror game that wasn't a survival horror. When you make a game you make a game that you want to play yourself. We added lots of unique aspects to Eternal Darkness, such as the game playing tricks on you. Every game we make we try to do something new and different. With Too Human it seems we have been so innovative that we have put some people off. I hope the negative reaction gets turned around and people really appreciate this game. We think Too Human is our best game to date. Too Human will have legs. You finish most games and you don't want to play them again but I've finished this game 50-100 times now and I'm still finding new things like armour sets that I haven't seen before. We think it's coming out at a good time too.Too Human is released on Aug 29th. Irecently reviewedit.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Apple Insiderreports that one of its readers has received a one-line message from Apple CEO Steve Jobs about iPhone users beinglocked outof their third-party applications by a crash bug on startup. It says:"This is a known iPhone bug that is being fixed in the next software update in September."
TechCrunch founderMichael Arringtonhas become the leading figure in the tech blogging world over the past year, and like many of his ilk, he's an Apple supporter. His love affair has not been withoutproblems, though he does show determination: for example, of his iPhone, he writes:I'll excuse the one hour of battery life I seem to be able to get out of my iPhone. An arrangement of extra power cords (USB, car, wall) and external batteries gets me through the day. I'll also excuse the fact that iTunes seems hell bent on not syncing applications from my desktop to my iPhone, and inexplicably removing apps from my phone without any notice. I love that damn phone, and it will take a lot more than lost apps and dropped calls to get it out of my hands.But there's a but:But I don't have the same blind dedication to other Apple products, and a string of costly problems has left me more than frustrated.He bought a MacBook Air "but it was unable to stay connected to Wifi for more than a minute or so, even on the brand new Apple Time Capsule router we're using at the office." He ended up dismantling the $1,800 machine for parts.A high end black Macbook made it through one meeting before having some sort of hardware problem that shut it down for good. I still have a few days left to return it for a refund.The one year old Mac Mini I was using to drive my living room television failed a month ago. It turned itself into a brick. Parts of it are on my coffee table.My main travel computer, a seven month old Macbook Pro, had a keyboard failure two weeks ago. Apple repaired it and I'm using it now.That leaves three other Macs in good working order. ... But having major issues with four out of seven computers is, um, unacceptable.He's also had problems with Apple's MobileMe, "that ridiculously broken new service," and says: "I have never gotten it working on the new Macs I purchased, and now .Mac has failed on all of the synced machines. No more calendar access, contacts syncing, etc."Conclusion:They need to get their house in order or they risk alienating all these new customers they've added over the last few years. The new buyers aren't Apple fanatics and won't sit quietly as they try to access broken services via failing hardware.Of course, it's all anecdotal, but somebody with time of their hands could go through the comments (277 so far) and score them on a scale between My Mac's Perfect and My Mac Failed.....
The Gamesblog has long been afan of Kokoromi, the Canadian indie game development event which brought us great results from theGamma256competition (remember ourcoverageofPassage?).They've announced their next design gongs - this time for3D games in stereoscopic 3D. And you thought our competitions were hard.Here's the blurb fromthe website:Announcing GAMMA 3D! (get it? 1, 256, 3D...), an international showcase of independently made stereoscopic games. Gamma 3D is an exploration of the impact stereoscopy can have on gameplay, in the cheapest, most lo-fi and DIY way we could think of: red/blue 3D! Anaglyphic red/blue stereoscopy, to be precise. Presented in collaboration with theSociety for Arts and Technology, and theMontreal International Game Summit, the event will be held on November 19th, At the SAT, in Montreal. ... Your game must use stereoscopy in a way that is integral to the gameplay.OK, so the Wikigame won't be able to enter this one, but do let us know if you've got the inclination and we'll follow your progress as you aim for stereoscopy gold.viaInfinite Lives
Apparently there's anelectioncoming in the US, and John McCain might pick former Democrat Joe Lieberman as his vice presidential candidate. But not if Associated Press, the news wiresobeloved of bloggers, has anything to do with it: one writer called him "the Democratic vice-presidential prick in 2000" in a story, which quickly spread online since AP getssyndicated online widely without checks. AP editors have put it down to a 'typo' - but we know the truth: it was an attempt to googlebomb him out of the Veep race.
EBay will unveil sweeping changes today to encourage more fixed-price sellers as part of a wider attempt to transform the business from global car boot sale to worldwide shopping mall.A new fee structure for fixed-price items and increased financial protection for buyers are part of an attempt to attract shoppers for everyday goods as well as bargain hunters who enjoy the auctions for which it is better known.The new strategy will also be seen as an attempt to answer Wall Street concerns about its growth prospects and a response to criticism from the loyal community of millions of buyers and sellers who have helped drive its growth and build its brand.Selling &pound;30bn worth of goods a year globally and visited by two out of every three internet shoppers in the UK monthly, eBay has been lauded as one of the great success stories of the internet age. But it has endured a rocky year.When Louis Vuitton won a high-profile French court case over fake goods, analysts questioned its capacity for growth and some of its hitherto loyal band of sellers staged an open revolt over changes to its fee structure.As it faces a wave of renewed competition from online competitors like Amazon and so-called "bricks and clicks" players such as Tesco combining shops and the internet, eBay UK will today unveil several changes it says are designed to help those entrepreneurs make the most of fixed-price sales.Upfront fees for listing items will be slashed and the fee for a successful sale will be increased in an effort to get buyers to list a wider range of goods and increase choice. Sellers will receive discounts on those fees and better search listings according to the volume of sales and quality of service.Though critics fear the moves will benefit the big retail partners that eBay is looking to attract at the expense of smaller traders, eBay executives insist that both can profitably co-exist.And in an effort to counter persistent fears that customers risk being ripped off by unscrupulous sellers, eBay will raise the protection for anyone paying for goods through its own PayPal system from &pound;500 to &pound;30,000.It will highlight the fact that 43% of its global sales are at a fixed price - a figure that has grown by 60% over the past six years and is quickly catching the revenues generated by the auctions.Though today's changes may appear inconsequential to non-users of the site, for its 15 million monthly visitors - and in particular to the 178,000 bedroom entrepreneurs who have been able to quit their jobs to trade on eBay full time - they are crucial."We've been on this path for the last few years," said Clare Gilmartin, director of marketplaces for eBay in the UK. "There's no doubt this year has seen some very, very bold changes - necessarily so and entirely reflective of what our buyers and sellers want."She said that the shift from auction sales to fixed price was an indication of how online retailing had matured, growing from 1% to 17% of the overall market in the nine years since eBay launched in Britain. Auctions would remain popular for collectables and one-off sales, she said, but that in many product categories people preferred to buy at the click of a mouse."I don't think anything can surpass eBay in terms of choice. But e-commerce is now mainstream. We see our competitive set as a broad one - anywhere where a buyer can buy stuff online. That might be Amazon or the more traditional bricks and clicks. But the big advantage we have is choice - mums sitting alongside entrepreneurs, sitting alongside big retailers."Dan Lumb, head of e-commerce at Schuh, has built an eBay business selling 150,000 pairs of shoes a year as it has used the site to sell discounted stock. He said it was "inevitable" that small business users would feel "a bit disgruntled" at bigger retailers moving on to the site.But he added: "I think there's room for everybody. At the end of the day, having big brands on there helps legitimise eBay as a marketplace. Having big retailers on there makes it more exciting as a buying experience."EBay has positioned itself as a consumer champion, uniting buyers and sellers and allowing small businesses to compete with big high-street names. The revolt in the US this year risked damaging that image.It came after Meg Whitman, the chief executive who had overseen its phenomenal growth for a decade, made way in January for John Donahoe to give the company "a fresh pair of eyes". Though her tenure was generally considered a huge success, she left to a chorus of criticism after admitting that the company seriously overpaid for the internet telephony company Skype, acquired for $2.6bn in October 2005.Last month, a court ordered eBay to pay Louis Vuitton $61m (&pound;32.7m) over sales of fake handbags and perfume. EBay is challenging the ruling and was recently cheered by victories over Tiffany and L'Or&eacute;al, which were trying to make the website liable for counterfeit goods sold through the site.Gilmartin predicted the changes would kickstart another wave of growth for the site, noting a surge in demand for clothing, homewares and garden items in recent years."We hope to see significant increase in the choice our sellers give to buyers," she said. "If you are a buyer and searching on eBay, you'll have far more chance of finding what you are looking for. In a credit crunch environment, it's far easier to shop around online for a bargain than it is offline."Case study: The traderWhen Chris Dawson was made redundant from his job in IT sales, he decided to tide himself over by selling furniture for a friend through eBay. Four and a half years later, he has yet to return to work.He is one of 178,000 people making their primary or secondary living from the site, running a computer accessories business with sales of more than &pound;6,000 a month. As co-founder of the blog TameBay, he also has a unique insight into the often vociferous community of small sellers that have helped eBay expand into a $60bn global business but periodically threaten its future. He said some of the smaller sellers, particularly those who may be reliant on the site to meet mortgage payments or other outgoings, tended to be among the most resistant to change."Any change to the site that benefits one seller automatically disadvantages others. The sellers who are disadvantaged will always shout the loudest," he said.Theoretically, he said, lower upfront fees should help small businesses because they can offer a wider range of stock. But they could also favour bigger retailers because cheaper fees will allow them simply to list their entire catalogue.Dawson said eBay had been unsympathetic to the effects of changes to its fee structure and feedback system on smaller sellers but credited it with becoming more open in the past year. "EBay has realised there is quite a lot of fear among sellers," he said. "They are realising that sellers are eBay customers too and listening to their customers."He said some of eBay's longest-serving users wore rose-tinted spectacles. "People forget the internet has changed. When eBay started out, a lot was taken on trust and people were sending envelopes stuffed with dollars across the Atlantic. Now, with instant payments, buyers are expecting better service and almost instant delivery."But he said the auction site also had to raise its game to meet new challengers. "If eBay doesn't take steps to ensure its sellers are providing the right level of service and customer satisfaction, it will fail. Buyers will go to Amazon or Argos instead. Amazon is doing really well and sellers are flocking to Amazon. You can buy almost anything on eBay. The challenge is to make sure you can carry on doing that and maintain a good level of service. It's a hard tightrope to walk."&#183;Chris Dawson makes a living selling computer accessories through eBay and also runsTameBay.com
The computer games industry is launching a crackdown on people who illegally download games from the internet by writing to 25,000 people in Britain suspected of illegally sharing files and asking them to pay &pound;300 immediately to avoid any further legal action.Five of the world's top game developers will initially target 500 people who refuse to pay up, according to the Times.The move follows a judge's ruling this week to force an unemployed mother-of-two living in Britain to pay &pound;16,000 to manufacturer Topware.Isabela Barwinska became the first person in Britian to be ordered to pay damages after downloading Dream Pinball for free through a file-sharing site. The game costs &pound;26.Four people were recently found by the Central London County Court to have infringed copyright by sharing games illegally.The aggressive action marks a dramatic change in the approach to copyright on the internet.It is estimated that as many as six million people in Britain share games illegally.But five companies - Atari, Topware Interactive, Reality Pump, Techland and Codemasters - have appointed law firm Davenport Lyons to tackle the problem.The companies make some of the world's most popular games, including The Lord of the Rings.Sales of computer games are predicted to reach &pound;2bn in Britain this year.
More research figures - and these are spine-tingling. According to Shiny Entertainment founder Dave Perry, who gave a talk at Leipzig today, Sony has lost more money selling PS3 than it made from PS2 during the five years the console was at the top of its game. The numbers apparently come from stratgic market research firmDFC Intelligence. The figure may be around three billion US dollars.The good news for PS3 owners, of course, is that this massive outlay can only cement Sony's plans to support the machine for a good ten years. Surely?(ViaEscapistand1up)
Accordingto GameDaily, US research firm Frank N. Magid Associates has been surveying Wii fans to find out who's been buying Nintendo's hugely successful machine. And the key finding may surprise you.Although we've been led to believe that it's non-gaming consumers who're driving Nintendo's business, it turns out that, in 73% of households the primary Wii gamer is - a young male. It's only in the category of secondary Wii gamer - i.e. the person who comes along and has a go, but isn't the owner of the console - that things equal out, with 45% of households counting women in this sector.If you look at the games coming out for Wii, while there are plenty of Wii Sports-style casual mini-game romps, there are plenty of traditional Nintendo titles - cute, cheerful, but relatively demanding and conventional in terms of genre. Check out theMetacritic page for Wiiand you'll find very few of those beloved mainstream titles amid the big scorers - it's stuff like Super Mario Galaxy, Legend of Zelda and Resi 4. Of course critical opinion is no reliable guide to consumer behaviour, but it's an indication of how seriously the machine is treated by gaming veterans.In the end, maybe Nintendo still needs us more than a lot of people thought it did.
Onthis week's show, we hear from the Observer's David Smith about the impact Google has madeas the company approaches its 10th anniversary, plus - and forgive us for a bit of navel gazing - we talk to the founders of anew startupthat hopes to fix thebroken relationshipbetween journalism and public relations.Ready your eartubes and tune in now.
On this week's Tech Weekly,Aleks Krotoski,Bobbie JohnsonandJemima Kisscelebrate the 10-year anniversary of Google, the searchengine that ate the world. Leading them through the search giant'sdirty laundry is the Observer'sDavid Smith, whose experience in explaining thecomplex algorithms of the scene is unsurpassed. They bring the latestnews in the European Parliament's privacy investigations, plusforecast whether 'do no evil' is practical enough to get them throughthe next decade.They're also joined by James Cox frompitchspace.com, a new matchmaking service that puts journalists in touch with the stories, and the stories in front of the journalists. All this, plus why the latest chapter in Internet wunderkind Twitter's road to the top has got European knickers in a twist, and what the distribution of optical fibre throughout East Africa actually means for the people there.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Cumulative sales figuresWhile commenting on the games console sales figures tracked by US-based research group NPD,TG Dailyhas published graphs showing the performance of the "big three" by month and cumulatively to July 2008 (above). It's interesting to see the Nintendo Wii take over....
Early next month Brighton plays host to thedConstructconference - this year's theme is 'designing the social web' and speakers includeSteven Johnsonand our own Aleks Krotoski. Fancy a ticket? We've got two to give away, courtesy of the Guardian's geek squad over at theInside blog.
Random is the new order. It started with iTunes. I can't remember the last time I listened to an album straight through, let alone composed a personal mix tape with every song designed to lead on to the next. Instead, I rely on iTunes' shuffle function to choose the play order for me, relishing the freshness of the new juxtapositions.I'm not alone.Some iPod shuffle users are so keen to ensure that they're experiencing a random selection of music they have engaged in earnest debates online about how truly random the shuffle really is. It turns out thattrue randomnessis harder to come by than you might think. The shuffle feature is likely to be using a "pseudo-random number generator" – essentially based on a very long pre-existing list of apparently random numbers that will eventually repeat itself. If this news causes you alarm, do not fear: the pseudo-random list probably won't repeat during the lifetime of your iPod.But it's not just in music that we're welcoming more randomness into our lives. The growing popularity of organic box schemes, for example, means that for some people food choices are also becoming more random – albeit seasonal. Many's the time I've been faced with half a kilo of cabbage or a bag of salsify with little idea how to use them in the kitchen. And the recentLonely Planet Guide to Experimental Travelincludes such suggestions as "Chance Travel" in which travellers choose their destination by rolling a pair of dice, rather like the anti-hero of the 1970s novel The Dice Man.Many popular websites include "random page" features. The random article link on Wikipedia's front page can be the source of many happy, wasted, informative hours.The "interestingness" feature of photo site Flickralso gives a wonderfully un-ordered way of exploring these images.Earlier this year, an addictive internet memeused random generators to challenge participants to create a fake album cover for a nonexistent band. Take the last four words of a random quote, a random image and a random Wikipedia article to produce an album cover. More than 1,000 album covers were made in this form of random creativity.Lotteries and gambling have been around for centuries, but randomness does now seem to be seeping out into more areas of life. Perhaps it's an indicator of our wealth. We have large music collections, can afford to buy almost any food the planet produces and travel all over the world. The entertainment options on offer to us are almost unlimited. Trying to make an informed choice between all possible alternatives would take too long: they're all good, so why not pick one at random?But is this a warning sign of terminal decadence? The idea that so many pleasures are available to us that we're unable to choose has a hint of the last days of Rome about it.I can't help thinking, though, that in some ways our lives contain less randomness than in previous generations, at least in the developed world. Our governmental systems are stable, our currency isn't likely to vanish at any moment and lifespan is increasing as we live through a time of relative peace. So, in a small way, we're reintroducing a little unpredictability to our lives. Looked at in this light, choosing randomness seems a pretty orderly kind of behaviour.&middot;Naomi Alderman is a novelist and games writer
Microsoft's Engineering Windows 7 has a long post by Steve Sinofsky on the background toWindows' development. He lists the various groups that contribute to the project -- from Applets and Gadgets to Windows App Platform -- and says:we create feature teams with n developers, n testers, and 1/2n program managers. This ratio is pretty constant across the team. On average a feature team is about 40 developers across the Windows 7 project.So, 40 developers times 23 groups comes to 920 people, so the total is probably around a thousand. Assuming they cost Microsoft $100,000 per year each, that comes to $100 million a year.It sounds like a big team, but maybe not so big if you break it down. If there are 40 people working on something like IE8 or Media Center, that means there are (following Sinofsky's formula) only 16 actual programmers on each team.Is that too many, or too few?IBM had over a thousand people working on OS/2, and at the time, most people reckoned that was bloated*.....* Note: this was meant to indicate a bloated team. The code wasn't all that bloated....
It's August and many people have taken to the road with their guide books in hand. Perfect timing, then, forRough Guidesto release the first full edition of their Videogames manual by Kate Berens and Geoff Howard. And we have five to give away. From theofficial site:The Rough Guide to Videogames is the ultimate guide to the world's most addictive pastime. Both a nostalgic look at the past and a celebration of the latest in joystick-wrecking wonders, this book covers the full story from the first arcade machines to the latest digital delights. Easy access to 75 of the greatest games of all time, from Civilization and Pro Evolution Soccer to We Love Katamari and World of Warcraft. The guide profiles the stories behind the software giants, famous creators and the world's favourite characters, including Mario, Lara Croft and Sonic the Hedgehog. All the gadgets and devices for consoles, hand-helds, phones and PCs are explored as well as the wider world of gaming, from websites and movies to books.Location-based guides describe the cities and villages' best assets: their restaurants, hotels and destinations that will give the traveller a good sense of what makes the place tick. We're looking for the same thing, but for a game.Describe your favourite game location in under 300 words.It could bea pub in Baldur's Gate(those busty barmaids sure make you feel welcome), it could be aresearch lab at the Black Mesa facilityin Half Life. What about theringworldin the Halo series? Surely there are some fine locations there.A nice spot for a dinner partyin Azeroth in World of Warcraft? We want to know!Send your fave places in games to gamesblog +at+ gmail +dot+ com by midnight GMT Monday 25 August, and you could win a copy of the new book. Extra points for screenshots!
I just caught up with aninterview in Newsweek with Rodney Brooks, the roboticist, in which he argues that conscious robots are possible. The real problem, he says, is us. "Whether we humans are smart enough to build such machines is a different question. Maybe we're just not smart enough. That pisses off the scientists when I say that."
A British woman has been ordered to pay more than &pound;16,000 to an American computer games company after illegally sharing its files over the internet.The woman, who is not being named, is one of the first to be successfully targeted in the UK as part of the media industry's battle with digital pirates.The company, Nevada-based TopWare Interactive, claimed the woman made its game Dream Pinball 3D available to other internet users in breach of the law. After a civil hearing at the patents county court in London, a judge ruled that she should pay TopWare more than &pound;6,000 in damages and &pound;10,000 in costs.The game costs &pound;26, but last year letters were sent to more than 500 alleged filesharers demanding they pay a &pound;340 settlement or face the prospect of further court action. This spring four other people were fined &pound;750, but David Gore, who is representing TopWare, said it was not just trying to score a series of payouts."These people have uploaded games and made them available to tens of thousands of people," he said. "What they are trying to do is deter people from illegally filesharing their games. This is not a massive revenue-generating exercise."The company has initiated civil proceedings against a further 100 individuals, marking the widest legal action of this kind seen in the UK.In the past year a number of actions have been taken against alleged pirates, including the closure of a website called TV Links and the arrest of a man accused of running a music-sharing website known as Oink.
I've tried to loveToo Human, I really have. For a start action role playing games - think Diablo 2 etc - are rarely found on the consoles. And those that are tend to emphasise the hack and slash action over the deeper character development stuff. Too Human has skill trees, levelling, looting, big guns, co-op - heck, this should be great, right? Sadly not. Repetitive action, bland graphics, iffy controls, technical glitches - for a game that has been in development for years this is unforgivable. Or maybe the protracted birth explains the game's flaws? The clumsy inventory and general lack of interface polish are possibly symptomatic of an overly inward looking development process. Or maybe I've been spoilt by the likes of WoW? But with the amount of inventory management that Too Human requires you'll wish there was a more elegant solution.So how does it play? If you've played the demo then you've got a good idea. Essentially enter area, take out long-range enemies before ploughing into the melee combat. Don't expect much help from your computer controlled buddies, who seem to be there to flesh out the plot as much as anything. Kill all the painfully generic monsters and you can pick up the conveniently dropped weapons, armour and money and spend five minutes rearranging your inventory. Then it's on to the next area and repeat, with occasional breaks for one off "boss" battles. Cut-scenes break up the levels - the plot mixes Norse mythology with generic sci-fi to no great effect - and there is a Phantasy Star-style hub area (sadly only with you and not the rest of the Too Human community). But otherwise that's pretty much it.Again if you have played the demo you'll know what the controls are like. If not think spongy, imprecise - you use the right hand stick, rather than a button, to attack - and rather frustrating. Luckily you do get used to things after a while - the frequency of combat means subtlety is rarely required - but I found ranged weapons generally more satisfying. That's assuming the auto lock-on worked - often it picked up dead enemies or incoming missiles and ignored the angry robogoblin coming straight for me.And then there was the unskippable death sequence that delays your return to the fray for around 30 seconds at a time. Mildly annoying at the start this play delay becomes excruciating later in the game. At one point I died five times in about two minutes - I was tired, it was the end of a level. On the fifth go the game seemed to take pity on me and dumped me straight back into play. Sadly it never happened again.Too Human doesn't look great either. The art design is spectacularly bland. Some occasionally impressive vistas are let down by generic "space marine" characters and dull interiors which give the game the look of a watered down Halo or Gears of War. There is even an 80's synth sound effect on the menu screen to make Mass Effect fans feel at home .But despite all this Too Human does have its moments. No really. There were times, especially early on, when the combat and leveling felt almost hypnotic. And you can't deny that primal gaming urge to get a better bit of kit, whether it's a weapon, some armour or a pile of cash. This is helped by a quick levelling pace which keeps the hits coming. Plus there is always that nagging desire to see what's next, even if it usually means another fairly generic sci-fi locale.But the game really staggers into life when played online and it is here where the real long-term play will be found. Team up with a friend and there is a least a modicum of strategy involved - ie one of you stand back and shoot while the other gets stuck in. But the fact you are both playing the same character will be a killer for many. Yes, you can play as different classes - though don't expect a *huge* difference - and given the huge amount of gear in the game you are unlikely to be wearing the same armour. But you are still both playing as the main character,Baldur. And unfortunately the armour looks so similar that you soon loose the urge to chase the next drop. This may change at the really high levels but Too Human seems to lack loot variety. Bad news, as kitting out your character is a key part of the game. Not that there is any real chance to show off your Big Helm of Power or Stupidly Large Plamsa Rifle anyway. Yes, you can show and trade with one other player in the co-op mode but Too Human could really do with a lobby.If Too Human 2 - let's hope they think of a better title - can add more variety, better graphics and deeper online play while simultaneously ditching the death sequence then it could be a contender. But as it stands Too Human feels painfully average and was hardly worth the wait.
Statistics are all about interpretation - they don't always lie, as the famous quote suggests, but they can easily be manipulated into saying things they're not sure they want to say.Here, for example, are two very recent stories on the Xbox vs PlayStation face-off, both using similar sources... to make quite different points.Fromthe Artstechnica feature:It wouldn't be accurate to say that the sky is falling for Microsoft's one and only gaming console, the 360, but it may be time to look at what the company is doing right... and where it's going wrong. The Sony PlayStation 3 is beginning to chip away at the 360's lead in both software and hardware sales in the US, and that system only seems to be picking up steam. In contrast, the 360 doesn't seem to have much real momentum these days.Fromthe TG Daily equivalent:Tokyo (Japan) - Once again, it is an exclusive game title that is the decisive factor in console sales. In this case, it is worth a special note, as the Xbox 360 sold almost three times more units as the PS3 over the course of one week. Nationally and internationally, the Xbox 360 and the PS3 seem to be involved in a dead heat with sales advantages shifting almost every month.Can't we just agree that there may be no winner this time round - or indeed, ever again? The Wii, Xbox 360 and PS3 are all strong enough, and have large enough installed user-bases to keep going. They are all backed by huge multinational companies, they all have their own supporters in the development and publishing sectors. No-one is about to drop out or fade away. Somewhere, there are statistics to prove it.
Researchers gathering in Boston for a meeting of the American Psychological Association, have collected yet more evidence that games are good for us, and not - as it has often been reported - the source of all evil, pain and conflict in the modern world. Ina CNN story posted today, it is revealed that the best surgeons are the ones who play most games. From the report:Studies by Iowa State University psychologist Douglas Gentile and Dr. James Rosser, head of minimally invasive surgery at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, compared surgeons who play video games to those who don't.The edge went to gamer surgeons, they found, even after taking into account differences in age, years of medical training and the number of laparoscopic surgeries performed. In laparoscopic procedures, surgeons use small incisions, thin surgical tools and video cameras to see inside the body.One study of 33 laparoscopic surgeons found that those who played video games were 27 percent faster at advanced surgical procedures and made 37 percent fewer errors than those who didn't.But that's only part of the story. It seems that justtalkingabout games can have a positive effect:Researchers at the University of Wisconsin at Madison looked at a random sample of 2,000 chat room posts about "World of Warcraft" to see what the players were discussing. The game is set in a fantasy world where players hunt, gather and battle to move their characters to higher levels. Players who work together succeed faster.The research found the game encouraged scientific thinking, like using systems and models for understanding situations and using math and testing to investigate problems.The vast majority of the discussion participants, 86 percent, shared knowledge to solve problems and more than half, 58 percent, used systematic and evaluative processes, researchers found.Now for the bad news:Other studies confirmed earlier research that found students who played violent games tended to be more hostile, less forgiving and believed violence to be normal compared to those who played nonviolent games. And those who played more entertainment games did poorer in school and were are greater risk of obesity.Tellingly, these are the vaguest findings reported. Of course, this could be more about the news story itself, but it could also be that those looking into the negative effects of games are forced into drawing wider, less specific conclusions.Anyway, I wonder if Chatterbox contributes to the development of scientific thinking? I've certainly learned a lot more about zombie warfare than I ever expected.
The review embargo onToo Human- the years in development action RPG for the Xbox 360 - is lifted tomorrow. The game is released on the US on the same day. Hmm. You can make your own mind up about why they coincide but my review/impressions will be up at midnight. I'll also have an interview with Too Human's development headDenis Dyackup very soon too, though sadly he wouldn't confirm the existence of a sequel toEternal Darknessaka the best game on Gamecube.
Online music service Pandora -a bit like Last.fm, but without the CBS cash - is facing the crunch, according to reports. New licensing rules that have doubled the licensing costs, leading founder Tim Westergren to consider closing it down completely. "We're approaching a pull-the-plug kind of decision... This is like a last stand for webcasting," hetold the Washington Post.
An email fromNapsterheralds the arrival of a very special new artist on the subscription download service - famous digital-holdouts Metallica (who sued the site in its previous incarnation). According to the blurb, the band's "back catalogue is now available in full on Napster! ROCK!!!". Yeah, dude. It's a coup getting these notorious anti-internet shredders... just don't mention that they've been oniTunes since 2006
Not many shops stock 150 million products.Cafepressnot only manages this amazing feat, it adds around 45,000 new ones every day. This is only possible, of course, because the products don't exist until someone orders them. Your T-shirt, poster, cap, bag, book, mug or whatever is produced and shipped on demand.But that is only half the Cafepress story. The other half is that its business is based on that old Web 2.0 standby, "user-generated content". Instead of buying a T-shirt printed with someone else's design, you can create your own. And if it's really good, you might even make a bit of money by letting Cafepress sell it to everybody else.If you fancy trying your hand, you can set up a small business using Cafepress to collect the money, produce the goods, mail them out, and handle customer service. All you need is access to a computer and some graphics software that can save your design in, for preference, the PNG (portable network graphics) format. The site provides web space and has a Learning Center to help you get going.Cafepress, founded in a garage in 1999, has now grown to the point where it has more than "6.5 million independent shopkeepers and members in addition to syndicated and corporate stores", including geek favourites Dilbert and Wikipedia,But I don't expect most people are in it for the money. Cafepress products started to take off as promotional items, sold from websites such as MP3.com. Its speed of reaction also proved ideal for people who wanted to capitalise on events both on the web and in the real world. If you picked up an "internet meme" such as the Flying Spaghetti Monster, you could soon buy the T-shirt.Presidential elections are a great time for sloganeering and cartooning, and therefore also for Cafepress. If you have a point to make, you can get it on your chest. Barack Obama must be worth a fortune.Cafepress has steadily expanded its product lines. It now prints designs not just on T-shirts, shorts, tank tops and thongs but on stickers, badges and magnets, a variety of hats and bags, baby bibs and even housewares. That category takes in mugs, aprons, wall clocks, tiles, pillows and pet bowls. Cafepress also prints books and manufactures CDs.One problem with the site is finding stuff, but you can search for keywords or browse by topics such as Animals &amp; Wildlife, Military, Music &amp; Instruments, and Religion. There's also a Careers &amp; Professions section that runs from accountants to writers, with a rich set of offerings for computer programmers.Another problem is that Cafepress hasn't expanded beyond the US. It mails products overseas, but this adds to the price. There are discounts for shipping two or more of the same item, but this increases the risk of customs clearance and import charges. This will no doubt get users searching for local sites that take a similar approach, such asspreadshirt.netandcreativecraving.comin the UK.
Tilty SnakefromsquidieonVimeo.Smashing Magazinehas presented "10 recent developments in the field of user experience design. Most techniques may seem very futuristic, but some of them are already reality." Tilty Snake is one....
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
This software system from the University of Washington forusing still photographs to enhance your crappy-looking videoslooks pretty incredible - though I can only wonder at how long it takes to render.
They are the arteries of the modern world. Stretching for tens of thousands of miles over the ocean beds, the vast web of intercontinental submarine cables have brought the possibility of cheap high-speed internet and clear long-distance telephone calls to all major parts of the globe. Except one.East Africa remains the only large, inhabited coastline cut off from the global fibre-optic network. Reliant entirely on expensive satellite connections, people on the world's poorest continent pay some of the highest rates for logging on or phoning. Local universities are charged up to 50 times more for bandwidth than a typical American college, making online research slow or impossible."Imagine you had all the students at Oxford trying to access the web through a single UK household connection," said Calestous Juma, a Kenyan professor who heads the Science, Technology and Globalisation Project at Harvard University. "That's what it's like for most students in Africa."But with the last piece of the global fibre-optic jigsaw about to fall into place, all that is set to change. In October, the first lengths of a new 9,300-mile submarine cable to serve east Africa will be loaded on to a ship and then unrolled into the Indian Ocean.On-rampThe &pound;322m Seacom cable, owned mainly by African investors, will stretch northwards from South Africa, making landfall at Mozambique, Madagascar, Tanzania and Kenya before splitting to tap into the international grid in France and India. Due to be operational by June 2009, it will be closely followed by two more finger-thin cables, including the ambitious Eastern Africa Submarine Cable System (EASSy), which will connect 21 countries on the eastern half of Africa to each other and to the world."For the first time people in the region will have an on-ramp on to the global internet highway," said Alan Mauldin, of TeleGeography, a telecoms market research firm in the US.Indeed, for all the talk of a wireless era, it is physical infrastructure rather than satellite technology that enables cheap and fast communication. Intercontinental fibre-optic cables, which use light signals to transmit data, carry more than 95% of the world's internet and telephone traffic. Many of the existing undersea networks were installed in the telecoms boom of the late 1990s but a second undersea cable-laying spurt is now under way, with &pound;3.5bn-worth of new projects due for completion by 2010.One reason is the increased use of video download sites and peer-to-peer applications such as YouTube, which is causing global bandwidth usage to more than double every 18 months. Another is the need for backup cables in case of accidents - earlier this year businesses in the Middle East and India were badly affected for several days when a ship's anchor sliced through two undersea cables off the Egyptian coast. And finally there is demand from places never before connected to the fibre-optic grid. Even sparsely populated areas such as Greenland, which has 56,000 inhabitants, are finding that satellite links can no longer do the job. The self-governing Danish territory is laying a 3,000-mile cable that will link to the global network via Canada and Iceland.But it is in the eastern half of Africa where the cables are most keenly awaited. In Kenya a slow and often unreliable broadband internet connection with the main telecoms operator costs &pound;75 a month. In landlocked neighbouring countries the price can be twice as much."What's stifled demand until now is not poverty," said Brian Herlihy, the president of Seacom. "It's economics - the prices are simply far too high."The International Financial Corporation, which together with 25 regional telecoms companies, is funding the &pound;170m EASSy undersea link, estimates that its cable alone will cause internet prices to fall by two-thirds in east Africa and the number of online subscribers to triple.The cost of telephone calls made to other parts of the continent is also expected to drop once the new submarine and terrestrial links are in place. Many inter-African calls are now routed through Europe or the US.The EASSy cable should go live in early 2010, ahead of the football World Cup that year. The host nation, South Africa, is linked to the single undersea cable that runs up the west African coast to Europe but the capacity is insufficient to handle the anticipated broadcast and internet traffic generated by the games.Beyond the tournament, however, there are fears that there may be a large oversupply of bandwidth, especially as the Kenyan government has decided to build its own cable from Mombasa to the United Arab Emirates. But Herlihy, who points out that consumers will benefit from lower prices even if this occurs, says the new networks will unleash an "African technological revolution", which will quickly drive up demand.And it is true that many countries are banking on IT to boost their economies. Rwanda is positioning itself as a regional telecoms hub, a "Singapore of the Great Lakes". Kenya has a vibrant community of smart, young programmers whose skills led Google to open a development office in Nairobi last year. It also has a growing outsourcing industry.Call centresDespite the poor connectivity, a local start-up, Kencall, has already proved it can compete with Indian call centres for US and European clients. In two years its staff has grown from 150 to 650. But Kencall's founder, Nicholas Nesbitt, believes his workforce could reach 5,000 within three years of fibre being installed. "For a country to be without fibre-optic links today is like being without a harbour in the past - you are landlocked," he said.Juma said the effect of cheap, fast connectivity on business in the region would be "phenomenal". But the biggest potential gains will be had in education, especially if schools and universities are given subsidised bandwidth. Instead of universities and students spending cash on building libraries and buying textbooks, they can access much of the same information for free online, he said."The speed that knowledge currently moves in Africa is 5mph - walking pace. But with decent connectivity knowledge will travel at the speed of light," declared Juma.
The Soviet Union's habit of rewriting the past always showed what a dishonest system it was, and one of the points of George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four was that the "Ministry of Truth" was actually a Ministry of Lies. But apparently lots of us are now taking the same approach, according to a story inThe New York Times. For example, you can delete your ex-spouse using Photoshop:Like a Stalin-era technician in the Kremlin removing all traces of an out-of-favor official from state photos, the friend erased the husband from numerous cherished pictures taken on cruises and at Caribbean cottages, where he had been standing alongside Ms Horn, now 50, and other traveling companions."In my own reality, I know that these things did happen," Ms Horn said. But "without him in them, I can display them. I can look at those pictures and think of the laughter we were sharing, the places we went to.""This new reality," she added, "is a lot more pleasant."We are used to pictures being "prettied up" for use in the mass media, particularly in advertising and promotions, but also by reputable magazines. (And, of course, the subjects themselves may already have been "prettied up" by surgeons, dentists and make-up artists.) But it seems to me there's a difference between faking the past and fake boobs.The story quotes Alan D Entin, a clinical psychologist, who regards family photos as documentary records:To alter them is to invite self-deception, he said. "The value to accepting a photograph of yourself as you are is that you're accepting the reality of who you are, and how you look, and accepting yourself that way, warts and all. I think the pictures you hate say as much about you as pictures you love."Reality-denial, fakery and lies are obviously common the Web, but have they really become acceptable in everyday life? If so, should we be worried about it?
Is Google good for you? Well, you can have too much of a good thing,writesDavid Smith.The company launched in a Californian garage 10 years ago next month has become one of the most wealthy and influential in the world. You might have found this blog post using its search engine. To google the weather, a cinema listing or an obscure fact in mid-conversation has become something of a reflex. Indeed my research for an article askingwhether Google is now too powerfulinvolved a lot of googling. It has made our lives so easy that, in the Atlantic Monthly, the writer Nicholas Carr pondered:'Is Google making us stupid?'Google was born just south of San Francisco where post-Sixties optimism, idealism and utopianism still reign supreme. The founders have an altruistic desire to make information available for free (while pocketing billions of dollars from advertising). Earlier this year in San Francisco I met Chris Sacca, head of special initiatives at Google from 2003 to 2007, whose blog includes a brilliantly written post aboutthe day he witnessed a shooting. Last week the 33-year-old told me how staff at Google are given unprecedented autonomy and creative freedom: 'I've never known a company have such a broad mission statement - to organise all the world's information - and live up to it. Time limitations, cost, number of computers, bandwidth, fear of upsetting people didn't apply. It was simply: what problem is this solving?'As for Google's co-founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Sacca is somewhat in awe: 'They're two of the smartest people on the planet. You can go to them with an idea and by the next day they've read everything on it. It's almost intimidating how bright they are.'But not everyone regards the project quite so benignly. Google's product philosophy, launch fast and launch often, has given it immense reach and something approaching dominance of the online advertising market. Amnesty International was deeply unimpressed when Google bowed to censorship in China. And now almost every week the press is full of alarm, some of itover-hyped, about Google's ability to hoover up our personal secrets. Even Barack Obama and John McCain are beating a path to the Googleplex, and the company will be co-hosting the Vanity Fair parties at the Democratic and Republican conventions.In the age when knowledge is power, is it really healthy for any one organisation, particularly a profit-driven company, to have quite so much information at its fingertips? What do you think?
The British internet TV market could generate revenues of &pound;1.78bn by 2011, according to research carried out by technology company Alcatel-Lucent. Although the industry is in its infancy, several British companies, including TV website Joost, already offer TV over the internet, and BT Vision, the pay-TV arm of the telecoms giant, uses broadband connections to deliver shows to customers' TV sets. Faster internet connections have already popularised some internet shows, including Kate Modern, made by social networking site Bebo.Alcatel-Lucent claims internet TV services could have a market share of between 22 and 37 per cent in the UK within three years, depending on how aggressively they are promoted. The findings were calculated by the number of people who said they would like to use the services and the amount they were willing to pay.Other TV services already offer a wide number of channels, as well as catch-up services or built-in Personal Video Recorders, but internet TV enables users to download a greater selection of shows. Alcatel-Lucent surveyed 1,373 people.
Peter Bazalgette, media consultant, investor and former producer of Channel 4's Big BrotherAs the channels of communication become more complex, and the TV schedule dies, the search to find a particular piece of content becomes more important. I'm all for less regulation, but search will be an Ofcom issue in the future. I'll be interested to see what Google does in the next two years to address society. Will it take on any additional public service responsibilities? Google is brilliant and a great public utility but don't assume it is going to be totally dominant in the future. It's going to face competition from companies that allow you to search for things in a different way. There will be increasingly sophisticated search engines that provide more informed, less broad-brush results. So Google may not be as dominant but it will still be a healthy business.Kate Allen, director of Amnesty International UKWe have long-standing concerns about Google regarding the way it is betraying its own principles in going against established international norms around freedom of information. When you go on a Google search engine in London and look for a picture of Tiananmen Square, you get that iconic picture of a man standing in front of a tank. If you go to google.cn and do the same search you'll get a picture of happy smiley tourists. Specific words such as Tibet, democracy, Tiananmen Square are heavily censored. We think that filtering process should be transparent. The rest of us who know that we're using Google in an uncensored fashion have a duty to stand up for people who don't have that access.Jeffrey Chester, director, Center for Digital Democracy, WashingtonGoogle will be the most powerful media company in the 21st century, and they are really owed tremendous credit for that. But they are so well integrated into everyone's existence, and questions should be raised. They are expanding into mobile communications, which adds a whole new dimension - not only do they know your interests but they know where you are. Strong privacy policies enacted by the EU and the US are urgently required. Competition authorities should investigate Google's growing role as an online advertising gatekeeper. Our democratic future depends on the structure of the new media.Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive, WPP advertising groupCopyright and fair payment for content are going to become more of an issue in the future. Also, as Google has become more and more dominant, people are becoming increasingly concerned about its market position. There are very few media owners that have 70 or 80 or 90 per cent market share, which they would if the Google-Yahoo! link in America becomes a reality.  The most interesting thing is who will be the son or daughter of Google, and whether that will come from a Stanford or a Bangalore or Beijing. I think it's more likely to be the latter. Google's big challenge is the law of big numbers: can a $160bn company become a trillion dollar company?Ashley Highfield, former director of BBC Future Media &amp; Technology and BBC iPlayer mastermind, now CEO KangarooPeople are terribly peripatetic in the online world; there is very little loyalty, particularly to search brands. If somebody else comes up with a better mousetrap then the audience will use that service instead of Google's. The web world shows that products do go through generations, and I think you could argue that Google's now looking quite Web 1.0 and maybe hasn't embraced a number of the emerging Web 2.0 features. The future's going to be in layering on top of Google more understanding of the context of the user and the question - the 'semantic web', without getting too cyberbollocks about the whole thing.Adam Curtis, director of TV documentary on terrorism, The Power of NightmaresThe millions of searches that engines like Google record and store reveal the shifting desires and fears of individuals. They're leading to a new fragmented sensibility among millions of people in the way they see and experience the world. Machines like Google know something about us as human beings that we really don't want to know - that we are not individuals: 'If you like this then you will like that...'. So Google is a paradox. It gives us the feeling we are wild and free individuals, powerfully reinforcing an idea of us as heroic figures in the consumer age. Yet at the same time it is powerfully proving the opposite - that we are completely predictable. Out of that is going to come some very interesting political ideas of how to organise society and also new artistic ideas. The really interesting question is whether it is really a cult....
Taking place in what looks like the mind of MC Escher, echochrome is a perspective-bending, real-time puzzle game that gets you to guide an artist's mannequin through a series of black-and-white mazes. Obeying the game's five laws, you need to think flat: if it looks as though two platforms meet, regardless of how far one is behind the other, then they do; if you can't see a gap in the walkway in front of your avatar, then it ceases to exist. To exploit these rules you simply rotate the 3D maze until your view does what you want it to and your modest, line-drawn chap can collect a number of shadows lurking in the maze before finding the exit. With your mannequin's ceaseless forward progress and a whole world of careful maze-tilting to do, dexterity is very much a factor. Disappointingly, echochrome is never as amazing as it should be, let down by controls that lack the precision necessary for more testing challenges and a not-quite-complete devotion to obeying its own laws, which feels cheap and occasionally unfair.
Hi, I'm from the internet and I'm an arrogant, abusive, annoying git who runs a website called Speak You're Branes. I actually prefer the domain name,ifyoulikeitsomuchwhydontyougolivethere.com. See, already I've gone and used a term like "domain name", but you're reading the Guardian and have unlimited broadband so you can probably cope with that, can't you? You big, organic shandy drinker.I created my website about 18 months ago in a (failed) attempt to cure myself of a shameful addiction. I was addicted to clicking around the"Have Your Say" sectionof the BBC's website. In case you're not familiar with it, it's the bit of the site where someone at the Beeb asks a question like "Are radical Muslim clerics interfering with your wheelie bin collection schedule?" and then a gang of multi-chinned nincompoops compete to see who can get the most startlingly stupid, pompous or racist response past the moderators. Back then I was only spending a couple of hours a week sifting through the deranged mooing. Occasionally I'd pull out a particularly entertaining example and mail it to a few friends. Eventually, I think one of them asked me to stop and so I started collecting them on a website instead.It's turned out to be strangely popular. Being brilliant, I've had loads of ideas this good before but this is the first one where someone else hasn't got there first (as happened with eBay, iTunes, binge-drinking and dogging).I'm going to assume you're one of the small number of committedly unhip dudes who hasn't visited my site yet and tell you a little bit about the comments I collect.These people are all idiots. But that's not what I find funny about them. The thing that makes me laugh, endlessly, is that these self-absorbed cretins seem to believe that somebody important inside the internet cares what they think. Who do they think they're talking to? The Queen? Terry Wogan? Father Christmas? I can tell you, actually. They all think they're addressing Gordon Brown. This is about as sophisticated as their politics gets. The BBC = the state = Gordon Brown. Having their tragic witterings "published" on the BBC's site (THE BBC!!! THE ACTUAL BBC!!!!!) is, for them, a validation of their moronic opinion and as good as speaking directly to the prime minister.These people go beyond the curtain-twitching fear of those who believe what they read in newspapers. They are engaged in an endless game of prejudice-reinforcing Chinese whispers about Muslims, France, Iran, communism, immigrants, benefit fraud and paedophiles. They start off with a story about some bureaucratic parking regulation and end up fabricating an anecdote of "political correctness gone mad" where they claim that "Brussels" has arrested the Queen for using the word "brainstorm" instead of the official EU replacement term "thinkspunk".Let me give you some examples from the site:"Infringement of human rights? Gay rights, women's rights, immigrants rights. What about OUR rights?BritSoldDownTheRiverYou're just not trying hard enough. You can't very well change your ethnicity and changing your sex is probably a little extreme. You can, however, go gay RIGHT NOW! All those human rights are there waiting for you if you'd only cruise down to the docks and pick up a handsome young sailor.On Great BRITISH patriotism:"I join with many other posters here. The citizens who were born and bred in this country have far more RIGHTS to be looked after. WE have paid OUR taxes, and there are a lot of BRITISH people who are also on very low wages. Wages which, in many cases, have been driven down by the influx of migrant workers. Show these immigrants the door. It's not a case of being hard hearted about it. It's a case of putting BRITISH citizens (our own people) first in their own country."Ken ThompsonI reckon Ken pronounces "BRITISH" with the caps lock on. He doubles in volume and his voice goes up an octave every time he says it. His idea of a "good night in" is to watch Only Fools And Horses while screaming "BRITAAAAAAIN" into a bag of frozen Yorkshire puds.A snippet of Graham's life:"I voted using the postal vote system. I didnt find it confusing but the papers were folded wrong and didnt fit in the supplied envelope properly."Graham, EdinburghThanks G-Man. Do you have a blog I could subscribe to?Apart from ignorance, prejudice and plain weirdness, another feature common to many of the comments is astonishingly bollocks wordplay. Nobody ever writes "New Labour" or "Gordon Brown". These petty internet gnomes proudly write "Nu LiarBore", "Gordon CLOWN" or something similarly inventive and hilarious. You can almost see their smiles of satisfaction as they type it. Funny and subversive. Brilliant.Talking of subversive, I occasionally come across a comment so dangerous that the author fears it will be suppressed by the BBC (just in case it starts a revolution). Typically, the comment will start out with something about the "namby pamby PC brigade" whose political correctness is apparently stopping the truth being spoken, before claiming that "Brown people spread MRSA", and finally finishing off with a phrase that will only be read once it's been proved wrong: "I bet this doesn't get published!" Needless to say, the BBC is staffed exclusively by enviro-fascist do-gooder libruls who are part of the political correctness conspiracy that's been keeping white people down all these years.There's so much of this crap that I've actually got people helping me sift through it now. My addiction has become debilitating. I keep wondering, "What will I do with my blog? What is it for?" I'm still not sure. But it seems to have wangled me an invitation to speak my brain at you, the actual Guardian-reading do-gooder librul-Marxist member of the PC-brigade. So here I am, sat on a train, on my way to see friends down in fancy London, penning some words for the Guide and trying not to use the word "cunt" gratuitously. I bet this doesn't get published.&#183;Speak You're Branes's collection of ignorance, narcissism, stupidity, hypocrisy and bad grammar from BBC Have Your Say can be found atifyoulikeitsomuchwhydontyougolivethere.com
The DS, although wildly successful, has never exactly been renowned for the quality of its racing games, a fact that makes the superb Race Driver: GRID stand out straight away. No messing about with ludicrous steering via the touchscreen or, indeed, any pretence at using the stylus whatsoever, this gets on with letting you drive supercars at high speed, starting you in a racing Aston Martin and never really letting the pace slip below that. While you can no longer rewind time as you could in its console-based big brother, you can now use its comprehensive track editor to create and share new courses, revelling in the game's balanced handling model that favours powerslides and proper use of breaking. Virtually identical to last autumn's Race Driver: Create &amp; Race, ownership of which would make this a pointless purchase, GRID is the best DS racing game that isn't Mario Kart.
Is it possible to run both Freesat and Sky off the same satellite? If so, could you feed two TV sets at the same time, one watching Sky and the other watching Freesat?The major difference between Sky and Freesat - the no-subscription offering from the BBC and ITV - is not the dishes but the receiver boxes, which decode different satellite information.This means you should be able to use a Sky receiver in one room and a Freesat one in another - particularly useful for multiple-TV households that don't want to pay the fees Sky demands for additional set-top boxes. You need to make sure your dish installation has enough 'low noise block' (LNB) outputs: a typical Sky set-up has four connectors, allowing you to add extra receivers simply by running the cable from the LNB box to your TVs.&#183;In an earlier column on receiving BBC World Service broadcasts in Europe, we mentioned WorldSpace Radio's free West Africa beam. Peter, in Spain, got in touch to say he uses WorldSpace, but that the free transmissions are 'slanted to Africa, and often in French or other languages', plus the full English service costs about &pound;85 a year - leading him to consider using Freesat instead.
