When did you start using computers in your music?I'd been working with keyboard programming about eight years ago and it had started to become a little restrictive in terms of what I could do with Audio and MIDI sounds simultaneously. I started to use Cakewalk  with a normal PC until I found that quite restrictive too.Is that why you switched to Macs?The instability of PCs and the music software available for them felt a bit Mickey Mouse in comparison to the stability of Macs. I think most serious programmers do use Macs now. I got into Logic Audio www.emagic.de, which I thought was brilliant and allowed me to do everything I wanted to do. I currently use a G4 desktop and also the Titanium PowerBook. I'm waiting for Logic Audio 5 to come out, then it'll make more sense to upgrade to OSX.How important was technology while making Prophesy?I don't like the idea of using technology to replace reality or first-hand experience. On my travels to make Prophesy I wanted to experience things and use technology more as a glorified recorder of events. Sometimes I'd use my laptop and a Sony MiniDisc and other times I used Pro-Tools  in a proper studio to record the Brazilian Philharmonic Orchestra. One of the big problems was synchronisation, as you have to make sure that whatever you record when you're away syncs with everything when you get back. I solved that by putting a Synch Pop at the beginning of the waveforms so everything could be lined up visually.Could more be done to make the net available to everyone?Only 1% of the world's population even has access to computers, which really puts it in perspective. It is really important that there's not a "haves and have-nots" situation created by the net -I don't think access to the net should necessarily be linked to money in the same way education shouldn't be either. I have a friend who fixes broken computers and sends them to countries that otherwise wouldn't have the resources.Favourite gadgets?I've just got the new iPod, which is amazing! Just the idea of having 1,000 tracks in your pocket is great as it has a 5Gb hard-drive. I also use a Nokia Communicator, which is extremely handy for email and surfing when I'm abroad. I would like someone to come up with a lie detector gadget that can sense when politicians are telling the truth or not.Favourite sites?I really like the site of a theoretical physicist called David Deutsch who wrote The Fabric of Reality. Indymedia.org gives a different slant on world events, as does The Onion , Bored.com  and DancingBush.com  are fun and Mtv2.co.uk  is really well put together graphically.
Bigfoot alertJohn Bourn bemoans Yahoo's replies to emails (Feedback, January 24). I would add Bigfoot (my email has all but stopped) and Genie (my email-to-phone alerts have ceased). This is why we write to Jack Schofield for a human response. And when my &#163;30 pay-as-you-go phone works in more than 100 countries, why is roaming so difficult with a computer?Christopher DawkinsChrisDawkins@cs.comMobile fodderHere's some more fodder for Allen Ives who did not like my description of mobiles as intimate objects. In 1999 I created a product concept called the Vibrating Internal Pager, with a corporate video, a dial-in service from which you could send vibrations to the pagers, a business plan, and product launch events. More seriously, however, mobile phones are telephones but are also cultural objects through which people communicate and construct their identities.Lucy Kimbellme@lucykimbell.comSet the paceThe Pace &#163;99.99 digital TV converter (What's new, 24 Jan) may mean industry (and government) suspects the public are staying away deliberately. They know the government wants the sale of    analogue spectrum to happen as soon as possible.  Can you record one digital programme while watching another? There has been a deafening silence on that one! Can the Pace box receive the four new free-to-air terrestrial channels without further expense? One shouldn't have to pay for channels from the BBC as the licence covers it, and ads pay for ITV output. Older TVs only have about eight channels, so after allowing one as the video recorder output, there aren't enough for all the digital channels.Richard Gosnellrpgosnellg4muf@compuserve.comFrozen outI cannot receive Channel 5, and thus cannot use the Pace set-top box. I receive my TV signal from a relay station. This talk of a bright digital future leaves me cold. What will happen when they shut off the analogue signal? Can I expect a reduced licence fee?Rob Goldthorperob.goldthorpe@btinternet.comClear the airVictor Keegan doesn't tell us whether Pace's set-top box addresses digital TV's killer problem: most households can view or record four or more channels simultaneously. If analogue signals are switched off, that ceases to be possible without substantial investment. Would a set-top    box provide acceptable reception for sets with built-in aerials? Weak analogue signals give intelligible reception where digital gives zilch.David Lewind.lewin@rl.ac.ukOpen wideTristan Roddis hopes consumers oppose attempts to lock us into proprietary data formats but unfortunately most large consumers such as government agencies and organisations are keen to use expensive proprietary formats, which keep up the digital divide: not everyone can afford to upgrade equipment. Educational institutions are also culpable of enforcing proprietary standards: some insist that essays are handed in a Microsoft Word format. This is a great threat to academic freedom.  There is a website at http://freedevelopers.net that discusses these issues.Tony Goddardhlamthecat@yahoo.comXML focusI find it amazing that Wal&#233; Azeez (On the paper trail, January 24) fails to mention XML. Major players in the EDI market place such as GEIS have said that "e-commerce over the internet is poised for unprecedented growth, due to the introduction of a powerful new internet standard called the eXtensible Markup Language, or XML." Look at  www.xml.org  or www.ebxml.org.David Morrisdavid@brassedoff.netWork it outThe fact that it took nearly a quarter of a page to explain the workings of electronic data interchange is a good indication of its complex nature. This is why less than 5% of the world's businesses have taken up EDI since it was introduced over 30 years ago.  An XML-based message, however, can be handled by the recipient, from receiving it by email to 100% automated receipting - a god-send. Combine this with the extensible nature of XML, and you have a technology that will "change the way we do business". EDI must now give way for a new generation of electronic transaction exchange.Eduardo Loigorrieloigorri@exchequer.com
Whatever happened to fair play? The restrictions imposed by German media group Kirch on live internet broadcasts of the 2002 World Cup finals deserves a red card. In 1920 Jules Rimet, father of the World Cup, officially declared he would organise the first football competition between nations. He'd be furious to see live internet coverage of the finals effectively sent off.To participate in the finals, players must be at the peak of their game. For those of us without the necessary talent, the nearest we'll get is as spectators to the extravaganza. Interest in the matches has grown phenomenally: the first final in 1930 attracted 100,000 spectators in Montevideo, Uruguay and an estimated 1.3bn television viewers watched the 1998 Paris final. The competition is the undisputed greatest single sporting event of the world, which makes Kirch's decision far worse than any shortsighted referee's.It's understandable that Kirch, which has paid 1.1bn Swiss francs (&#163;457m) for exclusive rights to the 2002 Finals, wants to maintain control over the privilege it has purchased. No one should begrudge the company for wanting to make a few euros for its owners - that's what media empires do. Yet Kirch should be providing access to sporting events, not blocking it. Last year, Yahoo struck a deal with Fifa to build the official World Cup websites for the 2002 and 2006 tournaments which will show highlights. But Kirch's web blackout means internet users will not   be allowed complete coverage of the finals.This is unsporting, and also ridiculous. After all, the billions who want to keep in touch with the World Cup finals will simply switch on a TV or radio. But then this isn't just about football. It demonstrates the power big business can wield over the internet. Two years ago the International Olympic Committee blocked live web coverage of the Olympic Games. Last year, the Recording Industry Association of America, convinced a US judge to shut down the music sharing service Napster.The World Cup finals and Olympics may just be sport and Napster an online music catalogue, but lawyered-up companies have the power to censor the internet at will. It's a painful experience for internet users who are used to always available news, music and sport.The increased choices the internet provides are under threat. Users get glimpses of the potential of new technology, such as broadband, only to find companies like Kirch try to screw the lid down. In the 21st century, we should be allowed to make decisions for ourselves and not have them   taken away by old-style media empires. Companies such as Kirch react to the internet with some wonder and a lot of fear. The internet is considered a danger to established interests in the media world. Putting the finals online is a risky strategy - it opens up the potential that others will steal Kirch's broadcast rights, just as MP3 music files threatened the music industry. But just as the music industry's confrontational stance has made it look like a lumbering monster out of touch with its customers, so, too, does Kirch's.Not webcasting the finals also has a direct impact on how the internet might develop. Few internet users have experienced it any faster than a 56k modem allows. And why should they? There is little on the internet to encourage them. Putting the World Cup on the web would   not have damaged Kirch's revenue: indeed it could well have enhanced it in a one-off sale to a large net company. Webcasting the finals live with a high-speed feed is an opportunity Kirch and others have missed out on.Whatever the best financial decision for Kirch, there is something corrupt about how technology is being stunted and not allowed to fulfil its potential. When Rimet first proposed the World Cup, he could not have anticipated the sporting phenomenon he had created. The World Cup has done much to break down barriers between different nations as they join together every four years in different parts of the world.The internet has a similar potential; it shows how users around the world can work and play online. The universalising quality of the internet is one of its most compelling features and one that users appreciate the most. That is if companies such as Kirch allow it.&#183;Alan Docherty is editor of Internet Freedom News&#183;Comments to online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
It is not often you can say a website has changed the face of the web, and had an impact far beyond the confines of its own domain. But, for many, Blogger is such a site.For a little over two years now, Blogger  ) has brought its "Push button publishing for the people" to the net, making it easy for net users to create simple, easily updated websites. In doing so, it has brought the kind of vibrant discussion previously seen on the net's chatboards to an area previously noted only for its dormancy - the personal homepage. Better still, you can use it for free. It's used on around 400,000 websites - and it is run by one person, Evan Williams.Blogger, which he and a   small team launched in August 1999, did not invent the web log or "blog" - a frequently updated, diary-like commentary usually filled with links to other websites. Nor is Blogger the only way to create a blog - there are desktop applications that can do a similar job. But it has made the act of "blogging" much simpler by automating many of the most time-consuming and difficult stages of publishing a website. Because Blogger runs on a central web server you do not need special software on your computer to use it. That means people can add to their site from anywhere that has an internet connection.So, for hundreds of thousands of homepages, it has been goodbye to   little more than a CV and pet pictures, and hello to what has been called "personal journalism". Weblogs have been gathering momentum for years, but September 11 last year was when blogging came of age, when thousands of individual posts provided a multitude of perspectives. Some authors simply described where they were, what they were doing, as the twin towers fell. New York bloggers told their networks of family and friends they were safe. Others were serving up strikingly perceptive analysis while the TV networks were still struggling to digest what had happened (see panel, page 3).All Blogger.com's records were broken that day, and the site's membership has been growing rapidly since, with an average of 1,000 weblogs being created every day. But, as it tends to do on the internet, success has brought Blogger to a crossroads. The huge number of people wanting to make use of its tools have placed a huge burden on the service, and now Blogger needs to start making some real money.For all its success, Blogger is a tiny operation. After a financial crisis a year ago, and despite a successful public appeal for funds to buy new servers, Evan Williams ended up the service's only member of staff: co-founder, chief executive and programmer, rolled into one. Working from his apartment in the Noe Valley suburb of San Francisco, Williams spent most of last year attempting to hold the service together - sometimes without success - as its popularity soared. Yet, aside from a deal to license Blogger technology, the main source of revenue for the service comes from BlogSpot, where bloggers pay $12 a year not to have adverts on their pages.Now, sitting in a sunny coffee shop near his home, the 29 year-old is hoping Blogger's days of scraping enough money together to survive are about to end. With a contract programmer now recruited to develop new services, it is time to try and make Blogger pay, through a new version called Blogger Pro that has been talked about for two years, but which only launched last weekend."I don't want to take away the free version," says Williams. "Although I'm convinced that if we took away the free Blogger and told everybody 'you have to pay x amount', a big enough percentage of people would stay to make it sustainable."But it's also very important for me that it has as large an impact as possible,   and I'm still very much a believer in the tiered approach. There is also loads of stuff we want to build and have been talking about building. But we can't add for free."Now, Blogger Pro users can enjoy new services for $30 a year. That will rise to $60 as more gets added. What will be those new features, I ask? "It's not going to be very exciting - servers that respond, at first," he says, laughing."People have been getting so frustrated, especially in the last few days, and the free servers will eventually be responding quickly as well. But the first thing is just to get a faster and more reliable service, but that will also give us the platform on which we can add the new features."The frustration has partly been caused by Blogger's popularity, which has reduced the speed of the service to a crawl in recent months. But it has also been caused by Blogger's   first serious hacker attack, which happened on Christmas Day and eventually took the service completely out of action while Williams scrambled to carry out repairs - over a humble telephone line connection from his parents' house in Des Moines, Iowa."It put a damper on my Christmas, to say the least," he says. "I'd had a few messages from people in the security business and it seemed that quite a few sites got hacked on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, to cause as much havoc as possible. But I guess if your purpose is to annoy and be malicious, it makes sense that they'd choose the most annoying time."Williams got the service fixed, partly thanks - again   - to the weblog community's help: local users pointed him in the direction of a fast internet connection at a nearby cybercafe. But not all of his "customers" are so understanding: Blogger's frequent downtime has led to some ferocious emails from users."I got a really nasty email today from someone who said they used Blogger," says Williams. "I can't even repeat most of the stuff they said. People like that I don't feel so bad about - like 'oh, darn, I'm not paying to subsidise their web publishing anymore'."But most people have been really nice, very understanding about it all, and it's those people I feel under pressure to give this power to. I get sick to my stomach when it's down... I know how frustrating it is when you've got used to using something, and it's not working for you. It kills me when so many people like it and have become dependent on it."And the drive for greater reliability is a big reason behind the drive towards a   subscription service. "The big thing at the moment is to make it all more sustainable, so that it's not 24/7 pressure," says Williams, who admits to only enjoying "sporadic" sleep when Blogger is misbehaving.But while improved reliability will be the central part of Blogger Pro, as it is now known, the plans for other enhancements give an idea of how Williams sees weblogging - and, by extension, the web - developing.The first set of improvements makes Blogger more flexible, adding things like spell checking and a better way for users to archive their posts. Still to come are much-requested features such as built-in commenting - through which readers can leave their comments - and the ability to post additions to weblogs via email."Those are a lot of the obvious things we pictured as Pro since we started talking about it," says Williams. "But the bigger idea is to take advantage of the fact that it is a centralised service."What we haven't done much of, and what I think is desperately needed in the blogging world, are more tools on the browsing side. We have a tremendous amount of content flowing through our system, all in these little chunks that are separate from their sites. It should be easy to index and aggregate and present to people in all kinds of different ways."The dangers of this, of course, are obvious: web-hosting companies have quickly run into trouble in the past when they've attempted to seize the rights to re-use their customers' content. And Williams is quick to agree that users would not condone him publishing their work. What he is interested in is tackling the largely unconnected network of weblogs, introducing network publishing to make it easier for the reader to get to things that might be of interest."For instance," he says, "at MacWorld there were lots of bloggers attending. If someone wanted to find out what   was happening at the show, they would have to read the traditional trade magazines, and maybe the blogs of the people they know are there."But they won't read the tons of other stuff that is going through Blogger which might be interesting or relevant because they're not reading those people's blogs."So what if someone who takes the meta approach to this said: 'Give me all the MacWorld stuff, I'll edit it and pull out the best,' with the publishers' permission, of course? Most of them are publishing to get read, and it's another way to get their stuff out there."It's the collective intelligence factor that you see a little bit of in the blogging world, but which I think isn't exploited nearly as much as it could be. It's the next exciting phase."
Some joker has sent me a virus attachment using UnknownSender@UnknownDomain as the email address. Can I trace it?Matt NormanJack Schofield:Email addresses are easy to fake, but each email passes through several servers and most, or all, add a record to the header. Finding the sender is therefore a matter of reading headers, which means you can use the tools and techniques already developed for finding spammers.There is a good introductory guide atwww.arachnoid.com.SpamCopoffers a service to parse headers and report spam, and there is at least one website (3dmail) where you can paste in a header for parsing. The aim is to find the sender's internet (IP) address. The ISP (Internet Service Provider) who assigned that IP can then identify the account used, and who owns it.   Seeemail.about.com/cs/spamtracking/.Many Outlook Express users are not aware of the headers that are included with every email message because the software hides them. To see the header, right-click on a message and select Properties. Clicking the tab marked Details will show the header, and clicking the button marked Message Source will show the full message exactly as it arrived.StartUp hereI have a PC and a laptop, and both have about a dozen programs on the StartUp list. Most of us don't know which are necessary. Can you recommend a reference?Richard Rosserrichard@rosser.f9.co.ukJS:Pacman, otherwise known as Paul Collins, has acomprehensive list. Since this is very long, you may want to start atpacs.portal.co.uk.Configure itIn System Fix, you tell us to use msconfig to deal with StartUp programs, but Windows 95 does not have an msconfig program. How are we supposed to proceed if we have a similar problem?Paul Hartmannwww.guycroft.clara.net/misc/sundriesJS:Windows 95 has a simpler program called sysedit, which lets you edit the configuration files. However, PC Magazine's Startup Cop is probably a better bet. You can download it free fromdownload.cnet.com. A more powerful commercial alternative isShensoft's Power Launcher Plus, a suite of mini-apps.Missing inputWhen I start my PC, I see an automatic error message saying that DINPUT.DLL cannot be found. It does not appear to be causing problems except that my daughter's game, The Sims, no longer works.Mike AmbroseLondon W4JS:The error message refers to the direct input part of Microsoft's DirectX code, used for playing games. Re-installing The Sims should re-install DirectX, or you can download the latest version fromMicrosoft.Folder lockOn the Jonathan Creek episode transmitted by the BBC on Boxing Day, a laptop was discovered with a Windows folder that could only be opened with the correct password. Is it possible to do this on a standalone machine?David BradfordJS:I missed it, but Encryption Plus Folders Freeware will password protect folders. You can download a copy fromwww.pcguardian.co.com. There is alsoMagic Folders, which is shareware and therefore costs money to register. Mac users can hide folders withFreeguard, which is not very sophisticated, but free. For stronger alternatives, seedownload.cnet.com.Hear thisMy boss is dyslexic and finds using the keyboard difficult. Could you recommend the best of the programs that enable the user to speak to the computer rather than type?Pat RoeJS:Successful voice recognition has less to do with the software chosen than with the application and the user's motivation. All the programs work best when the application has a fairly restricted vocabulary and the user is highly motivated. A dentist or pathologist could be a good bet (probably can't touch-type uses the same terms all the time needs his hands for something else) journalists and secretaries tend to be a bad bet (can type quickly use wide vocabularies not motivated unless they get RSI).The main options for PC users areDragon DictateandL&amp;H Voice Express, both now owned by ScanSoft, and IBM's Via Voice Pro. Dragon Naturally Speaking Mobile comes (or came) with a Voice It handheld digital recorder that can send files to the PC software. This is a good approach for someone who wants minimal contact with the computer. For other compatible recording devices, seewww.lhsl.com.Also, voice recognition needs a fast PC and lots of memory. Go for at least a 1.4GHz machine with 128 or 256 megabytes.Backchat&#183;Last week, I noted that Windows likes to fill up all the memory available, usually with frequently used Microsoft code. Not everyone likes this idea, and programs such asFreememclaim you get better performance by making more free memory available. David Steele suggests the less well-knownRamBooster. However, what really slows Windows 9x (not 200/XP) down is not running out of memory but running out of system resources. There's a good discussion of the difference atwww.aumha.org.
With Amazon the UK's most-visited retailer online, one would think that the internet's impact on small bookshops is like a juggernaut's impact on small hedgehogs. They can't offer the vast range of titles offered online, or by ever-expanding chain retailers such as Waterstone's.Gordon Frankland, proprietor of the Hale Bookshop, thinks otherwise. His bookshop is pioneering an online information and ordering system designed to give independent bookshops the information and ordering abilities of Amazon or chain stores, and a web presence.
Frankland bought his shop, which has eight staff working the equivalent of three full-time jobs, in Hale in Cheshire eight years ago. It used paper catalogues and microfiche to track down books. "I felt there was a desperate need for better data," he says.He moved to a monthly CD-Rom, containing up-to-date information on all UK books in print. But after a few years, the chains were using systems with this same data, and links to their warehouses, allowing shop staff to order books for customers.Enter Phil Scarlett, previously trading director at wholesaler Total Home Entertainment (THE). Firms like THE act as intermediaries between booksellers and many publishers. They can provide computerised ordering systems to retailers without their own network; but these often use older technology, and tie a shop to one wholesaler.Scarlett says there are three major UK wholesalers: his old employer, Bertram Books and Gardners. "When I was at THE, we supplied this service, but it cost us hundreds of thousands to support."So Scarlett set up the Book Partnership, which links these three wholesalers - and Scarlett wants to sign up three more - to the bookshops, with all the data running through his system. "It's a single application running the whole thing," says Joanne Nightingale at Quantiv, which provides the software and is conveniently based in the same Altrincham office block as the Book Partnership.Scarlett first presented his ideas to eight small booksellers including Frankland, whose shop is only a few miles away. "They said it's all fine, but you need to get the data right," he recalls. So the system updates its publication information daily, and passes on about five corrections a day from users such as Frankland. "He was most vociferous about his need for accurate data," says Scarlett, adding that user fact-checking means the database is better than those used by big retailers.Frankland used the publishing and wholesale stock data in the run-up to Christmas, when "even standard titles sell out," he says. The system meant he had an edge in obtaining titles. "We were getting one of the last three or four copies of a book." But even telling the customer that a title is unavailable still means providing a better service, Frankland believes.In January, Frankland started using another part of the system, in creating his own e-commerce site. This allows a bookshop to decide how to fulfil orders received through the site. Frankland prefers to decide himself in each case, although the system can order automatically from wholesalers. He reckons his wholesalers can obtain a quarter of a million titles within a day or two. "You have to pay a premium to get that by post," he says.Customers mainly use the site to order books for collection, although Frankland will post books. "It's not our primary aim," he says, citing problems regarding when to post split orders, and dodgy credit cards. "If we're selling to our local catchment area, a lot of these problems go away."He cites one customer who browses in the shop on Saturdays, but now also shops online at 11pm. "He was always a good customer, but his buying's gone up by 50%." Checking, Frankland says he received five orders overnight, worth £70.The system features two levels of authorisation, designed for use by organisations: one level selects books, a higher level authorises payment. This can also be used by families - and Frankland has a large children's section. "I can see it working as it does now at the counter, where a child chooses two books, and Mum says, you can have that one or that one, but not both." So children can order online, without postage costs or credit cards, and with their parents checking purchases.
Scarlett plans to offer more services to bookshops - Quantiv already has an accounting package which could be integrated - and to record and video shops.Meanwhile, Frankland says his Christmas business grew at least as much as that reported by big retailers. As for the website, it's like credit cards, which the shop didn't accept when he took over. "Someone can almost always pay by another method. But now, we do half our business on cards. People would be surprised if we didn't offer it. That's the way online commerce will go, I would bet."Seewww. halebookshop.co.uk
Picture the scene: you are in a crowded high street, weaving a path through the shoppers in single-minded pursuit of your goal. A glance at your mobile phone tells you your quarry is near, the adrenaline pumping as you prepare to spring. The handset beeps again and then, just as you prepare to close in, a hand clasps your shoulder and you realise that hunter or hunted - for you the game is over.Welcome to the world of mobile gaming, coming soon to a handset near you. Developed by phone manufacturers Mitsubishi/Trium, in conjunction with Ravensbourne College of Design and Communication, Manhunt is a real-time hide-and-seek game played by users equipped with location-aware portable handsets.Each player, tagged and identified by his or her equipment, runs around the urban landscape attempting to catch the others. The victor is awarded points, and their cumulative total is displayed on a web-bound league table, with top performing hunters winning prizes for their skills."This is the future of gaming. We're still in the early stages, but location-specific games have taken a major step forward and are ready to catch the public's imagination," says Richard Ward, Trium's head of UK operations.All industry predictions indicate that inspired by general packet radio service (GPRS) enabled phones, the looming promise of 3G and tech-savvy consumers, the mobile gaming market is about to go wild. According to Datamonitor, the global market for wireless horseplay will reach $17.5bn by 2006, while research company Ark, which calculates that there are already 43m regular users of such services worldwide, predicts that this figure will increase to 850m users in the same year.A full commercial version of Manhunt is not expected to reach the consumer until the end of this year, but the industry is already gearing up for the revolution with a clutch of full-colour and large-screen handsets. Trium has already released the Eclipse, Nokia has launched the 5510, and others will follow suit. With the handset market flooded, manufacturers are working with game developers to add value to their products.Infogrames has created two games for the Trium Eclipse, and Atari has been working on games such as iSoccer, Pong and Asteroids. The major networks are adding their weight to the burgeoning craze. Inspired by the success of Picofun and Channel Four's wireless application protocol (Wap) based Big Brother Game, which generated 4.5m minutes of additional call time for BT Genie and racked up 10m page hits in 100 days, Virgin, Vodafone, Cellnet and Orange have all released new games in recent months."Gaming could prove to be the biggest money-spinner that service providers can offer, particularly with the advent of 3G," says Matt Hooper of mobile application developers elata. "Bandwidth means nothing without services, and offering a wide selection of online games will become crucial in 2002."The smart money seems to be betting that entertainment is the killer app that will drive forward the wireless revolution. MP3 was the phrase that finally replaced sex as the net's most searched-for word and now Informa Media Group reports that as the gaming industry braces itself for massive expansion, mobile gaming already accounts for 8% of traffic through Europe's major portals. Latching on to this upsurge in interest are companies such as iTouch, whose live trivia quiz runs over Wap every Wednesday evening and attracts hundreds determined to win the cash prizes on offer.Helsinki-based Riot-E, meanwhile, providers of SMS games for Lord of the Rings promotion, claims to have reached a subscriber base of 150m users. In Scandinavia, where the success of a location-based paintball-style game has excited the marketplace, MTV has created a multi-player "flirt" game to be launched later this year. "The mobile phone is no longer just a voice device. It is fast becoming a games console, an entertainment centre and a personal digital assistant," says Ward. "It may take until the end of the year before GPRS services are common and stable enough to run reliable mass market services, but real-time, real life gaming is finally here."
Apple has completed the revamp of its desktop line this week by "speed bumping" its G4 range of professional machines.For the first time, the quartet of Power Macs features processors running at 1GHz, with the top two models boasting dual 1GHz chips.This may sound slow compared to chips from Intel and AMD which have now hit the 2GHz mark. But Apple claims that the unique design of its chips means a 1GHz PowerPC chip carries out many tasks faster than its 2GHz rivals.The company says Adobe's popular picture editing software, Photoshop, runs 70% faster on a 1GHz Mac than on a 2GHz Intel Pentium 4, while video encoding is 300% faster.The basic Power Mac G4, at &#163;1149 plus VAT, has a single 800MHz processor, with 256MB of memory and a 40GB hard drive. However, it has only a CD-RW drive, rather than the DVD-R/CD-RW SuperDrives drives fitted as standard on all the other Power Mac machines, and on the top-end iMac announced earlier this month.The mid-range 933MHz Power Mac has a 2MB level 3 cache, which improves performance, and a 60GB hard drive. It costs &#163;1699 plus VAT.The top-end dual 1GHz model comes in two versions. One, at &#163;2,199 plus VAT, has 512MB of memory and an 80GB hard drive as standard. The other, at &#163;2,679 plus VAT, has 1.5GB of memory and two 80GB hard drives. Both have two 2MB level 3 caches, and are available now.
How they kept theSegwaysecret....
Have you playedGooglewhack? Start here with thesimple rules. When you are ready to go for high scores, you will needthisstuff. (No, it is not an entirely new idea, as pointed outhere. People playedNetBullseyeon AltaVista.)
A mobile phone thief was given a four-year "deterrent" sentence at the Old Bailey today for robbing a 16-year-old boy in the street and punching him in the face.It is one of the first sentences passed since new guidelines were laid down by Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, yesterday, who said mobile phone muggers will now face minimum jail terms of 18 months, and those using violence, five years or more.However, the severity of the sentence handed down to 23-year-old mobile phone thief Dean Healey today may prompt disquiet in some quarters of "going too far". His counsel said the court had heard character witnesses that he was honest, trustworthy and conscientious. The pre-sentence report had not considered him to be a high-risk re-offender.But Judge Valerie Pearlman told Healey that she regarded the street robbery as serious enough to warrant an immediate custodial sentence. She said: "The sentence I pass is to keep the public protected from you and as a deterrent to show that this type of offence will not be tolerated."This is, as the courts repeat, a very prevalent offence, in this case aggravated by the fact there were two of you."Healey, a tyre-fitter of Challis Way, Brixton, south London, was convicted last month of robbing Lee Staples in February last year, and had been remanded for reports until today. Healey will not be considered for parole until he has served at least half the jail term.He and a friend - who has not been caught - had approached Mr Staples, an office worker, as he walked along Streatham High Road, south London.Mr Staples was in court with his mother, Lorraine Crawley, to see Healey jailed and, outside court, she said had been shocked by the length of the sentence. But she added: "Basically he got what he deserved. Maybe it will deter other people. Lee is much more withdrawn since this happened and always goes out with others now."Mr Staples said he was relieved and happy. "It is great it is all over. When I am out I look over my shoulder a lot. I cannot walk off on my own. I am much more careful about where I use my mobile."He had been to a colleague's leaving party at a pub with friends and was spotted by Healey and his friend as he used his mobile and then withdrew cash.They started talking to him and walked up the street before punching him in the face, searching for his wallet and demanding his phone.Anthony Montgomery, defending, told the court that Healey had not been the chief aggressor in the robbery. Mr Montgomery asked for the sentence to be "as short as possible consistent with the gravity of the offence".But Judge Pearlman said: "I regard this as a bad case of gratuitous street violence on a younger man."
With the World Economic Forum meeting later today, you might want to examinethisWeb site before you visitthe real thing.You too can produce this kind of parody site with open sourceReamweaver. Or you may want to take part in aVirtual Sit-In. Thanks to®TMark, Incfor the links.
Update: read Lou's e-mail about Samhere. (To get the full flavour, you may need a copy ofThe IBM Song Book.)
Oracle could slash the price you pay for its database software and applications by 25-75% under a new pricing scheme, according toZD Net NewsandReuters. Think about only paying $4,000 per professional user, and only $400 per "self service" user with limited access. Wow. Unfortunately for most Online readers,. it seems you have to spend $250,000 before the new plan kicks in.
"Is Microsoft going to kill Apple Computer?" is David Coursey's provocative lead in to acomment pieceon ZD Net. He's reminding us that the 5 year deal under which Bill Gates rescued Apple runs out this summer, and MS could pull the plug on the Mac version of Office. No one takes this idea seriously. Apart from anything else, Microsoft makes a lot more money when a Mac user buys a copy of Office than when a Dell user buys a copy of Windows.
Egg, the internet bank, has broken into continental Europe by buying Bernard Arnault's French online operation, Zebank, for &euro;8m (&#163;5m).The British firm, 79% owned by the insurance group Prudential, aims to win 1m new customers in France over the next three years and believes it can break even by the end of 2004.Egg also announced distribution deals with the French retailers Sephora and La Samaritaine, and an extension of its tie-up with Microsoft to offer products through MSN France.The deals are the result of more than 12 months' planning since Egg said it was aiming to expand on to the continent through France, Germany and Italy."We are excited about the opportunities that these moves give us in France, building our international presence and broadening the Egg offer in line with our stated plans," said Paul Gratton, chief executive. "&#91;These moves&#93; give us a powerful platform to develop a significant business in this attractive growth market."Egg, which claims to be Britain's leading provider of online banking and financial services, with 2m customers, will spend &#163;50m on marketing spend plus &#163;15m to support the launch of the enlarged operation. France is the third largest financial services market in Europe.Zebank has 70,000 customers with 120,000 accounts and its majority shareholder is Group Arnault, controlled by, Mr Arnault, the French billionaire who is head of luxury goods firm LVMH. A further 20% of Zebank is owned by Franco-Belgian bank Dexia.Egg shares have outperformed the British bank sector by 11% this year and yesterday put on another 7.5p to close at 153.25p.The shares were boosted by a strong buy recommendation from investment bank Merrill Lynch, which has a price target of 200p.Analysts said the deal gave Egg a firm footing for further growth in mainland Europe.
The world's biggest computer company will have a new boss from March 1:Sam Palmisanois taking over from Lou Gerstner. Palmisano is a keen Linux supporter, and evenspokeat LinuxWorld last year. And where Gerstner was -- unusually for IBM -- hired from outside, Palmisano is a return to tradition. He is a home grown CEO who has been with the company almost 30 years. He'll remember the days when IBM wasn't just bigger than its competitors, it was much bigger than the rest of the industry put together.
The Wayback Machineis one of the Wonders of the Web. O'Reilly explains how it works,here, in an interview with Brewster Kahle. Kahle became famous for developing WAIS. He was thinking aboutnetwork publishingback in 1994....
Google doesn't do pop-up ads, and explains its reasonshere.
Apple has launched its first G4 Macs with1GHz proccessors-- considered an important psychological barrier when the fastest PCs have reached 2.2GHz.
Times change: in the old days, men sold their wives and Thomas Hardy's Mayor of Casterbridge received five crisp pound notes and five shining shillings when he struck a deal at a Dorset hiring fair some time in the first third of the 19th century.Some 170 years on, a woman has just sold herself in an internet auction for &#163;251,000.Kay Hammond, who gave her height as 5ft 4in and her statistics as 34-28-34, hit the headlines in December when she decided to offer her hand in marriage on a website which deals in bids for computers, DVD machines and anything else anyone wants to flog.Bids closed yesterday and it now appears that a mysterious suitor, Ben Webb, has plighted his troth and come up with the readies.Ms Hammond, 24, managing director of web-design company TAMBA Internet, based in Birmingham, said she resorted to the auction because she was too busy working to find love.She told internet site Ebay that she wanted to sell herself to the highest bidder, but it refused to accept her announcement, saying it found the notion unethical.She then approached rival QXL and first appeared on its site in December, under the auction heading: "Internet entrepreneur, looking for a husband."She added: "So often I have complained to my friends, family and colleagues that I never have the time to meet any men. I thought that by creating an online auction I would be able to reach as many men as possible and hopefully prove that the internet is not full of cyber-geeks, there are normal people out there."That remains to be seen. But the auction certainly caught the imagination of Richard and Judy, who interviewed her on their Channel 4 programme. The site was besieged with bids, and the reserve price was met within hours.On Christmas Eve, a bid of &#163;1bn forced Ms Hammond to close the site and relaunch it with tighter security.In the two weeks since the website was reopened, it received more than 38,000 hits.Mr Webb will now be checked for a criminal record and will be required to pay the cash into Ms Hammond's bank account and agree that she can keep the money if they divorce.Last night the blushing bride was saying nothing. In advance of her nuptials, she has already promised herself to the Mail on Sunday.
A follow up toJack's poston the new virus doing the rounds, below: Needless to say, Graham Cluley of Sophos has had his say in a press release this morning. Issuing a warning is fair enough. But do you really think he talks this way in real life? "This worm uses cunning social engineering to spread itself," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for Sophos Anti-Virus. "My Party dupes users into thinking they'll see exciting snaps of frolicking partygoers. Instead of blushing over embarassing photos, infected users will be red-faced about forwarding malicious code to their friends, colleagues and customers."
The FT interviewed Microsoft's J Allard, general manager for Xbox, last week. There story ishere.
Today, Palm is expected to launch its very, very long awaited wirelessi705handheld, reports the San JoseMercury News. Actually, it went on sale lastThursday. However, it's a somewhat limited device in that it does not do voice calls. Like the RIM Blackberry, it uses the Mobitex data network. Nor is the service cheap at $39.99 a month. Users who want a PDA with built in GSM or similar mobile phone capabilities can turn to Palm-based machines from Samsung and Kyocera, or Handspring's small, good-looking Treo, or at least two PocketPCs (Sagem and Trium both had models on sale in Europe last year).
Nintendo will slash the price of the Game Boy Advance handheld console on Friday, according toComputer Trade Weeklymagazine. CTW says the European price will be €99 -- about £60 -- which compares with a UK price of about £90 today. The price will also fall to $79.95 in the USA, and 8800 Yen in Japan. Update: Reuters has filed the story from Tokyo,here.
Subject: new photos from my party! Body: Hello! Attachment: www.myparty.yahoo.com (29,696 byte PE file). If you see this, you are the lucky recipient of a new virus, W32/My Party-A, which uses an interesting feature -- the fact thatcomis used both for an executable DOS program and the end of a URL. The Yahoo address, above, looks like a Web site address, but actually it's the name of the program. Tip of the hat toMcAfee(and its PR agency, Bite) for being first with the news. Update: Reuters now has the storyhere, with a non-working "link" to the Yahoo address.
Apple's annual revenues plunged by 33% last year, and its unit sales fell by 32%, so that Apple's total number of units was lower than the increase in sales of Dell PCs. On the revenue side, Apple slumped from $7.98 billion in 2000 to $5.36 billion in 2001. Sales of Macs fell from 4.6 million to 3.1 million, including a 46% fall in sales in Japan. Apple sold 1,768,000 units in the US and 754,000 in Europe. Most sales were iMacs (1,208,000 down from 2,194,000), followed by Power Macs (937,000 including Cubes), iBooks (596,000) and PowerBooks (346,000). This would give Apple a market share of 2.4% ifGartner Dataquest's figuresare correct: it puts the total market at 128 million units, including 16,996,000 Dell machines. (I'm sure the Apple figures are correct because they are the ones Apple has supplied to the US government's Securities and Exchange Commision in filing 10-K,here.) But there are consolations for Mac fans. It had amazingly good press coverage for a company that was performing so badly. Also, the failed Cube, the attempt to bolster collapsing iMac sales ("Maybe they'd sell if we did them in polkadots" smacked of desperation), and the five year struggle to ship OS X are things of the past. Things can only get better. But in the longer term, the contrast with Dell is most marked. Apple's revenues have fallen from $11.1 billion in 1995 to $5.4 billion in 2001, while at the same time, Dell Computer's have grown from $3.5 billion to $31.9 billion.
Geeks v crooks: A wonderful (long) tale of how an online community of Mac users turned cyber-detectives, and managed to help one of their number recover their stolen iMac and printer. Tech detail: they used Timbuktu and Apple Script to find it online, delete their personal data, and find out who had it so the police could go and recover it. Makes you wonder: couldn't computer/operating system manufacturers do more to make computers less stealable?
Blogger Prohas launched. This is the long-awaited fee-based upgrade for Blogger, the web tool which makes this weblog tick. We'll be upgrading Onlineblog: it's only $35 (about £25) for a year, and Blogger was good enough to pay for even without the various enhancements available now, or being planned. Much more about Blogger in next week'sOnline.
Perhaps the BBC should be more careful about its choice of file names consideringNTKhas been on the case for some time, but this week's issue has anotherchoice example-- http://www.bbc.co.uk/arts/news_comment/ artistsinprofile/images/emin_cunt.jpg -- about artistTracy Emin. Online learned this lesson many years ago after naming a file concerning a certainpolitician"pantsdown" . . .
Ten lessons from the dot.com debacle include: (2) It's hugely difficult to build chicken and egg simultaneously. (5) Free is folly. (8) Too early to market? Too bad. (10) Nothing changes overnight. The full list is taken from Investor's Business Daily, January 24. This is a print publication but it was featured in the excellent NewsScan newsletter,here.
Last night, confronting J Allard (Mr Xbox) in person in London, I asked him about theHomeStation. "There is no truth in the rumours," he said. "We might have had something like that a couple of years ago...." (I hadn't been able to get hold of him before as he is on a European tour, and he hadn't answered my e-mail because, he said, he'd read it on a plane.)
How do search engines work?There are two ways search engines index the web. Human-based directories like Yahoo have human beings searching the web, and creating indexes of results by hand.Spider-based search engines employ special computer programmes called spiders (or crawlers) which follow links through the web, sending everything they find back to a computer-compiled index.What happens when I type a query?It depends on the search engine. Some, like HotBot, have indexed most of the words on each page.When you type in a word - say, "Guardian" - HotBot's search engine then looks through its index, finds all the pages with "Guardian" on it, and puts the pages with the most mentions near the top of the list.But a new crop of search engines, led by Google, think there is a better way to do things. First, they only index words which the user might see as being important. For instance, if a word is in bold, Google regards that word as being more important than one which does not appear in bold.Google also looks at the relationship between web pages: if a major site links to a smaller site that counts in the smaller site's favour. So if you type in "Guardian" in Google, you are more likely to get the Guardian newspaper than, say, the band called Guardian, which is what you would get at HotBot.Which are the best search engines?Google is winning a lot of friends among experts and novices alike because it is fast, simple and carries less advertising than its rivals. Because of its technology, its results also often appear to be much more relevant.But Google has its weaknesses - it is not very good at keeping up with the news, for instance, because its index is only updated once every three or four weeks. Sites like Alltheweb are better at that, because their indexes are updated more regularly.Do companies pay to get their site listed first?Not on sites like Google and Alltheweb, but other search sites do allow advertisers to pay for top ranking in some searches. For instance, type in "Guardian" on Lycos, and three "featured listings" appear at the top of the search screen, and the top search result is an e-commerce link from "The Lycos Network".Why aren't they better at finding the information I want?There are lots of reasons. First, the web is a big place, and no search engine has managed to get even half of it indexed.Second, search engines vary in their ability to correctly interpret what you are after. It takes practise to get the best out of any search engine, and learn their quirks, and weaknesses.Third, you might not be using the best search engine for a particular task: About.com is very good for general subject queries, for instance, while Google is much better for more specific queries.And do not forget that many search engines offer specific searches for particular things, like MP3 music files and pictures. Google groups is the best place to go for old Usenet discussions.Will they ever get any better and simpler to use?Search engines have made great strides in becoming easier to use, and usually all it takes to get used to a particular search engine is to experiment a little, and find the best way to get what you are after.At the search engine makers themselves, the emphasis appears to be on making the search databases more comprehensive, so that less of the web is hidden from their view.AskJeeves markets itself specifically as an easy-to-use search, but its often eccentric results mean many users prefer to type single or double word queries into the likes of Yahoo (which also has Google search results) or Alltheweb.Where can I find out more?Search Engine Watch is one of the most comprehensive sources of information on the various search engines around the web.
Ericsson, the Swedish wireless equipment maker, today reported a loss of 3.5bn kronor (£234m) in the fourth quarter, in the latest blow to the mobile phone business.For the whole year Ericsson lost 21bn kronor (£1.4bn), its first ever annual loss, and predicted tough market conditions for well into 2002 for mobile communications technology.But president Kurt Hellstroem said the company has  reorganised itself in order to position itself for an improvement in the global economy. Ericsson shed 22,100 jobs during the last nine months to cut costs."We are now in a much stronger position to capitalise on market opportunities and restore profitability in 2002," Mr Hellstroem said. "Although the market will be particularly challenging in the beginning of 2002, we maintain our objective of over 5% operating margin for the full year."Ericsson projected that global sales for mobile phones will be about 430m units this year, up 10% over 2001. The increase will largely be registered in the second half of the year, the company said.The company, founded in Stockholm in 1876, is the world's second-biggest maker of mobile phones. Operating in about 140 countries, it employs 85,200, down from 107,300 last March.Yesterday, Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, reported better than expected fourth quarter profits and predicted a 15% increase in global sales for the industry during this year.Earlier in the week, Motorola, the world's third largest mobile phone maker, reported weak results.
Irish internet security specialist Baltimore Technologies yesterday drew a line under one of the most disastrous acquisitions of the dot.com era by disposing of an email company it bought just two years ago at a loss of &#163;680m.Content Technologies, maker of the MIMEsweeper virus protector and purchased for &#163;700m, was sold to privately owned Clearswift Corporation for &#163;20.5m to give Baltimore enough cash to survive for another year. "This transaction represents good value," chief executive Bijan Khezri said. But the sum was at the bottom end of analysts' expectations and contained a cash payment of just &#163;12m. The balance will be paid in shares in Clearswift. Shares in Baltimore edged up 0.25p to 14.25p.Since being appointed in the autumn, Mr Khezri has cut the amount of cash draining out of the business   each quarter from &#163;30m to &#163;21m, and he hopes the trend will continue. "It would be absolutely wrong to draw the conclusion that Baltimore is out of the woods yet," he warned.The volatile market conditions that have battered Baltimore to the brink of submission are likely to continue for the foreseeable future.However, the commitment to investing in new product development remains, and means that Baltimore will now miss its self-imposed target of making a profit by the end of the second quarter by another nine months.Content Technologies was bought by Baltimore when the Dublin-based firm was riding high in the FTSE 100 index.The bursting of the dot.com bubble and the tech sector downturn has seen the company sack hundreds of staff and lose two chief executives. Analysts say the company was overconfident and expanded too fast.
RecentlyI raised the question of PC sales versus sales of DVD players in the US. The answer is that Americans bought roughly 44 million PCs last year, according toGartner Dataquestfigures, compared with 13 million DVD players, according to the excellent table from theConsumer Electronics Association. I don't think anyone who has read the press for the past year would have had the impression that expensive and complicated PCs were outselling cheap and simple DVD players by better than 3 to 1. Indeed, it would be interesting to know if more DVD players were sold inside PCs than separately -- it's certainly possible from the numbers. But don't get too bound up with the astonishing success of the PC market. Sales were down from 49 million last year, and the Intel/Microsoft hegemony won't be able to keep coming up with reasons for people to buy new machines every few yearsforever,
Can we stop the deluge of porn spam, and if so, how?Debra Saundershas raised the issue, and deserves an answer.
Following our little exclusive two weeks ago about Ev William's plans to launch Blogger Pro, more details have emerged from ademonstrationgiven by Ev at a user group meeting in California this week.
Remember, you can read today's Online with linkshere.
ActivistCash.comis a fascinating guide to anti-consumer and activist groups, the foundations that sponsor them, and the celebrities who lend their names to some causes. "As you read through the site, you may be surprised at some of the connections between these groups and individuals, forming a web of anti-consumer activism -- promoting false science, scare campaigns, inflated public health causes, and sometimes violent anti-consumer actions," it says. It's part of theConsumer Freedom.comoperation, though it doesn't say who or what funds that. Still, the site should go down well with 20 Gitanes (untipped), two pints of lager, and a packet of genetically modified crisps.
Living as a student in the UK is like running a marathon; trying to make those rapidly depleting supplies last the full distance. You are just over half-way through, and may well have had the final shot in the arm to your bank account. So how do you make it last until your finals, and still have change for that hard-earned sherry in June?For second-hand textbooks, try  Studentsdirectory.com while at Justbooks.co.uk, not only will you find cheap used books, but also handy survival manuals. The Student Grub Guide, for example, shows students how to splash out 40p on a meal without finishing term with scurvy.The text of some classic books is available online, which makes them not only free, but a lot easier to search for specific bits of text. The Gutenberg project  holds thousands of out-of-copyright titles, especially literary classics.Shopping is generally held to be incompatible with study. But why not go window shopping instead and maybe even dust down the plastic after a spot of comparison shopping through engines such as Easyvalue.com, Shopsmart.com and Kelkoo.co.uk. These engines   are particularly good for CDs, books and financial products. Auction sites, such as QXL.com or eBay.co.uk, hold many bargains on items, too.Calls back home are essential, and even more welcome when you haven't reversed the charges. Callforless.co.uk compares prices for dozens of telecoms providers, many of which work through an existing BT line or an 0800 number with no connection or rental fee. You can also stop paying for directory enquiries and text messages, as both are available free from BT (registration and a mobile phone number are required). And if you want ring-tones, there are sites offering them free: try a search on Google. Please don't combine free ring-tones with cheap train tickets. Cheaper gas and electricity can be found uswitch.com.Discounts come in many guises elsewhere, too, and the National Union of Students  has information on the discounts you can get with one of its cards. Student Pages  issues printable online vouchers for retailers including take-aways, hairdressers and clubs in 20 UK cities, as well as discounts at WH Smith and Top Shop/Top Man. Computer equipment is often cheaper online. Have a    look at sites such as Jungle.com (owned by Argos) and www.gb.buy.com (part of John Lewis).Still, students may be financially poor, but they are "time rich", so make the most of it by exploring the world beyond the local and/or library. Several travel companies give a discount for booking travel online: it saves their staff spending time on the phone. This particularly applies to budget airlines, which can be surprisingly cheap for travel within the UK, particularly to get between the south (such as Luton, Stansted and Bristol) and the north of England, Scotland and Ireland. Easyjet, Go and Ryanair offer their lowest fares to those booking online with a debit card.If you're going abroad, booking online can also save money. Try the student specialist STA Travel which has good information on the prices available. It also lets you order an ISIC card (for international student discounts) online.The National Express coach network offers online booking , and all train companies sell tickets through  www.thetrainline.com. Some trains have extra discounts if booked on the web and, perhaps more importantly, you get to see exactly which trains allow you to use the cheapest fares. This is vital if you have to use firms such as Virgin Trains, which provide a dizzyingly wide range of prices for the same journey.Being well-informed can equip you for the pub quiz, if nothing else. Many publications, including the Guardian , place their content online for free: find the web-address with a search engine such as Google.co.uk.If you are looking for accommodation, Loot newspaper is a good place to look for cheap lets at http://student.loot.com, and is particularly good for lettings in the south-east and the north-west. Sites such as www.08004homes.com and www.rightmove.co.uk allow you to search estate agent listings nationwide.Finally, you might like to investigate online-only banks, which usually pay higher rates of interest. For example, Smile (part of the Co-operative bank) has a student account paying 2.78% gross. This is more interest than you will get from most other banks. A &#163;2,000 student loan at the start of the year, spent steadily over six months, would earn about &#163;13 interest. And finally, the Co-op grocery store will helpfully deliver that refreshing post-exam sherry.
Aimster, the file swapping service, has changed its name toMadster. The original name has been transferred to America Online, which owns all words beginning with Aim related to AOL Instant Messaging. America Online is part of the AOL CompuServe ICQ Winamp MapQuest MovieFone Digital City Spinner Netscape CNN HBO DC Comics Time Warner Brothers World Domination Corporation (here).
Wheels of Zeus!Wozis having another dabble....
It is so small it could have fallen out of a Christmas cracker. But this new L'espion digital camera attached to a key ring, is no toy. It takes up to 80 digital photos in low resolution		 (20 in higher) which can be viewed on your screen or printed out on a colour printer.It shoots 10 seconds of video which can be left in a file on your desk top ready to    be played back when you like. It can also be used as a web cam, though the size of the lead restricts its use to near your PC. Unlike many other miniaturised products the price has also been shrunk - to &#163;39.99 (from a number of stores including Tesco,	 Staples, Maplin and Jessops). Even more surprising, it is designed in Britain by the Kent company Digital Dream and manufactured in China.It claims to be the only successful manufacturer of entry-level digital cameras in Europe. Since it was introduced in November some 60,000 have ben sold, mainly in Britain - but the German market, after a slow start, is now opening up as well. It works on most PCs with USB ports. We tested it on a G4 Macintosh and it worked well in operating system OS 9, but there are no drivers yet for OS X. The resolution, while not brilliant, was very impressive for a camera of this size. It breaks new ground in that it enables   people to carry a camera around with them without realising it is there. If they make it any lighter it will doubtless appear as another add-on to your mobile phone.Set the PacePace's small set-top box, costing &#163;99.99, enables homes to receive free-to-air digital programmes from the BBC and ITV from ordinary aerials without a monthly fee. It can be upgraded to receive ITV Digital. This is the first result of talks the BBC, ITV, C4 and C5 have been having with producers to find a cost-effective way of getting viewers to watch digital programmes (that are not made by Sky). Pace claims its box - to be launched on March 31 - is   the world's first low-cost set-top. Optimists hope that if these new boxes are successful, the government will be able to switch off analogue signals by 2010 or earlier.
The advent of the internet as a commercial entity has tended to be a one-sided affair, with much of the credit for innovation going to the relatively glamorous business-to-consumer model, rather than its business-to-business sibling.Innovation plus a great deal of investment has enabled companies to sell goods and services online directly to individuals. And to an extent, it introduced e-procurement: a process by which businesses club together as "exchanges" to make their supply chain more efficient, using the web to organise and share resources, as well as to order and pay for raw materials.But this was restricted to sector-specific operators, and the shakeout across the industry put paid to widespread e-procurement. Consequently, there were many back-office activities between buyer and supplier largely ignored in the early days of e-business that could have been automated via the web, not only to cut costs, but to free human resources for more stimulating work.One such activity is the processing of invoices, often considered to be the most important documents in commercial trade. Nevertheless, even in the US, three times more companies use   the internet for e-commerce than for e-invoicing, according to the Gartner Group."Electronic invoicing shouldn't just be thought of as related to e-commerce but to improving the business proposition," says Duncan Brown, consulting director of IT services at Ovum. "You need to separate it. It may be a part of e-procurement or e-business, but not necessarily."In the current climate, with increasing demands for savings and returns on investment, the need to use the internet to streamline processes has never been more urgent. And with estimates that invoice processing costs can be cut by up to 70%, e-invoicing may be a means to that end.An invoice can take weeks to enter the buyer's accounting system. After it finally arrives at accounts payable, it is keyed manually into the accounting system - a laborious process open to human error.If a dispute occurs, the supplier must repeat the process, causing delayed payments, fraught trading relationships, incomplete accounts and possible VAT violations.Open Business Exchange, an electronic invoicing application service provider, estimates that 15 billion paper invoices are sent annually in the US and Europe."Buyers with the biggest problems are the large corporations," says Alain Falys,   chief executive of OBE."They must consider the costs of people having to open, file, scan and retrieve invoices for VAT inspection. We estimate the cost at between &#163;6 and &#163;20 per paper invoice. So if a company receives one million invoices a year, that's costing them between &#163;6m and &#163;20m per year."Enabling suppliers to track the progress of invoices over the internet directly to the buyers' accounting systems would cut labour, error margins, paper consumption, mailing costs and ultimately speed up payment process.Even the government has woken up. UK Online for Business, an industry and government partnership scheme led by the department for Trade and Industry, has launched Supplying Electronically, a CD-Rom information resource, to encourage small-to medium-sized businesses into e-procurement. It includes information on electronic invoicing.Alain Falys at OBE says his company has been working closely with UK customs and excise, who have now waived a regulation that requires a buyer to keep hard copies of invoices for up to six years. The department will now accept invoices electronically stored in OBE's OB10 system as valid for VAT purposes.Just over a year ago, the EU   proposed a directive to harmonise VAT invoicing across the 15 member states to ease the way for businesses to use electronic invoicing and raise competitiveness.Following a study commissioned from PriceWaterhouseCoopers, it recognised that the inability to file electronically hinders European e-commerce, and business in general. It estimates average processing costs of 24p for an electronic invoice, compared with 84p for a paper invoice.However, there are barriers. Electronic invoicing existed long before the internet entered the commercial mainstream, via a mechanism known as electronic data interchange (EDI), but its often proprietary and undemocratic nature prevented extensive adoption.Since the 1970s, mainly large buyers have deployed EDI, due to its disparate standards and high cost of purchase and maintenance at either end.As such, the relationship was often detrimental to   suppliers. Potential savings proved elusive, as buyers dictated which EDI systems were used (all potentially different), and what format the electronic data files would be in. As a result, many small-to medium-size suppliers remain wary of electronic transactions.Unfortunately, many large buyers show no signs of giving up their legacy systems, despite the increasing popularity of the internet as a data communications route between trading partners.Alan Bricknell, sales and marketing manager at Blueprint Electronic Commerce Ltd, agrees. "For many large companies, to do anything different to EDI is inconvenient. They don't want to be running a separate &#91;web-based&#93; system for each supplier. The automotive industry, for example, is entrenched in EDI," he says.However, development and adoption of web-based procurement systems is occurring in parallel, generating interest from both sides of the trading fence. In addition, a marketplace has developed for intermediaries to "translate" documents between EDI and web-based systems, allowing traders to continue with their existing technology. These services generally charge a joining fee plus a levy for each transaction through   their network.Plymouth-based Blueprint Electronic Commerce has recently used its Tradewind Internet Service Centre to link McDonald's to its 200th UK supplier in 12 months, after the fast food giant found them reluctant to invest in expensive and archaic EDI systems. It also set up internet-EDI links between Whitbread and 80 of its suppliers within 10 weeks.OBE's recently launched OB10 system provides a similar go-between service, whereby large suppliers upload invoice files directly from their accounts systems, medium-sized suppliers might send in invoice files via a web-based interface, and smaller suppliers use a web-based invoice generator to prepare invoices online.Buyers and suppliers define the format in which they wish to receive or send invoice data. OBE customer Fisher Scientific is a supplier of laboratory products and claims to be on track to cut invoicing costs by 25%, after six months of using OB10.It is unlikely that true e-commerce can ever be defined or achieved without e-invoicing. And despite reluctance to invest in e-business projects, there is still time and space for the internet to deliver on earlier promises "to change the way we do business".
Tom Clancy's Ghost ReconPC £34.99 Red Storm/Ubi Soft **One hit and you're dead,     simple as that. No extra lives or power bars or electronic shields; Ghost Recon takes     computer gaming very seriously. This latest military combat title, like Codemasters     Operation Flashpoint, simulates modern warfare to the finest detail.Crawling in the     undergrowth and vigilant surveillance are accurately simulated, with any wrong move     spelling instant death. Gun-toting Quake addicts will last seconds as this is all about     sneaking around, picking your target and staying hidden from the enemy.But unlike     Flashpoint, where you started at a low rank, spending early levels staying low to stay     alive, here you get thrown straight in.Players control one of six soldiers, but this isn't     quite as tactical as Flashpoint and you often end up doing everything yourself rather     than relying on the patchy artificial intelligence. The main problems though are the high     difficulty level and steep learning curve.Getting picked off once is fine; getting     continually hit by unerringly accurate sniper fire is enough to make you yearn for civvy     street. Thankfully regular use of the quicksave helps preserve sanity, if not the     realistic atmosphere. Unfortunate, really, as the awesome environments and sound     effects create a vivid sense of place as Recon pulls graphical rank over Flashpoint.The     trees and foliage are particularly impressive, although the latter does remain     unrealistically impervious to gunfire. The ability to train up your troops and garner new     specialist recruits help retain interest, while the missions (all set in Russia and Asia)     are varied.Ghost Recon is tough, demanding and unforgiving - all plus points to fans of     the genre. Unfortunately a less tactical approach, and some fiddly controls, means     Operation Flashpoint is still in command.Pool of Radiance: Ruins of Myth DrannorPC	 &#163;29.99 UbiSoft/SSI 	**I've finally realised why it is that buying a role-playing game carries as much stigma as beating a small child in public. It's not the fact that it's about wizards, elves and dragons. It's the fact that it's bound to have something like The Goblins of Sorkokk in huge    Gothic lettering on the front. Anyway, once you have got this latest onomastic disaster home and out of its brown paper bag, it is RPG business as usual.You're in charge of a party of one to four adventurers trying to locate and destroy the titular Pool, which is spreading its evil throughout the land of Faerun. As is now customary with these things, you have a choice of several classes for your heroes, from dwarven sorcerer to half-orc monk, and can decide how to apportion their "ability points" according to choose how you want them to develop.  The backgrounds -    forests, dungeons, castles, range from the functional to the stunning, and the spell animations are neat; the character models, however, aren't terribly natural or fluid. It's not just about fighting,   although the puzzles wouldn't stretch a 10-year-old.Lack of depth generally is this game's greatest failing. Heroes rarely make comments, and never interact with each other; the dialogue with non-player characters is of the sort you might have if you were trapped on a desert island with your ex-wife; the storyline is linear; and the monsters (orcs, skeletons, zombies) never vary their attacks, which, combined with the dreaded respawning of enemies, makes for drearily repetitive combat. But on reflection, I'd rather try The Goblins of Sorkokk.  (AB)Serious Sam - The Second EncounterPC £19.99 Take 2 Interactive ***Serious Sam
   was one of last year's gaming gems, a raucous shoot-'em-up unashamedly based on iD's
   original Doom but with ear-shattering special effects. Alas, this is not a true sequel,
   more of a glorified mission pack, but even so it sucks up free time like HG Wells on a
   Flymo.The structure is identical to the original game, with much the same circus of
   grotesquely mutated enemies. Seven have been added plus three new weapons, including
   an effective flamethrower, which adds variety to the old mix of shooting everything in
   sight. The game kicks off with your space ship crashing into mountains (another
   impressive, but non-interactive, graphic moment) and from here the 12 new single
   player levels transport you through South American landscapes at a relentless pace.Pyramids, swamps, massive temples with ominous animalistic deities: there is no lack of
   imagination on show. However SS2 is even more of a one-trick pony than the prequel.
   Yes, it still boasts one of the finest 3D engines on Earth, capable of throwing dozens of
   enemies at you at once, and a rich assortment of gorgeous levels to explore, but it is
   fairly predictable stuff.See an empty room with a tempting object in the middle and you
   just know an ambush is waiting for you and the novelty wears off quickly. Hopefully a
   proper sequel is in development from the little known, but clearly talented, Croteam.As
   it stands, SS2 is only essential gaming if you missed out on the first instalment, in
   which case it is a real bargain at the price. For the rest of us, it is more mindless fun
   and, along with the imminent Medal of Honour, a sign that iD no longer rule the genre
   they created. (MA)
The increasing adoption of test messaging (SMS) has led to fears that mobile spam could soon swamp users. Such spam is even more unhealthy than email spam.Although purists believe all marketing messages sent via mobile networks are unwelcome, many users ask to receive them. Registration-based SMS services account for as much as 10% of text messaging traffic. People have opted for services such as the Bridget Jones Text Diary and the Men's Health Belly Off club. As Mark Selby, founder of the Mobile Channel Network, points out, "permission-based mobile marketing services with clear opt-out procedures and a correct bal ance between promotional message and actual content can be a pleasure to receive."Uninvited mobile spam is not so pleasurable for the mobile user. Steve Wunker, UK chairman of the recently formed Mobile Marketing Association (MMA), says that although SMS spam is a limited problem at present, "the economics of spam are compelling". As well as being relatively cheap to send mass messages, it is easy for spammers to generate random mailing lists, as SMS addresses are generally the same as the mobile phone numbers.Broadly speaking, mobile spam falls into two categories: pure promotional messages and attempts to generate immediate revenue through premium rate services. The former may be annoying, but the latter can have serious consequences, especially for first-timers."As many as 70% of post-pay mobile customers have yet to send their first text message," explains Mark Selby. "When these people get an SMS telling them to call a   premium-priced audio line, many do it automatically without realising the cost."SMS overload can also prevent time-critical messages from being received and eats up phone memory. Hyperion technical consultant Steve Rothwell believes mobile users could receive from 20 to 40 messages a day, if the spam problem grows. And when the recipients are children - still the most committed texters - further concerns arise.The MMA, whose members include Vodafone, Orange and BT Cellnet, has drawn up a code of conduct prohibiting unsolicited commercial messages. But its guidelines have no power over non-members.Some within the industry, such as Edward Orr of the SMS portal Uboot.com, believe self-regulation will be enough, as "annoying the hell out of people by spamming them is hardly likely to generate much business from them." However, as any Hotmail user can testify, some companies have turned "annoying the hell out of people" into a mission statement.   Despite the number of organisations set up to prevent email spam, such as Cauce (Campaign Against Unsolicited Commercial Email), no guidelines have been completely effective.The legal situation is far from clear. The Telecommunications (Data Protection and Privacy) Regulations 1999 Act was compiled before the explosion of SMS and therefore open to   interpretation. The EU has recently mandated that SMS should be sent only with prior consent. Wunker believes the government will start to codify this into law, but it may not be enough.As Brightmail, the anti-spam provider has highlighted, EU legislation only affects European-registered companies: 90% of unsolicited emails or SMS messages come from spammers   that are either untraceable or acting from outside the European Union. Brightmail's European vice president Francois Lavaste says: "Only a technological solution will address this 90%."Indeed, in those countries where SMS spam has reached epidemic levels, such as Japan, technological measures have proved effective. The Japanese mobile services company NTT DoCoMo reacted to the problem by doubling the amount of numbers that mobile users can block and by allowing them to change their SMS addresses.The powers available to UK operators include disconnecting spammers from their SMS centres (where SMS messages are stored in transit), but in the main they only act in response to specific cases. The measures mobile users can take include registering with the government-run Telephone Preference Service a (which makes sending a direct marketing call or SMS to that number illegal) and reporting spammers to the MMA . Whether this is enough to hold back the rising tide of mobile spam, only time (and text) will tell.
The dot.com explosion in Britain would be celebrating its third birthday this month - if it had not turned so quickly into a wake.In the US, the boom started much earlier and everyone agrees on the date. It was the flotation of Netscape, the browser company, in August 1995. Within minutes of the shares being introduced, they soared to a level that valued the company (which made a half-year loss of $4.3m on sales of only $16m) at a dizzying $2.7bn. A Guardian editorial at the time likened it to the South Sea Bubble (though, in fact, it was much worse) and advised investors who could not distinguish between virtual reality and the real world that it might be time to cut and run.As it turned out that advice - while true in terms of overvaluation - was bad in terms of investment. Netscape turned out to be only the beginning of the greatest period of illusionary wealth creation the world has ever experienced. And the fact that everyone, including its greatest protagonists admit it was largely hype, will not stop it happening again.When investors - including professional ones - see the next bubble coming, they    will know that however mad the valuations might look, the consequences of not buying the shares - and, horror of horrors, seeing friends and rivals getting rich - will be worse than buying. They hope they will have learned when to escape from the other lemmings as they race towards the precipice. (They won't, they won't.)The story of the US side of this mania is told with gripping authenticity by John Cassidy (a Brit) in dot.con (Allen Lane, &#163;9.99), a book that has the unique quality of being strongly endorsed by two people as far apart as Rupert Murdoch and JK Galbraith.At the back there are 16 pages of detailed statistics showing that 40% of the    start-ups between 1995 and the end of 1997 either went belly up or, like Netscape, were taken over. This carnage was predictable (and predicted) because statistics show that 50% of all start-ups fail after four years - and these were all small companies to start with.In the year to March 9, 2001, the hi-tech Nasdaq share index had dropped in value by - wait for it - $3.5 trillion. Even stalwart web companies like Yahoo (once valued at $132bn) lost 97% of their value. They were the lucky ones. They still had 3% left. Others, including Webvan, which actually spent real money ($1.2bn) building a nationwide distribution system to deliver goods, Pets.com and eToys crashed so frequently they ceased to be important news stories.Cassidy's broad sweep enables him to point to lots of guilty parties, including Wall Street firms using their stockbroking activities (supposed to be independent) to hype shares being handled by the investment banking side, and journalists talking their own books up. Even the venerable Alan Greenspan, head of the Federal Reserve, he argues, was partly responsible because of his misguided monetary policy.Why did so many of them fail both in the US and in the UK (which had time to learn from transatlantic mistakes)? It was mainly because virtually all the dot.coms were merely selling old economy goods in a more expensive manner. They forgot when they set up their glossy websites that they still had to deliver the goods and, more    importantly, let potential customers know that they existed.Kozmo.com, a city delivery service, had an average customer order of $12 yet each order cost $10 in labour and overheads - without including marketing expenses, let alone the cost of the product it was selling. All these web companies were operating in the deflationary economic environment of the web in which the consumer (able to check out cheaper sites with a click of the mouse) was definitely King.If any of the old economy companies felt threatened by the disruptive nature of the dot.com upstarts, all they had to do was to adapt their website techniques to erode what little competitive advantage the upstarts had. This was a re-run of the way newspapers saw off the challenge of new technology newspapers (remember Eddie Shah?) by embracing change themselves.Small wonder, as Cassidy reminds us, that it is almost impossible to think of an internet company that dislodged an old economy company.  Web companies that prospered were either making the infrastructure (like Cisco) or were cash rich monopolies like Microsoft (though the company pre-dated the web) or those providing products that only exist because of the web, such as eBay's global electronic auction rooms or Yahoo's portal facilities.The jury is still out on the likes of Amazon (yet to make a proper profit) and Lastminute.com selling old economy goods at a loss in a novel way. Some are still burning through the cash raised on the markets in happier times.  Was it all a waste of time and money? Not at all.Capitalism has always gone through periods of attrition like this in which the stronger firms survive and the losers go by the wayside. The second stage will also see a new crop of companies that think they have learned from the mistakes of the first movers (who were the first to go down in the dot.com steeplechase). In Britain and the US, a whole new generation of youngsters with entrepreneurial verve has been bred.They will go far as long as they can exorcise the greed and excessive ambition that web start-ups spawned. New entrants felt they had a Divine Right to be billionaires before their first product had come out of the factories. Not that any dot.coms actually ever built factories. Everything about the dot.com world was a metaphor or a cliche. And the biggest cliche of all was also the biggest truth: there ain't no such thing as a free lunch.
Lovey duckYou might be surprised to learn there is a Duck Tape Club in the US, set up for fans of the versatile adhesive tape. But you'd be amazed at the devotion of some fans of the   sticky stuff. The Duck Tape Club's website is running photographs from a recent Duck Tape wedding, where trucker Kevin Thomas from Los Angeles tied the knot with office manager Joyce Lotta. The happy couple won first prize in a contest organised by the tape's manufacturer and now - you guessed it - believe "their bond will last forever" having been married in the sticky stuff.And, yes, they really were married in the stuff - 50 rolls were used to create their wedding outfits, while others went towards bow ties and other bits of clothing for   guests. Even the red carpet was made from Duck Tape.www.ducktapeclub.com/weddingBlack daysAs controversy rages over what is - or is not - going on at Camp X-Ray in Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, it's worth remembering that the pictures that caused so much fuss were taken by an official photographer, and you can see them for yourself at the US Defense department's own website.It is now being claimed the shots, which show prisoners   manacled and wearing large ear muffs and blacked-out goggles, with heavy gloves on their hands, were taken on their arrival (and that the prisoners are now being treated better), although the pictures are dated last Friday. The same page carries hundreds of other pictures, dating back to September 11 and earlier.www.defenselink.mil/photos/Operations/OperatiEndurin FreedoRay of lightMeanwhile, the debate about what to build at Ground Zero in Manhattan has thrown up some very interesting ideas. Newsweek magazine's pages on MSNBC have pictures, and audio discussion, of some of the more curious proposals. All of the ideas dwell on the site's tragic recent history. One suggests a victim's photograph in each room of the new development. Another proposes a spectacular plan to allow rays of sunshine to flood through the new buildings' windows four times a day, at the same times as each of the airliners crashed into the World Trade Centre, and when each of the towers collapsed. The suggestion for a "World Centre of Human Concerns" might appeal more to some.(viawww.nickdenton.org)Dream onEver wanted to see your dreams come to life in print? For more than three years, artist Jesse Reklaw has been inviting web surfers to leave notes of their dreams at her website. She then illuminates them in a four-frame, syndicated cartoon strip, with a new one published on the first minute of every Saturday, San Francisco time (that's 8am here). This week: Alex Porter dreams he's on a date with Cindy Crawford_ and it all goes bizarrely wrong.www.slowwave.comRoad whereRegular readers will remember mentions, in Webwatches passim, of sites devoted to abandoned buildings and even disused missile silos. Well, now we've found a huge site devoted to abandoned roads - those little bits of roadway you see cut across by newer main roads, with verges   gradually growing over and the painted markings fading away. Those keen on these "lost highways" indulge in forensic examination of how the roads to nowhere came to be, and highlight the many miles of roads - especially motorways - and bridges built to no purpose at all.www.aaroads.com/losthwysRecord moveUniversal's new website represents the latest tentative move online by one of the big record labels. They're still not offering anything like the (illegal) functionality of the now-defunct Napster - only clips from a relatively small catalogue of 50,000 songs, which means the bulk of the site appears to be devoted to the old-fashioned business of shifting CDs. Even then, and while the site is available in French, German, Spanish and Italian, many users will be frozen out by its arduous browser requirements.www.universalmusicworld.comCeleb freeA cult US website is fighting the cult of celebrity - by producing trading cards featuring the photographs, and innermost thoughts, of non-celebrity, "100% real" people. So, instead of the normal sporting stars or cartoon superheroes, PeopleCards introduces us to the likes of Bob Bulkin, a high-voltage lineman from Atlantic City whose favourite colour is blue, and whose most used expression is "Ay". PeopleCards is even producing albums and boxes in which to keep your collection, which could grow to quite a size. Collect all six billion, it says, and they promise every single card will be 100% celeb free.www.peoplecards.netNew &amp; noted&#183;This is the voice of the Mysterons (but only if you have Flash):www.captainscarlet.tv
How important are computers in the medical profession?We GPs spend far too much time looking at our monitor rather than our patients, but the need to collate and analyse patient data to try to improve the NHS makes computerisation inevitable. The internet allows individual doctors access to research information that would have been beyond the country's leading university library just 10 years ago.What computer do you use?I use an iMac for all my writing, a Toshiba laptop and a Packard Bell Le Div@2 PC. I'm a confirmed Mac fan due to their amazing reliability, but I'm now starting to switch to PCs.What prompted you to open Surgery Door?There's far too much unreliable health information on the net and I came up with the idea of a one-stop shop for my readers and listeners. I initially offered the service to my Radio Times   readers but it grew and Surgery Door seemed the logical step. We had our millionth visitor last year.Can you envisage a time of diagnosis via the net?There can be no substitute for a face-to-face consultation and I don't offer diagnoses on the net. That said, the net can already be used to interpret data collected from a patient - a typical example would be a patient with heart trouble whose ECG (electrocardiogram) trace can be sent down the line to a cardiologist by a paramedic and advice sent back the other way.Favourite gadgets?Maybe it's my age but I find it increasingly difficult to work the gadgets that interest me most. I'd quite like an in-car MP3 player, a DVD recorder, a voice activated typing package that understood medicine and one of those things Bones uses in Star Trek to find out what's wrong with someone.Should we be cautious of medical information available elsewhere on the net?Definitely. When you read anything always check to see who has written the article and for whom they wrote it. Ask yourself about vested commercial interests and check the dates - is it old hat? Last but not least, stick to sites you trust. If you're reading an article on the British Medical Journal site ( http://bmj.com/ ) then it's safe to assume that it's pukka.Favourite sites?I find www.google.co.uk fast and reliable and now use it in preference to many dedicated medical search engines. Also, www.ibank.barclays.co.uk  because, for the first time, it allows me to do my banking when I want to. Not that it's helped my finances that much!What will the internet be like in 10 years?I worry that people like me, who can't access the latest alternatives like ISDN and ADSL because of living in the sticks, are going to end up with second-rate access to the net as it becomes increasingly clogged up.
