Nowadays, we google reflexively: spellings, song lyrics, company telephone numbers, hot gossip on today's five-minute celebrities, guilty secrets of prospective partners and - most fascinating of all - ourselves. But alongside the dramatic changes Google has wrought in our relationship to the world of external data, a parallel revolution is taking place in a more personal sphere: the human genome - the totality of genetic information that defines a large part of who we are.The internet search engines of Google and its predecessors - Lycos, Infoseek, AltaVista - became our indispensable guides as the world's memory was converted from traditional analogue forms such as books, newspapers, magazines and microfilms to purely digital web pages. This enabled standard text-search techniques to be scaled up to unprecedented levels - the secret of Google's success is as much one of quantity as quality.That same transition from analogue to digital has occurred in the world of molecular biology. Watson and Crick's famous double helix not only provided a structure for DNA, but turned the inheritance it mediated from a chemical system into an informational one. The data is stored as a sequence of molecules usually written as A, C, G and T. It turns out that the digital code of life is written not in binary (0 and 1), as with computers, but uses a completely equivalent representation based on four elements.It was precisely 50 years after Watson and Crick's breakthrough of 1953 that the listing of the 3bn letters of our digital program was first elucidated. The international Human   Genome Project took 15 years of intensive work at a cost of some $3bn (though this includes related projects). The result was not the genome of any one person, but a kind of mosaic of several anonymous individuals. For research purposes, this is fine. Powerful programs from the new field of bioinformatics - the marriage of computers and molecular biology - allow important general structures such as the genes that code for proteins, the basic building blocks of our bodies, to be spotted there, as well as the special variants whose presence predisposes us to disease.If the genome were to refer to just one person, those same bioinformatics tools could be deployed to explore not what we have in common, but what makes each of us unique - the equivalent of typing your own name into Google, rather than carrying out a search for a neutral general term.For this to be possible, the cost of sequencing the human genome needs to drop enormously. With a dozen companies racing towards the goal of the sub-$1,000 genome, the day when your DNA is sequenced and burnt on to a CD-Rom for roughly the cost of a conventional health checkup is not far off.In fact, the personal genome is a kind of total health checkup - one that includes all possible genetic diseases, known and unknown. The result of every test available - for susceptibilities to various cancers, for example - would be revealed after a little genomic googling on your home computer. As new genetic tests are devised, the results could be read off from your digital code without the need for further medical examinations.The ready availability of results for every genetic test, present and future, is a mixed blessing. Currently,   you only carry out a particular test when you want the results - presumably when you have thought through the implications. Once personal genomes are available, all the facts about your susceptibility to medical conditions are there waiting for you on the CD-Rom, whether you want them or not. It is already hard enough for people at risk to decide whether to take a test for illnesses, such as Huntington's, that are currently incurable, since nothing can be done in the event of a positive result. Personal genomes will deepen the quandary.There is an important social dimension, too. Some serious medical conditions such as cystic fibrosis or Tay-Sachs disease occur when both parents pass on a particular variant of a gene to their child. These are known as autosomal recessive disorders. It is quite common for those with relatives affected by such diseases to take genetic tests to establish whether they carry these vari ants; those with the variant gene may decide not to have children if they marry another carrier - or perhaps only to marry someone who is not.Consider a not-too-distant future in which personal genomes are readily available. For those with relations affected by a serious medical condition, this will conveniently provide them with any genetic test they need. But it will also offer the rest of us information about our status for these and other, far less serious, autosomal recessive disorders that might similarly manifest themselves in children if we married a fellow carrier.A bioinformatics program running on a PC could easily check our genomes for all genes associated with the autosomal recessive disorders that had been identified so far. Regular software updates downloaded from the internet - like those for anti-virus programs - would keep our search software abreast of the latest medical research. The question is, how potentially serious does a variant   gene's effects have to be for us to care about its presence in our DNA? Down to what level should we be morally obliged to tell our prospective partners - or have the right to ask about?And just when is the appropriate moment to swap all these delicate DNA details? Before getting married? Before going to bed together? Before even exchanging words? Will there one day be a new class of small, wireless devices that hold our personal genomic profile in order to carry out discreet mutual compatibility checks on nearby potential partners: a green light for genomic joy, a red one for excessive recessive risks?Given the daunting complexity of the ethical issues raised by knowing the digital code of life in detail, many may opt for the simplest option: not to google it. But even if you refuse to delve within your genome, there are plenty of others who will be keen to do so. Employers and insurance companies would doubtless love to scan your data before   giving you a job or issuing a policy. And if your children and grandchildren have any inconvenient or expensive medical condition that they have inherited from one side of the family, they might like to know which - not least, to ensure that they sue the right person.Another group that is likely to be deeply interested in googling your genome are the law enforcement agencies. Currently, DNA is used to match often microscopic samples found at the scene of a crime, for example, with those taken from suspects, by comparing special, short regions of it - DNA "fingerprints". The better the match, the more likely it is that they came from the same individual. Low-cost sequencing technologies would allow DNA samples to be analysed completely - not just to give patterns for matching, but even rough indications of physical and mental characteristics - convenient for rounding up suspects. This is a rather hit-and-miss approach, though, where success depends on pulling in the right people. How much more convenient it would be if everyone's DNA were already to hand, allowing a simple text matching process to find the guilty party.This is no mere theoretical possibility. Last September, the police called for the UK national database of DNA samples to be extended to include everyone. Given the determination of the UK government to introduce identity cards, despite widespread opposition and the well-known flaws in the whole approach, it can only be a matter of time before it links the two compulsory schemes together. The advantages - for the authorities - would be enormous.Including a silicon chip storing your entire genome would add little to the overall cost once sequencing becomes cheap, but would ensure that an identity card would be tamper-proof and impossible to forge, since its identification number - the sequence of As, Cs, Gs and Ts that make up your genome - would be unique to you (apart from any twin) and always checkable against your DNA. Moreover, there would be no need for the proposed draconian legislation to make carrying such cards obligatory: it would be a physical impossibility to do otherwise, since your digital code/identification number is present in practically every cell of your body. This includes those you shed as skin and hair, whatever you touch and wherever you go - the perfect trail for government surveillance based on a Google-like capacity to index and cross-reference the DNA present in a given location at a given time.For a world of inveterate googlers, there would be a certain poetic justice in a future where we are reduced in this way to the genomic text we carry within us, and defined by the digital clues we strew behind us as we pass through life. After all, Google's immense power and undeniable usefulness as a way of finding out about practically anything or anyone is already bought at the price of a corresponding erosion of our own privacy in the online sphere - brought about by precisely these kinds of shifts.&#183;To order a copy of Glyn Moody's book, Digital Code of Life (published by Wiley), for £18.50 plus p&amp;p (RRP £20.50), call the Guardian book service on 0870 066 7979
Intel's first quarter profits jumped 89% to $1.73 billion on sales that increased by 20% from $6.75 billion to $8.09 billion.Extreme Techlooks at the numbers.AMD made a first-quarter profit of $45.1 million, which compares with a loss of $146.4 million in the same quarter last year. Sales surged by 79% to $1.24 billion. SeeDow Jones/APMeanwhile, Apple's second quarter profits tripled to $46 million on sales that grew by 29% $1.91 billion. Fred Anderson, Apple's chief financial officer, said "The iPod probably accounted for probably half of that [revenue] growth". See theMercury News.
Plans by Google to offer free email to take on rivals such as Yahoo Mail and Microsoft's Hotmail have been thrown into confusion by a Californian senator who is plotting legislation that could force the company to drop the idea.Democratic senator Liz Figueroa believes Google's plans to pay for the service by scanning customer's emails in order to send them tailored advertisements, is a breach of privacy. She is considering legislation to stop Google from launching its Gmail service in its present form.Ms Figueroa wrote to the search engine company about the plan a week ago saying the proposal puts the "priorities of 
 advertisers above the interests and desires of individuals"."Quite simply, there is no hue and cry among emailers to have ads put into their emails - just as there is little or no interest among phone users to hear, at the beginning of a call, 'this conversation is brought to you by'," she said. "I cannot urge you strongly enough to abandon this misbegotten idea."Google's plans for Gmail, announced on April 1, have caused consternation among privacy advocates and lawyers on both sides of the Atlantic.On April 6, an international coalition of US privacy and civil liberties organisations including the Electronic Privacy Information Centre and the Consumer Federation of America sent Google a letter 
 asking the company to suspend the service until privacy concerns could be more thoroughly addressed.In Britain a spokeswoman for the information commissioner confirmed yesterday that the data protection watchdog has received a complaint about Gmail from campaigners Privacy International. However, no action has yet been taken.She added that Google is receiving compliance advice from the watchdog, which insists that consumers give their "informed consent" to the way in which their personal data is handled. Google said in a statement yesterday that it is confident Gmail is "fully compliant with data protection laws worldwide".
The track under the world's first commercial magnetic-levitation train is sinking, possibly threatening the &#163;700m project, the newspaper Shanghai Daily reported yesterday.The 270mph "maglev" began regular operation this year. It links Shanghai's new international airport with its financial district.Officials in Shanghai would not comment on the report. But Xia Guozhong, a spokesman for Shanghai Maglev Transport Development Company, which runs the project, was quoted as saying: "We have been aware of the sinking of our maglev track."A spokeswoman for Shanghai's municipal government said she had no information, but that her office was checking the newspaper report.Calls to the government's department of major projects were unanswered.German companies spent decades and billions of dollars developing maglev technology, but searched in vain for a customer until Shanghai leaders chose the system to highlight the city's hi-tech ambitions.While some settling was normal, too much could harm the project, Shanghai Daily   quoted Chinese experts as saying. "If the track sinks beyond its safety level, managers will have to stop the line's operation," Yu Jiakang, a senior engineer with the Shanghai Tunnel Engineering and Rail Transit Design and Research Institute, said.Speaking to Associated Press, Mr Yu said track settling could be arrested by reinforcing subsoil."Slight sinking isn't a problem," he said. "It should be possible to reinforce subsoil for the maglev if necessary."Shanghai is built on swampy land and has long faced problems with subsidence.Officials called for stricter building codes after the collapse last year of an eight-storey building was blamed on the excavation of a nearby pedestrian tunnel. No one was injured in the collapse.Sinking tracks are not the   only problem facing the maglev, which uses a powerful magnetic field to lift trains millimetres above the rails and propel them at the speed of a jet plane.The 440-seat trains carried an average of just 73 passengers a day last month, the Shanghai Daily said. At 75 yuan (&#163;5) each way, tickets are considered too pricey for most residents.The train's station is also   inconveniently located outside of the centre of town.It was hoped the maglev would be used on other, long-distance, lines in China. But the government has ruled it out for a planned high-speed line linking Beijing and Shanghai.There has been no decision on a proposal to use the maglev on a line between Shanghai and the nearby city of Hangzhou.
Intel, the world's largest maker of microchips, reported an 89% rise in quarterly profit yesterday as sales grew in all regions, but the company said the current quarter's revenue could miss expectations.Intel's first-quarter profit surged to $1.73bn (&#163;955m), including a $162m charge related to the settlement of a patent dispute.While Intel's first-quarter profit matched analyst expectations, its forecast for the second quarter fell below Wall Street estimates. Intel also said profit margins in the quarter will be hurt by both lower revenue and increased spending on new chip-making technology.Intel shares, last year's best performer in the Dow Jones index, closed up 7 cents to $27.67 on Nasdaq before the results were released. The shares dipped to $27.25 in after-hours trading.First-quarter revenue grew 20% to $8.09bn, and earnings, excluding a 1.7-cent per-share charge, fell within expectations.
For those unfamiliar with the SuicideGirls phenomenon, theSunday Timesoffered some help: "Imagine Camden High Street naked and you'll get the picture - except it's not raining and the girls aren't covered in snakebite and bits of kebab."SuicideGirls, according to theNew York Times, is a Los Angeles-based website featuring "punk-rock pin-up girls who are both nude and tattooed". Snow, one of the 280 SuicideGirls, explained the scene to theBoston Globe: "There's punk, goth, alternative - everyone is involved in music and arts. And it's not just about the pictures."Courtney Love recently had some of the SuicideGirls on her MTV special, while 70 of them featured in the video for the latest offering from Dave Grohl's thrash metal side-project, Probot. But the SuicideGirls site has reached beyond the alternative community, and is visited by more than 750,000 unique users a week. "Its appeal is universal," remarked theFace, "attracting equal number of male and female punters, aged between 18 and 40. And everyone wants a piece."Despite the outcry in the US after Janet Jackson's over-exposure at this year's Superbowl, huge US corporations, including Warner Brothers, advertise on the site.In February the Playboy website began its SuicideGirl of the Week section. "It seemed a match made in heaven," said the NY Times. "The arrangement does not involve money, but Playboy gets SuicideGirls' independent cachet and young fans while SuicideGirls get its merchandise in the Playboy store and, well, exposure." But the paper suspected the relation ship might start to sour when the SuicideGirls magazine emerges next month.But the collaboration highlighted a concern expressed by theChicago Tribune: "Regardless of how alternative they may be, isn't SuicideGirls just another forum, like Playboy or Penthouse for objectifying women?"The brand, however, appears unstoppable. A coffee table book is due in June, and, according to the Face, there is talk of a possible live burlesque tour in Europe following the recent success of the US shows.
The S40 is a sleek and charismatic new mid-size saloon from Volvo, and straightaway that makes it something of an event because the words "sleek" and "charismatic" have never before appeared in a sentence containing the words "Volvo saloon", unless, of course, the sentence also contained the words "not remotely".Think of Volvo and you tend to think of giant iron cargo ships built to bomb-proof safety standards. (The Volvo safety legend is so imposing and widespread that it now looks spectacularly bomb-proof itself. I grew up in a generation that, massaged by advertising and rumour, believed it was technically impossible to die in a Volvo.) You think of the company's pioneering work in the field of the family estate car, leading ultimately to the evolution of the V70, which is a symphony in practicality yet about as soulful as a T'Pau album.You think of cars on whose clocks you can stick in excess of 150,000 miles without hearing so much as a murmur of complaint. You think of cars that will still be running long after you aren't. You think of the things that draw policemen to use Volvos - such as reliability, solidity, a big window ledge for sandwiches and plenty of room in the back in which to work people over - and many other hugely impressive technological achievements that cause the heart to flutter no more wildly than the prospect of filling out an application for critical illness insurance.Cool? Visceral appeal? Little elements of design to quicken the senses? Volvo has built a company history on standing aside and leaving that kind of thing to Audi, BMW and Mercedes, while devoting its best energies to developing the ultimate crumple-proof glove compartment.Recently, though, there have been signs of shifting ambitions and some unignorable indications that the Swedes are looking to hitch themselves up alongside the Germans in the premium car league. First, there was the XC90. Every indication was that when Volvo eventually got around to launching an SUV, it would resemble a combine harvester and be so freighted with airbags and panic devices that it would be incapable of getting above 45 mph, except on hills and with an assisting wind.But the XC90 was a swift and stylish triumph, albeit a triumph won in an inglorious competitive category - urban off-roaders. The fact remains, though, if you live in a town and are looking (as an amazing number of people seem to be) for a car that is impractical, inconsiderate and scarfs   petrol, you probably can't do better than an XC90.And now here is the S40, the brand-new product of Volvo's platform-sharing partnership with Ford, with its ultra-smooth headlamps, deeply ridged bonnet and sloping rear window, looking (as Dolly Parton said in another context) better than a body has a right to. It's as if the Volvo people in Gothenburg have watched the VW Passat try so hard to match the quietly opulent shape of the Audi A4 and have thought: "We can get closer than that."Inside the S40, though, Volvo cease to be merely derivative and dare to be different. The car is shorter than the outgoing S40 (a dull, forgettable old tank) but wider, thus creating a greater space in which to hang your shoulders, and a distinctly posh distance between driver and front passenger.There is all the more room, then, to sit back and enjoy the interior's centre console, a piece of art above the gearstick. It's a steel-effect board (or wood-effect, depending on your option),   simply and unthreateningly holding the buttons for the music system, the navigation and the air conditioning, and designed to look as if it is floating in space. The device was, apparently, modelled on the remote control for a high-end hi-fi, though it has the advantage of being more difficult to mislay, especially given that it lights up at night. And when one considers what goes by the name of a centre console in most Volvos (generally, a broad plateau of sensibly organised but heart-sinking plastic), one sees how far Volvo are leaping into stylishness.I drove the 2.4-litre version, which was easy on the mind and body alike, with airy power steering and a feathery, almost disconcertingly light gear shift. In fact, the S40 was concerned to delegate the workload in a way that business executives everywhere are bound to recognise and enjoy. People who want to try and fry the lights in the centre console should probably investigate the turbo-charged T5. There's also a 1.8 entry-level version available at around &#163;16,000, which could be one of the year's bargains.And, for all that, it's still a Volvo. I wondered why the ignition was high on the dashboard and to the left of the steering wheel, rather than in the usual position, low down on the right side of the steering column. Then I found out: it's safer when the key is up there, apparently. Those Swedes. They may be chasing BMW for glory, but they won't rest until driving is no more fraught with danger than dozing on a bean bag.The lowdownVolvo S40 2.4 SaloonPrice:£20,185Top speed:138mphAcceleration:0-60 in 8 secondsConsumption:33mpg (combined)At the wheel:Ulrika JonssonOn the stereo:Sven-Goran Eriksson's Classical CollectionEn route for:Malmo
A California politician who condemned Google's plans for a free email service as a "Faustian bargain" that undermines privacy has begun drafting legislation to stop Gmail in its tracks.The search engine giant announced on April 1 in a light-hearted press release that it was planning to offer users a free email account with an unprecedented amount of storage.Democratic state senator Liz Figueroa fears the California-based firm's plans to scan customers' emails and insert targeted advertisements is a "misbegotten idea" that "undermines the most fundamental aspect of communication - the expectation of privacy"."We think it's an absolute invasion of privacy. It's like having a massive billboard in the middle of your home," she told the Reuters news agency.Senator Figueroa said she decided to act yesterday after she received no reply to a letter of protest she sent to Google on April 4.She warned in the letter: "I cannot urge you strongly enough to abandon this misbegotten idea. I believe you are embarking on a disaster of enormous proportions, for yourself and for all of your customers."Google told Reuters it had received the letter and would "take it into consideration as we build the best possible webmail service for our users".The Gmail service will offer users one gigabyte of email storage for free. Its main rivals, Hotmail and Yahoo, both currently charge UK customers £39.99 for a tenth of the storage than Gmail is set to provide.In return, Gmail subscribers will have to consent to allow Google's computers to scan  their emails for key words and insert relevant advertisements in them.This would mean that someone emailing a friend about their plans to visit New York, for example, could receive advertisements for nearby hotels.Google has also faced a barrage of criticism from 28 privacy and civil liberties groups, who penned an open letter to its founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, calling for the suspension of Gmail until privacy concerns were addressed.One of the signatories, the UK-based group Privacy International, also lodged a complaint with the information commissioner about the matter.In a statement to Guardian Unlimited, Google said it had "the highest regard" for the privacy of users' information, adding that it was confident Gmail was "fully compliant with data protection laws worldwide"."Google actively solicits user feedback on our privacy policies - if they can be made clearer or otherwise improved, we want to hear about it," the statement read."We look forward to a detailed dialogue with data protection authorities across Europe to ensure their concerns are heard and resolved."Gmail is currently being tested by a small group of users, and Google has not announced a launch date for the service. A Google source told Guardian Unlimited last week the company was surprised by the level of criticism it faced for a product that was still undergoing trials.The Google site describes Gmail is an "experiment in a new kind of webmail", and does not put a date on when it will become a full-blown service.The privately owned company is expected to float on the stock market later this year with an initial public offering of up to $25bn (£13.5bn).Senator Figueroa has a track record in fighting the consumer's corner on privacy issues. She wrote California's Do Not Call law, which allows people to register their telephone number in order to stop receiving telemarketing calls.
"A California state senator said Monday she was drafting legislation to block Google's free e-mail service 'Gmail' because it would place advertising in personal messages after searching them for key words. 'We think it's an absolute invasion of privacy. It's like having a massive billboard in the middle of your home,' said Sen. Liz Figueroa, a Democrat from Fremont, Calif, reportsReuters."We are asking them to rethink the whole product," she said.Comment: this seems silly to me. The ads in Gmail are "Sponsored Links" and they are exactly the same as the ones in Google: they run down the side of the Web page, and are clearly separate from the message area. They are certainly no worse than having banner ads in another Web-based mail service, and arguably better. The main trick is that the links are based on the Google software's idea of what you might be interested in buying, based on words in your mail. In my case, "Web Mail for Power Users" (www.mailsnare.net) is the kind of link that comes up.
Microsoft resolved another of its long-running legal disputes yesterday by paying $440m (&#163;240m) to InterTrust Technologies and agreeing to license software from its Californian rival.InterTrust has an extensive library of patents relating to digital rights management (DRM) technology, which is used to protect the distribution of music, films and other content on the internet. The company, part-owned by Sony, sued Microsoft for patent infringement in April 2001.Microsoft hopes the deal reached over the weekend will pave the way for faster adoption of DRM technology, which plays a critical role in persuading content owners such as big movie studios to put their wares on the web.The InterTrust suit raised the prospect that media companies using Microsoft's technology to make content available over the internet would also have to pay a licence fee to the Californian company.But the settlement means customers can use Microsoft products and services without a licence from InterTrust. Software developers which use the Microsoft platform will also not need a separate licence."DRM solutions are essential to secure valuable personal, business and commercial content in a massively connected world," said Will Poole, senior vice-president of the Windows client business at Microsoft. "Microsoft is committed to working with the broader industry to accelerate the promotion of DRM standards and solutions."Four years ago, Microsoft linked up with Xerox to create ContentGuard, a new internet company designed to deliver DRM software to protect books, documents, music and other valuable content distributed over the web. Mr Poole said that, while ContentGuard owns critical intellectual property related to DRM, "other parties hold relevant intellectual property as well".Talal Shamoon, chief executive of InterTrust, said the deal validated the company's software. "InterTrust will continue to help drive the adoption of these important technologies through our inventions, licensing programmes and reference technologies."InterTrust was bought two years ago for more than $450m by a consortium including Sony, Philips and investment bank Stephens.The success of illegal file-swapping sites in the wake of Napster has created suspicion of the internet among content owners. DRM technology is intended to ensure that digital content cannot be copied or distributed without the owner's permission.In the UK last week, BT announced a new suite of products under the BT Rich Media banner, aimed at content owners ranging from film studios to local football clubs.Microsoft's deal with InterTrust comes two weeks after it reached a near $2bn settlement with Sun Microsystems.But Microsoft is still battling with the European Union, which last month levied a record fine of nearly &euro;500m (&#163;333m) for abusing its market dominance. Microsoft is appealing against the decision.Daum Communications, owner of South Korea's leading internet portal, said over the weekend it is suing Microsoft over its bundling of instant messaging software with the Windows operating system.
The US securities and exchange commission (SEC) is preparing to formally accuse Time Warner of improperly recording more than $400m ($218.9m) in advertising revenue, it was reported today.According to the Washington Post, the Wall Street watchdog plans to send a formal letter of notification to Time Warner by early summer about alleged wrongdoings at the media conglomerate following its merger with America Online (AOL) in 2001.Time Warner, which last year dropped AOL from its name when the merger soured, is accused of inflating ad revenues and AOL subscriber numbers. But it is a $400m deal with Bertelsmann, the German media company, that is the focus of the SEC investigation.The questionable revenue is linked to Time Warner's $6.7bn purchase of a large stake in AOL's European operations from Bertelsmann in 2002.At the time of the deal, AOL Time Warner booked a $400m payment from Bertelsmann to America Online as revenue for advertising. But Bertelsmann recorded no advertising expense. Instead, the German company saw the entire $400m as a reduction in the price it was receiving for its stake in AOL Europe in exchange for a promise by Time Warner to pay in cash rather than stock.The SEC appears to be siding with Bertelsmann's version of events.The Washington Post said Bertelsmann is part of a broader case that SEC officials are putting together.  In the autumn of 2002, Time Warner restated $190m in revenue from a few AOL advertising deals affecting the 2000-2002 period.The Post quoted people familiar with the case as saying that the SEC has identified numerous other transactions that require additional restatements. The SEC is also considering seeking financial sanctions against Time Warner for not cooperating sufficiently with the investigation, The Post reported.In the course of the investigation, regulators subpoenaed Steven Case, the former chairman of AOL Time Warner, Richard Parsons, the current chairman and chief executive and other executives.Last year, the board of AOL Time Warner decided to drop AOL from the company name, change its stock exchange listing code and revert to Time Warner. The merger between the two companies came at the height of the dotcom frenzy, but the share price of the company has plummeted since the bursting of the internet bubble.Time Warner disclosed in recent regulatory filings that it may be forced to further adjust its financial records and that it faces numerous lawsuits as well. The cost of settling those lawsuits could rise significantly if the company is required to restate all or a significant portion of the $400m it recorded.
Changes to the blogroll: Simon Waldman has become the50 Quid Bloke, while the artist formerly known as Hugh MacLeod is nowGapingvoid.
"You are lost in a foreign city, you don't speak the language and you are late for your meeting. What do you do? Take out your cellphone, photograph the nearest building and press send. For a small fee, photo recognition software on a remote server works out precisely where you are, and sends back directions that will get you to your destination. That, at least, is what two researchers at the University of Cambridge in the UK hope their software will one day be used for," reportsNew Scientist.
"Now anyone with a passing interest in the fate of the planet can remove some of the mystery regarding the effects of the next [asteroid] collision. A new University of Arizona web page allows visitors to plug in a hypothetical space rock's size, the visitor's distance from the impact site, and other parameters to generate an outline of devastation," reportsSpace.com.
There aren't many things more exciting - or, frankly, dangerous - than writing about content syndication. But intrepid Online contributor Ben Hammersley, the authority on all things syndication-esque, manages to find them. As I type, he's legging it across the baking Moroccan Sahara in theMarathon des Sables. It's bad enough he's running in the desert in 110-degree heat and that, in his own words, "I'll have to take in nine litres of water and four thousand calories each day, which is the same as a kilo of sugar, or forty bananas, or I'll be in trouble." No. Just to add that edge, the marathon isn't a normal 26 miles. It's six marathons in six days, including one double-marathon overnight, and he has to carry his food, water and kit with him.Ben's been in training round the streets of Florence with his O'Reilly books in a backpack, to try and get used to the weight. He's doing it all for charity - supporting the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Childnet International and the Retired Greyhound Trust - so do pop over to hisdonations pageif you're feeling generous. And, even if you're not, do include Ben in your prayers, beam good karma at north Africa, chant RSS specifications or do whatever you do when trying to ensure alpha geeks make it back in one piece from lunatic expeditions in foreign climes :-)
Hey, it's Mike Oldfield! Hiya Mike!Shhh! Mr Oldfield, composer of the legendary Tubular Bells cycles, king of instrumental pop, hero of call-centre hold-music composers everywhere, is busy ... creating a world.Sounds like a bit of a challenge.Silence, mortal! Dare you doubt the Promethean will of a being who has already so effortlessly combined the glockenspiel, the electric guitar, the timpani and the cheesy 70s synthesiser in a single bestselling album?You'd better explain, then.Pay attention, earthling. Mr Oldfield's world is called Maestro. It is a web-based virtual-reality experience, a vast, complex computer game launched atwww.mikeoldfield.comtoday - "a free-form environment taking a flight-simulation approach to world navigation through all dimensions - including inter-dimensions."Why?"Maestro," Mr Oldfield explains on his site, "exists because the Gravitars say it must."What?"The Gravitars are here to help a starving race. The human race."No, sorry, you've lost me."You decide what sort of Maestro exists at all ... and in what form."OK, you're scaring me now. I don't want to navigate through inter-dimensions. I just want to go home.Naive mortal! Maestro is your home now. You can use it to "make new friends from all over the world &#91;and&#93; meet and talk to Mike Oldfield, live and online, who will be taking part within the world of Maestro itself".I'm not sure I can take any more.But there is more! "Within this world, you can become the Maestro. You will then be able to enter a special area."Not ... a special area?Yes! A special area! Tremble, innocent human, at the specialness of the area!And, um, what's inside this special area?"Music, specially produced by Mike Oldfield."Do say:"Look upon my works, ye mighty, and despair!"Don't say:"I've only got a dial-up connection, actually, so I think I'll give this one a miss."
You've seen the film and you bought the T-shirt. But Hollywood is determined it won't stop there. Now you can play the video game, directed by Peter Jackson or Ridley Scott, or starring Pierce Brosnan and Judi Dench.Jackson, the mastermind behind the Lord of the Rings trilogy, has become the latest director to realise the show is not over when the credits close. He has struck a deal to exercise creative control over the game version of King Kong, his next multi-million-pound blockbuster.In doing so, Jackson joins Ridley Scott, John Woo, George Lucas and Andy and Larry Wachowski, creators of The Matrix, in seeking to take their influence beyond the cinema to potentially every teenager's bedroom. All are keenly aware that artistically films and games are converging, while financially the future belongs to the programmers.Jackson, according to his manager Ken Kamins in an interview with the New York Times, realised during the making of The Lord of the Rings that 'while a film experience for an audience is over after two or three hours, a successful game experience, if it captures the imagination, can last for days'.He has reportedly agreed terms with Ubisoft, the game designer, and Universal Pictures, producer of the eagerly awaited King Kong film, to play a central role in the look and format of the accompanying game. He will take an equal share of Universal's revenue from the software. It is understood Jackson was determined not miss out as he had on  The Lord of the Rings games, which boast ultra-realistic visuals and even clips from his Oscar-winning films.Actors, too, have been attracted by the growing muscle of the games industry. The makers of  James Bond 007: Everything Or Nothing, hired Pierce Brosnan, Judi Dench, John Cleese, Willem Dafoe and supermodel Heidi Klum to play starring roles. The entirely new story was plotted by Bruce Feirstein, the screenwriter of Bond movies GoldenEye and Tomorrow Never Dies. He told Time: 'You're either terrified of the future or you embrace it. Games are the future. I'd write another one in a heartbeat.'The games industry became bigger than Hollywood last year, with sales of games and consoles in America reaching &#163;5.5 billion, nudging ahead of cinema box-office receipts of &#163;5.2bn. The games market is brimming with tie-ins and spin-offs from movies, often released simultaneously and as crucial to its success or fail ure as trailers and reviews. Directors who once pored over reels of celluloid can no longer afford to ignore the power of the Sony PlayStation 2, Microsoft Xbox and Nintendo GameCube.Ridley Scott, the British director of  Blade Runner,  Alien and  Gladiator, is seeking a game designer to form a partnership with him and his brother, Tony. He reasons that games offer greater creative potential because they are less costly to make than films and not limited to two or three hours. 'The idea that a world, the characters that inhabit it, and the stories those characters share can evolve with the audience's participation and, perhaps, exist in a perpetual universe is very exciting to me,' he said.George Lucas, never far from the cutting edge, owns both Lucasfilm and LucasArts. The latter has been more successful of late, garnering awards and critical praise for its game  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic . By contrast Lucasfilm's first two  Star Wars movie prequels have met with a lukewarm reaction.John Woo, the director of  Mission Impossible 2 and  Face/Off, last year formed Tiger Hill Entertainment, an interactive entertainment firm, and is now developing a video game about an elaborate heist. He also hopes to turn the game into a movie, a reverse path most famously trodden by  Tomb Raider's Lara Croft.Also in the vanguard are the Wachowski brothers, avid game players and creators of  The Matrix  trilogy, one of which was named  The Matrix: Reloaded . Joel Silver, their producer, told the  New York Times that the Wachowskis wanted to produce a video game for the first movie in 1997 but could not find a backer.Three years later, after the huge success of  The Matrix, they designed games for the sequels themselves, keeping a significant chunk of the revenue and shooting to the top bracket of the Hollywood rich list.Lead actor Keanu Reeves and rock star Marilyn Manson were among those at the 'premiere' of the game  Enter the Matrix. Silver said: 'There is a great divide that has rarely been crossed ... &#91;but&#93; everything is changing.'The U-turn performed by Warner Brothers, which turned down the chance to develop the  Matrix games, reflects the change in attitudes. It recently launched the Warner Brothers Games brand to take on the industry giants, including the leader, Electronic Arts. In the past, say experts, studios regarded games as just another piece of merchandise alongside the toys and the T-shirts.The breakthrough game that made them sit up and take notice was British: GoldenEye, based on the James Bond film, released in 1997 on the Nintendo 64. It was widely regarded as an excellent game in its own right, rather than a cheap film spin-off, and shifted millions of copies.Karl Hilton, one of its designers, said: 'Until then, movie tie-ins had a bad reputation because the machines were not up to it, so no one was interested.'But people bought GoldenEye because they liked the game or they liked James Bond. After that the cost of licences for movie tie-ins went up and it became a more hard-nosed business. Now the licences are sold way in advance of your typical Christmas blockbuster and the game will often come out in the same week. It's a lucrative market.'Hilton, a director of Nottingham-based Free Radical Design, added: 'If a director is putting all their time and effort into a film, they want to maintain the quality across the board, including the game. If a bad game came out, it could damage the brand, and it's all about brand management now: kids are quite savvy and they'll spot it if someone is doing a cheap tie-in.'Directors could have a big influence on the look of a game, but should remember it's very different from a film because of the interaction. Playability is everything in a game.'With directors, actors and writers jumping on board, the games industry appears confident which way the balance of power is tilting. Bruno Bonnell, the chief executive of Atari, told  Time: 'Ten years ago, most studio bosses didn't know what a PlayStation was. Now, who knows? Maybe my successor will buy a studio.'
Ciscosays: "A default username/password pair is present in all releases of the Wireless LAN Solution Engine (WLSE) and Hosting Solution Engine (HSE) software. A user who logs in using this username has complete control of the device. This username cannot be disabled. There is no workaround."
"RealNetworks has issued a patch for a security flaw in one of its plug-ins that could let an attacker gain control of computers running any of several versions of the company's popular media player software. The problem involves a buffer overflow that affects the R3T media plug-in. For people who download the plug-in and use RealPlayer 8, RealOne Player, RealOne Player v2 for Windows, RealPlayer 10 Beta (English only) or RealPlayer Enterprise, their computer can be overpowered by an attacker, who can then insert surreptitious code and use it to execute other actions," reportsCNet.
Google, the internet search engine hitherto regarded as a role model for other companies, is being accused of Big Brother tactics following its plan to offer free emails and new features including half a million free pages of storage space. The catch is that in return you have to allow Google's computers to search your emails for keywords against which they can sell adverts that will appear discreetly at the side of the screen. Civil liberty groups have become enraged at the powers to search all emails even though Google says humans will not be involved.But the fact is Google, a privately owned company that is expected to be floated on the stock market soon, will know more about its regular users than any government. It is enough to make Big Brother want to retire hurt. The company will know all the web sites punters have visited, emails they have sent, goods bought and news they have read through Google. It says it has procedures to prevent staff from snooping (apart from technicians who sometimes have to) and most people believe them. But what of a   future Google trying to meet quarterly profit forecasts to keep Wall Street happy - or competitors that will inevitably offer something similar? There will be no problem if people stick to the golden rule of not putting in an email anything that wouldn't be included on a postcard - but how many of us do? And will Google resist the overtures of intelligence services combing for snippets that its own surveillance can't reach?The odds are that Google's service (Gmail) will be a success attracting huge numbers of subscribers. People have been remarkably unfazed about intrusions into privacy, whether from CCTV cameras or "cookies" placed on their computer hard drives to glean marketing data. Used discretely, the new Google service could prove a big boon - as long as users realise that one US company will know more about their thoughts and habits than anyone else in the world. Normally this would be a straight case of  caveat emptor - except in this case there is no buyer to beware. The real moral is there is no such thing as "free" email.
"Intego told MacCentral today that the code is hidden in the ID3 tag of the MP3 file. The code will only activate when clicked, but once it is, Intego warns the Trojan horse has the potential to delete all of a user's personal files; send an e-mail message containing a copy of itself to other users; and infect other MP3, JPEG, GIF or QuickTime files," reportsMacCentral."Symantec Corp said [it was] aware of the Trojan, but noted that the virus has not been found in the wild."
"Just as the constant march of technology is driving down the cost of key components, top universities in robotics are reporting major increases in federal funding, with the Defense Department the biggest spender. The military desperately wants to reduce the number of soldiers killed by roadside bombs or surface-to-air missiles — cheap implements of war that have felled scores in Iraq. Many in the Pentagon believe the answer lies in autonomous air, sea and land vehicles.," reportsAP."The Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University has seen federal funding jump 48% since 2000, and by 117% since 1994. Much of the $24.8 million in federal funding for 2003 came from the Pentagon, said institute director Chuck Thorpe."
Pornography and spam continue to flood email inboxes despite government attempts to stem the tide, according to the internet security and filtering firm Surfcontrol.New laws passed last December made it a criminal offence, punishable by a fine, to send spam to private email addresses. But Steve Purdham, chief executive of the Cheshire-based company, said yesterday that millions of pounds continue to be spent on distributing racist and sexist material on the web."The need to stop porn and spam has increased," he said, with companies becoming more concerned about protecting their systems. Last February a computer virus called MyDoom was released from Russia and infected computers across the globe.Mr Purdham added that "phishing", where internet fraudsters flood inboxes with fake emails in an attempt to get people's bank details, is also a growing problem.The increased demand for protection from criminals and internet pranksters is behind the increase in business reported by Surfcontrol yesterday. In a trading statement the company reported a 21% rise in revenue to $25.8m (&#163;14m) over the three months to March. The company, which has $89m in the bank, saw business in the US grow by 17% from last year and by 25% in both Europe and Asia.Analysts at Corporate Synergy said growth in the US has been above expectations in what is traditionally a slow quarter for the company. Shares in the company added 9p to close at 585p.Mr Purdham added: "There is a general confidence in the economic situation and companies are using their budgets to manage their internet content."Bosses are becoming increasingly concerned about employees spending company time sending jokes and personal email. Last year Phones4U boss John Caudwell caused controversy when he banned all internal email. He claimed it cost the business &#163;1m a month with employees spending three hours a day on email.
The Japan offices of Intel, the world's biggest maker of computer chips, were raided by the country's fair trade watchdog yesterday over allegations that the firm had pressured PC manufacturers not to install chips made by rivals.The fair trade commission is investigating claims that Intel used questionable methods to persuade Japanese clients to select its Intel Inside central processing units rather than those made by its main rival in Japan, Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), and other firms.Local media reported that Intel had offered large discounts on its products as a sweetener and allegedly threatened to stop supplying chips to clients who refused to play along.The officials raided three Intel locations in Japan, including its head office in Tokyo. They are also understood to have visited the premises of AMD and several consumer electronics firms."We did get visits from the Japanese FTA, and, as is our normal practice, we attempt to the best of our ability to cooperate with authorities," Intel spokesman Chuck Mulloy told Reuters from the company's headquarters in Santa Clara, California.Intel, which developed the first microprocessor in 1971, dominates the global market for chips used in PCs, servers and other devices.Its CPUs are found in four out of every five PCs sold worldwide. In Japan - the third biggest PC market in the world, after the US and China - 85% of all computers contain Intel chips. Last year, Intel racked up $30.1bn in sales, an increase of 13% from 2002, and recorded net earnings of $5.6bn. Nine per cent of its revenues came from sales in Japan, compared with 27% from the US and 24% from Europe.It has been a busy year for Japan's fair trade watchdog. Six weeks ago, it raided the Tokyo offices of Microsoft for allegedly trying to strong-arm Japanese computer firms into agreeing in advance not to sue the software group even if it incorporated their patented technology into its Windows XP operating system.The raids are seen as evidence that the Japanese authorities are more willing to act to protect domestic consumer electronics manufacturers against predatory behaviour by the two US companies.Intel's business practices have attracted the attention of regulators in other parts of the world. The US federal trade commission carried out a three-year investigation into the firm but ended it in September 2000 without taking action.A European commission investigation, launched in 2001, ended abruptly when charges of anti-competitive practices were either dropped or found to be baseless.
"Dell is ahead of schedule to reach its goal of $60 billion in annual revenue, CEO Michael Dell said Thursday. In its last two fiscal years, the Round Rock, Texas-based PC maker has exceeded the 14% yearly revenue growth it needs to reach that goal, Dell said at the company's annual analyst meeting in Austin. Thus, the company expects to exceed $60 billion relatively quickly," reports CNet.
"Japan's Fair Trade Commission raided offices of Intel Corp on Thursday on suspicion the world's semiconductor leader pressured personal computer manufacturers to spurn competitors' products, a commission official said. Fair trade authorities suspect that Intel improperly urged clients not to include central processing units — the key chips that do computers' thinking — manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices and other companies, said Masaru Matsuo, a manager at the Fair Trade Commission," reportsAP."The raid covered three Intel locations across Japan, including the company's Tokyo headquarters, and comes exactly six weeks after the commission raided offices of Microsoft Corp. in a probe of alleged anti-competitive practices by the world's most powerful software company."
Internet users concerned about the content of any website should contact the police because there is no UK statutory organisation which regulates the internet, the Home Office said today.The advice follows criticism from children's charities this week about the ChatNannies website which its creators claim was set up to monitor paedophiles in internet chat rooms.The Home Office refused to comment on ChatNannies, but a spokesman said: "In general if people are concerned about any website they should go to the police because the law applies online as well as offline. But as far as I am aware there is no statutory regulator for the internet."The comments came after the internet watchdog, the Internet Watch Foundation, confirmed it had no legal power to investigate general concerns about individual sites.Its remit is to focus on internet material which breaks the Obscene Publications Act, includes images of child abuse or is criminally racist.The response from the Home Office and IWF suggests a gap in regulation, where people are concerned about a website but where, as in the case of ChatNannies, there is no suggestion that those who host or run the website are doing anything illegal.Yesterday the couple which set up ChatNannies defended their venture to SocietyGuardian.co.uk, arguing that they wanted to help people. They also rejected warnings from children's charities that the site could inspire vigilantes and put children in danger.SocietyGuardian.co.uk revealed on Monday that the website, run by Eleanor Wightman and her self-employed software developer husband Jim,  recruits volunteers to act as 'chatnannies' in chat rooms for young people, but the couple admitted that they do not vet prospective 'nannies' to check that they are suitable to look after children.The website had also originally included an email page where paedophiles could ask for help but the page was taken down the day before SocietyGuardian.co.uk revealed details about ChatNannies. Another page seeking donations to fund the site has also been removed.
Google's new email service has come under fire from privacy organisations, who have accused the search engine giant of "violating the implicit trust of an email service provider".In an open letter to Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, 28 signatories have called on Google to suspend plans for the free Gmail service until it has addressed concerns about its privacy and data retention policies. Gmail is currently being tested by a small group of users, and Google has not announced a launch date for the service.The authors, including the US-based World Privacy Forum, the Electronic Privacy Information Centre and the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, as well as the UK-based Foundation for Information Policy Research, argue that Gmail raises "significant and troubling questions" about how users' data will be used and stored.Gmail, which Google unveiled via a light-hearted April 1 press release, will offer users an unprecedented 1gigabyte of email storage: ten times more than rivals Hotmail and Yahoo, who both currently charge customers £39.99 for 100 megabytes. But privacy groups are uneasy about Google's plans to scan all incoming emails to deliver targeted advertising, fearing that the move is "letting the proverbial genie out of the bottle"."Google could - tomorrow - by choice or by court order, employ its scanning system for law enforcement purposes," the letter reads.Maurice Wessling of Bits of Freedom, a Netherlands-based privacy organisation that was among the letter's signatories, said Google's plans are "a big step towards an unwanted development where people really don't have an expectation of secrecy for their communications".The letter also tears holes in Google's privacy policy, which they claim does not set specific limits on how long users' data will be held, or make clear its policies about data sharing between the company's business units.It urges Google to suspend implementation of email scanning for advertising purposes, and asks for clarification of the firm's policies on use of data.Google's response to such criticisms was brief. Spokeswoman Ema Linaker told Guardian Unlimited: "Our response is that we believe that we are fully compliant with the law."Ian Brown, of the UK internet policy thinktank, the Foundation for Information Policy Research, another signatory to the letter, has urged potential Gmail users to think about whether they want their entire email communication record to be held by Google and potentially used by the government and the courts.Meanwhile, another signatory, the London-based human rights group Privacy International has made a submission to the UK's Information Commissioner, voicing concerns about Google's plans for Gmail.A spokeswoman for the Information Commissioner's Office said that it had talked to Google about its plans, but it would not be investigating because Gmail was still at the trial stage."If they launch the service we would expect Google to be very transparent about what they are doing, so that people know when they sign up they are opting in to being monitored," she said.A Google source said that the company had been surprised to face such brickbats when the Gmail service is still being tested and has not been launched to the public.The tone of the April 1 press release with which the US internet firm launched its latest innovation suggests that its founders had little inkling of the chorus of disapproval that would follow.The release boasts that Gmail will "&#91;turn&#93; annoying spam email messages into the equivalent of canned meat" and quotes co-founder Mr Page as saying: "Gmail solves all of my communication needs. It's fast and easy and has all the storage I need. And I can use it from anywhere. I love it!"Mr Brown said Google appeared to be "chewing over" the criticisms of the past week."People are starting to see them in a less flattering light. I don't think they were ready for that," he said.Google's image as an employee-friendly, ethical firm - cemented in its belief that "you can make money without doing evil" - has been challenged by rumours that the firm will go to the market with an initial public offering that could be worth $25bn later this year, and by accusations that the firm is gaining an unhealthily firm grasp on the search engine industry.Mr Wessling said he sensed Google is "a little bit overwhelmed" about the reaction to Gmail."If they had expected criticism, they would have had a FAQ on the site with 10 common questions and criticisms. I sense they didn't expect this kind of reaction."Gmail's launch has also been marred by a copyright row. The Market Age, a British investment research house, has claimed it has been using the name since June 2002.The Market Age's chief executive, Shane Smith, said he registered the name with the US patents and trademark office website last Saturday.Google told Guardian Unlimited that it was "not aware of any trademark registrations for Gmail for email services".Google declined to put a figure on how many people have registered an interest in Gmail so far. The company is at pains to remind users that Gmail is an "experiment in a new kind of webmail", and has refused to put a date on when the current limited tests will become a full-blown service.
MS open sourceMicrosoft has made one of its software tools open source, using the Common Public License written by IBM. Microsoft has posted the code for WiX (Windows Installer XML), used to build Windows installation packages from XML source code, at SourceForge. There are already several free tools that do the same job, but the release is interesting none the less. Not only is it Microsoft's first OSS-approved open source release, it is the first announced on a blog (weblog).http://sourceforge.net/projects/wixhttp://blogs.msdn.com/robmenDo IT virtuallyUsers who need to have several PCs and a couple of servers on their desk are being offered a new version of VMware's "virtual PC" software, which can run them all on the same machine. VMware thinks Workstation 4.5 will have special appeal to software developers in large companies because it can support up to 3.6GB of memory in a virtual PC, and has better support for Windows "Longhorn" and Linux 2.6 kernels. (Longhorn is the next version of Windows, due in 2006 or later.) VMware also claims "seamless availability" for USB devices connected to the host PC. People who have earlier versions of Workstation 4 can download a free upgrade, and there is also a free trial version available.www.vmware.comEmail threatA new, relatively simple form of launching a denial of service (DoS) attack is emerging. NGSSoftware warns that SMTP mail servers' non-delivery notification (NDN) - the automatic email sent when a message is sent to a non-existent user - can be used maliciously. The exploit can be triggered by sending numerous emails to different servers from one spoofed address. Each email includes one actual and numerous incorrect addresses in a single domain, which will generate an NDN message for each sender. All of these will be returned to the spoofed sender causing a mail storm that could bring down the server. NGSSoftware claims that 30% of the Fortune 500 companies and thousands of other servers are vulnerable.http://www.techzoom.netTag dragProblems with radio frequency identification (RFID) tags are causing delays to roll-outs in the US. Wal-Mart is having problems because the weak radio signals generated cannot penetrate fluid-filled containers and other substances. Several companies are also becoming concerned that the lack of any security   system will allow competitors to read, or even change, tags in warehouses. Organisations such as EPCglobal develop unique electronic product codes use on RFID tags. These are stored in Object Naming Service databases, but rules governing privacy and access to this information have yet to be defined.Legal burdenExternal regulation and compliance is absorbing finances that would otherwise be spent on internal projects. Netegrity, an identity and access management company, has surveyed its customers' plans, revealing that 69% feel that money set aside for security and other contingencies is being eroded by the need to comply with European and US legislation. Regulations laid down for US companies, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, are affecting UK companies doing business there. To help companies to document and review their internal financial controls, Microsoft has released its Office Solution Accelerator for Sarbanes-Oxley worldwide. This will be supported by RSA Security's ClearTrust identity and access management software.Newcastle-upon-lineNewcastle City Council is offering a complete online service delivery, beating the national e-government deadline by almost two years. Newcastle has expanded its telephone-only access for residents through a network that can be accessed over the net, through public access terminals in libraries, and via kiosks in public places. Services available include planning applications, housing benefit and council tax benefit claims, as well as schools admissions and transfer applications. The service includes video conferencing centres that allow residents to access council services and other public service providers.www.newcastle.gov.ukCollaborationMicrosoft is offering UK businesses a chance to try Exchange 2003 and Windows Sharepoint Services 2003 as hosted online services. The free offer targets small- to medium-sized businesses looking to save on infrastructure and internal IT support costs, the company says. Microsoft is seeking opportunities to offer wider application service provision in the UK. You can read a white paper, Making Collaboration the Engine of Productivity, to find out more. The file (also available in print), defines the principles of Microsoft's communication and collaboration infrastructure and describes the benefits it claims to provide.www.myofficesystem.co.uk
Around Europe this week, you may well have been able to hear the continent's mobile phone geeks shouting "told you so" at Nokia. The company was forced to admit disappointing results on Tuesday and, as today's FTreports(free today only) part of its problem can be traced to failing to spot a trend towards clamshell phones. I remember, two years ago, hearing Nokia's senior management haughtily dismiss questions on clamshell phones at a press conference in Helskini. "Europeans don't want clamshell phones," replied one executive, arms crossed, looking to close the discussion straight away. Alas, for Nokia, Europe's consumers dared to disagree.Nokia, its sales falling 2% in the first quarter (against predictions of 3-7%growth), is coming round to the idea of the flip phone, and its long-promised7200model is a lovely, very stylish example that should hit the shops very soon. Other initiatives will help Nokia regain its cutting-edge image, like the Lifeblog software first reportedherelast month; a neat PC diary program which will run on new Series 60 phones to be launched this summer (but not, contrary to one report, on any phones around at the moment). And I'd still buy a Nokia ahead of any Motorola, or Microsoft Smartphone device, having bought examples of all over the years.But Nokia's chief executive, Jorma Ollila, had to concede that his company's 38% market share of last year would fall this year. You have to wonder if Nokia's dominance of the handset business is coming to an end, especially asSony Ericssongets its act together in a very big way to start attacking on features, price and design.
When Megabus, the nationwide discount bus service, launched last month, it stated that it was following the example of the no-frills airlines such as EasyJet by running its business off the back of an online ticketing system. In fact, it showed its total commitment to the model by becoming the first UK travel operator to sell tickets exclusively over the web.After four weeks of operation, Megabus has 20,000 hits per day on its site and a quarter of a million tickets have been sold for its 18 destinations. The company says that being web-based has enabled its owners, Stagecoach, to go from initial idea to launch in only six months and to deliver a completely ticketless operation.Online ticketing has been a dramatic success. EasyJet founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou initially said the internet was "just for geeks" but later he did a U-turn, launching the first UK online booking for an airline in April 1998. A year later, the site was selling 15% of all tickets online, and today the figure is 98%. EasyJet's call centre now only takes bookings for flights less than two weeks ahead.The simplicity of online booking is partly responsible for its success. However, the way it integrates what are known as yield management systems (or revenue management systems) is the secret of how it is transforming the travel industry.Yield management software, first devised by academics in the 1980s for American Airlines, allows operators to segment seats into scores of different price brackets, like steps on an escalator, with prices that change in relation to demand, the time remaining, and the flight date (which triggers seasonal differences). Such software has grown in sophistication to the extent that it is now commonplace for prices to be modified in real time and respond to subtle changes in buying patterns or sudden events that impact on demand. In essence, pricing is set by predicting demand from the previous year's travel patterns, and modified whenever the operator believes that prices need to be shifted up or down.Ian Tunnacliffe, an analyst with Meta Group, says that such software is transforming the travel industry: "Traditionally, it was a massive investment: now it can be bought off the shelf for around &#163;100,000 from a handful of suppliers. And the major airlines are taking it to the next level with systems that look at their whole network of routes and assign 'bid prices' to each leg to gain the maximum revenue across the whole net work. The systems are also finely honed to try to ensure that customers willing to pay at one level do not get tempted into paying less - it's about creating conditions to prevent them taking advantage of lower fares on the system."EasyJet, which recently took over rival Go, now sells 149 seats every 20 seconds and handles 20m passengers a year. EasyJet web manager Simon Pritchard says the aim is still about driving a higher level of web sales: "We look at what people do on a phone call and try to offer that online." Last year, Easyjet added the ability to look up booking details and make changes to a booking, succeeding in shifting 70% of such transactions online. Four staff run the web operations, while 100 are needed in the call centre, which shows the cost savings of pushing activities online.In a Guardian interview last year, Haji-Ioannou described how   EasyJet's yield management system works: "We start with a low headline price that grabs attention, then raise it according to demand. But we won't tell you how high it will go, or how quickly." Lack of visibility of the pricing model appears to be part of the secret of running such systems.So how do buyers behave on the web? "People do all kinds of weird and wonderful things," says Pritchard, "for example, many buyers trawl the site repeatedly to try and figure out pricing and get the best deal." So why not make pricing more transparent? He says EasyJet is looking at a range of options for improving the site but that its message is simple: "book early for the best deals."EasyJet and the other no-frills airlines have the benefit of running simpler yield management systems than the larger airlines they threaten to engulf. They sell all or most of the tickets themselves, which makes it simpler for the systems to manage minute-to-minute changes. Large airlines sell direct, and through huge worldwide reservation systems (Amadeus, Galileo, Sabre) that provide online services for a global network of travel agents and online travel agents such as eBookers, Lastminute.com, Expedia   and Travelocity. The larger airlines usually allocate a set number of seats for online sales to ensure a spread across different distribution channels.A further channel has been created by airlines banding together to form their own online agent sites such as Opodo and Orbitz. They also sometimes sell what are known as "opaque tickets" on sites like Lastminute.com. These are offered cheaply to offload what might be called "distressed stock". The catch is that the customer must agree to buy the ticket before being told which airline they are flying. "This allows airlines to offload seats without sending out a message to buyers that a particular flight is going cheap," said an industry insider.Amadeus, which also provides online ticketing systems for airlines, says that when buyers surf the web, only one in 300 visits to booking sites results in a sale. "We call it the Look-to-Book ratio," says Ian Wheeler, managing director of Amadeus e-Travel. "Most people look at four or five sites online before they buy. This is a sea change for the industry, and the result is that operators with legacy systems experience crashes due to increased traffic when offers and promotions are available."A few years ago, buyers would call   two to four travel agents and get a maximum of 12 quotes; now they go online and in the same time get about 600 quotes. A call centre just can't do that."Meta Group's Tunnacliffe says the large airlines are now facing a fork in the road: "They either think revenue management has gone too far and should be simplified or they are investing heavily in making it even more sophisticated. We advocate the latter. Only a handful of airlines have really implemented ticketing that takes account of the whole network they run because it involves structural change for the airline, because the system will override local pricing and sales incentives that may be in place. But the real revolution takes place when you tie these systems into the computers that organise scheduling. That is the long-term challenge."With hotel and car hire following the online sales trend, most observers believe that booking services in the travel industry will increasingly be web-based, leading to a radical shakeup of distribution channels and the role of travel agents. Haji-Ioannou's ability to make a U-turn - and his faith in yield management systems - looks like paying off many times over.
Jon Praed of the Internet Law Group stares deep into his audience, crammed into a room in a hotel on the edge of San Francisco International Airport. He leans forward and makes an open threat. If you are a spammer, he says, you will be hunted down, and you will be caught.Jon Praed is one of AOL's primary counsels in fighting spammers through the courts. He's a sort of spamhunter-general. The audience nods approvingly at his words. This is, after all, the Spam and the Law conference, and catching spammers is what we are here to do.Well, most of us. As Praed peers into our souls, some of the audience shift uncomfortably. They might not be spammers now, but they've certainly been accused of it in the past.Two rows behind me, obscured from Praed's vision by my shaking bulk, is Scott Richter. Richter has been estimated to be the third-largest spammer in the world by Spamhaus, the British anti-spam group. Microsoft estimates Richter sends out more than 250m emails a day. Anti-spam vigilantes variously refer to him as "Mr Spam Man", "the King Of Spam", "a snarling bulldog" and, occasionally, "a frog-humping bastard". If you search your inbox for "OptInRealBig.com", you may find that you, too, have called him a name. If I'd ducked, Praed could have got a clear shot at him from the stage.Surprisingly, no such shootings occur. It's oddly intimate, watching the spammers and the anti-spammers mill around each other like this. It feels like a temporary ceasefire in a vicious war that to most of us seems to be a stalemate.It's an amazing feat, given the increasing vitriol and hatred on both   sides of the conflict. Everyone takes a risk attending these conferences. Anti-spammers have been shunned and despised for consulting with even the most repentant former spammer. And who'd want to be a spammer in a room full of spamhunters?Over the past year, though, a series of meetings arranged by a trusted figure in the American anti-spam community, Anne Mitchell, have been slowly bringing the two sides together. These mini-conferences, held under the banner of the Institute for Spam and Internet Public Policy, have mostly been between the highest-ranking ISPs - MSN, AOL - and commercial email marketers of the most squeaky clean kind. Initially in secret, these days the meetings are more public.What has changed in the war to finally bring both sides to the table? And, given that this is clearly a fight between Good and Evil, what benefit is there to talking at all - especially to people like Scott Richter?The bad guys in this battle are, of course, the spammers: dodgy salesmen who trawl for email addresses, and use them to pitch endless Viagra, printer toner and penis extension kits to net users worldwide. To fight against this torrent of unwanted mail, technologists have thrown up a battery of defences. System administrators have built up databases of rogue net addresses. Coders have devised ingenious self-learning mail-scanners, which can separate the chaff based on the key words that spam contains but that innocent mail does not: Viagra, penis enlargement and, curiously, according to my own filtering database, "modalities" and "arrangeable".But the spammers fight back. They create their own, infinitely flexible argot "V1agr@ p from literature, and end with small streams of random characters that make it look like the mail's author suffered a coronary at the keyboard while writing the offer: "zzm,zmmcml peq dhfyupagy eurqnc v."And they co-opt virus-writers, paying them to devise self-replicating programs that convert home computers into spam relays. The worms turn an innocent owner's barely used PC into a 24-hour mail-out factory. The blacklist databases are filled with hundreds of thousands of potential locations, as though spam were invading from all directions.And whatever happens out on the front, we continue to drown in spam. Indeed, some say it's because of the very effectiveness of modern anti-spam filters that the amount of spamming mail has increased so rapidly."It's a vicious circle", says Ray Everett-Church, privacy consultant and a long-time campaigner against spam. "The volume of spam goes up because filters catch mail; the filters    grow more aggressive to catch the spam, which means the filters catch spam  and legitimate mail. It's like a balloon animal. You squeeze at one spot, and it balloons up at another."Sending email is cheap for spammers. So cheap that, faced with filters, they have been merely upping their output: taking it, say, from 1m to 20m messages to get the same response rates. The result is an escalating war of weapons and words, with innocent bystanders often the victim. According to a study by Return Path, a fifth of bulk mail that net users  have requested - opt-in mail such as newsletters and company updates - is discarded as spam by ISPs.Email, once one of the most dependable systems on the net, has turned into an unreliable messenger: 29% of Americans have reduced their use of mail because of spam, a Pew research project recently revealed.Are we losing the spam war? When people such as Richter are seen in the same room as hardened anti-spam   figures as Praed, is this capitulation?Praed doesn't seem to think so. On the contrary, he sees it as a sign that the war may be turning in his favour. The shift, he says, has come from the opposite side. There was a time when legitimate, large companies would see no problem in sending unsolicited commercial email, or turn a blind eye to it being sent on their behalf.There have been meetings between the sides before. Notoriously, in 1999, the US's Direct Marketing Association met ISPs, anti-spam activists and software companies such as Microsoft. The DMA seemed to take their concerns to heart but, within a year, was actively praising the virtues of spam, and lobbying against the first anti-spam laws. Since that meeting, viewed as a betrayal by many anti-spammers, progress has been glacial. America remains the global number one source of spam.The position of America's DMA reflected a wider belief among marketers at the time that   spam's modus operandi - sending commercial, unrequested email - was not the problem. The content was the problem. As recently as last year, British companies such as BMG Music, the RSPCA, BT and Lloyds TSB were all caught sending unsolicited mail."A lot of companies were in denial," says Everett-Church. "They weren't advertising herbal Viagra - how they could they be seen as spammers?"And they got away with it. Even with the appearance of tougher anti-spam laws in the EU and USA, spam continued to increase. As digital law expert Lawrence Lessig points out, nobody gets thrown in jail for faking headers. Marketers believed they could spam without fear of censure.But sending unsolicited mail is much harder now. To get around filters, you have to play dirty. You need to use those virus-infected machines; misspell your product; surround your message with enough textual chaff to get past the filters."The technological measures we've taken so far just push the problem around to an extent," says Craig Hughes, one of the authors of SpamAssassin, a popular free mailing filter, "but they also draw a line between the legitimate and the illegitimate."That means the laws have more bite. The bad guys are more obvious. "Juries are sympathetic to spammer's sob stories about being a legitimate business just trying to do mass marketing. But when the prosecution says he's been writing viruses to take control of other people's computers - well, anyone can see that as wrong."And as well as a stick, the developers of the spam blacklists are now working on a carrot. They are introducing global whitelists - a get-into-an-inbox-free card for bulk emailers who follow the rules. Companies have to have an identifiable permission trail: an auditable record of when you signed up to receive their mails. They have to send the mail from a fixed IP address, so that those who don't want their mail can easily ban them. And this is why people such as Richter are appearing from the shadows. They have a choice: turn legit, or risk an increasingly criminal lifestyle.And Richter's choice? When he spoke to me (via his attorney), he seemed insistent on his legitimate business credentials. But his rapprochement with Praed and others will have to wait. Richter is fighting off a lawsuit from Eliot Spitzer, crime-fighting attorney general of New York, and Microsoft.Spitzer instituted the public prosecution after receiving evidence supplied by Microsoft's Hotmail company. Namely, 8,000 mails from Richter's company in one month, all to email addresses specifically designed to trap spam. Spitzer says that within the 8,000 emails, they found 40,000 fraudulent statements - an average of five per email.The case isn't won yet. But in the past month, I received 1,400 mails from Richter's companies, none of which I signed up for, and many of which arrived via email addresses that could only have been illicitly obtained. I'll be siding with the hardliners on this one.Richter and his cohorts may have found themselves on the wrong side of a much wider alliance than just a brave crowd of anti-spam fanatics. And there's no way he's hiding behind  me when that happens.
MP3 hi-fiI am looking to replace an ageing hi-fi. With much of my music now on my laptop in the form of MP3 and WMA files, I was wondering if there is a decent home-based MP3, CD and DVD unit out there. I could then listen to music through a decent amp and quality speakers rather than my current soundcard/tinny PC speaker combo.Stewart BoyleJack Schofield replies:You could connect your laptop to your hi-fi system either directly from the soundcard line-out or via a device such asXitel's HiFi-Link, or you could buy an MP3 player. It should be possible to connect this to a hi-fi amp using a cable that starts with a headphone jack and ends in two phono plugs.Alternatively, many cheap DVD players such as the Yamada DVD 5520 and Pioneer DV-360S Silver (picked at random from Amazon.co.uk  will now play back MP3 files from CD, as well as formats such as VCD, SVCD, CD-R, CD-RW, and Kodak Picture CD (JPeg). A growing number also support WMA (Windows Media Audio) files. A DVD-based system should sound better than a PC, though it is arguable whether most MP3 files could be described as hi-fi. MP3, WMA and Sony's Atrac compression systems are all "lossy".This means audio information is thrown away to make the files smaller, and there is no way to get it back. Often this doesn't matter because the systems used to play these files probably wouldn't be able to use it. Unfortunately, the better your hi-fi, the more likely it is to expose the limi tations of the source, especially if you get the contrast of switching between MP3 files, CD or SACD discs or a decent turntable. Having said that, if your MP3 files have been recorded at a bitrate of 256kbps, I think you would be pushed to find many people who can tell the difference.In the near future, there should be affordable DVD/HDD recorders with built-in hard drives, and some will connect to a PC via an Ethernet or Wi-Fi network. But I reckon silver discs will be around for a long time yet, for both storage and back-up.CD saverI use my computer to archive all my watercolour paintings, storing them on CD for safety. The original collection has nearly filled a CD, and it now resists playback, "freezing" the system.Alan WatlingJS:The CD format was designed to play audio in one long track, not for multi-session data recording or the sort of incremental or read/write "packet writing" approach that computers use with magnetic discs. Packet writing may be convenient and has its uses but, in the long run, it is unreliable, and therefore unsuitable for making back-ups. If you want a reasonably secure record, save your pictures on the hard drive or on a different removable medium until you have 700MB, then back them up by writing a whole CD at once.Anti-spywareI'm now spending a lot of time trying to keep on top of spyware of one kind or another, even with excellent programs such as Ad-aware and SpyBot, etc. Given that these programs alter the activities and sometimes the security settings of my PC, does this not constitute hacking? Why are the authorities not doing anything about it?Graham WilsonJS:American lawmakers are aware of the problem and, in fact, last year,    Republican congresswoman Mary Bono proposed aSafeguard Against Privacy Invasions Act, which would require companies to get users' permission before spyware is installed on their hard drive.However, many people readily give this permission when installing free file-swapping software, media players, file downloaders and other programs. So-called "drive-by" installations should not usually be a problem if your software is patched up to date (including Java updates) and you are running, for example, SpyWareGuard fromwww.wilderssecurity.net/spywareguard.htmland using SpyBot's inoculate feature. And, yes, Mary Bono was married to the late Sonny Bono of Sonny &amp; Cher fame.Backchat&#183;Simon Brooksbank wanted a way to find out if someone was trying to call him while he was on the net. Jacqui Morgenstein says: "Many (most?) ISPs don't seem to want to support modem-on-hold" so she uses a &#163;29.95 Comtech Internet Alert IA510 instead. "You only need Call Waiting from your phone company and it works with V.90 modems as well as the new V.92 ones. When someone calls you, the red LED flashes and the unit beeps repeatedly." Seewww.comtechproducts.co.uk/tele/ia510.&#183;While discussing monitors last week, I should have said the Sony Trinitron uses an aperture grille. As George Haytack points out, "all colour CRTs have shadow masks".&#183;On the subject of losing email messages, Ron Bridle suggests writing in a word processor before copying them into email, so you always have the originals. "My way takes longer initially but, in the end, it is the best way," he says.
Metal Gear Solid: The Twin SnakesGameCube, &#163;39.99 Silicon Knights/Konami,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Despite the myriad games that would benefit from modern technology, Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes is the first credible effort to receive such treatment. Essentially, The Twin Snakes is Metal Gear Solid with the extra moves that Solid Snake acquired in Metal Gear Solid 2 and tarted-up graphics plus redone (very impressive) cut scenes.Thus, Solid Snake can hang from ledges and enter first-person mode to shoot at people - which comes in handy during some of those hitherto frustrating battles with bosses. For anyone who played the original, The Twin Snakes will be reassuringly familiar. Unfortunately, the camera, which is either so tight-in that you find enemies shooting at you, or virtually top-down, will also bring back memories. Compared to Splinter Cell, it appears archaic, but provides surprisingly fulfilling gameplay.Steve BoxerKya: Dark LineagePS2, &#163;34.99 Eden Studios/Atari,&#42;&#42;&#42;Kya: Dark Lineage is another stylish and enjoyable Gallic videogame, a 3D adventure similar to Nintendo's Zelda games. So expect to spend your time exploring lush environments and solving puzzles. The plot sees Kya being dragged into another dimension and each of the nine levels is different enough to encourage perseverance, although the connecting wind tun nels are frustrating in places. And there are some rough edges that see you falling through scenery.However, numerous mini-games scattered throughout, each with a typically quirky French twist, add variety. There are also plenty of things to collect, bad guys to destroy and a collection of eccentric characters to interact with. What there isn't, sadly, is a great deal of originality.Sure the graphics are striking, depicting a beautiful fantasy world. And yes, the use of wind - to travel and solve puzzles - is a pleasing progression of ideas from the last Zelda title. But everything has been done before. The mishmash of ideas - from platforming to stealth to puzzle-solving - means Kya stands or falls on its plot and characters. Luckily, it pulls through, making for an enjoyable, if slightly predictable, adventure.Greg HowsonSingles: Flirt Up Your LifePC, &#163;19.99 Koch media/Deep Silver Robobee&#42;&#42;Judging by the sanitised attitude of EA's Sims games, it's hard to imagine the franchise truly embracing Singles, a game which revolves around sex. Not that the sexual side of Singles is a mere gimmick: you have to build your sexual foundations on a good friendship and make sure that your would-be lovers do their share of the housework. Full-frontal nudity, heavy petting and bedroom action are tastefully depicted through an attractive, realistic 3D graphics engine. So, you don't feel too much of a pervert playing it, which may disappoint some!The interface and the game mechanics, which revolve around trying to build up both a living space and a relationship, have been designed to appeal to Sims fans. Unfortunately, there is a general lack of replayability and depth. This is slightly cushioned by the price, but you could buy a Sims expansion pack for the same money. With such a nice engine, here's hoping that Robobee can come up with something more challenging next time.Rhianna Pratchett
OK, OK, we know that it's a fascist plot and doomed to fail anyway. But there are also some grown-up points we need to raise about how the identity card scheme will work. One question causing a few blue faces in the run-up to the draft bill is, who is going to run the scheme?According to the Passport Agency's new five-year corporate plan the answer is straightforward. Although the plan says modestly "It is clear that our activities will be fundamental to the delivery of ID cards," the agency obviously sees itself in the driving seat. "We expect that the shape of our future business will be radically different to that of today."As expected, the corporate plan firms up a schedule for issuing passport cards alongside book   passports, both containing electronic biometric chips. Plans for cards have been in the works for several years, until now carefully distanced from ID card proposals. This distinction seems to have gone out of the window.More significantly, the plan reveals that the agency is considering creating a "person-centric" database and for links with other agencies' systems. The long planned link-up with the Office for National Statistics' register of births and deaths will end once and for all the Jackal problem of applications being made in the names of the dead. Another link is with the Immigration and Nationality Directorate's citizenship database. (The fact that this is a novelty speaks volumes about the way government works.)Another significant proposal is to cut the validity of passports   from 10 to five years. "Reducing the validity period would help us to preserve the integrity of document design, deal with issues of chip lifetime and enable upgraded biometric chips to be inserted on a more regular basis," the plan says. It would also make the passport more like an everyday identity card, which would need to carry an address, and other changing details.Five-year passports would "create a significant extra financial burden on our customers", the plan admits, and be "operationally challenging". To deal with this, the plan envisages setting up a "large and well-equipped front-office network".For all these ambitions, the Passport Agency is not the only candidate to lead the ID programme. Nor is it necessarily the most appropriate one to run the core   component, a database of holders.Other possible candidates are the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA), the Office for National Statistics (ONS) and the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP).Culturally, the safest bets would be the DVLA - following the US fashion, driving licences are already quasi ID cards - or the ONS, which as an arms-length body from government might be more acceptable. The DWP, on the other hand, has the beginnings of a database of entitlement to state benefits, and a working, though little-loved, "front-office" network.Much of course depends on what the card is supposed to do. As fundamental opponents frequently point out, this is still unclear. Perhaps the new bill will enlighten us on that.
There's only one thing scarier than a computer virus and that's anti-virus software. But I didn't      know that last week when a rash of virus-ridden emails from people I don't know started to bug      me.A friend said he'd read a good review of Symantec's Norton Anti-Virus software and I duly decided      to download it. Big mistake.       Everything about the experience was awful, but let's start with the shopping.I chose the Norton      Internet Security 2004 software as, for not much extra money, this included a personal firewall      and some other software as well.Immediately something called Extended Download Service was added to my shopping basket so I had      to spend extra time finding out what this was and deciding if I wanted it. I decided to buy it as it      would enable me to put a copy of the software on another computer.The Norton Internet Security software took ages to download and run its pre-installation virus      check but, luckily, I had all evening. The next day, when I tried to run a post-installation virus      check, I found my laptop was virtually unusable.The software took up so much room I could not run the anti-virus software even once, and when I      tried to use other applications, my laptop crashed. Never mind, I thought, I'll delete the Norton      software.But it was extremely hard to get rid of. The Add/Remove Programs application in the Control Panel      area of Windows wouldn't work.So, in desperation, I called the Norton helpline, which alarmingly states that all helpline calls cost      Û29 (£19) per problem - quite high considering I'd only spent $90.40 (£49) on the software.However, I didn't think Symantec could charge that for simply telling me how to delete the      software. I spoke to a competent-sounding person who promised to send me an email explaining an      alternative way of deleting the software, and a way of running an online virus check. This email      never arrived.I tried calling again at about 4.30pm, but when I got through to the support line I needed, the      automatic voice said it was closed and, then, contradicted itself by saying opening hours were      9-5pm.In the end, I managed to delete Norton Internet Security by booting up my laptop and going straight      to the Control Panel without connecting to the net.The following day, I got an email asking me to rate Symantec's customer service. I filled this in      with "Very Dissatisfied" for five out of the six questions, putting "Appalling" (plus details) in the      Additional Comments section. Is Symantec horrified by my awful experience? I don't think so, as it      has not replied.Then I had what I thought was a good idea. I would use the Extended Download Service to download      one bit of software at a time, starting with the anti-virus software. However, this download site only gives you the option of downloading the whole bundle.Luckily, there is a refund policy. It is worded in such a way that I am not sure if it applies to me,      but I am going to see what happens.Still, at least I am no longer so worried about viruses. After all, how can a PC with a virus be      worse than one that does not work at all?
Sun Microsystems of Mountain View, California, shocked everyone last week by reaching a $1.6bn settlement with the company it has spent the past decade attacking. "Sun Microsystems and Microsoft have entered into a broad cooperation agreement and settled all outstanding litigation," said Sun.That is very good news for Sun's customers, because the two firms will cooperate to improve interoperability between their products, including Sun's Java and Microsoft.net. This should give Sun an edge over rivals who either won't work with Microsoft or can't afford its licensing fees. But it could be bad news for journalists: Sun's boss, Scott McNealy, might dish out fewer of the witty insults   for which he is known - things like calling IBM's Regatta server "Regretta" and coining Microsoft.not.Under the settlement, Microsoft will make some very large payments to settle patent disputes and for advance royalties on Sun technologies. Meanwhile, Sun will license some Windows technologies under the programme "established pursuant to Microsoft's consent decree and final judgment with the US Department of Justice and 18 state attorneys general".Sun said it was "satisfied that the agreements announced today satisfy the objectives it was pursuing in the EU actions pending against Microsoft". So the European decision, for which Sun lobbied so hard, was irrelevant.How much it will do for Sun's declining business is another issue. According to one of Sun's official   filings, its sales of "computer systems products" fell from $12.4bn in 2001 to $6.2bn in 2003. And on the day the deal was announced, Sun released provisional quarterly figures. It expects to make a loss "in the range of $750m and $810m" on sales of $2.65bn, after deductions for shedding another 3,300 staff.This does not have much to do with Microsoft. Sun boomed with the dotcoms, when there were lots of startups with oodles of cash to buy high-priced servers running Sun's Solaris version of Unix on Sun Sparc processors. It slumped when that bubble burst and, today, I suspect many startups would be more likely to use "Lamp" servers - Linux/Apache/MySQL/PHP - running on cheap Intel boxes.Also, Sun's customers find it a lot easier to switch to a Unix-clone such as Linux than to an incompatible system such as Windows Server. This is where Red Hat - now the only significant independent Linux company - aims to make money. As Red Hat's chief executive, Matthew Szulik, said last year: "The road to Redmond is through Mountain View." IBM is quietly taking the same route.Sun looks vulnerable because almost all its business is "open" in some way, and relatively easy for Linux suppliers to attack. This contrasts with, for example, IBM, where Linux probably represents less than 2% of its business, and it sells Linux hosted on profitably proprietary mainframes. Unlike Sun, IBM has a large Windows business, too.After the deal was announced, CNet News immediately asked McNealy: "Is this going to put pressure on IBM?" He replied: "We wouldn't have done it if it didn't."Links  Jack Schofield's columnSun announces agreementhttp://www.sun.com/smiMicrosoft announces agreementhttp://www.microsoft.com/presspassSteve Ballmer's memo to staffhttp://www.microsoft-watch.comCNet News coveragehttp://news.com.com
Talk rubbishIt's very important that teachers learn to talk rubbish and teach children the three R's: reduce, reuse and recycle. That's what Wastewatch is trying to do with Recyclezone, a bright new site for children, teachers and schools. The fun section includes educational quizzes and an excellent graphical Rubbish Challenge game, while the activity section has details on making compost and recycled paper. Pity it doesn't meet the W3C's web content accessibility guidelines.www.recyclezone.org.ukwww.wastewatch.org.ukOld housesOnce, "reality TV" wasn't synonymous with rubbish, and back in 1999, there was the award-winning 1900 House, which gripped fans tighter than a whalebone corset. This was followed by 1940s House and The Edwardian Country House (aka Manor House). America's public broadcasting service showed the originals, and followed up with Frontier House, set in Montana in 1883. This was also shown on Channel 4. Next month, PBS goes further back in time, with a huge cast in Colonial House: "Indentured servitude. No baths or showers. Public punishments. Welcome to daily life in the year 1628!" The series is another "co-production of Thirteen/WNET New York and Wall To Wall Television in association with Channel 4", so we can expect it to appear here.www.pbs.org/wnet/1900housewww.pbs.org/wnet/frontierhousewww.channel4.com/history/microsites/F/frontier_housewww.frontierhousemuseum.comwww.pbs.org/wnet/colonialhousewww.current.org/hi/hi0308house.htmlOld carsIf you are still planning this summer's world tour, see if you can go via Madison, Georgia, and visit the Bruce Weiner Microcar Museum. It's by appointment only, but has a fantastic collection of European bubble cars and related vehicles. Alternatively, go to the website and select the Tour Index for a list of exhibits. These   include the French Coccinelle (Ladybird), sold as the Atlas Babycar, the 1962 Fiat 500 Jolly or "beach buggy", and the three-wheeled BMW and Messerschmitt bubble cars once familiar on British roads. The museum has a Sinclair C5 and a few Scootacars, but no Reliant Robin.www.microcarmuseum.comOld flamesTechnically, the Athens 2004 Olympic Torch should not have far to go, but it's now travelling round Greece and will be sent to "all past Olympic cities". Its international journey will take it from Sydney (June 4), to London (June 26), on its way to Moscow (July 3). A total of 120 torchbearers will carry the flame across London. You could apply to be a torchbearer via the "official partner", Coca-Cola, but finding details might depend on picking up a leaflet in Asda, rather than battling with Coke's appalling website.www.athens2004.comwww.london.gov.uk/torchrelaywww.coca-cola.co.uk/torchrelayOld ideasMuch as I love the British Museum, I wish it would not make design mistakes like the ones in its new Ancient Civilizations website. As far as my browser can tell, if it doesn't detect Flash, you just get a blank screen. If it does, you get a "loading..." sign with no button to say "skip this rubbish now". It then inflicts a horrible sequence of dropping and floating words on you - and every time you go back, you are obliged to suffer the torture again. Once you get to the main menu, you can pick one of six themes - Cities, Religion, Trade or whatever - and explore the topics revealed via a world map and a timeline. As you would expect, the menus are in Macromedia Flash, and all the content seems to be in Flash as well. At least, when I clicked where it said "HTML Version", it responded "page not found". Still, if you have a fast web connection and enjoyed using educational CD-Roms in about 1995, you may like it, though Dorling Kindersley would probably have done it better.www.ancientcivilizations.co.ukwww.gsp.ccGoogle dotsGoogle now supports a "number range" syntax so you can search for things between two numbers, such as date and price ranges. The trick is to put two dots between the numbers, such as "Winston Churchill" 1910..1915 or canon $100..$200 (it doesn't work for sterling). Tara Calishain has more at ResearchBuzz.http://www.researchbuzz.org/archives/001560.shtmlNew &amp; notedLand untouched by modern dentistrywww.molvania.comhttp://books.guardian.co.uk/reviewsAmericans fight secrecyhttp://books.guardian.co.uk/reviewsUnconventional conventionswww.theunconventionalconvention.comwww.torpedofactory.orgSix of the best: robotsAsimohttp://world.honda.com/ASIMOWakamaruwww.wakamaru.netMIT's Leg Labwww.ai.mit.edu/projects/leglab/robots/robots-main.htmlQRIOwww.sony.net/SonyInfo/QRIOLucywww.cyberlife-research.com/contents.htmRobot galleryhttp://robots.net/robomenu
iPod rivals come and go but few seem to have any impact on its popularity. The &#163;280 Cowon iAudio M3 MP3 jukebox has a better chance than most on account of its gorgeous silver design and the fact that it is significantly thinner and lighter than the Apple player.To keep the size of the M3 down, the screen and several menu buttons have been incorporated into its remote. This is good, because it means you don't have to get the player out of your pocket when you want to change albums, but also bad as it is a tad fiddly to operate. The screen is a little small, too.The M3 trounces the iPod in the features department. It supports MP3, WMA and Ogg Vorbis formats, can moonlight as a voice recorder, record directly from CDs/hi-fis and has an FM radio built in. In terms of sound quality there's little to choose between this and the iPod either.This is a cracking MP3 player and at &#163;280 for 20GB (around 5,000 tunes) it is &#163;20 cheaper than the iPod. Well worth considering.www.mp3-plus.net
When Microsoft releases its second service pack (SP2) for the Windows XP operating system, expected in June, there will be extra features for Tablet PCs. These additions promise an improved user interface and additional tools for developers, but will there be enough to popularise this type of pen-based computer?The Tablet PC has been on the shelves for 18 months, but take-up has hardly met the stellar success hoped for by Microsoft and its hardware partners. The razzmatazz and hyperbole of the launch failed to impress IT industry analysts at Gartner and IDC. Both estimated sales of around 425,000 units in the first year, and these predictions have proved disappointingly accurate. The slow take-off has angered hardware manufacturers that invested in the format, and some have blamed Microsoft for not doing enough to encourage sales.Acer is a staunch supporter of the Tablet PC and was trialling the format for Microsoft more than two years ago. Last year, Acer's president Wang Chen-tang blamed disappointing sales on the costs levied by Mi crosoft for the Windows XP Tablet PC Edition operating system. "Microsoft should put in more effort working with vendors in marketing Tablet PCs," he said.In October, Adrian von Hammerstein, Fujitsu Siemens's president and chief executive, said that sales of Tablet PCs had not altered sales in the company's pen-based computing markets, and were disappointing in horizontal markets because of the lack of applications. He felt that Microsoft should encourage independent software vendors (ISVs) to develop general applications that apply to all industry sectors.Microsoft is responding to the criticism. Last month it launched a contest for developers: "Does Your Application Think in Ink?" Entries will have to demonstrate innovative uses of the Tablet environment. The winner of the $100,000 prize will be announced in September.For hardware vendors, Microsoft has developed extra features, code-named Lonestar, for Windows XP SP2. This includes a new Tablet Input Panel, which displays the on-screen keyboard and text input panel. It converts handwriting on the fly to make correcting text before entry easier. It can also be linked with the   input fields of an application so that only certain words, characters or digits are recognised. This is supported in the new software development kit.Julius Sinkevicius, Microsoft's Tablet PC business development manager, outlined his aims during a visit from Redmond last month. "Our vision is that within five years most notebooks will have the Tablet option. That's why we're working with our partners to find out how can we drive down the price; how can we get digitisers everywhere;   how can we get different form factors so we can drive the delta down. We also have 300 ISVs working on Tablet PC projects."Will this bring out the "corridor warriors", the mobile executives hailed as a principal target? Brian Gammage, a vice principal at Gartner Research, does not believe Microsoft's actions go far enough. He thinks the system is immature and needs to recognise gestures - standard symbols for common functions such as delete, cut, copy and paste."Functionality is not integrated with the rest of the operating system," says Gammage. "You can't do a universal search across text and ink. You can't switch between pen input modes - sometimes you're navigating, sometimes you're doing pen input and sometimes you're entering text - and there's no easy switch between them. These are major usability barriers that haven't been overcome."Gammage does not dismiss the Tablet concept: he is impressed with how intuitive the pen is as a pointing device, and praises the Tablet as a sketching device. But he questions the premium paid to gain these advantages: "Microsoft expects the original equipment manufacturers (OEMs)to handle cost, but they have little fat left to cut."Andy Brown, IDC's European programme manager for mobile computing research, agrees. "The OEMs are having to write down the considerable cost of development. They don't have the level of resource and profitability that Microsoft has. As an enabler, Microsoft has to seriously consider giving away this product &#91;the Tablet PC extensions&#93; free."Developing a Tablet PC is a serious financial commitment because of the need to develop extras, such as the special hinges for convertible laptops and making slate models light and rugged. David White, Acer's business manager for mobile devices, says: "There's a cost associated with being able to build a screen that can rotate and yet be rigid enough to stand day-to-day knocks. There's also the extra cost of the digitiser and the licensing costs of the operating system. Join these together and you get a substantial delta over a notebook without Tablet functionality."Acer's first machine cost &#163;1,799 in 2002, but prices have now dipped below the &#163;1,000 barrier. Other manufacturers have made similar cuts - but the battle is to convince users that the pen technology offers a significant advantage.If something is not done soon, the Tablet PC may eventually attract the sort of derision that killed Apple's pen-operated Newton.
Feeling the squeezeGary James (Feedback, April 1) asked why the article on the iPod mini (Pretty in Pink, March 25) didn't review sound quality. I wouldn't take much notice of a computer techie's review of sound quality and, second, I doubt whether such a reviewer would have access to the equipment necessary to measure the device. However, for an independent review of the iPod's capabilities look atStereophile's October 2003 issue. This magazine covers the objective and subjective abilities of hi-fi equipment.The iPod is subjected to the same extensive range of tests applied to other equipment and the conclusion is that the iPod performs better than many mainstream CD players when playing uncompressed files. However, the article notes that such performance is of scant relevance if the device is used to play compressed files. I support this view: compressing files simply removes all the music and you might as well carry around a seashell and "listen to the sea".Comparisons of MP3 sound quality are of no relevance. Perhaps iTunes is doing James a favour by failing to rip MP3 files! A 30GB iPod can store about 40 CDs at full quality. Enjoy quality, not quantity.Nick ButtDon't count on itCraig Silverstein of Google (Searching questions, April 1) says that getting a computer to understand a query as well as a person could take 200 years. I don't know about 200 years; it might even be impossible!Natural language processing is hard, because we do not understand the human machinery that underpins it (and what we do not understand, we cannot properly simulate).  Indeed, no one knows whether such an understanding is even possible. It might just be that the conscious mind, and its associated analytical processes (the bits we problem-solve with), are not capable of comprehending the machine that manifests them - or it might be that the machine works in such a bizarre and alien way that it will forever deny us any proper understanding of its actual workings (a sort of human quantum mechanics).Peet MorrisUniversity of OxfordMail aggressionToday I received an email from BT Yahoo! informing me that my email account had been successfully transferred to a BT Yahoo! email system. I never knew anything was happening. I decided to check out this new facility, which involved logging in via a web browser. I found myself with a Yahoo webmail front-end, except it is called BT Yahoo! I decided to turn on the spam-filtering options, carefully reading them all.After a few days, about two emails arrived in my Apple Mail application's inbox. I logged into BT Yahoo! webmail and found my bulk mail folder overflowing. I checked the spam options and there is little you can alter - so it appears the BT Yahoo! spam filter is very aggressive. Do I leave it on and retrain the spam filter or turn it off and be bombarded with spam? Bring back the old BT email system and spam filters I was happy with.Roland J YoungSkype's limitThe hype about Skype in the article by Joia Shillingford (Talk is cheap on the net, April 1), might be modified by some of the negative user comments at theCNet download site.These suggest that it is spyware,   that it is very difficult to remove, that it causes many problems if installed, that it has a dubious End-User Licence Agreement (EULA), that the large number of positive comments come from a small number of people and that there are preferable free alternatives. As usual, buyer beware. My shame is that I almost bought it without thinking because of the article.Tony KloudaCash for questionsNews that the cost to Google of its email system will be met by matching advertisers with the subject matter of messages is at first ominous. Further consideration suggests that this could make for inspired anarchy. People include such sentences as "I really want to buy some sports shoes, price no object". Bing! The automatic machinery will be alerted, and up will pop news of clogs at $300 a throw. Any irritation will be soothed by the thought that the firm will have paid to reach millions of spurious customers. It is easier than returning reply-paid envelopes.Christopher HawtreeNHS correctionIn Services rendered (March 18), Michael Cross states that "BT will now take responsibility for handling NHS email under its contract to run a new NHS-wide network". This implies that BT will now have responsibility for managing/providing the NHS email service. This is completely incorrect.There is no substance whatsoever in this statement regarding BT and the NHS email service. Indeed the National Programme and EDS are starting a mediation process. All due process with regard to the procurement will of course - in line with all other National Programme for IT procurements - be followed in full. An announcement will be made in due course about future management of the NHS email service.Benedict PayneNational Programme for IT
The current crop of viruses is as nasty as I've seen for some time. Its potential to cause damage is staggeringly high and, for some reason, the message that viruses are a huge threat is not getting across to everyone. Often, the people supposed to be in charge of controlling the problem are part of the problem.As ICT coordinator ofStoke College in Suffolk, I view the gamut of computing skills, from the first steps of Reception/Year 1, to the advanced techniques of those studying for GCSEs in ICT - plus the range of skills displayed by adults - teachers and administrators. It is as important to educate staff about the dangers in the computing world as it is to educate the next generation, and that means virus education.Some of today's email viruses aren't immediately obvious. If you receive all the email addressed to a school's office, for example, why wouldn't you open an email with a subject line of "Undeliverable email report", especially if it seemed to come from someone with whom the school had regular correspondence?Education is how. And if you are not educating your staff, you are   leaving your school or business open to attack. You should never open attachments unless you know they are coming, you know the file names, and you are certain they have come from the right person. If in doubt, ring up and ask.Our school, like most, is bombarded with email viruses. That we have yet to succumb is not just because we run as effective an anti-virus solution as we can, but because the people working here wouldn't contemplate opening an attachment when the provenance was in doubt.Our defence strategy also includes constant checking for virus signature updates from Sophos, our anti-virus solution provider, and constant checking for critical updates and patches chez Microsoft, our operating system and application software provider.Being a school, we strive to remain within our budget. That means we constantly seek out the most costeffective method of ensuring we are as protected as possible, and as up-to-date as possible.Keeping anti-virus identity files up to date means I get to write scripts to download the latest files from the Sophos website, rather than employ the services of programs that would do that for me. To ensure we have   the latest critical updates, patches and service packs installed, I use the excellent Microsoft Software Update Services (SUS) Server package.Whatever size school or business you run, SUS should be an indispensable part of your armoury. It is free, it is relatively easy to set up, and will save you much angst.Put simply, you install the server part of the software, download all the patches from Microsoft, and after manipulating a few Domain Group Policy entries, you simply choose which of the downloaded items you wish to make available to your systems. Click on the Approve button, and when you return in the morning, all your systems will be updated.The trick is to set it up right in the first place, and that includes installing a client program on systems that are running antiquated versions of Windows. But setting things up just got easier thanks to a push    launched by Microsoft to get educational establishments to use this server technology. The latest documentation is atwww.microsoft.com/uk/education/solutions/patches.It's not perfect. The 27-page document that forms the backbone of Microsoft's drive is understandable by experienced network administrators, but much of the language could be simplified. If Microsoft added a bit more plain English, it would help those who are less experienced in network lore. It is also a little terse, and needs far more in-depth, and better illustrated, explanations of what is actually happening in some areas. However, it is a vast improvement on what was available. It also contains references to other security tools such as the Microsoft Baseline Security Analyser (MBSA), which many schools might not yet be familiar with.It is our responsibility to ensure   the systems under our control are as patched and as secure as possible. Microsoft's SUS server will go a long way towards taking the headache out of that area. Regular checks for updates to anti-virus software will cover other potential holes. But clear education for users on how to handle email and attachments is just as important, because some viruses will get through.Defeating the wave of viruses sweeping the world requires a higher degree of education for all users than has been needed before, and a much higher level of vigilance. The anti-virus vendors can only do so much to knock out the viruses once they appear and, in this case, prevention is better than cure.
Mobile phonesMiniature linePanasonic has unveiled the G51M, the latest handset in its miniature mobile phone series. One of the smallest and lightest phones available (it weighs 74g, with dimensions of 80x43x90mm), the G51M is a tri-band handset finished in brushed metallic silver. The phone also has a 4K-colour display, two built-in games and a selection of polyphonic ringtones. Other features include T9 text input, vibration alert and a melody ringtone composer. Battery life is rated at 2.5 to six hours talktime and around 200 hours standby. It is available now.www.panasonic.co.uk3GSpeed surfingVodafone has won the race to become the first network to offer UK laptop owners web surfing at 3G speeds. Available from Vodafone's stores this week is the Mobile Connect 3G/GPRS data card, which fits into a PC's PCMCIA slot, enabling users to access the web at speeds of up to 384kbps. The card costs from &#163;50 to 150 (excluding VAT), depending on the tariff. Payment plans depend on usage: &#163;20 a month enables the owner to download up to 50MB of data, while &#163;85 secures up to 1GB. However, Vodafone's 3G network coverage is limited to major cities. Should a user leave a 3G area, the card automatically diverts to a significantly slower GPRS connection.www.vodafone.co.ukCamera phonesAn end to the waitMotorola's long-awaited V600 camera phone has finally reached UK stores. Available via Orange, O2 and T-Mobile, the clamshell handset features a VGA camera with a 4x digital zoom, video capture and playback and POP3 email compatibility. It also boasts Bluetooth, Java, MP3 and polyphonic ringtones, voice-activated dialling and an integrated speaker phone. It retails with a contract for between &#163;150-&#163;200. A limited edition of the phone features a cover by fashion designer Vivienne Westwood. It is selling for &#163;300 via the designer's stores.www.motorola.co.ukwww.viviennewestwood.comPDAsGet connectedE-Ten has unveiled a pair of connected PDAs that use Microsoft's Windows Mobile 2003 platform. Available now from Peripheral Corner, the P300 and P700 are both tri-band, GPRS devices that offer standard Windows Mobile   features such as Outlook, Pocket Word and Pocket Internet Explorer. The more expensive P700 (&#163;461 without contract) sports a 3.5in screen, a 400MHz Intel PXA255 processor and integrated Bluetooth. The smaller and cheaper P300 (&#163;351 without contract) has a 200MHz Arm 9 processor, a 2.8in display and integrated camera.www.peripheralcorner.co.ukSoftwarePIN-pointerSatellite navigation specialist Navman is to launch its first PDA with integrated GPS facilities. Due in early summer, the &#163;500 PIN, which uses Microsoft's Windows Mobile Pocket PC 2003 operating system, features a GPS receiver that flips up from the back of the device. Using the integrated SmartST V2 software, the device can display 3D maps   of 16 European countries on its 3.5in LCD screen. It also offers turn-by-turn voice instructions between stated destinations. The PIN runs on a 300MHz Intel PXA-256 processor, features 64MB RAM and has an expansion slot for SD, SD/IO and MMC cards.www.navman.comReach for the SkypeVoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) software specialist Skype is offering consumers the chance to make free voice calls over wireless networks using Microsoft Windows Mobile Pocket PC 2003 PDAs. Users download its new internet telephone software, PocketSkype, from its website and transfer it to their handheld PC. They then use the PDA to make free, unlimited voice calls on the move using Wi-Fi hot spots or at home via their own wireless network. Calls can only be made to others using the Skype soft ware. The company claims its VoIP software for PCs has been downloaded more than 9.5m times since its launch last summer.www.skype.comInternetYou've got GmailIf you want to test Google's planned email service (Gmail), then try your luck registering onhttp://gmail.google.com, as the search company is signing a limited number of people as trialists. When it eventually goes public, its unprecedented attractions - a whole gigabyte of storage, strong anti-spam functions and, of course, sassy search capability - could make it the biggest instant success recorded by the web.   Competitors such as Hotmail and Yahoo! may be forced to follow suit or see their businesses implode. By the time they get around to responding, we may already be saying "Gmail" and not "email".Leeds plugged inA new website, set up by a partnership including the local council, is providing a wide range of statistics on the city, including population structure, ethnicity, crime and health statistics. It maps data against Ordnance Survey maps, and is publicly available. However, a major use is in satisfying time-consuming requests from within the public sector, which were previously dealt with by a specialist team within the city council. The &#163;4.6m geographical information system is based on a five-year deal Leeds signed with ESRI (UK), which is hosting the site.www.leeds-statistics.orgwww.esriuk.comToo good to be trueThe Office of Fair Trading has found 176 UK websites making misleading claims - a total of at least 234 breaches of consumer protection laws. Nearly half the sites found in the sweep promote working-from-home schemes, with one boasting that users will earn &#163;2,500 a month, but providing no details and only mobile phone numbers as contact details. The OFT says such offers usually hide high startup costs. The next most common category is the get-rich-quick scam, with one site offering &#163;198,000 in 24 hours, followed by lottery and free prize claims.www.oft.gov.uk/News/Press%2Breleases/2004/61-04.htmStat of the week:Digital camera salesCanon and Eastman Kodak last year gained sales in the competitive digital camera market but failed to displace Sony, according to a report from research firm IDC. Global shipments of digital cameras reached 47.9m units, up 71% from 28m the previous year.
How has computer technology helped cosmology?Computers have had a major impact because while the equations for cosmology are not that complicated, solving the equations is very difficult. We often have to rely on computers to approximate the answers or help us manipulate the symbols algebraically. Some things we do today couldn't be done without computers.Any special software?We useMathematicaas well as more standard software, various Fortran compilers etc, for simulating things. What's missing is that we need   to make more progress in understanding the equations and ideas better.How important has the net become as a research tool?It's revolutionised the way we do research. As a graduate student at Oxford, every Monday we'd go to the pre-print library to see the research papers that had arrived - sometimes they were two months old! Now, every morning we can log on to the archive  and see the papers posted the previous night. Under-developed countries can now participate fully, too. As long as you can get your hands on a computer, you have instantaneous access to the same papers as everyone else.Did you have a lot of input into the Elegant Universe website?I was involved in the science content and advised on the modules onstring-vibration, but the general look was down to the web designers. I've been giving lectures around the country and so many people say how happy they are that the fullNova programmeis available on the website.No chance of a weblog?I enjoy reading blogs but am not interested in having my spurious thoughts out there. The ones I've thought through are put in a book but the informal ones aren't something I'd want to throw out randomly.Have you been following the Interplanetary Internet Protocol development?I don't know too much aboutthe protocolbut I watched theMars landingon my computer. I thought it amazing that I could watch the control room as it landed. The connection was a little   jerky but the images were good enough.Quantum computing?It is one of the mostexciting fieldsand challenging questions are being asked. But my heart is set on seeing throughString Theoryand understanding cosmology.Gadgets?I have aToshiba Port&#233;g&#233;laptop but like to keep it simple, which frustrates people who have trouble reaching me. When the Elegant Universe broadcast was about to air, I was bought a cell-phone and had to keep it for two months. My dream would be to have my life on a Zip disk . Obviously, I'd keep a back-up copy!Visit:www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/elegant/greene.html
By day, Dave Williams is a glass-industry engineer in the north-west of England. At night (and weekends), the 47-year-old is "Macroman", one of the leading lights in a large, online community dedicated to PC customisation and transcending the design limitations of the "beige box".HisMacro Black custom-made PCis a legend. Made from hand-tinted Perspex, it sports polished mirrored surfaces and chrome logos that come alive when powered up. Inside, a thicket of fibre-optic cables react to sound, glowing green, yellow and purple in the dark. The CD drive is "stealthed" and hidden from view. The fans are subsonic and almost completely silent.It's his pi&#232;ce de r&#233;sistance, built from scratch and lovingly honed over months. Attention to detail and aesthetics are paramount to arch-modders such as Dave. "I'm a minimalist," he explains. "And it lives in the living room so the wife's got to accept it."It's a sign of the times. Previous generations of enthusiasts noodled with cars, or maybe hi-fis. Today, they customise their high-performance PCs to the hilt. It's about   individuality and innovation."With so many people using computers, there's this urge for geeks to differentiate themselves," says Will Harris, a 21-year-old law student who runs the leading modding webzine, Bit-tech.net, from his room at the University of Oxford. Many of his readers are teenage videogamers weaned on technology. Their PC is more than just a tool, an entertainment system or even a prized possession. It's part of their identity."Personal tweaks and unique features can buy you much kudos and attention from other PC owners," says Harris. The height of fashion is a case with a transparent side panel for audience appreciation at Lan parties. Some modders have added cigarette lighters, stained-glass windows, neon signs and even retro-fitted machines into old Marconi radios, or R2D2 cases. Others have squeezed their PCs into Apple cases - and shrugged off the subsequent death threats from aggrieved Mac owners. One man, G-gnome, has dedicated months and &#163;2,000 to making his PC look like Orac, the snobbish computer from Blake's 7. Thousands of enthusiasts have viewed the online photo diary of its    constructionhttp://new.bit-tech.net/article/114/19.Today, modders even have their own magazine,Custom PC, complete with Readers' Drives: centrefolds of customised machines, cases splayed wide open. The scene is like the custom car market, says editor Gareth Ogden. It's about having a machine that best represents you. "You don't want a Porsche so you can drive at 200 miles an hour," he says. "You want it because it's classy, powerful, and stylish, and it's better than driving a Mini."However, most modders lack the tools and skills necessary to make stylish mods. Airbrushing, cutting metal,   even drilling require practice. "Most kids wouldn't know a jigsaw if it tore their arm off," says Harris. Indeed, online modding forums are full of tales of woe and warranties invalidated by ambitious teenagers setting about their PCs with pillar drills.It's this gap between aspiration and ability that the market has grown to fill. Mass-produced mod-kits are now available off the shelf for enthusiasts. Websites such aswww.kustompcs.co.ukoffer affordable components: fluorescent UV cabling, noiseless fans, soundproof cases and water-cooled CPUs.At the same time, as the computer gradually shifts from its traditional    place in the office or bedroom to the living room, the quest is on for a PC that doesn't look and sound like a miniature 1970s power station. Commercial companies are slowly waking up to demand for good-looking PCs. "The first ones were pretty awful," says Ogden. "But now they're getting better."New innovations such as the Zalman Nano-ITX, a tiny motherboard that measures a mere 12cm by 12cm, are leading to small, quieter PCs that rival Macs in style. He recommends theHush ATX, a slim-line, high-performance, good-looking and silent PC that looks like a chrome hi-fi separate. The case is one big heat-sink so it doesn't require fans. It looks good but costs a lot of money.Even bigger companies are getting in on the modding act. Macroman was recently commissioned by Intel to custom-make a "gorgeous" transparent PC to demo Intel's latest processor at press launches. There's also a growing market for customised PCs for businesses looking to stand out at exhibitions, or one-off mods for companies to use front-of-house.Many of these new ideas for PC designs have been lifted directly from the underground. "We do something and three months later we see it being manufactured in Taiwan," says Harris.Off-the-shelf kits and cheap components have replaced hands-on toiling over a workbench. Cheap vinyl appliqu&#233;s (ie car stickers) negate the need for airbrushing. The ideas have run out. "Everything that can be done has been done," sighs Harris.Macroman is not sore to see his hobby commercially exploited, however. He can rest assured he has created some of the best PCs, although he has not let fame go to his head."Someone offered me five grand for my Macroblack," he says. "But I thought, 'Nah, it's not worth it'. Let's keep things in perspective. It's only a plastic box, for God's sake."Links  Moddingwww.bit-tech.netwww.hexus.netwww.custompc.co.ukwww.kustompcs.co.ukwww.hushtechnologies.com&lt;/A
Anno 1503Elkware, Java,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;O2 and T-Mobile now, Vodafone soonFans of slightly nerdy PC strategy games should find themselves quickly addicted to this pirate-themed trading and battling title. Anno 1503 contains three games: a high-seas shooter, pitting your galleon against ruthless pirate vessels; a trading sim where you travel from port to port buying and selling goods; and a Sim City clone where you become mayor of a burgeoning harbour town. With so much gameplay packed into such a small space, you'll have to spend a lot of time figuring out the many menu screens, but the payback is a complex and involving challenge.Metal SlugDigital Bridges, Java,&#42;&#42;&#42;www.digitalbridges.comThe original Metal Slug was an oddity, a 2D scrolling shooter launched in the midst of the 3D revolution. The jump'n'shoot gameplay and dark comedy earned it an audience, though, and Digital Bridges has revived the licence with this faithful adaptation. The setup is simple - charge through each level, blasting enemy soldiers and picking up hostages. The action still gets the heart hammering, but the rhythm of the arcade and later versions is lost due to the keypad's lack of responsiveness. However, veterans prepared to wrestle with the controls will get misty-eyed pleasure.
A website has removed a confidential email service where paedophiles can ask for help following criticism from children's charities when it was exposed by SocietyGuardian earlier this week.ChatNannies has also taken down the names of two children's charities which appeared on its page appealing for sponsors and pledging to give 10% of any donation to the NSPCC and Barnardo's . The link to the page  on its main menu seeking donations has also disappeared.But the website, set up a month ago by husband and wife Jim and Eleanor Wightman from Coven near Wolverhampton, is still appealing for people to work as "chatnannies" in internet chatrooms for young people.Although the internet watchdog regulator Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) has issued a general warning to individuals interested in either working for or using services offered on the web, it has reiterated that it does not have any statutory power to investigate individual sites which may be causing concern.Peter Robbins, IWF's chief officer, said: "We do not assess, advocate or endorse any specific types of free or commercial internet safety/filtering programmes, software or services such as monitoring of websites and chatrooms."The IWF does however provide an internet hotline for the public to report any illegal images used on the internet.A spokeswoman said: "It isn't for us to comment on the way that a site is set up or what we think about the way it advertises for people. There isn't an organisation which is set up to vet or assess these kind of organisations. Possibly there should be."The children's charity Barnardo's approached ChatNannies to remove its name from the appeal for sponsors page after it was alerted by SocietyGuardian.A spokeswoman said: "After some investigation it was discovered that the owners of the site had not approached Barnardo's to discuss the use of the charity's name  therefore we asked them to remove it. This has now been done."The NSPCC said  its internet safety adviser Christine Atkinson is a member of  IWF. A spokeswoman said: "We are concerned enough &#91;about this website&#93; to know that it is being looked at. It is something which needs to be looked into."Mrs Wightman said 6,000 people had registered as chatnannies. She admitted that the couple did not vet any of the volunteers to ensure they were suitable to look after children, they liaise with them via email and do not have telephone contact numbers for them.She said it was possible that a tiny number of the recruits could be paedophiles but said there was no vetting process because the couple did not think they could effectively screen them out. Instead they were relying on "concerned individuals like ourselves".The Wightman's were not available for comment today.
"Spymac Network, one of the largest International Macintosh community web ventures, has launched a free online e-mail service that matches the 1GB of e-mail storage that Google is providing in its fledgling GMail service. The jumbo e-mail storage will be part of a free membership in Spymac.com, an online community site geared toward Apple Computer users," saysXinhuanetin Beijing."The e-mail service, which has been offered online since Monday, is provided to customers 13-years-old and older using any operating system."Seehttp://www.spymac.com/network.php?p=tour
"Although Google's free "Gmail" service isn't even available yet, critics already are pressuring the popular search engine maker to drop its plans to electronically scan e-mail content so it can distribute relevant ads alongside incoming messages. Privacy activists worry that Gmail will comb through e-mail more intensively than the filters widely used to weed out potential viruses and spam," reportsAP."Gmail opponents also want Google to revise a policy that entitles the company to retain copies of people's incoming and outgoing e-mail even after they close their accounts."Comment: if Google decided to collate my e-mail with the searches it knows I run on Google and with my Orkut entry (it knows who my friends are) then there would not be much it did not know....
Groups such as local football clubs will be able to film events and distribute them to members across the internet using a new broadband media package to be launched by BT over the summer.Thousands to Millions, as its working title suggests, will allow anyone from school teachers to parrot fanciers and train spotters the chance to distribute broadband content widely and charge for it.The manager of a local club, for instance, will be able to film a match, edit it, apply security measures so it cannot be copied, set prices for viewing and upload it to the internet for less than &#163;100 a month. The author will be able to dictate how many times subscribers are allowed to view material, whether they may send it on to anyone else and how much they pay each time for downloading it.The package is part of BT's Rich Media product which the company hopes will appeal as much to small businesses as to broadcasters who want to deliver television shows on the internet. Increasing the availability of broadband content is part of BT's drive to attract 5 million customers by 2006."We got to 2 million broadband users about two months ago and that early stage was really about early adopters and a lot of them were techie types. But if we are going to get to 5 million we need to do more," said BT Rich Media's chief executive, Andy Brown.Alongside the Thousands to Millions product, BT yesterday unveiled a suite of tools for content companies which will allow them to package and securely distribute DVD-quality footage over the internet.
