I'm schlepped to east London's Excel - a cavernous expo centre carved out of the capital's backside - for theFuture of Web Appsexpo; it's one of the bigger, smarter internet conferences to be held in the UK this year. It's certainly a lot bigger than thelast FOWAin the spring. I'll be providing sporadic updates throughout the two days, keeping track of interesting things that are going on.First up isOm MalikandMike Arrington, two of the big tech news bloggers. The main hall is fairly full of bleary eyed geeks watch as Ryan Carson ofCarsonified(formerly Carson Systems) - the organisers - comes on stage to start proceedings, sporting his trademark millinery. He's followed by the conference chairsBrian OberkirchandSimon Willison. who have helped put things together.Arrington hasn't appeared yet - we're promised he'll be here in a few minutes, so the conversation kicks off between Malik and Carson.(click after the jump for updates)9.20am:They start (a little oddly, I think) by discussing TechCrunch 40 and some of the new web apps that wereon display there. Moving on to the proposed Gphone project from Google, Malik says it's good news for developers that they might have a platform that's really good. Carson asks whether support for multiple systems is confusing to users - Malik says developers are best support everything, then you're going to be on board whenever a winner (if any) is picked.9.28am:Still no sign of Arrington. Carson asks what sorts of companies might get acquired over the next year. Malik says he doesn't know - it depends on how scared the big guys - Microsoft, Google, Yahoo - get. The Google brain drain, for example, as employees cash in their options and check out, could encourage them to buy to fill the gaps.What advantages do European startups have? Malik says definitely: much better broadband infrastructure, the US is still living the past... 8-24Mbps is easy in Europe, and you can use that. The second thing is that most of the European startups should and have the ability to incorporate mobile into their business plans. Mobile is a huge play. I don't know if you have any advantages over the Asian companies9.30am:Arrington arrives, taking over the stage for a minute to fluff himself up. He says that he can't tell if new apps like those at Techcrunch 40 will make it in the long term, but he's really excited by free software and the music business, with things like removal of DRM happening.Usually startups get out of the way when big companies do things - what did Technorati do when Google launched blog search... it's difficult to get out of the way when something this big comes along. It's tough to launch a DMR-free store these days; that's why things likeAmie Street- which allows indie bands to sell their music a price that depends on its popularity - are interesting.What business models have you seen that are just stupid? We're seeing too many companies enter spaces very fast - last year it was customisable Ajax start pages (ieNetvibes. But business models? The crazier the better (I'm not sure that makes complete sense) and he points to Guy Kawasaki'sTruemors, which has been fairly trashed but cost just $13,000 to launch. YouTube sucked when it started.Malik chips in, and says, appropriately, that YouTube is still trying to find a business model. His tips: don't do another Office clone.Carson throws in the F-word - Facebook. How can web app developers prevent Facebook from stealing their ideas? Should they even be making Facebook apps? Arrington: this is a big question. Web developers and their investors build applications on the Facebook platform - the problems is that anybody, including Facebook, can compete with you. If your idea is good, you're going to have competition - but that's a business risk. You could consider getting a grant from Facebook's FB fund (up to $250k from Facebook).9.42:Malik: at the moment there aren't any game-changing apps. They're all very basic. He likes Scrabulous. Arrington says nobody can launch businesses based on Facebook yet, but that we're likely to see it.Carson, perhaps unsurprisingly, thinks that events might be a business that can work there. Malik says using Facebook to call people -FreeWorldDialup- could be something that might work. It turns Facebook into a white pages directory.Malik: Think of something different. Arrington: even the guys who move fast, the people with money behind them, have made obvious plays. Google is somehow going to be opening things up in the next month - being quick there might mean that you can be successful without being brilliant. The game isn't over for social networking.Malik says that Facebook has shown that it's prepared to screw people over: developers should be careful before they commit all their efforts onto one platform.Would Facebook ever support portability of networks? Arrington thinks maybe. They do a variety of things that look like they might shoot themselves in the foot, but turn out to work.9.48:Where do you see areas in web apps that are under-served? Malik: enterprise is where the money has always been - widgets are a big opportunity. Can you customise an application that gets data that's currently in a silo? The cost of widgets is so low that you could personalise it down to the individual.Arrington thinks phones are hot - people will be using their phones, iPhones to do lots of software-based things. Mobile is exciting to me. The other area is virtual reality and gaming; using your body to control the game. It's more for fun, but there's a lot coming out. It's becoming interesting and will create whole new platforms.Would you encourage people to build specifically for the iPhone? Arrington: be aware of it. Bricking has come into the conversation. Malik has an iPhone and a BlackBerry and he uses BlackBerry for email; it's a different use case. Arrington says that the iPhone is ubiquitous in San Francisco right now.Malik - San Francisco isn't the centre of the universe. I don't like what Steve Jobs is pulling by locking phones - why work on a platform where the guys don't want it to be open? The Google Phone is aimed at emerging markets; it's the Chrysler , iPhone is the high-end.Tell us about Facebook in a year. Arrington: they'll be going public. Malik: they'll be dealing with legal issues.That's it; they leave the stage.
It seems very hard to believe, but this month we celebratethree decades of home console gaming. Indeedy, the Atari 2600 rolled off the production line in October 1977, as an experiment codenamed "Stella". The world has never been the same since.Wallow for a moment, if you will, in the glory of the Atari 2600.TriviaMore TriviaQuizAnother quizPicturesCraftsWorshipImage is an Atari cufflink available frometsy.
The mobile phone operator 3 is working with the online calls firm Skype on a cheap handset that will bring free mobile internet calls to the mass market.It has teamed up with a far eastern handset manufacturer to produce a phone, to be launched this year for pre-pay and contract customers. It will allow Britain's estimated 2.5 million Skype users to make free calls and send texts. 3 has been working with Skype, owned by eBay, for well over a year, and already offers the service on its niche X Series platform.While some phone companies such as 3 are seeking to "mobilise" online services such as Skype to improve usage and revenues, other firms are looking to services such as advertising. One start-up, Blyk, offers British 16-24 year olds free texts and calls if they accept mobile adverts.Yesterday the UK mobile technology firm ROK Entertainment announced plans to buy its US rival Xero Mobile before launching a competing service next year. Xero has tested an ad-funded mobile service in colleges across the US but has yet to launch a full service. ROK, which plans to float in the US this year, wants to buy Xero for its technology. It will use this for its own service, aimed at students, to be launched in Europe next year.
Japanese magazine empireEnterbrainhas revealed the country's console sales figures for the first half of fiscal 2007. According toMagic Box, the market has increased by 121.7% on last year, which is good news for everyone, although it would appear that very little of that extra love is flowing in Microsoft's direction...Nintendo DS - 3.47 million [19.3 million total] PSP - 1.07 million [6.21 million total] Wii - 1.60 million [3.55 million total] PlayStation 3 - 385K [1.20 million total] Xbox 360 - 82K [450K total]So, the DS is utterly unstoppable... unless you're on a Japanese plane. The country's government has banned wi-fi capable portable devices from flights as the electromagnetic signals they emit may interfere with the craft's navigation instruments (morehere). Perhaps they'll be able to work this into the next series of Lost.
If you're in the mood for some straight-from-the-oven casual gaminganda little constructive criticism, the excellent blogJay Is Gameshas just closed its 2007Casual Game Design Competitionand will start posting entries (all written in Flash) over the next few hours. The theme this year is 'Ball Physics' so we can probably expect our fair share of Marble Madness clones.However, the winner of last year's competition - which had the theme 'replay' - was a totally offbeat experience. Entitled,Gimme Friction Babyit took the basic concept of Puzzle Bobble and stripped it down, turning it into a weird strategy think-piece where part of the fun was figuring out what the heck you're were supposed to do. Well worth checking out.But first, watch for the 2007 entries, give them a go and leave a comment. This is grassroots game design as it happens.
ComScore's latest traffic report got covered because it said Facebook had overtaken MySpace. However, some things didn't get much coverage, so here's the list of the UK's Top 10 sites, based on unique visitors from a total of 32 million UK visitors aged 15+.... From which you will notice that Google sites reached 89% of the Internet population.1. Google Sites 28,345 (88.8%) 2. Microsoft Sites 26,759 (83.8%) 3. eBay 21,599 (67.5%) 4. Yahoo! Sites 21,039 (65.9%) 5. BBC Sites 18,578 (58.2%) 6. Ask Network 14,815 (46.4%) 7. Time Warner 14,322 (44.9%) 8. Amazon Sites 13,261 (41.5%) 9. Fox Interactive 13,032 (40.8%) 10. Wikipedia Sites 11,534 (36.1%)Time Warner used to be called AOL Time Warner, and Fox Interactive presumably includes MySpace.Usage figures are in thousands for August 2007. The numbers for Microsoft, eBay, the BBC, Time Warner, Fox and Wikipedia were all down on the July numbers, but the monthly results can be variable.
The hype has clearly paid off, with Halo 3 becoming the second fastest selling game in UK chart history. The sci-fi shooter shifted around 460,000 copies in 4 days, bettered only by GTA: San Andreas (677000 copies in 2 days). Perhaps more impressive is the relative sizes of the userbase, with the 360's 1.4 million userbase dwarfed by the PS2's 6.4 million owners. This means nearly a third of UK 360 owners have bought Halo 3.On the surface these are impressive figures. You can't argue with the overall sales, especially considering the relatively small userbase. But, and you can call me picky here, this means that nearly a million UK 360 owners haven't yet bought Halo 3. Remember, this was supposed to be the entertainment event of the millennium, or something, and yet nearly 2/3 of the target audience didn't bother to pick up a copy. Are they too busy working their way through other games in the 360's, admittedly impressive, release schedule? Perhaps they are waiting for Christmas? Or maybe, just maybe, Halo 3 is for hardcore gamers only and not quite the mainstream entertainment event Microsoft would have us believe. Halo 3 then, still enjoying it?
Skype co-founders Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis have said they are happy with their decision to step down from the company they sold to eBay in 2005.The move, which was announced yesterday, has forced eBay into a £590m writedown on the £2.1bn it paid for the internet telephony company just two years ago.The changes - which will see Mr Zennstrom continue as chairman of Skype for the time being - were greeted as a welcome correction by some technology analysts, who believe the online auction company overpaid initially for acquiring Skype.In a filing with US regulators yesterday, eBay revealed that it would be paying Mr Zennstrom and Mr Friis around £260m and take over full control of Skype, which lets people make free telephone calls over the internet. Until now the duo have been running Skype as a separate organisation under the eBay umbrella.The deal to buy the peer-to-peer telephony company sparked controversy in 2005, with eBay suggesting that it would be able to use Skype's services to increase revenues in its core auctions business. Although those benefits have remained largely elusive, experts said eBay remained in rude health."If you take Skype out of the equation, the rest of the eBay business seems to be doing great again," Pacific Crest Securities analyst Steve Weinstein said. "EBay management has found ways to re-accelerate the core market. Lots of its businesses are doing extremely well."The auction company's stock rose to an 18-month high as a result of the news, reflecting investor reaction to the new, lower sale price.But Mr Friis, who also founded the controversial filesharing service Kazaa with Mr Zennstrom before they embarked on Skype four years ago, said that he had no regrets over the decision."Earn-outs are inherently difficult creatures, but we are happy with the result of this one," he wrote on hisblog. "We are approximately half way into the earn-out period and the settlement amounts to one-third of the total possible earn-out amount.""Looking back at 2003, at two guys running around with a crazy idea of building a global phone company purely on the Internet, moving from one rented apartment to another, still battling a major lawsuit from our Kazaa days, 2003 seems a long time ago. It is amazing to think that it is only four years."He said that would enable the pair to pursue their new businesses, including hotly-tipped online video serviceJoost, and venture capital group Atomico, which has already invested in a number of popular internet destinations.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Several zillion people are no doubt waiting to see what Zune 2 is like, and Microsoft is expected to show it off later today. The main news, apparently, is the arrival of a small Flash memory version. The hard drive Zune looks much the same, but could be thinner. There are pictures from rcmadiax, who works at "a major retailer", in theZuneScene forum. OK, they're not real machines, but very nice cardboard cut-outs. He writes:No prices yet. Just received a huge white box with the Zune branding on it. It was a new demo display for the zune brand. No actual product just 3 cardboard cut outs of new models. 2 smaller "flash" based looking models and a normal "hard-drive" based looking model. This look very sim to the photos leaked weeks ago, but have more polish and don't look so cheaply made. All three with play videos.
ARG-designer extraordinareAdrian HonfromSix to Starthas just contacted the gamesblog to say that he's launched anAlternate Reality Game design competitionwithCancer Research UK. Hon, one of the brains behind the hugely-successfulPerplex Cityand Radio 1'sFrozen Indigo Angel, is now helping the storytelling/gaming movement on its path towards charitable aims. This follows the lead ofI Love BeesdesignerJane McGonigalwhoseWorld Without Oilproject promoted global warning awareness and ecological living.Let's Change the Gamecalls for potential designers to submit a 500-word proposal by 16 November. After two rounds of judging "by leading game designers and writers from around the world", the winner will receive £1K to develop the game before its released to the masses via TV spots, shop promotions and other avenues in summer 2008.I asked Adrian for a few bits of ARG-design advice.What's the first step you take when you designing an ARG?A request for an ARG is usually accompanied with some directions or requirements, and I'll let these roll around at the back of my mind for a few days while working on other things. I spend an awful lot of time reading everything interesting I can get my hands on, and sooner or later, something will click. That's not a very specific answer, but the point is that inspiration tends to strike when I'm out walking or in the shower, not while I'm specifically designing it.Later on comes the more formal process, when I meet with writers and other game designers, and we sit around and brainstorm things for a while. With ARGs, there are two equally important factors - gameplay and setting - and both need to be considered during the brainstorming.What needs to be included in a successful ARG design?Gameplay that is both accessible, and importantly, fun (you have no idea how many people forget that). Truly successful ARGs have to have a shallow learning curve and the ability for players to enter and catch up at any point during the game's run, and I have to say that no-one has really perfected this - certainly not myself - although I do have a few ideas I'm looking forward to trying out.You also need a really compelling setting. You have the opportunity to create an 'alternate reality' here - it's often the main attraction for players - and there's no point squandering it. The difficulty is coming up with an idea that's new and original - that's not to say that you can't have a conspiracy or SF story, but you really need to think about how you're going to set it apart from other games in the past. Always think about what the hook is.What are some of the mistakes you've learned from when developing an ARG?Test! Test everything! Experienced ARG creators are always very wary of using 'technology' - that is, anything that isn't established and reliable. The reason for this is because when you're running a live game that you're constantly changing and adding to, 'technology' will always break down if it hasn't been rigorously tested.That's not to say that you can't do interesting things with GPS or RFID or technologies - it's just that you have to be aware of their limitations and plan around them. And either have contingency plans ready, or be prepared to come up with one on the fly.What kinds of things do you have to think of when developing an ARG for a charitable organisation, rather than a commercial company?To be honest, this is a new area for everyone; I'm not aware of a charitable organisation that's run a major ARG. A few things have become apparently recently though. Firstly, charities really depend on their brand; without it, they have nothing. When I was visiting the Cancer Research UK headquarters in London, I noticed they had an 'Emergency Plan' brochure. It had three scenarios in which an emergency would be declared.The first was a physical disaster or attack, like a fire or a bomb. The second was something like more than 50 computers dying simultaneously. The third was if Cancer Research UK's brand had been threatened in the media - for example, if someone had died during a race through negligence. They take their brand seriously, because if it's tarnished they'll simply stop receiving donations, and that's something we have to be careful about when designing a game for them.The other thing about charities, or at least Cancer Research UK, is that they have an interesting structure. While at the core, you have something that resembles any other large company, there's a halo of thousands or tens of thousands of volunteers who help out at races and events and shops. These people represent a tremendous resource for a game, but only if they're respected and they can understand what it is they're being asked to do for the game.What would you say is the best use of multiple media in a game design?Designers have to be wary of using multiple media just for the sake of it. Most games, Perplex City included, have tended to use multiple media sparingly, because they can be difficult and expensive to run. This results in things like phone calls and live events being treated more like stunts than actually part of the gameplay. There's nothing wrong with that, everyone likes a stunt, but there's also a lot of unfulfilled potential. Personally, I think that I Love Bees' use of phone calls was incredible, but there's plenty more that can be done with mobiles, radio, TV, newspapers, IMs, emails, etc.How much do you tend to plan out and how much do you leave to the organic process inspired by how the players use the tools of the game?It depends on what sort of game you want to create. This sounds like a cop-out, but different companies will have different tolerances for risk. Organisations like the BBC may not be happy having spontaneous, player-generated events occur.In general though, I like to have the spine of the ARG planned out in advance; you need to do this if you're going to have an interesting and coherent story, and if you want to do any sorts of live events. However, you build in space for players to improvise, and if it seems like they're going in an unexpected but interesting direction, then you run with it - and get things back on track whenever appropriate.What are you looking for from a successful entrant?An original, innovative idea that has not only a good setting and story, but solid gameplay. I regularly receive ideas for ARGs, and they spend about 90% of their time talking about the story, and 10% of the time talking about what the player actually does. I want to know what people will be doing in this game - will they be playing minigames, watching videos, solving puzzles, answering phone calls? Having to describe this will make designers really think about whether their game is enjoyable and accessible.I want a design that uses Cancer Research UK's resources in a smart manner, and a design that is different from previous ARGs. There's a lot of room for improvement in the ARG genre and there's no point just imitating past games. That's not too much to ask, right? :)
(Somehow an amazing Skype Instant Messenger transcript has come into our hands....)@megwhitman: hi Niklas@niklaszennstrom:meg! Long time!@megwhitman:um, need to say something. You remember we paid $1.6bn for Skype and promised you up to $1.7bn in earnouts and other things for Skype shareholders based on revenues in 2008 and 2009?@niklaszennstrom:...@megwhitman:niklas? you there?@niklaszennstrom:sorry, this great show just came on Joost, you know, my peer-to-peer TV thing. There's this girl and she dives really deep while dressed up as a dolphin. She has a fin and everything.@megwhitman:anyway, we're cutting that to $530m@niklaszennstrom:... now she's swimming with dolphins!@megwhitman:also we've cleared your desk.@niklaszennstrom:huh?@megwhitman:black plastic bag waiting at reception. Give the security guy your badge, he'll issue a new one.@niklaszennstrom:new one? you've found me a new job?@megwhitman:well, sorta. You're now non-executive chairman of Skype.@niklaszennstrom:means what?@megwhitman:means it's over, Niklas. We thought Skype was great. Turns out it ain't.@niklaszennstrom:ah crap@megwhitman:you're annoyed? You should see what wallstreet has done to my buyer's rating.@niklaszennstrom:have you thought about what how good eBay could be if you could see the items on a sort of TV channel on your PC? Like QVC? I could show you something.@megwhitman:don't forget to hand in the badge.Yes, that's it folks: two years after eBay bought Skype for the fantastical $1.6bn, the deck chairs are being rearranged with a vengeance. Meg Whitman, chief exec of eBay, is paying off Skype's shareholders with one-third of the antiicpated payouts that would have come their way in 2008 and 2009 if they had hit profit and revenue targets - which means, clearly, that it's getting nowhere near them. Here's theGuardian story with all the trimmings.With Alan Greenspan having put the risks of the US moving into a recession at 50-50, and with economic indicators there suggesting that the credit crunch and house prices are both going to lead to a squeeze in funding, I think one could legitimately ask whether Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook hasn't overplayed his hand. Badly. Microsoft (whose sniffing around Fbook have suggested valuations of billions on an equity stake purchase of $300-$500m) has the available cash. But by sitting out, would it get a better deal?As Saul Hansellwrotein the NY Times's Bits blog,Here's a suggestion to every Internet executive: take a Post-It note, write "EBay wasted $3 billion on Skype" and stick it to your monitor.The point about this marking the top of the market is that eBay is now admitting that it can't see the value of Skype increasing. It's not going to achieve escape velocity. In other words, eBay's trying to get a stone to fly. And there comes a point in a stone's flight when it stops rising and starts falling. Which is the top of the parabola - or market.(I was tempted to create a whole new category on the blog called "Froth" for this entry. Opinions?)
Artists have lots of problems. We get plagiarised, ripped off by publishers, savaged by critics, counterfeited — and we even get our works copied by "pirates" who give our stuff away for free online.But no matter how bad these problems get, they're a distant second to the gravest, most terrifying problem an artist can face: censorship.It's one thing to be denied your credit or compensation, but it's another thing entirely to have your work suppressed, burned or banned. You'd never know it, however, judging from the state of the law surrounding the creation and use of internet publishing tools.Since 1995, every single legislative initiative on this subject in theUK's parliament, theEuropean parliamentand theUS Congresshas focused on making it easier to suppress "illegitimate" material online. From libel to copyright infringement, from child porn to anti-terror laws, our legislators have approached the internet with a single-minded focus on seeing to it that bad material is expeditiously removed.And that's the rub. I'm certainly no fan of child porn or hate speech, but every time a law is passed that reduces the burden of proof on those who would remove material from the internet, artists' fortunes everywhere are endangered.Take the US's 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which has equivalents in every European state that has implemented the 2001 European Union Copyright Directive. The DMCA allows anyone to have any document on the internet removed, simply by contacting its publisher and asserting that the work infringes his copyright.The potential for abuse is obvious, and the abuse has been widespread: from the Church of Scientology to companies that don't like what reporters write about them, DMCA takedown notices have fast become the favorite weapon in the cowardly bully's arsenal.But takedown notices are just the start. While they can help silence critics and suppress timely information, they're not actually very effective at stopping widespread copyright infringement.Viacomsent over 100,000 takedown notices toYouTubelast February, but seconds after it was all removed, new users uploaded it again.Even these takedown notices were sloppily constructed: they included videos of friends eating at barbecue restaurants and videos of independent bands performing their own work. AsMotion Picture Association of Americachief Dan Glickman says: "When you go trawling with a net, you catch a few dolphins."Viacom and others want hosting companies and online service providers to preemptively evaluate all the material that their users put online, holding it to ensure that it doesn't infringe copyright before they release it.This notion is impractical in the extreme, for at least two reasons. First, an exhaustive list of copyrighted works would be unimaginably huge, as every single creative work is copyrighted from the instant that it is created and "fixed in a tangible medium".Second, even if such a list did exist, it would be trivial to defeat, simply by introducing small changes to the infringing copies, as spammers do with the text of their messages in order to evade spam filters.In fact, the spam wars have some important lessons to teach us here. Like copyrighted works, spams are infinitely varied and more are being created every second. Any company that could identify spam messages — including permutations and variations on existing spams — could write its own ticket to untold billions.Some of the smartest, most dedicated engineers on the planet devote every waking hour to figuring out how to spot spam before it gets delivered. If your inbox is anything like mine, you'll agree that the war is far from won.If the YouTubes of the world are going to prevent infringement, they're going to have to accomplish this by hand-inspecting every one of the tens of billions of blog posts, videos, text-files, music files and software uploads made to every single server on the internet.And not just cursory inspections, either — these inspections will have to be undertaken by skilled, trained specialists (who'd better be talented linguists, too — how many English speakers can spot an infringement in Urdu?).Such experts don't come cheap, which means that you can anticipate a terrible denuding of the fertile jungle of internet hosting companies that are primary means by which tens of millions of creative people share the fruits of their labour with their fans and colleagues.It would be a great Sovietisation of the world's digital printing presses, a contraction of a glorious anarchy of expression into a regimented world of expensive and narrow venues for art.It would be a death knell for the kind of focused, non-commercial material whose authors couldn't fit the bill for a "managed" service's legion of lawyers, who would be replaced by more of the same — the kind of lowest common denominator rubbish that fills the cable channels today.And the worst of it is, we're marching toward this "solution" in the name of protecting artists. Gee, thanks.Cory Doctorow is an activist,science fiction authorand co-editor of the blogBoing Boing.&#183;This article was amended on Wednesday October 3 2007. Dan Glickman is the chief of the Motion Picture Association of America, not the Recording Industry Association of America. This has been corrected.
Gone to the dogs? Sputnik. Photograph: Marc Garanger/CorbisGood news for all you wannabe astronauts: the latest instalment of our weekly science and technology podcast,Science Weekly, is a space special.Half a century after the launch of Sputnik, we take the time to look over the rise, fall - and perhaps the return of - the space race. And to help us through the murky politics and headstrong engineering behind the for the stars, we're joined byDr Chris Welchfrom Kingston University's Spaceweb programme.Elsewhere, we briefly discussHalo 3and eat some freeze dried astronaut's ice cream. All human life is here...click hereto listen now, or head over to thepodcast blogfor more details on subscribing.
The wags in Sega UK's marketing department have come up with a new 'street advertising campaign' for the very good update of AM3 classic,Sega Rally. Fans arebeing askedto promote the game by writing its name and a relevant slogan onto their own dirty vehicles, then emailing in a piccie. The provider of the best photo wins a copy of Sega Rally, a PS3 and an extreme rally day experience.This is far from a new concept. They've been doing dirty car advertising inMoscow for agesand Ray Ban used the idea just a few months ago in its Never Hide campaign. However, it might be worth a try as there only appears to be one picture on thegalleryat the moment...Anyway, it's worth checking out theSega Rally blogs, for vehicle designer Keith Burden's posts on the process of constructing the cars for the game. It's also - it goes without saying - worth checking out the game itself, which is a lovely slab of sunlight-smacked driving fun, merging the fishtailing oversteer of the arcade original with modern concerns such as physics and mud. And the physics of mud. (Driving in the tyre furrows of other cars brings more stability to your ride.) The result is a more sophisticated title - it bears the definite imprint of the Colin McRae series, which is no accident as the game has been overseen by Guy Wilday, producer of CMR until the recent Dirt instalment.I love it. Despite the silly marketing gimmick.
According to MCV, sales of PS3 and Xbox 360 are 'within a hair's breadth of each other' in terms of total number of units shifted this year. However, although PS3 made a promising early splash, Xbox 360 has fought itself in front, utilising a price drop and the launch of the Elite machine to claim better week-on-week figures in the run up to Christmas. ChartTrack director Dorian Block reckons that Microsoft will retain the upperhand:The consoles are at different stages of their lifecycles, and long-term the sales balance could easily shift. But unless a PS3 price cut comes in - and after Tokyo Games show it looks unlikely - it's difficult to see the 360 not selling more by the end of the year.Interestingly, PS3 managed 55% of its sales in the four weeks following the launch, suggesting that it's the diehard PlayStation fans who've kept the machine afloat. The lack of killer apps since that date has meant that momentum hasn't built. As one commentator on the MCV story pointed out, this can be spun in PS3's favour - the machine is 'keeping up with' Xbox 360, despite having no real 'must-have' titles on the shelves. Microsoft's machine, on the other hand, has Gears of War (still the biggest game on Xbox Live), Bioshock and Halo 3 - plus a cheaper price point and a well-established online gaming system.Update:Of course, as someone points out below, take off that big opening month for PS3 and it's limping along like a sickly kitten...Of course, while this intriguing duel is going on, Wii is just whizzing off into the distance. But there's a problem...Nintendo of America president Reggie Fils-Aime has justadmittedthat the company is unlikely to meet demand this Christmas. He was talking about North America, but if they're not getting enough, the UK certainly won't.Is there a window of opportunity here for the two other machines? High-profile non-Wii releases like Assassin's Creed, Army of Two, Call of Duty 4, Kane and Lynch and PES 2008 may draw attention away from Nintendo's machine. In terms of platform exclusives, Microsoft has pretty much laid its Christmas cards on the table with Halo 3, although it can rely on Mass Effect and Project Gotham Racing 4 to garner some interest. Sony has Gran Turismo 5 Prologue, Haze and Unreal Tournament 3 on the way......plus there's probably enough time for a cheeky price drop. Of course Kaz Hiraiclaimedduring his TGS keynote that this wouldn't happen until the content was there to back it up. Instead, there were indications that Sony planned to emphasise the machine's role as a Blu-ray home movie player in the run up to the festive season. Hmmm, okay, but if Nintendo is struggling with Wii numbers, surely the option of a smash and grab raid on disappointed shoppers shouldn't be overlooked? It all might be too late by the time Metal Gear Solid 4 comes out, let alone by the time enough people care about Blu-ray.
Has it really been ten weeks since the gamesblog massive startedthis crazy collaborative, user-generated project? According to my dodgy sense of mathematics, it has. And considering everyone involved has been balancing a full-time life with down-time designing, coding and storytelling, we've done really well.As those who've been following the project know, there isa working demofor the first Chapter of the adventure and the design work for the story opening is almost complete. But - we have one very important bit that needs attending to before we can finalise the first fifth of the project: character names.To date we've been referring to our fearless main character as Bob, a kind of catch-all, work-in-progress moniker. Now there's been a call by designer-in-residence DennisChow to decide once and for all what we should name the main guy. He needs a name of distinction (like, er, Isambard), but one which reflects his down-to-earth demeanour (like a Harry). He is of good stock (like a Rupert), but is a bit of a rabble rouser (like, for example, a Firebrand). Suggestions, please, at the bottom of the post.We also need a couple of other names, which we would like use the gamesblog community's collective brain to decide. If you've always wanted to name something, but haven't had a child/pet/plant/car to apply it to, here's your chance. How's about exercising this transferable skill on the following characters: the Main Character's (deceased) Friend, the (grumpy) pub landlady, the intoxicated gentleman propping up the pub bar, the ape-like guard who's blocking our hero from public transport salvation, and the somnambulist behind the train ticket desk.Suggestions, please, in the comments section. And we promise we won't do aSocks/Cookieon you.
Sega has just launched a new version of Sega Rally, and is "urging fans to advertise the game on their own dirty cars". This must be the ultimate in cheap advertising: there isn't even a prize for the best defaced vehicle!Passing lawyers are invited to comment on the legal position should those who don't own cars decide to use their skills on other people's....
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft chief exec Steve Ballmer's in London today to announce a new startup fund from the company calledMicrosoft Startup Accelerator Programmein the UK (their initiatives seem as cunningly named as their products).I'm not at the event, but the idea is apparently to encourage startups and help them to use Microsoft technologies such as Silverlight and Live Services. There are half a dozen participants to start with, most interestinglyViaPost(send documents securely online instead of posting them) andMiomi(which offers "a new way of organising and viewing the Internet on the basis of time"). Let's see what they manage to do with the money and help.On another note, this is just another one of a large number of seed investments, finance rounds and acquisitions we're hearing about at the moment - and the line between bubble and boom seems to be getting increasingly fine. It feels to me like we're one massive deal - perhaps Facebook, perhaps somebody else - away from falling down that old slippery slope.
We've mentioned Tape It Off The Internet before - includingthis story on web TVby my colleague Katie Allen - a site that indexes TV shows online and tells users where they can find their favourite episodes.The site's been in beta for a while, but it's about to relaunch itself as a full-on social aggregator of (think something like Last.fm for telly: find episodes, actors, and see what your friends are watching).Founder Paul Cleghorn recently joined the discussions at the MediaGuardian Edinburgh TV Festival fringe (Kevin caught him on video) and describes TIOTI as such:"TIOTI.com acts as an aggregator of online TV content and a social network for user generated content about TV shows, so we are very excited at being able to open up www.tioti.com for general consumption at a time when major TV players are starting to make their content widely available on the Web."Right now the relaunched site isn't live. I'll keep my eyes peeled.A lot of people are working in this sort of area at the moment - social aspects of TV and radio consumption - and it's really intriguing. Let's see what happens with TIOTI and the other sites gambling on this area.
You probably haven't heard much about Buzzword, because it's an online word processor that has been in closed beta for a few months. However, while somewhat underpowered at the moment,it looks wonderful, and is therefore one of the things that Adobe demos when it wants to impress journalists. Which is, obviously, how I came to see it.Now the odd bit:Adobe saysit has "signed a definitive agreement to acquire Virtual Ubiquity and its ground-breaking online word processor, Buzzword."The acquisition furthers Adobe's commitment to foster a vibrant ecosystem for rich Internet application (RIA) development that delivers breakthrough experiences built on Adobe AIR. Separately, Adobe added a new file sharing service to its current online document services. Codenamed "Share," the beta service will make it easier than ever for people to share, publish and organize documents online.Well, the best way to foster "a vibrant ecosystem for rich Internet application (RIA) development" [using Adobe development tools] is to have some successful products that attract attention and -- maybe later -- takeover bids. It's not to swallow your own poster boys. That's like eating your children.From the press release, it looks as though Adobe is going into the online apps business, but why? There are plenty of people doing that already, including Microsoft. AsTechCrunchcomments (with links), online word processing is " a crowded field that already includes Google Docs, Zoho Writer, Glide Write, ajaxWrite, ThinkFree, and . . . well, you get the picture."Adobe buys plenty of software companies -- I guess most of its products have been bought in at some time, with Macromedia bringing in a large pile of acquisitions, including Flash, as I'vewritten before-- but it makes sense if you can bring products to a wider audience. That's exactly how Cisco operates. However, it's not obvious that Adobe can reach more users than Buzzword would have reached just by creating a buzz.For example, Adobebought Serious Magicto get its hands on Vlog It, but do you know anyone who actually usesAdobe Vlog It?Operating a suite of mass market online applications requires a different set of skills, and a different mindset, from developing high-priced applications for small numbers of creative types. This is obvious if you compare Google with Microsoft, or even if you compare Microsoft's different divisions. Apart from anything else, online apps make zero money, which contrasts sharply with the 97% (or so) gross margin on the Adobe Creative Suite.I'm not suggesting the Adobians can't do a suite of online apps. I just don't see why they'd bother. They're just setting themselves up for a lot of pain with no worthwhile gain.
Imagine Funtwo, an anonymous Korean student in a beige baseball cap, sitting next to his computer playing Pachelbel's Canon in D on electric guitar. Now imagine him being tracked down and featured in The New York Times. It sounds unlikely, but it's part of the magic ofYouTube. It's one way to be famous for 15 minutes, or longer.Funtwo's guitar solotook off because his sweep-picking technique is amazing, and the clip is now fifth in YouTube'sall time list, having been viewed more than 28m times. But Funtwo - real name Jeong-Hyun Lim - will probably never catch up with an American motivational speaker, Judson Laipply, whosesix-minute, 30-song dance routinehas already been viewed more than 53m times.A guy in a T-shirt dances. How good could that be? You have to see it to find out, and that's exactly what drives millions of visitors to YouTube.YouTube was only launched, officially, in December 2005, but it quickly became one of the fastest-growing sites on the net. By the summer of 2006 it was serving more than 100m videos a day. In October,Googlebought it for $1.65bn, even though it already hadGoogle Video. From nowhere to everywhere in less than three years!Today, YouTube has a new look - much the same as the old look. It's easy to sign up, because you can now use your existing Google or Gmail account and password, though you also have to give your age, sex and postcode. However, you can still avoid exposing your dubious taste by adopting a different screen name.Of course, you don't need to sign up to watch videos. Indeed, you don't even have to go to YouTube, because one of the secrets of the site's success was that it enabled bloggers to post videos on their own sites. (I put the first on the Technology blog on December 17, 2005.) But you need an account in order to rate videos, leave comments, see clips marked for over-18s, and upload your own cinematic efforts. Or someone else's.One not-so-secret reason for YouTube's success is that while the idea is to exploit "user generated content", it's more likely to be something clipped or adapted from a TV show or a movie. Or a pop video. YouTube is the motherload for pop videos.This has caused copyright problems. YouTube has been asked to take down lots of clips, and on one black day, more than 20,000 Japanese J-pop vids vanished. But after threatening lawsuits, some firms have come to see YouTube as a valuable resource - it's free advertising, really.WarnerandEMIare now putting every pop video on YouTube, whileUniversal,Sonyand US TV networkCBSare also providing content.YouTube doesn't like people downloading videos, though you can often copy them out of the browser's cache. If not, lots of sites have sprung up to make downloading easy. I've usedKeepvid.comfor a long time. You can find many others via Google.
It looks like a PS2 game, is hugely repetitive and has a risible online mode, butStrangleholdis the most mindlessly entertaining game around at the moment. The videogame sequel to John Woo's Hard Boiled flick - you even get to "meet" Woo in the game - Stranglehold is a violent feast of gun ballet. Reminiscent of aging noir-classic Max Payne, your aim is to simply kill your assailants. What makes this endlessly repetitive task so entertaining is the slo-mo Tequila Time effect - aka Bullet Time in Max Payne - and the destructible scenery. The former allows you to dive headfirst into a group of enemies, dodge bullets and generally feel like some sort of hero. The latter allows you to cause havoc by simply shooting at flashing scenery. A clumsy videogame mechanism yes, but hugely effective in creating staged chaos.There is a plot but you probably won't care, I know I didn't. With today's shooters- Halo 3, Bioshock - increasingly asking you to either think tactically or wallow in a deep storyline, Stranglehold is an anachronism. It doesn't last that long either - crash, bang, and you're done. But while your brain remains most definitely untrained your reflexes will be back on track. It offers nothing new and won't stick long in the memory but Stranglehold already wins my guilty pleasure award of 2007. Any other contenders?
Swift Charisma 590&pound;12,785Total length:26ftBerths:6Good for:Happy campsBad for:Night crampsKeith smiles at me, slightly manically. The wind whips at his cagoule and rain courses down his nose like water off a garden gnome. It's 9pm and there are few street lights in this corner of Norfolk. Having towed my caravan from south London to the campsite on the Queen's doorstep at Sandringham without incident, I am now attempting to reverse the gleaming twin-axled 26ft Swift Charisma on to our muddy pitch. There is no mystery to towing a caravan - stick to a low gear, stay wide on corners and rise above the abuse of your fellow road-users. Reversing a caravan, however, is a dark art which can only be mastered after years of silent meditation and yogic abstinence. Keith, whose pitch is next to ours, has been caravanning for 'at least 46 years' and there's nothing about it he doesn't seem to know, from how to disengage the 'overrun device with two-way assisted handbrake' to how to turn on the onboard water pump. And Keith's secret for reversing? 'If you want to go left turn right,' he says, 'and if you want to turn right turn left.' Seeing my bewildered expression, he adds kindly: 'You're not a caravanner, are you...'He's right. My mother was forced to caravan as a child and her tales of hardship, deprivation and malfunctioning chemical loos meant I was never tempted. But the growing popularity of caravanning - there are now 1.7 million in Britain - combined with the fact that the likes of Kylie, Jamie Oliver, Lenny Kravitz and Jay Kay are all adherents, and that they are an eco-friendly holiday option (no flights), persuaded me the time had come.Many people presume the joy of caravanning is that you get to stay in a home from home. But how many of us can honestly say we live in a single room with bunkbeds that turn into kitchen surfaces at the pull of a lever? The real joy is, as my youngest daughter said, 'You get to play at Wendy houses all week.' Everything is miniaturised, from the tiny lights and curtains to the cute cupboards and dinky cooker. But in many ways the caravans are an enigma. On the one hand they offer the ultimate in underfloor heating, recessed spotlights and electric blinds, while on the other they're still marooned in the mid-Seventies (grey-plastic windows and a working knowledge of beige are very much de rigueur). But maybe that's the whole point? Somehow caravanning seems to take you back to the days when holidays were simpler, happier and a lot cheaper.Before splashing out on a caravan it's worth renting one on-site (the shower-block camaraderie may not be your cup of tea), or book a motorhome, which will save you the expense of fitting a towing hook. If you then want to buy your own, decent second-hand vans start at about &pound;5,000 - but they won't depreciate at anything like the rate of your car. One word of warning, though, as Keith told me with a nudge: 'Once you do set foot in a caravan, you'll soon be hooked... Geddit?'.&#183;The International Caravan & Motorhome 2007 Exhibition is at the NEC from 16-21 October (0870 230 1090;www.caravanshows.com). For more information go towww.campingandcaravanningclub.co.uk,www.caravanclub.co.ukandwww.motorhomeinfo.co.uk
It may come as a godsend to George Bush, John Prescott and any others who sometimes struggle to explain themselves in plain English. A computer software program claims that it can automatically turn garbled writing into clear and simple prose.WhiteSmoke, an American-Israeli company, says the new version of its 'text enrichment' software not only checks spelling and grammar but comes up with the word you are looking for when trying to finesse a legal form, a piece of creative writing or even a love letter.The concept reopens the question of whether computers can truly ever simulate human culture. A decade ago Deep Blue, the IBM supercomputer, beat the world chess champion Garry Kasparov, but machines have fared less well at painting, poetry and music.Futurologists have predicted that the next giant leap for the internet will be the 'semantic web', which will be able to understand the meaning of words and their contexts, making search engines more precise.Online writing tools already exist but attempts by computers to imitate language have often been clumsy and jarring.WhiteSmoke argues its system is different because it uses artificial intelligence to draw upon millions of examples of well-written English, then applies them to new contexts.'If you love language already, it would be like a calculator for a mathematician,' said Hilla Ovil-Brenner, the founder and chief executive of WhiteSmoke. 'But if you don't write so well and want to sound more sophisticated, it works like a charm. It's like a teacher who sits with you and reacts to your sentences. It can change the mood of your letter.'WhiteSmoke (whitesmoke.com) analyses text as it is being written, or at the user's request, and suggests grammatical improvements, amends spelling and changes text.It will switch 'I don't know weather the whether will be nice today or not' to 'I don't know whether the weather will be nice today or not'.  Common errors such as 'Between you and I' become 'Between you and me'.The software crawls news and business websites for common usage of English, then uses that knowledge to edit prose, based on the type of English style chosen, such as commercial, legal, medical, casual, creative or even flirtatious.Does it work? Two prose styles put to the testJohn PrescottHe said:'The objectives remain the same and indeed it has been made clear by the Prime Minister that the objectives are clear. And the one about the removal of the Taliban is not something we have as a clear objective but it is possibly a consequence that will flow from the Taliban clearly giving protection to bin Laden and the UN resolution made it absolutely clear that anyone that finds them in that position declares themselves an enemy and that clearly is a matter for these objectives.'The computer:'The goals remain the same, and indeed it has been made apparent by the Prime Minister that they are clear-cut. And the objective about the removal of the Taliban is not something we have as an absolute, but it is potentially a consequence resulting from the Taliban evidently protecting bin Laden. The UN resolution made it absolutely explicit that anyone that finds themselves in that position affirms themselves an enemy and that clearly is a matter for these objectives.'Verdict:Definite improvementRobert Harris, from The GhostHe wrote:I should have said, 'Rick, I'm sorry, this isn't for me, I don't like the sound of it,' finished my drink and left. But he was such a good storyteller, Rick - I often thought he should have been the writer and I the literary agent - that once he'd started talking there was never any question I wouldn't listen, and by the time he was finished, I was hooked.The computer:Altered some punctuation. But the original was otherwise fine.Verdict:It's good enough already.
MondayHalo 3 reviewsHalo 3: movie-beaterWikigame: Week 10TuesdayHalo 3 launch clichesBAFTA Award nominations101 things you didn't knowWednesdayMake your own MetaplaceHalo 3 - what do you think?Samba de Amigo on WiiThursdayReviews and single player gamingGender verification for MMOsCasual games could de-stress mumsFridayUltima Online still going after 10 years
Graphic fromWired, used by GizmodoThis week's Apple iPhone update may have bricked a few hacked phones, but this is the least important part of the problem. What probably upset many more early adopters was the way Apple wiped out their applications, reducing their phones to the "official" software. This sent out a very clear message:The iPhone is for dummies. It's not for gadget freaks, who only represent a tiny minority of the market.The Gizmodo gadget blog has therefore changed its iPhone recommendation toDon't Buy. It says:Screw the unlock for a second. Let's talk about the those third-party apps. While my 4GB iPhone is a brick, and the 8GB phone, which I kept on a totally legit AT&amp;T contract, is now stripped down. Programs like the faux-GPS, IM clients, Flickr Upload, and NES emulator -- what did they ever do but make the iPhone far better than the stock original? They made it far more competitive with open-platform superphones like the Nokia N95, to which I will now be switching.As someone remarks in a comment to the post, Gizmodo has gone from"Jesus Christ himself owned one of these (prove he didn't)" to "It's crap, don't buy it" in the time it took to update firmware.The interesting question is whether Apple cares. It's stopped being a computer company and become a consumer electronics company, and while most computer companies love hackers and geeks, consumer electronics companies hate them. They want absolute control of their products. They don't want people messing them around.In fact, this has always been Steve Jobs's aim. The Apple II -- designed by Steve Wozniak -- was an open system, for its day: it had expansion slots, so you could take the lid off and use it for thousands of applications that Woz had never even imagined. The Mac, developed under Steve Jobs's control, was a closed system. It was intended to be an appliance, like a washing machine, and Jobs quipped that there were no user groups for Maytags. It was only after Jobs was kicked out of Apple that the Mac was opened up with the Mac II, launched in 1987. (The Mac II was like a standard PC: it didn't have a built-in monitor, and it did have expansion slots.)After the Second Coming, when Jobs resumed control of Apple, he dramatically reduced the number of models and launched the iMac. Since then he has consistently moved the Mac line towards locked-down systems more and more like the 1984 original. (You don't like the limited built-in graphics? Tough.)Everything about Steve Jobs's history and character says "it's my way or the highway." He demands absolute control. That hasn't worked very well in the computer industry but it's standard in the mobile phone business.Now Jobs has finally moved into an industry where control freakery is the norm, why would you expect him to give it up?
This clip was added to YouTube five months ago, but it was still new to me.... (fromGizmodo)
Halo 3Xbox 360As easily the most pre-publicised game of all time, Halo 3's unstoppable marketing juggernaut has been ploughing loudly towards us for some time. Along with numerous spin-off games, the forthcoming Hollywood movie and a launch party hosted by Pharrell Williams, the Master Chief has also recently been immortalised as a Madame Tussauds wax dummy. In short, like Lara Croft, Halo's hero, Master Chief has become a celebrity on the back of his own advertising.Not that past instalments were exactly hype-free. Halo 2 was described by its creators as, "A lot like Halo 1, only on fire, going 130 miles per hour through a hospital zone, being chased by helicopters and ninjas... and the ninjas are all on fire too." The reality of Halo 2 was a game featuring a slightly less satisfying single player experience and an efficiently beefed up multi-player. While a far more polished piece of software, Halo 3 follows the same principle, with a 12-hour solo game that neatly ties up the story, while leaving you the next couple of years to get acquainted with how best to shoot those you meet online.Maintaining the immaculate balance among its weapons, which elevated Halo well beyond the likes of Doom and Quake, Halo 3 adds new guns and vehicles to the mix, as well as new equipment such as the personal force field and gravity lift, a device that propels you (or your enemies) high into the air. Surprisingly, none of this makes a significant difference to most battles, although it's fair to say that items like these sometimes only reveal their true beauty with protracted play.Although still a little bit too clever for its own good, Halo 3's storyline at least has a proper ending, and one which not only satisfies, but also leaves the door ajar for future instalments. As usual though the real meat is in the multi-player, which really comes into its own on Xbox Live. Huge, refined and with a cornucopia of customisable options, you can now also make use of the Forge, letting you edit levels to suit your warlike desires.Extraordinary set piece battles, elegantly crafted levels, enemy AI that never degenerates into stupidity and maybe the finest way to simulate a gunfight currently available; Halo 3 is an immaculately honed shooter and appropriate climax for an epic trilogy.&#183;Microsoft, &pound;40Nervous BrickdownNintendo DSTaking its cues from the crusty but ever-popular and phenomenonally addictive old-timer Breakout and the only slightly less ancient Arkanoid, Nervous Brickdown's early levels act as a brief homage to both classic arcade games before the game gets into its highly surreal and singular stride. Dragging your bat around using the stylus, your job is to knock a ball into the top screen, destroying a series of bricks (and later, a variety of unusual and colourful bric-a-brac) while at the same time stopping the ball falling off the bottom screen. Wildly inventive and occasionally a bit difficult, Nervous Brickdown is better than it has any right to be, and certainly has the basics of making you lose hours of time, although it's still some distance short of the competition, notably the excellent Planet Puzzle League.&#183;Eidos, &pound;30
Almost a decade has gone by since the smart first passed among us, causing heads to turn and jaws to drop and people to ask questions such as, "Where's the rest of that car?" It soon settled down, though, losing the joke bubble-car tag and even achieving a kind of cachet as a design item. Some day we may even learn, against all our finer instincts, to start referring to it the way the manufacturer would prefer us to - as a "smart" rather than as a "smart car".It appeared to be drawn partly from sci-fi - not a car so much as an individual transportation pod. It seemed tailored to a fabulously unencumbered life lived, most likely, in a fabulously unencumbered waterside apartment. The thought that you might ever need to travel with anything bigger than a takeaway latte had apparently barely occurred to it.And while being fundamentally as functional as a three-pin plug, it rather brilliantly tap-danced on all the hot-button 21st-century issues. Urban overcrowding, fuel consumption, postponed child-rearing - the smart was somehow astride them all. The smug, you almost wanted to call it.Smart now claims that 85% of its customers are under 40, a fact of which the company seems energetically proud, although maybe it should be wondering why the message hasn't got across more significantly to the 60s and over. After all, retired people can be blissfully unencumbered, too.Maybe this updated smart fortwo will speak more loudly across the generations. The body and dash are restyled and the car has ended up slightly bigger in every direction than the outgoing model. Technically, doesn't that make it less smart? But then who is smart to stand against the inexorable tendency of automobile design the world over? Your iPod gets thinner but your car gets fatter. "Honey, I shrunk the car." It's simply not going to happen.Still, even now the fortwo risks being confused with a fridge magnet. I drove the cabriolet - which is basically a fancy term for a smart with an electric sunroof. It was quick, smooth and surprisingly quiet, and it had plenty of room for me, one other adult and half our luggage.But the message remains the same. It consumes only slightly more fuel than a pair of wellingtons and emits marginally more carbon dioxide than a pet rabbit. The world may be about to roast in its own juices, but it won't be your fault. And even when it does, you will still be able to find a parking space.Do people realise smart's affiliation with Mercedes-Benz? Probably when they read the price tag, they do. But what are the inner-city alternatives? Only, really, the electric G-Wiz, and recent crash tests have implied that you might as well be cowering in a wheelbarrow for all the protection one of those is going to offer you in a shunt. Whereas the smart is, at least, armoured with a few pukka crumple zones. An electric smart is set to take on the G-Wiz directly in a short while, and when a delivery lorry reverses across a bus lane, I already know which one I would rather be sitting in. Small is beautiful, but small and reinforced is even better.Smart fortwo cabrio 71 bhpPriceFrom &#163;9,240Top speed90mphAcceleration0-62 in 13.3 secondsConsumption57.6mpg (combined)CO² emissions116g/kmEco rating8/10At the wheelRonnie CorbettBound forChigleyIn a wordWee
It's amazing how much a gigabyte of storage has shunk in the past 20 years, as the photo shows. It's comparing a Flash card with a 1987 IBM drive. However, it could have been even more dramatic: SD cards can now hold up to 32GB, and you can get 1GB on a microSD card.The photo has been doing the rounds this week (it's onDigg). See the wholeFotogalerija prispevkafrom the Festival računalništva in sodobnih komunikacij (FRiSK 2007) in Slovenia for more photos, including an Amiga 500, an IBM PC, an old Sinclair Spectrum and a new MacBook. (Is that where Apple got the idea for its crappy keyboard?)
In case you missed it first time around, I thought you might be interested in this little Shakespearean flavoured Tube map (click the image above for the full version) - it wasreported in Wednesday's Guardianby our very own David Ward.It was put together for the Royal Shakespeare Company (where, in the interests of disclosure, I worked many moons ago) and actually the different lines don't interact that much, and it's only loosely based on the London Underground. But still, good for a few minutes of probing.Related:We've looked at Tube map visualisations before: a Tokyo-styleweb trends mapand Oscar Karlin'stime-based Tube map.
Photo: GizmodoApple released its second iPhone software update yesterday -- iPhone 1.1.1 -- to fix bugs and plug some serious security holes, while also adding new features. However, "Users are reporting that [the update] is making previously unlocked iPhones unusable," reportsIDG News. But as Apple said:WARNING: Apple has discovered that some of the unauthorized unlocking programs available on the Internet may cause irreparable damage to the iPhone's software. IF YOU HAVE MODIFIED YOUR IPHONE'S SOFTWARE, APPLYING THIS SOFTWARE UPDATE MAY RESULT IN YOUR IPHONE BECOMING PERMANENTLY INOPERABLE. Making unauthorized modifications to the software on your iPhone violates the iPhone software license agreement, and the inability to use your iPhone to unauthorized software modifications is not covered under your iPhone's warranty.Some users of hacked iPhones are getting "Incorrect SIM" lockdown messages, and some are having to re-activate their iPhones with the original AT&amp;T SIM card.Gizmodohas a great blow-by-blow account of the scramble.I expect a very large proportion of the world will now be saying "serves you right". However, a few people with "legal" non-hacked phones have also had problems, includingRobert Scoble's son, Patrick.Patrick's iPhone lost all of its data. Made worse because his Mac had a bunch more problems (this is the second time it's been in the shop) and so he's praying now that Apple didn't delete everything off of his hard drive.[in a comment, Scoble says he backed up everything except contacts.]Whether the update will have any long-term impact is open to doubt. Seems to me that Apple is entirely within its rights. It's selling a proprietary phone that's locked to a specific service with a legally binding contract (and there's no get-out clause to say it doesn't apply if you work for a prominent blog). If you don't like it, don't buy it.
Given that Moore's Law - about the doubling of the number of transistors on a chip every 18 months - is still in force, and expected to remain so for another few years, it's surprising how little we still use the power of the computers in front of us, and beyond on the web.For instance, when you want to know what's going on in the world - after you've read the news pages here, of course - you probably dip, like so many people do, into Google News. But how to discern which of the stories there really matters? How to tell which topics are really being repeated all over the world with those little links that say "1,000 similar articles" beneath them?Happily, someone has seen your plight, and come up with the Google News visualiser, or as they call it,newsmap. This is a neat application that uses a "treemap" - fitting the available data into a given space - to indicate what's makes the wires hum. Presently, as you'd expect, it's Burma and the visit to the US of the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. But there are dozens, hundreds more stories jostling for a tiny bit of your attention.Being able to see at a glance what raw data are telling you - the process of visualisation - should be getting more common. We are visual creatures, after all (the eyes are outgrowths of the brain), and we've got all this computing power sitting around hardly used. But there are few visualisation tools in use to show us what's happening.The most common form we experience ismashups, which have been such a hit in the web 2.0 world. Mashups tend to be geographically-based (which is why, given Ordnance Survey's footdragging on the whole web 2.0 issue, things were slow to progress in the UK until Google Maps stepped into the fray).But powerful though geography mashups are, that's a limited view of what we can discover by viewing data visually. For instance, this morning I was playing withPacket Garden, which is approaching 1.0 status, and works on Windows, OSX and Linux: this monitors the comings and goings of data on your machine and draws a "world" from it denoting the locations and sort of traffic - POP email, peer-to-peer traffic, secure downloads, and so on. It's not perfect, and the site is under a heavy load at present, but it's an interesting way to see where you've been going. (Apparently I'm in touch with the US, UK, Switzerland and Germany - the latter two I find mystifying, and might investigate further. See what you find out by fiddling about?)More interesting are the many mashups being created which aren't necessarily map-based: such asFidgt, which represents your "network" of friends on Last.fm or Flickr as bubbles, and shows (via tags) who is doing what. There'sWe Feel Fine, which looks for places where people have typed "I feel..." on blogs and new pages and tries to give you an idea of, well, the global mood, and offers up a sum total. (When I looked, the general mood was more "good" than "bad". Or at least, the mood of those who happen to have been near a keyboard lately.) IBM meanwhile is inviting people to create their own mashups of data for visualisation at its"ManyEyes" project.And of course no mention of statistical visualisation is complete without mentioningGapminder, the project by Hans Rosling to provide the best possible visualisations of "human development" - or lack of it. (We'vewritten about Gapminderas part of our Free Our Data campaign;Rosling's talk at the TED conferenceis well worth watching for itself.) To see what I mean, see its animation of Zimbabwe'slife expectancy plotted against income: even Lesotho and Botswana, which both have worse life expectancy, have managed to improve their average income since 1975. Zimbabwe's has gone backwards, against the world trend. You'd never understand that from a table of data.We're always being told that our computers are more powerful than ever before. Now, perhaps, we can start to use them to make better sense of the world about us. Visualisation doesn't have to mean fancy eye candy; it can just be simple, elegant and informative. Look out for it.(There's a useful list of online visualisations atthis Mashable post. Let us know of any more you find.)
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Earlier this week I took a trip down to Bournemouth to speak at an event organised by the thinktankDemosas part of the Labour Party Conference Fringe.For the discussion, which was entitled'Participation Rewired', I joined an illustrious panel -Jim Knight, the minister for schools and learning, andVera Baird, the solicitor general, as well as Demos directorCatherine Fieschi. We discussed the general topic of political engagement through technology, the technical literacy of young people, and how (or, indeed if) you can use technologies to invigorate the political process.My point, generally, was that it's possible that technology can help people engage with politics, but in order for that to work politicians must stop confusing the medium with the message. Essentially, they are using fresh ways to pump out the same old message - the one people are sick of - instead of trying to actually move things forward. There is no lack of engagement, but the issues are now moving outside the realms of party politics. I'll try and put the presentation up on Slideshare when I get the chance.(Interesting to note that a proper Labour meeting on "winning on the web"was cancelled).On a related note,Slashdotinforms me this morning that legislators in New Zealand have turned to a wiki to let people put forward suggestions for a new set of laws on policing. That's innovative, and even if the site'scurrently in stasis- ("The response so far has been better than expected") - it could be a really important development in the way we work with the political system.
What's your favourite piece of technology and why?A Sony PD100 — a small video camera.Is it good for your art?It is. It gives very professional images, but it's small enough that you look like you're using someone's home video camera — so it's not so intimidating for people you're talking to. The theory is that if the person behind the camera is comfortable then the person in front of the camera will be more relaxed — and you get a much more natural view of them, as if there wasn't a camera there at all.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I shot a lot of my film,Gypsy Caravan: When the Road Bends, on a Sony PD150, which is slightly bigger but still a small camera. We used it in the US — from the east to the west coast — Rajasthan, Macedonia, Romania and Spain, and it really gave the film a natural feeling on screen. Documentary maker Albert Maysles, who shot a lot of the footage for the film, sticks to small video cameras too and still has an old PD100 that he uses today. In video, things usually go out of style in about three minutes; Sony stopped making PD100s about seven or eight years ago, but they are still being used.What additional features would you add if you could?A better microphone.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years?We'll probably all get used to some other new thing where we don't need a tape anymore to record on.What one tip would you give to non-PD100 users?Take images that make you smile and make people feel comfortable with the camera.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Probably a little bit of both. I'm secretly a geek about some of the technology that I do understand, but I can't really figure out how basic internet things like MySpace are supposed to improve your life.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A car.Mac or PC?Macs, through and through. They are intuitive — and better for luddites. I once bought a PC because it was small and I like small things, but I had to resell it and buy a Mac.What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?The songs that are on thesoundtrack to Gypsy Caravan, including Maharaja, Antonio el Pipa and Esma Redzepova — but I'm happy to say that even after five years of making the film, I'm still happy to hear it.Will robots rule the world?That thought terrifies me. They already are: have you tried to make a reservation without speaking to a computer? Voicemail is a robot.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I don't think it exists yet, but I would like a private plane that ran on some form of green fuel so I could travel the world at ease and cheaply and not destroy the atmosphere while I do it.Director Jasmine Della's documentary,Gypsy Caravan: When the Road Bends, opens at the ICA today.
It's pretty rare that people will continue their love affairs with a computer game beyond the initial heady fumblings. Most are cast aside when something newer and flashier comes along, only picked up intermittently (if at all), prodded for nostalgia's sake and discarded again. The finite-ness of traditional, off-the-shelf computer gaming does have something to do with this; I don't re-read a book immediately after I've finished the last chapter, but might go back to it if I want to revisit characters and adventures. But MMOGs are a different story. For many people, the game becomes an extension to a social circle, and it's the community which keeps many of these titles alive for years. For more on this, check out Alexander Gambotto-Burke'sarticleon the end of single-player gaming in yesterday's paper.Ultima Online, arguably one of the most influential graphical MMOGs, has just hit its 10th birthday. That's 10 years of people interactingwith the same intellectual propertywith no breaks, no launches, no new releases (except for the odd expansion pack). It's no wonder game developers are throwing their energies into creating their own MMO and that the market is predicted to rise and rise and rise. If you can capture imaginations of paying - subscribing - customers for a decade, why spend time doing something new?But while Ultima's anniversary is certainly something to shout about, it's not the longest-running online collaborative game. Here are four old-timers you may wish to check out to truly grasp the legacy of modern MMOs:MUDCo-created by Richard Bartle and Roy Trubshaw in 1978, this is the cornerstone upon which most fantasy MMOs are based. It's in text, sure, but its tenets are the same as World of Warcraft. Just without the pretty graphics.Age rating: GrandpappyLambdaMOOThis text-based world was developed by Pavel Curtis at the Palo Alto Research Centre in 1990, LambdaMOO was part of the movement (or should that be moovement) away from goal-oriented tracks and towards social virtual environments. The "game" was user-generated, much like content in graphically-set There.com, ActiveWorlds, Second Life and other SVWs is today.Age rating: Dirty old UncleMeridian 59Meridian 59 is the first 3D graphical massively multiplayer online game. It was released in 1996. It's a fantasy virtual world currently heavy on the Player-versus-Player combat. It features a sophisticated justice system aimed at keeping killings clean and fair. Well, you know what I mean.Age rating: Old TimerSniper/Continuum/SubspaceReleased in 1997 after two years of beta development, Subspace/Continuum is the first space combat MMO. It's a 2D side-scrolling adventure that allows players to create maps, skins and friends - and then to blow the holy hell out of 'em.Age rating: Old GloryWhat have I missed out?
You have to hand it to casual game providerPopcap- it's stumbled on a surefire means of gaining mainstream press coverage: commission a never-ending series of lifestyle-themed surveys in which the results show that either a) everyone is really enjoying playing casual games, or b) everyonewouldreally enjoy playing casual games if only they gave it a go.Over the past year, the company has shown thatwhite collar workers love casual gamesand thatfamilies that play casual games get along better. Now, in a new study undertaken alongside the Stress Management Society, the company has discovered that UK mums get just 23 minutes of 'me time' per day and that they're catastrophically wasting this time on things that are causing them more stress, such as tea (eh?) and fags.Mums use their stolen 23 minutes to sit down with a cuppa (52%), smoke a cigarette (19%), eat a snack (18%) or gulp down a glass of wine (7%). According to the study these types of breaks are actually counter-productive as they don't allow mums' minds to rest from their worries - the most common, incidentally, being money troubles (66%).So howshouldmums be spending these precious 'me' moments? Did you really have to ask? Popcap makes three suggestions: exercise, yoga and... casual gaming! In the press release, the company helpfully advises mums to:trial a 5 minute 'cyber-break' by logging onto your PC. Playing a casual game helps lower stress levels by reducing blood pressure, slowing breathing and heart rate. Tests[1] prove that just five minutes a day on www.popcap.com has considerable stress reducing benefits.And just in case you're not sure if you're stressed, Popcap has even provided astress test. I tried it and was advised to seek immediate medical attention. Only kidding, it said I should try to relax more and perhaps download Peggle with the 50% off voucher. Sadly, the grammatical paradox that existed between some of the questions and the range of answers made me feel worse than when I started the test.In my house, gaming tends to cause my wife (a mum)morestress - her only interaction with my Xbox 360 is to shamefully stuff it into a cupboard when her friends come round, as though it were a porn mag or recently murdered animal. My PS3 meanwhile, has been forcibly relocated to the attic room because the hi-def TV I bought to go with it - sporting a mere 26" screen - terrified her due with its gargantuan size.Do any mums read Gamesblog? If so, can you recommend any particularly stress-busting casual titles? Or if you're the partner of a currently non-gaming mum, the next time she's looking a bit edgy, perhaps you ought to steer her away from cake and toward Cake Mania. Please let us know how it goes - as soon as you regain the ability to type.
Rebecca MacKinnon: 'A real contradiction'. Photograph byJoi Ito. Some Rights Reserved.There's an intriguing little tidbit that's just come through from Reuters, running some quotes fromRebecca MacKinnon, a former CNN bureau chief and the founder of international blog networkGlobal Voices Online.The article's headlined "World misunderstands China's Web controls: expert" and details MacKinnon's thoughts on how internet repression actually works in China (she lives in Hong Kong)."There's a real contradiction that's difficult to explain to the West and the outside world about China and about the Internet. On the one hand, you have a lot of efforts -- and fairly successful efforts -- to control content on the Internet and control what people can access.""Yet on the other hand, you have this contradiction that at the same time the space for conversation thanks to the Internet has grown tremendously in China."The piece has an underlying tone of contrarianism - insinuating that, actually, Chinese internet repression isn't much cop at all (teenagers are "not acting repressed and they're not acting oppressed. They're not spinning around being angry about not being able to do this or that on the Internet," she says).But reading between the lines, it seems that Reuters is trying to draw a bit more juice out of MacKinnon's comments - which seem to actually be an attempt to redraw the "great firewall of China" stereotype.After all, the black-and-white media world usually equates 'repression' with 'violence' - for example in theas we are seeing in Burma at the moment. But although the fireworks grab headlines, it's arguable that the most insidious repression is the sort that starts with self-censorship: a couple of generations of fearfully watching what you say, and suddenly the people are able to do the political repression all by themselves.
Google has a monopoly market share of the search business, but Microsoft hasn't given up. As expected - seebelow- it has rolled out a new version ofLive Searchtoday, and obviously theMicrosoft press releaseclaims lots of improvements.The Live Search team has, like most of Microsoft, been blogging away andtop of their listis:Relevance, relevance, relevance.We've quadrupled the size of our index, which means we can return the right results for your searches. Improvements like enhanced ranking algorithms, auto-spell correction and better stop word handling help us return the best results.It will take some time to figure out how good it is, but it seems much less blog-happy and less product-focused than Google, which heavily prioritises brand names. (Google Search's main aim in life now seems to be a sales catalogue. I like that.) Live also seems less spammy, though it has more prominent advertisements.However, while Live Search is mostly a copy of Google, there are a couple of major annoyances. One is that Microsoft doesn't tell you how big a cached page is. This makes a big difference to whether I'll look at a page. (If it says 25K then I probably will; if it says 945K then I won't.) Another is that the Live Search in the top left isn't a link that takes you back to a clean home page. Why not?On the good side, the Advanced button has survived, so I can carry on tweaking the Results Ranking directly, which Google does not allow. However, I know I am the only person in the world who does this. (I'm also one of the three people who uses Macros.)Either way, it's nowhere near good enough to have any impact on Google. To get people to switch, you have to have a very clear advantage, preferably an order of magnitude. Even if Live Search was 100% better than Google, most people wouldn't switch, and it isn't. In fact, Live Search needs to be better than Google just to hang on to the users it's got.....
photo byoskaySome Rights Reserved.Last night, I was checking out Engadget when apost took me back to the future. They were flagging up a rumour on AppleInsider thatApple is working on a PDA, a modern-day Newton, about "1.5 times the size of the iPhone".This is one of thoseApple rumours that just won't die(see number 6), but I have difficulty thinking that even in the Jobs-ian reality distortion field at 1 Infinite Loop that Apple would enter a dead, or at least the dying market for stand-alone PDAs. Besides, as Bobbie Johnson noted in our water cooler discussion, a couple of tweaks and the iPod Touch is there.I think more likely is that this is a sub-notebook, tablet typeUMPC-killer, rather than a PDA, which is how AppleInsider characterises the device later in its article. There are plenty of rumours floating around about a small notebook to replace the 12-inch iBooks and Powerbooks in the MacBook lines, the so-calledMacBook Thin(with a later post that ithas been delayed). Ah theKremlinologyof the Apple rumour mill.The rumour did bring about a wave of techno-nostalgia. About 10 years ago, a co-worker was raving about his Apple Newton 2000, even though hisSteve-ness would kill it soon after. The early versions of the Newton were slated for their poor handwriting recognition, even entering popular culture in thecomic strip Doonesburyand theSimpsons. I got so nostalgic. I bid on one on eBay.What old tech do you miss or better yet still use?technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Apple,Newton,PDA,rumourtechnorati tags end
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday October 9 2007Bouygues Telecom, rather than Telecom France, has had success with mobile internet services. The QR bar codes that can be read by mobile phones are Quick Response, rather than Quick Read, codes. These did not make their debut in the UK last month. Kerrang! magazine used them in November 2006. The second of these three errors has been corrected.Yasuko San is aiming her mobile at a small, square tattoo on paper, clicking a little and peering happily at the result. Her prize? The latest novel written for the mobile, entitled "Teddy". Such serialised novels for mobiles are just the latest phone application that has caught the Japanese imagination, but - apart from neighbouring South Korea - few others.Those printed square icons, however, made their debut in the UK earlier this month (to promote the DVD of the film 28 Weeks Later). Known as QR (quick response) codes, they have aided Japan's mobile revolution by making it easy to access a web page via mobile. Users can be directed to sites by snapping the codes printed in magazines, posters and even on biscuits.Mobile subscribersTheir British outing is a full four years behind Japan's adoption. In fact, we lag Japan in nearly every aspect of mobile use - except possibly in annoying other commuters on trains.Lost in Japan? Let your mobile's GPS guide you. Bored? Download the latest manga comic or an e-book to read on the train, or go shopping and pay by swishing your mobile in front of the till, because the phone is also an electronic wallet.You can also collect e-coupons, pay bills, play Final Fantasy, update your blog and pay and check into hotels wirelessly. Soon the airport check-in will be history in Japan, too, as the e-ticket in your phone becomes your boarding pass.Nearly all are services based on the success of the mobile web in Japan, where in a nation of 127 million the number of mobile internet subscribers recently passed 100 million. Not for nothing are the Japanese now known as the Thumb Tribe - a tribe who, for the most part, prefer their mobile to the fixed internet.Apart from the killer application - email - 80% say they use other functions too. Downloading music is popular (80% have tried it), as is TV for mobile - half of its subscribers use it regularly. Three quarters of users say they enjoy online clothes shopping with their mobile at least once a month. What they are less keen on is video calling: in Japan, as in the UK, 90% say "no thanks, never". And as for using the mobile as a modem - to link to the internet - that's very expensive in Japan.It is no wonder those touting m-commerce as the next big web thing tell us Japan is the future blueprint. "Japan is the world's high-tech testbed for a wide range of consumer electronic devices and systems - many of which never see the light of day in overseas markets," says Daniel Scuka, keitai guru and consultant for publishers Wireless Watch Japan. "So keeping up with developments here is vital to knowing what's going to hit Europe and the US 24 months in the future; doubly so with respect to mobile and wireless."By offering the Japanese a multiplicity of services - and, very importantly, some very cool handsets to use them on - the operators have created what every western mobile service provider is dreaming of: a mobile lifestyle culture that keeps millions reaching for the mobile rather than the fixed internet. But it does have its disadvantages.Most us would feel miffed if we lost or damaged our mobiles. The Japanese would be paralysed without theirs: nearly half of Japanese confess to being obsessed with their mobile phones.But why is such technology such a hit in Japan and not in other mobile-savvy nations such as Finland? According to the man who kickstarted the trend - the father of i-mode, NTT DoCoMo's Takeshi Natsuno - it is because of the Japanese genius for designing new technologies that can be adopted by anyone, especially techno-phobes. It's not about "bandwidth, nor standards, nor unique Japanese culture", he says. It is about "fun and convenience".When i-mode was launched in the UK a few years ago, the hopes were Natsuno was right and mobile internet would take off as it had in Japan. It didn't. "Basically these things succeeded best where the Japanese model was most faithfully stuck to. Telecom France, for example, had success with i-mode," says Scuka.Britain apparently went its own way with i-mode and relied on phones that weren't up to the job. It flopped and recently was buried alongside that other great mobile pretender, WAP. However, we in Europe do not have some of the advantages that DoCoMo and the other carriers enjoy in Japan. As Terrie Lloyd, a business analyst, points out: "Japanese mobile phone bandwidth is free to the carriers. They didn't have to pay for it. So rather than skin the consumers for every cent, they keep a good-value proposition.Demanding consumersThe Japanese are blessed with some of the best-looking technology in the world. It has to be intuitive, simple and high-quality, not because the Japanese are so tech-savvy, but because they are the most demanding consumers in the world.According to Scuka, more than 100 new phones hit the Japanese market last year as manufacturers tried out new ideas on the public.  Some cultural factors, as with any other country, do play a part in Japan's willingness to take up some technologies such as TV on the mobile.As in Europe, this was at first a washout, but as watching TV in public becomes more socially acceptable in Japan, the number of subscribers is rising. Au, the second largest mobile network in Japan, recently signed up its five millionth subscriber to the service."Japanese commute on trains. The average person commutes at least an hour each way every day - that's a lot of eyeball time. Only teenagers in Europe can match this sort of availability," says Scuka.It is this urban lifestyle where convenience is the key which has necessitated the rise of the all-in-one mobile plus those very funky handsets. By comparison Apple's iPhone is a mere 2.5G plaything. In Japan, which is already into 3G and heading towards 4G, they make mobiles look good and work hard.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Richard Clayton, a security researcher at Cambridge University, knows how to spot unsolicited junk mail - but even he had to look twice at what arrived in his inbox recently. The mail invited him to put a link tobustem.comfrom his website. When he looked at bustem.com, he found a collection of security articles written by people he hadn't heard of.As an academic and author for the security bloglightbluetouchpaper.org, Clayton has an eye for good writing - especially security writing. What he found on bustem.com didn't make him very happy. "I had a look at it and I wasn't very impressed," he says. "There were spelling mistakes, ridiculous bits of grammar, words missing from sentences and so forth."Web credibilityHe traced bustem.org to Privila, an Illinois-based company that uses unpaid interns to produce large amounts of content that it then uses on its websites. The company, which expects a minimum commitment of 150 hours or 50 articles from each intern over a 15-week period, retains ownership of the content they produce.Bustem.com isn't the only site in Privila's network, according to Clayton's colleague Steven J Murdoch, whose research last month turned up a network of almost 300 sites connected to Privila - up from 153 in April.Privila's public mandate is to "preserve the value and credibility of information on the web". Executives would not comment on the business model, and interns approached by the Guardian said they were bound by a non-disclosure agreement, but the websites it operates have something in common other than identical visual design: they all carry advertisements from either Google or Yahoo!. Google's advertising business has two main strands. Its Adwords service is aimed at companies who want their advertisements to appear on participating web sites.The websites that display the ads are part of a programme called Adsense. Google's website indexing system analyses each Adsense website and tries to display advertisements that are relevant to its content. Every time a visitor to an Adsense website clicks on an Adsense advertisement, the owner of the site gets some of the money that the advertiser pays to Google.The internet is replete with sites that post content optimised purely to drive ad traffic rather than having any value of its own. The internet marketing community even has a term for them: made for Adsense (MFA). But the value of online content is a subjective issue. Who is to say what is an MFA site, and what isn't? "There's a fine line between clever search engine optimisation techniques and sites built purely to attract search engines," muses Paul Moore ofAdsBlackList.com, which operates an MFA blacklist.Sites (not associated with Privila) that he calls MFA includemobiledownloads4u.com, which last week was serving up nine Google ads, in a premium position above a single page of unattributed mobile phone-related article content. He highlightsMyfirstnewsite.orgas another, which contains content identical to the second paragraph of text atinfobuy.info/?p=107.Some MFA sites are obvious, says Clayton, because they're generated by machines that create gibberish solely to fool the search engines' indexers. But many MFA sites use content that is clearly written by people. Where do you draw the line? "Most of the articles are pretty inane, and generally you get the feeling that if you click on the ads, you'll go somewhere better," he says.There is a market for the bland content used by many MFA sites, says Andy Beard, an internet marketer who maintains links with what he calls the search engine optimisation "blackhat" community. Beard has dabbled in the private label rights business - a community of writers and brokers who produce, rehash and distribute articles for customers who need to fill sites with content quickly."People got the idea that the content doesn't have to be 100% unique. Someone could modify an article slightly so that it still appears as unique content to the search engines."Sites using this content have to make at least part of them unique, because they want to avoid the same content appearing on multiple sites and decreasing their search ranking, says Beard - but search engines can often be fooled by articles that are partly the same. Such sites will spin single articles, sometimes producing hundreds of different versions of the same article. The process is so systematic that a market for automatically spinning software and services has arisen.Spunwrite, for example, divides up customers' articles into snippets that the service's hired writers then rewrite into multiple versions. The matrix of snippets can them be reassembled into many different combinations. Software such as WebSite Content Wizard professes to help article spinners do it themselves at home, and allows them to insert relevant keywords into their text to keep their Google rankings up.Collections of articles are sold in packages, for as little as $1 per 500-word piece. Customers spin them into thousands of articles designed to draw traffic to sites laden with adverts or other profitable payloads such as email collection forms or credit card payment systems.Would-be writersBut who writes the seed content in the first place? Canada-based Dave Markel uses sites likeRentacoder.comorelance.comto source original articles. Via these sites, he recruits would-be writers who want to turn a quick profit. "I started paying between $5 and $7 per 500-word article. I was using the emerging markets - Pakistan, India and Romania. But you could tell that they were taught English as a second language," he says. "So I started looking at the US, Canada, Britain, and Australia. Now I pay between $10 and $15 per article, but I don't have to do nearly as much editing."Markel says that his writers are stay-at-home mothers, students and others wanting to write for money. The same applies to companies not in the private label rights business who are trying to create a more branded market for amateur content.Suite101.com, for example, publishes articles from its 900 writers only on its own subdomains, rather than putting it on large numbers of apparently unrelated sites, as Privila does. It also pays its authors a commission on the Google ad revenue from their articles, and relinquishes online copyright to the author after a year. But is the content any good? Editing and review is done mostly after the content is published online, rather than before, admits editor-in-chief and former Globe and Mail writer Joy Gugeler. "Stuff slips through, but we're trying to tighten the net."Helium.comalso pays writers a cut of advertising revenue. It asks readers to rank articles by reading two alongside each other and voting on the best one, says CEO Mark Ranalli. eHow focuses on step-by-step how-to articles, and contributors get paid according to their ranking by readers, says general manager Gregory Boudewijn.These sites all manage their content quality with varying degrees of success. Clayton pokes fun at examples of naive content that he found on some of them; one of the steps in an eHow.com guide to working as a reporter abroad is "go to a country". But the sites are at least trying to deliver financial rewards to writers rather than using them for free.Background checkingBen Edelman, an expert investigator of spyware affiliate networks, argues that the content used in many sites designed more explicitly for MFA purposes is far from useful for advertisers. "If I were Google, I wouldn't have a difficult time deciding what to do here. This content is not useful. The world would be better off if these pages didn't exist," he says. "The issue is where the money comes from - how it is that reasonably well-respected advertisers end up paying for this stuff?"Yahoo! didn't reply to the Guardian, but Google responds that it is constantly tweaking its algorithms and reviewing websites to keep up the quality of Adsense participants. That wasn't enough for Adsblacklist.com's Moore, who removed all sites under his control from the Adsense program last week. He cites frustration with the number of MFA sites that he believes make it through Google's filtering system. "Because it's becoming so difficult to identify these sites, a lot of them are allowed into programs like Adsense without enough background checking," he says.The debate over whether the copy is there purely to fill the space between the ads has been raging in print publishing for years. Internet publishing has taken this to a new level. Content's eligibility as MFA ad fodder comes down to the quality of online writing, which sits in a spectrum from insightful reporting and well-crafted, thoughtful prose at one end through to machine-generated nonsense at the other. Both of those are recognisable for what they are. But for people like Clayton and Edelman, it's the stuff in the middle that is causing consternation.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In the "Eh?" category,Kotaku,/.andothersreport on a Chinese MMO development company's decision to crackdown on gender benders in their game King of the World. Aurora Technologies is banning men from playing women, requesting that all female avatar selections are accompanied by visual verification via webcam. The makers don't intend to stop women from playing men.Not only is this ripe for exploitation (a whole new subsidiary of RMT?), but it's also completely bizarre. Further, as the preponderance of gender benders are male-to-female (according, admittedly, toWesternresearch - see also Griffiths, Davies &amp; Chappell, 2003), this will have a profound effect on the social culture of the game. The 80% of men who play women will now flood the virtual world with testosterone creating a social imbalance which can only result in even greater distinctiveness for the women playing the game. Whether they want to be singled out is another story. Many of them may choose to blend in with the crowd by gender bending. Thus the masculinisation of that particular MMOG will be complete.How very very strange.
British internet users can look forward to surfing the web at more than 10 times the speed currently available after Ofcom, the communications watchdog, called on the telecoms industry yesterday to spend billions on next-generation networks to keep pace with countries such as France, Germany and the US.But not everyone will benefit from the next wave of broadband, which will enable fast downloading of movies and even high-definition online TV, as investment is likely to focus initially on urban and affluent areas, raising concerns about a widening digital divide.More than half the UK is connected to broadband and the average speed has trebled over the past year and a half to 4.6 megabits per second - more than 80 times the speed of a dial-up internet connection.But the rise of video-on-demand services and the availability of TV shows and movies for download through sites such as Apple's iTunes means the UK's ageing phone network is becoming stretched to capacity. Consumers are watching their favourite BBC shows on its iPlayer, while Channel 4's 4oD service and ITV.com have a wealth of commercial television for online viewing."Today's access network, at some point in the future, will run out of steam," said Ed Richards, Ofcom's chief executive, yesterday. "Consumers will demand faster and faster access. Very few people agree on exactly when this is going to happen but many people do agree it is only a matter of time."Countries such as France, Germany, the US, Japan and South Korea have already started investing in networks which can deliver up to 100 megabits a second, enough for a dozen high-definition TV channels. If the UK failed to follow suit the economy could suffer, Mr Richards warned.Last week, Stephen Timms used his first big speech as minister for competitiveness to warn that the UK risks being left behind. "We need timely deployment of technology," he said. "We can't afford to lag behind others. We need the right conditions for the market to operate effectively."Ofcom yesterday launched a two-month consultation asking industry and the public for their views on what the next generation of network would look like and who would pay for it.Ofcom envisages a "mixed economy" in the UK, with some areas connected by ultra-fast fibre optic cables either directly into houses or into the green street cabinets that act as the first gateway into the country's homes.Other areas will use BT's existing copper phone lines, with new technology increasing speeds, or rely on wireless broadband services or even satellite services in remote rural areas. Even the UK's network of sewers could be used to carry cabling for super-fast broadband as in other European cities such as Paris.About 1,400 metres of fibre optic cable has already been laid through Bournemouth's sewers and several British academic institutions, including Aberdeen University and Bath University, are already using sewers for internet access.Mr Timms has suggested the government could help fund some roll-out of next generation broadband, but the Treasury is unlikely to spend anything like the estimated &pound;25bn it would cost to rip out 30m phone lines.BT is installing fibre optic cables into 9,500 homes being built in the Thames Valley at Ebbsfleet, but it is unlikely every-one in the UK will get the same level of service."There will be an issue of differential delivery," Mr Richards said. "But let's get it under way first."There were similar concerns when broadband was introduced in the UK at the start of the decade, but it is now available to 99.6% of the country.
The reviews are in the paper this week, with a certainsci-fi shootergetting a predictably good write-up.Alekshas her say too. Another hugely polished example of a game at a genre peak isWorld In Conflict, the real time strategy title. WiC eschews the tedium normally inherent in these games and replaces it with fast-paced action and worryingly beautiful smoke effects. The plot - all 80s Cold War paranoia made real - is a cut above the norm too. Last, and quite frankly least, is retro shooterXyanide: Resurrection.ElsewhereAlexander Gambotto-Burkeasks whether single-player gaming has run out of steam. For me the answer, obviously, is not yet. But with developers belated realising that many gamers prefer co-op to adversarial modes, plus the party play of the Wii, Singstar and the rest, the clock may finally be ticking down on solo play.
Wii the media centreX-OOM says it will launch software that turns a Wii into a media centre, connected to a PC via Wi-Fi, late next month for &pound;29.99.x-oom.comFatMan's iTubeFatMan has launched the iTube Valve Dock (&pound;299.99), a valve amp for iPods.fat-man.co.ukVirtual OasisOasis is previewing its limited edition DVD, Lord Don't Slow Me Down, in Second Life's New Horizon business park.secondlife.comHumanised softwareEnso has launched its first two universal utilities, which are called when you hold down Caps Lock in Windows.humanized.com/ensoMobile MySpaceFox Interactive has released a beta test version of an advertising-supported version of MySpace for mobile phones.mobile.myspace.comSchmaps for MacsHaving given away 30m of its desktop travel guides, Schmap now has versions for the Mac.schmap.comTap into thisTruTap, which has just launched a closed beta, lets users chat, text, blog, and send instant messages (MSN, Yahoo!, AIM, ICQ) from their mobile phones.trutap.com/abouttrutapAll that glisters ...Sony is bringing out Vaio CR20 notebooks in Sparkling Sand. It "uses a harmonised palette of beach and precious metal tones to evoke a premium adult world of luxury and adventure".vaio.sony.co.uk
