Facebook has taken down a video of a woman being beheaded and said it would apply more stringent criteria when deciding whether to allow such images on the site after it was criticised for refusing to remove the footage.News that Facebook had lifted a ban on images of graphic violence prompted a public outcry on Tuesday, with the UK prime minister, David Cameron, joining condemnation of the decision.In response, the social networking site has backed down and removed the video, which shows a masked man beheading a woman in Mexico."When we review content that is reported to us, we will take a more holistic look at the context surrounding a violent image or video," it said in a statement on Tuesday."Second, we will consider whether the person posting the content is sharing it responsibly, such as accompanying the video or image with a warning and sharing it with an age-appropriate audience."Facebook bans displays of topless photos of women under rules addressing nudity and pornography, but its owners had  initially resisted suggestions that the Mexican video should be taken down, arguing that the public should be free to view beheading videos then condemn the content. It said it would take a different approach if the actions in the footage were "encouraged or celebrated".Following complaints, the website's owners added captions to the front of videos warning that they contained extremely graphic content and that they "may be upsetting". But that was not enough to mollify the prime minister, who said Facebook should explain its decision to "worried parents". Facebook allows people to use the site from the age of 13, although many 11-year-olds join when they go to secondary school.Hostage UK, a charity representing the families of people who have been kidnapped and killed, said: "The public are well aware of the brutalities committed, and a public showing … adds nothing other than to cause further unimaginable suffering."On Tuesday, Facebook caved into the pressure and admitted  it had been wrong to refuse to remove the beheading video."Based on these enhanced standards we have re-examined recent reports of graphic content and have concluded that this content improperly and irresponsibly glorifies violence. For this reason we have removed it," the company said.Facebook had introduced a temporary ban on such videos in May but later decided to remove the block on the grounds that the site is used to share information about world events.
Sir Paul McCartney launched an official profile on mobile appLinelast week. He already has more than 270,000 followers. And that's just one of the surprising stats around the social networking app, which is still seen by many Westerners as that messaging app that's huge in Japan.That's only partly true. Line is certainly huge, having signed up more than 260m users since its launch two years ago, with 160m of them having registered in 2013 so far.But the app is about more than instant messaging: it's a fully-fledged social network, complete with its own games platform and ambitions to move into music and shopping.It's also not just big in Japan. "80% of our traffic is from outside Japan. People consider it to be more Asian, but now it's a different story," says Sunny Kim, senior vice president and head of business development for Line Euro-Americas, before reeling off some figures to prove it."We've got 17m users in Taiwan, 18m in Thailand, 14m in Indonesia, but now also 15m in Spain, and we expect to have more than 10m users in Mexico and other Latin American countries this year. And now we think it's time to enter more high-profile countries like the UK."That's the reason for Kim's visit to London: Line's apps are already available here on various smartphones, but the company is planning a proper launch in the coming months, signing up more celebrities and brands – McCartney isn't a bad start on that front – and getting local designers to create digital stickers that will appeal to Brits.Stickers? They're another intriguing element to Line's growth. In August, the company said it wasmaking more than $10m a monthselling stickers in its apps, with people able to use them as richer emoticons when messaging friends.Some are based on big stars or brands – Barcelona and Real Madrid have their own Line sticker ranges in Spain – while others are based on Line's own characters, who are so popular in Japan that they have their own TV cartoon called Line Town."People know all about chatting apps, so they want to know what's different. And when they first install Line, it's the stickers: they're very cute, and when you start to use them in chatting, it's really addictive," says Kim."In Spain, people were very excited about the [Lionel] Messi stickers for example. But then they discover our photo-sharing features, and then Line games. So people discover our functions step by step."Earlier this year, comScore estimated that Spain had 24m smartphone users, so the fact that 15m people there have at least registered for Line is impressive. Football clubs may also be high on the company's priority list for partners in the UK, as it hopes for similar growth here.More stats? Line says that in July, it had 73m unique monthly users worldwide of its app's Facebook-style Home and Timeline features, and that 7bn messages were being sent every day using the app in August, including 1bn stickers.Line's games business is also growing at a rapid pace, and shaping up as a genuine alternative to Facebook as a platform for developers to build social games on. Kim says that there are now more than 36 games on Line, which have collectively generated more than 190m downloads.Initially, Line made its games in-house using its own characters, basing the gameplay on popular casual genres, from bubble-popping to gem-swapping. Line Pop and Line Bubble have been downloaded 33m and 25m times respectively."We are opening up our platform to third-party game studios, and depending on the markets, we are inviting local studios," says Kim.Line's games include Line Bubble and Line Pop with 25m and 33m downloads respectivelyLine has numerous rivals in the messaging/social space, from Korean firm Kakao – which has a similar mix of social features and games platform – through to Western messaging apps like WhatsApp, and on to bigger beasts of the social networking world like Facebook (which is also getting into stickers) and Twitter.WhatsApp announced this week that itnow has 350m monthly active users, and it seems to be the company most in Line's sights, judging by some of Kim's comments, from her claim that Spanish people were "a little tired of WhatsApp" when Line launched there, to her description of it as a "first-generation" app whose market share in Asia is "meaningless"."No one uses WhatsApp there, but we know that every market is different: France is strong for Facebook Messenger for example," says Kim. "The market is open for competition: we always know that the next month, some new service can change this market."Relationships with celebrities and brands will be important: as well as signing them up, Line is trying to educate them in how best to use its app, how that differs from Facebook and Twitter, and what kind of data they can get back in return."They're not just counting the clicks. People sending messages to Line users can watch on a real-time basis how many users open the message, and how long they played the video for," says Kim."Then next time, they can adapt their message based on the learnings from the previous one. It's a very advanced marketing tool for them. And for famous singers, they can easily have a million subscribers on Line. That's the minimum, actually!"As for the advice, Line is keen for its celebrity users to understand that the app is about more than text-based marketing – something that Facebook and Twitter have also moved towards in their advice for social marketing."Our proposal to celebrities, especially musicians, is that we are operating in a smartphone and 3G or 4G environment, so you should try to push more interactive and video content, not just a text," says Kim."In Asia, we're releasing new packages with top singers: a sticker plus MP3 files. It's a new format: people can listen to the music on Line, but the exciting part is when they sing the song, they can send a sticker to their friends."Music will play a bigger role in Line's future: the company recently announced plans tolaunch a service called Line Music, enabling people to listen to songs with their friends. It's due to launch this year – in Japan at least – but for now Kim has no more details to share.She's focusing on the global rollout for Line as a whole, including the UK. "We are anxious to get into this market, so we will prepare for the service this year or early next year," says Kim. "We don't want to introduce Line as a new messaging app, though. It's a new social service for the young generation."
Apple has released an update for its iOS 7 software to deal with a raft of complaints from users about motion sickness, problems with iMessage and poor calibration of level sensors on the iPhone 5S.The update, available on phones or through iTunes, also adds the &quot;iCloud keychain&quot; feature to randomise passwords used on different sites.The release of iOS 7 in mid-September was a radical remodelling of Apple&apos;s interface. But the animations when apps were launched and when messages were sent led tocomplaints from a number of userswho suffer from forms of motion sickness that it literally made them feel ill.Now Apple has enhanced an option to &quot;Reduce Motion&quot; in its Accessibility setting which stops the zooming transitions when changing between apps or starting them. The screen simply changes to the new app. Users of older devices such as the iPhone 4 who have found that the animations tax its processing power may also benefit from using it. (The setting is found at Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Accessibility -&gt; Reduce Motion.)The update also fixesproblems that millions of users had with iMessage, where it failed to send messages over the data channel.Another problem which had affected users of the 5S phone, where the calibration of the level sensors was imprecise - leading them to differ significantly from older devices with calibration chips from a different manufacturer - have also been fixed, Apple claims. Early testing by the Guardian suggests that the 5S&apos;s level sensor has become more accurate with the update.Another claimed fix deals with a lockscreen bypassCrashes with iWork apps - which had been made free, but caused problems - have also been fixed, it says.Apple has released a list of thefixes and changes in the iOS 7.0.3 updateon its site. The over-the-air update is a 92.8MB download.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe decline of Wikipedia: even as more people than ever rely on it, fewer people create it &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewTom Simonite:Wikipedia and its stated ambition to "compile the sum of all human knowledge" are in trouble. The volunteer workforce that built the project's flagship, the English-language Wikipedia—and must defend it against vandalism, hoaxes, and manipulation—has shrunk by more than a third since 2007 and is still shrinking. Those participants left seem incapable of fixing the flaws that keep Wikipedia from becoming a high-quality encyclopedia by any standard, including the project's own.Apple releases iOS 7.0.3 with updated 'reduce motion' setting, Spotlight improvements, iCloud Keychain, and more &gt;&gt; MacstoriesiOS 7.0.3 brings back the ability to search Google and Wikipedia from Spotlight. The feature had been removed from the first release of iOS 7, but it's now back in the new Spotlight, which is always available in any Home screen page just by swiping down.iOS 7 was criticized by early adopters for the slowness and amount of animations and transitions throughout the OS. A subset of users asked Apple to reduce the motion of the OS as it was causing motion sickness for them; a setting that the company had included in the Settings app wasn't enough, as it disabled the parallax effect of iOS, but not the new animations.Apple has listened, and in iOS 7.0.3 the Reduce Motion setting (available in General &gt; Accessibility) now truly reduces animations: switching to apps and back to Home screen, unlocking the device, and moving between folders is now a cross-fade that is much faster than Apple's animations with Reduce Motion turned off.Also fixes the iMessage bug, system stability, "accelerometer calibration issue", Lock screen bypass.New Poll: Apple has "oversold Siri" say 46% of Americans &gt;&gt; Intelligent Voice BlogIt's actually 46% of people who have used Siri on iOS 7, not "all Americans". Only 15% had. So that's a small number of satisfied users.All told, not great news for Apple, but probably worse news for the voice recognition industry. We sell it like it's magic, but as I've read elsewhere, it's still an emerging technology that's been emerging for 30 years.  The sooner we are honest with people about what can really be achieved, the more chance we have of adoption.  Back in the early days of OCR, we only got 50% accuracy, but that was 100% more than people had the day before.  Perhaps we should reset people's expectations as to what continuous speech applications can manage out of the box and in the wild.New Google technology 'uProxy' to provide uncensored Internet for global activists &gt;&gt; RT USADeveloped by Google's New York City-based think tank Google Ideas, uProxy is a peer-to-peer service that allows one to establish an encrypted internet connection with someone they trust. Google, which provided the funding to developers Brave New Software and the University of Washington, hopes the new technology will outwit government officials around the world who have cracked down on the internet in recent years."If you look at existing proxy tools today, as soon as they're effective for dissidents, the government finds out about them and either blocks them or infiltrates them," Jared Cohen, director of Google Ideas, told Time magazine. "Every dissident we know in every repressive society has friends outside the country whom they know and trust. What if those trusted friends could unblock the access in those repressive societies by sharing their own access? That was the problem we tried to solve."Like Tor, uProxy consists of a simple browser extension that is capable of finding a user's friends on Facebook. The service, currently in "restricted beta" mode, is not an anonymizing network like Tor but will render an individual connection indistinguishable from all other encrypted conversations online. That anonymity might itself be valuable, considering the lengths that agencies such as the NSA have gone to in order to crack Tor's security.(Thanks #modelportfolio2003 for the pointer.)How to lose $172,222 a second for 45 minutes &gt;&gt; python sweetnessThis is probably themost painful bug report I've ever read(PDF), describing in glorious technicolor the steps leading to Knight Capital's $465m trading loss due to a software bug that struck late last year, effectively bankrupting the company.The tale has all the hallmarks of technical debt in a huge, unmaintained, bitrotten codebase (the bug itself due to code that hadn't been used for 8 years), and a really poor, undisciplined devops story.More discussionon Hacker News. Terrifying indeed. Total final loss: $460m. (Thanks #Corin Yeats for the pointer.)Top apps from Nokia World 2013 – Nokia Conversations : the official Nokia blogInstagram, Vine and Flipboard are coming to Windows Phone, unleashing the creativity of Lumia owners, while WhatsApp, LINE and Nimbuzz Messenger will keep Asha owners chatting.Getting Line and WhatsApp are big wins, but still no dates for Instagram or Vine.Healthcare.gov: it could be worse &gt;&gt; The New YorkerFor large software projects, failure is generally determined early in the process, because failures almost exclusively have to do with planning: the failure to create a workable plan, to stick to it, or both. Healthcare.gov reportedly involved over fifty-five contractors, managed by a human-services agency that lacked deep experience in software engineering or project management. The final product had to be powerful enough to navigate any American through a complex array of different insurance offerings, secure enough to hold sensitive private data, and robust enough to withstand peak traffic in the hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of concurrent users. It also had to be simple enough so that anyone who can open a Web browser could use it. In complexity, this is a project on par with the F.B.I.'s V.C.F. or Sentinel.VCF and Sentinel were planned systems which have bogged down.Experian Sold Consumer Data to ID Theft Service &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs:An identity theft service that sold Social Security and drivers license numbers — as well as bank account and credit card data on millions of Americans — purchased much of its data from Experian, one of the three major credit bureaus, according to a lengthy investigation by KrebsOnSecurity.Good grief.Battling space junk with a tractor beam of static electricity &gt;&gt; WiredThe growing problem of space junk around Earth could be cleaned up in part using the same forces that give you a static shock when you touch a doorknob on a windy day. By shooting space debris with an electron beam, a charged spacecraft could tug them to higher orbit and then fling them away.This solution relies on what are known as electrostatic forces, which occur whenever electrons build up on something. Bombarding a piece of space junk with electrons could give it a modest negative charge of a few tens of kilovolts, roughly the equivalent charge stored in a car spark plug. An unmanned space probe with a positive charge could then tow it in a tractor-beam-like fashion.Tractor beams. At LAST. It's been such a wait.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Now that Apple has launched its newiPad AirandiPad mini 2, its time to look at the competition and see where Apple stacks up with the likes of the newMicrosoft Surface 2, the Google Nexus 7 andTesco&apos;s HudlAndroid tablet for Christmas.iPad Air - £399Apple iPad Air Photograph: Carl Court/AFP/Getty ImagesApple’slatest generation of its premium tabletbuilds on the success of its predecessors with a high quality, high-resolution screen and powerful processor, now squeezed into a 20% smaller and lighter frame. The iPad Air is the first significant redesign of the concept since its launch in 2010. Still looks like the tablet to beat with full access to Apple’s App Store and its 800,000 active apps.Sony Xperia Tablet Z - £370Sony Xperia Tablet ZSony’s latest Android tablet takes aim directly at the premium tablet market. With plenty of storage and a great-looking high-resolution screen, the Tablet Z certainly keeps up with Apple’s tablet. It is the waterproof exterior design that really sets the Tablet Z apart, however.Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 2014 edition - £499Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 2014 editionWith a powerful processor and full access to the Google Play app store, this is one of the strongest contenders in the Android camp, which its high price tag reflects. TheNote 10.1’s main point of difference is its S-Pen stylus: users can draw on the screen, make notes and multi-task.Google Nexus 10 - £319Google Nexus 10Google’s own 10in tabletis a more affordable high-resolution Android tablet with access to all of Google’s services, apps and stores. It runs the latest version of the Android operating system, without the usual manufacturer customisations the likes of Samsung, Sony and others make, which makes it fast, slick and bloat free.Amazon Kindle Fire HDX 8.9in - £329Amazon Kindle Fire HDXThe bigger of Amazon’s twonewest tablets, with a very high-res screen for exceptionally clear text. It runs Amazon’s own Fire OS variant of Android, which means it lacks access to Google Play and its 850,000 standard Android apps, restricting users to Amazon’s own app store with its 75,000 apps.Nokia Lumia 2520 - $499 (£310)Nokia Lumia 2520 tablet runs Windows RT 8.1 in a colourful frame.Nokia’s first tablet,the Lumia 2520resembles a 10in version of its Lumia Windows Phone smartphones. It packs a powerful processor, plenty of storage and a high-resolution screen, but its main selling point is the exterior design: a bold-coloured polycarbonate shell in red, cyan, white or black.Microsoft Surface 2 - £359Microsoft Surface 2 review - Microsoft's second generation Windows RT tablet.Microsoft&apos;ssecond generation of Windows RT tablet, an operating system designed for low-powered tablets, with a high-resolution screen, powerful ARM processor and excellent multi-tasking capabilities. It is restricted to Windows Store apps (100,000 available), not being capable of running full desktop Windows applications, but comes with the full Microsoft Office suite.iPad mini 2 - £319iPad mini now with retina display Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesTheiPad mini 2sits at premium end of smaller tablet market. It is both slimmer and lighter than the full-sized iPad, but maintains access to all same apps and services. Its solid aluminium build, 10-hour battery life, high-resolution &quot;retina&quot; screen and powerful processor mark it out against the cheaper competition.Google Nexus 7 - £199Google Nexus 7 tablet Photograph: Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty ImagesArguably the best small Android tablet available.The Nexus 7has a high-res screen, powerful processor, 10-hour battery life and Android operating system. Light enough to be held in one hand.Amazon Kindle Fire HDX 7in - £199Amazon Kindle Fire HDX Photograph: Amazon/PAThesmaller Kindle sportsa high-res screen, which makes text on websites and books clear and sharp. It runs Amazon&apos;s customised Android Fire OS operating system too, inhibiting its access to the Google Play store (see 8.9in above).Tesco Hudl - £119Tesco Hudl Android tablet.Tesco’s first tabletis cheap and cheerful (costs just £60 of Tesco Clubcard vouchers). It runs a standard version of Android Jelly Bean without significant customisation, which means it is fast with full access to Google’s Play Store for apps and media.Argos My Tablet - £99The Argos MyTablet is a budget 7in own-brand Android tablet from the high-street catalogue retailer Argos.Argos has launched its own tablet on to the UK high street. Like the Hudl it runs standard Android, but has a poor, low-res screen and slow processor resulting in afrustrating experience.
It's Wednesday.
9.16pmBSTKey facts and figuresiPad Air• The new iPad is just 7.5mm thick and weighs 454g, making it the thinnest and lightest full-sized iPad to date. It is called the iPad Air.• The 64-bit A7X processor in the iPad Air has double the performance of the previous generation andadds performance and security benefits, along with potential reductions in complexity of both hardware andsoftware, which should aid reliability.• The iPad Air will cost £399 ($499) and upwards, with the 4G version starting at £499 ($629). They will be available from 1 November.iPad mini• The iPad mini stays the same size as the previous generation, but receives the retina display and A7 processor of its bigger sibling.• As a result, the new iPad mini costs more than its predecessor, from £319 ($399), with the 4G version starting at £419 ($529). They are also available from 1 November.• At the low end, both the iPad 2 and the original iPad mini stay in the line-up. The iPad 2 will sell for £329 ($399), and the original iPad mini gets a price cut down to £249 ($299).MacBook Pro• Also unveiled were new MacBook Pros. The 13-inch model now weighs 1.5kg and is 1.8cm thick, and has been fitted out with Intel&apos;s Haswell CPUs and Iris integrated graphics.• The 15-inch MacBook Pro stays the same on the outside, but also gets a speed bump to Intel&apos;s &quot;Crystalwell&quot; CPU and Iris Pro graphics, as well as an Nvidia GeForce GT750M for gaming.• Both laptops have longer-lasting batteries, with the 13in increasing from 7 hours to 9 hours, and the 15in increasing from 7 to 8 hours.• The 13in MacBook Pro will retail from £1,099 ($1,299), and the 15in will retail from £1,699 ($1,999). They are available from today.Mac Pro• The Mac Pro, which was first announced in July and has been teased since 2012, was given a shipping date: December. It will retail for £2,499 ($2,999).Mavericks, iWork and iLife• Apple&apos;s operating system, Mavericks, is available free for anyone with a compatible Mac.• The OS works with iMacs and MacBook Pros from 2007, with MacBook Airs, MacBooks and Mac Pros from 2008, and with the Mac Mini from 2009.• Additionally, its iWork productivity suite and its iLife media suite are both available for free with any new Mac or iOS device.9.13pmBSTAnd what John Lewis says:Ed Connolly, buying director for electricals and home technology at John Lewis:The new thinner, lighter and faster iPad Air and new iPad Mini ranges, now complete with Retina displays, look set to be the best iPads yet, and the new prices on the existing iPad Mini means they&apos;ll be more affordable than ever. They will undoubtedly be a huge hit in the run up to Christmas. Last year, tablets were the must-have technology product for the festive season, and we predict this year will be even bigger with tablets flying off the shelves at a rate of one every fifteen seconds this Christmas. The competition is more intense than it&apos;s ever been, with sales of the latest Samsung, Google and Microsoft tablets up 80% year on year at John Lewis.There’s been so much development in the market over the past few years, with new screen sizes, new brands and keener prices than ever before, so we see this Christmas as the time when many tablet users will decide to upgrade their current tablet to the newest models. We offer customers a choice of the best tablets, expert impartial advice and a minimum two-year guarantee on all electrical products including tablets, so customers can rest assured they won’t find better value for money anywhere else on the high street.9.11pmBSTAnalysts say:Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight:These new iPads underline Apple&apos;s dominance of the premium tablet market – it has the strongest line-up available with the best suite of apps. It has also extended the portfolios consumer reach by keeping the iPad mini and iPad 2 while introducing new premium models.Apple seems determined to disrupt Microsoft&apos;s business model. Apple’s strength in hardware is allowing it make free updates to its OS X operating system and offer its iLife suite free of charge with new devices. That’s a real headache for Microsoft whose business model for Windows and Office depends on license fees and upgrade charges.Apple is narrowing gap between Mac and iPad with its new A7 processor and updated apps. The A7’s 64-bit architecture allows a far more computer-like experience and blurs the line between and what and iPad can do and what a PC offers.Jason Kingsley, chief executive of games developer Rebellion:Very excited about the new Mac Pro, it looks intriguing and a little bit like a desk-mounted bin, but inside it has blistering speed, and is obviously focussed on moving images and picture manipulation more than anything. I can imagine several people in our office already composing emails about ‘why they must have one very soon’. If it helps productivity and creativity them it might just be a valid argument.Jan Dawson, chief telecoms analyst at Ovum:As expected, Apple took some cues from the iPad Mini in launching the new iPad Air, which is thinner and lighter, while adopting many of the internal improvements first seen in the iPhone 5S. This represents a good enough boost to the previous version to trigger good upgrade sales and get iPad shipments growing again, which was a key objective for this launch. However, the company also took a step back from the strategy it adopted when it launched the first iPad Mini. When that device launched, it was with a sub-par display and specs that matched the older iPad 2.The new iPad Mini and iPad Air both have top-of-the-line specs, and start at $399, meaning that the minimum price for a high-performance iPad has actually gone up. Meanwhile, the iPad 2 and iPad Mini will remain on sale at lower prices, but with significantly less appeal given the gap in specs between them and the new iPads. It seems as though Apple is trying to push average selling prices for iPads back up again after they&apos;ve dropped steadily over the past year. Both devices should sell very well, especially over the holiday period, but Apple held off being as disruptive as they might have been by pricing them relatively high.This is the clearest statement Apple could have made that it is only interested in competing in the premium tablet space. The yawning gap between the specs of the cheaper iPad Mini and iPad 2 and the new iPads signifies that it is only willing to compete at the lower price points with older models. This leaves a huge chunk of the tablet market unserved by Apple while others such as Google, Amazon and a raft of others aggressively target the sub-$400 market. This reinforces our view that Apple&apos;s share in tablets will continue to fall as Android&apos;s share rises over the coming years.Though the iPad news will generate the headlines, the changes to Apple&apos;s software licensing for Mac OS X, iLife and iWork is also important, not least for Microsoft. Microsoft generates 96% of its operating margins from operating system and productivity software licensing, and Apple is now teaching people to expect both of those things to be free. While this won&apos;t disrupt Microsoft&apos;s business overnight, it will create further pressure on Microsoft to bring down prices for its productivity software and especially for Windows.Updatedat 9.12pm BST7.27pmBSTWhoosh! The iPad Air is the Speedy Gonzales of tablets, according to this graph. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images7.23pmBSTThese are products of the innovation that only Apple can deliver. This is what we mean by designed in Apple in California. Other companies would be incredibly proud to have just one of these products. But we couldn&apos;t be prouder to present all of them to you in time for the holidays.Updatedat 7.27pm BST7.20pmBSTCook is back …Incredible … best smartphones in the market … biggest change to iOS … and just today the new MacBook Pros with stunning retina displays and incredible battery performance. Mac Pro, the most powerful Mac we&apos;ve ever shipped, and all with OSX Mavericks.Updatedat 7.56pm BST7.19pmBSTThe lineup starts at $299 - don&apos;t have the UK prices yet.And new iPad covers for the iPad mini and iPad Air. And the iPad case which protects the front and back.No sign of a keyboard - which Cook effectively hinted at when he said that he couldn&apos;t see the point in the PC being a tablet being a PC.Updatedat 8.57pm BST7.19pmBSTApple's new iPad range.7.18pmBSTComes in silver and white, and space-grey and black. Priced at $399 for 16GB with Wi-Fi. Available later in November.And we&apos;re going to keep the original iPad mini - and lower the price to just $299.This is the tablet price war - Apple is closing in on Google and Amazon.Updatedat 8.55pm BST7.17pmBSTThe new iPad mini has thesame number of pixels as an iPad Air so it will run all the same apps.It is also powered by aA7 chip with its 64-bit architectureand up to4x faster at graphicsand8x faster in graphics tasks, and apparently has10-hour battery life,2x faster Wi-Fiand expandedLTEsupport.Updatedat 8.56pm BST7.16pmBSTiPad mini update …The iPad mini get a retina display.Next let&apos;s talk about iPad mini, a big hit with customers because it&apos;s the complete customer experience - do everything you want, surf the web, do email, all those apps. The most requested feature is a beautiful retina display and that&apos;s what we&apos;re going to do today.Updatedat 7.24pm BST7.15pmBSTSo it&apos;s not the iPad 5, it&apos;s theiPad Air. Get it straight.Updatedat 8.56pm BST7.13pmBSTObligatory Jonny Ive videoJonny Ive never appears on a stage, yet he hasn&apos;t missed an event since about 1998. He&apos;s always in these videos about the flagship product. It wouldn&apos;t really be an Apple event without him talking about a slow-mo flying device.Updatedat 8.56pm BST7.13pmBSTThe new iPad Air will start at &pound;399 ($499).7.12pmBSTSpecs for the iPad AirIt has more than a billion transistors, M7 coprocessor, 2x graphics performance, and a 8x better CPU performance than original iPad.2x increase in rendering. 2x faster at opening files. Faster Wi-Fi using MIMO (multiple antennas), expanded LTE (seems to include all UK carriers). 5MP iSight camera, new FaceTime HD camera, dual microphones, Siri. And 10-hour battery life.It comes in silver and white, and space grey and black.It will replace the top-line full-size iPad at $499 for 16GB, SIM version $629.iPad 2 will remain at $399.iPad Air starts shipping 1 November - including China from the start.Updatedat 8.57pm BST7.09pmBSTiPad Air has a 9.7' Retina displayThe previous iPad weighted 1.4lb, this weighs just 1lb. The lightest full-size tablet in the world. It has a smaller bezel (43% less), and is much thinner (7.5mm v 9.4mm)When you hold it it will be dramatically different experience. All the words and pictures don&apos;t do justice to the moment you pick it up and feel it, and you understand why we&apos;re so excited. What&apos;s inside is exciting too - the A7 chip that we launched with the iPhone 5S.Updatedat 8.57pm BST7.07pmBSTA generation - the iPad AirSchiller is back...A new vision of mobile computing.. it all began with this amazing 9.7in multi-touch display. To hold the internet in your hands.. the team has been on a relentless path to update it with newer and better versions. Today we think we have the biggest step yet in delivering what is iPad.More video: it&apos;s an iPad.Thinner, lighter, more powerful than ever before, and incredibly, excitingly new that it deserves a new name: iPad Air.Updatedat 7.12pm BST7.02pmBST&quot;A great platform for third-party developers&quot;475,000 apps on the App Store, designed for the iPad, not stretched out smartphone apps. &quot;But it&apos;s not about quantity it&apos;s about quantity.. to be educated or entertained wherever you might go. Hardware, software, services, no wonder it&apos;s had such a profound impact.&quot;&quot;What&apos;s most rewarding and inspiring to us is the amazing ways our customers are using the iPad. We designed it for the things you do most often. But we could never have imagined the ways people would use them. We prepared a short video...&quot; (Let&apos;s roll.)7.02pmBSTThis graph looks good for Apple shareholders.7.01pmBSTiPad sold 'four times the competitors put together'Everyone seems to be making a tablet, even some of the doubters. But regardless of what you might hear or read about how many are bought or sold or activated, iPad is used a lot more.Four times more than all of those other tablets put together, and this is what is important to us, because when you make a great product with a great experience, this is how you know it, because people use it, and even more important to us people love it.iPad is rated number 1 in customer satisfaction and had been since the introduction of the ratings.Updatedat 7.05pm BST6.59pmBSTNow - the new iPadOur most advanced technology in a magical and revolutionary device. But some didn&apos;t see the need for it. Others didn&apos;t think it could compete with the netbook. Still others doubted it would have any impact on the industry at all.But we really believed in our vision and iPad has gone on to become one of the most successful products in our history and in the industry&apos;s.Earlier this month we sold our 170 millionth iPad.Updatedat 7.06pm BST6.59pmBSTiCloud sharing for Pages.6.58pmBSTCook is back ...When you combine this announcement with the announcement Craig made earlier about these being free, we&apos;re turning the industry on its ear. Because we want our customers to have the best experience. We think they will love the experience of owning this new software.Updatedat 7.05pm BST6.57pmBSTiWork updates go freeWhen Eddy gets that link he can open it on any computer... doesn&apos;t need Pages, or even an iCloud account.&quot;The number one request we got was collaboration – so we&apos;re adding collaboration to Pages for iCloud.&quot;Cue demonstrates how changing the text happens across both.We&apos;re taking this and making all of these productivity apps available for free to purchases on iOS and Macs, and you can download them today.It&apos;s good – but is it better than Google Docs or Office 365? Then again, since every iOS user has an iCloud account ... you can create on an iPad and share to someone &quot;stuck&quot; on a PC.Huge updates to iWork and they&apos;re all going free. This is a huge disruption which will put a lot of pressure on Microsoft – though the origins of the pressure come, of course, from Google.Updatedat 7.02pm BST6.52pmBSTiWork gets an updateiWork is Apple&apos;s suite of office tools, including Pages for text Numbers for spreadsheets and Keynote for presentations.It&apos;s completely rewritten on the Mac from the ground up ... Pages, Numbers, Keynote .New effects and animations in Keynote – some of which have been used today.Lots of humour today –- a poster of Cue &quot;playing hits from his new album&quot; is filling the screen.Works across platforms – now functions over the web so you can use it even on a Windows machine because it&apos;s in the cloud.(We&apos;ve tried it on a Surface: it&apos;s very good.)Updatedat 7.02pm BST6.51pmBSTMade in USA." width="460" height="276" class="gu-image" />Made in USA.6.51pmBSTWhy is Apple obsessed with Garage Band?Updatedat 6.53pm BST6.49pmBSTJohnny Cue on Apple's new apps.6.49pmBSTGarageBand gets updated...New drum system on GarageBand lets you crank up the drums and fills. (Nobody is ever going to learn to play the drums again, are they?) Essentially, direct the drummer just like a studio producer would.Drummer is one of the hundreds of new versions on iLife. And best of all we&apos;re making them free with the purchase of any new Mac ... and the updates are available today.Updatedat 7.03pm BST6.45pmBSTiPhoto, iMovie  and GarageBand updatesiPhotolets you print to a book from iPad.iMovie- take videos and create movie – &quot;desktop-class effects, speed up and slow down, picture-in-picture, on the iPhone or iPad&quot;. And a new design. (Looks like they realised that the first iMovie design was the best.)iMovie Theatre– takes all your movies and trailers and puts them in a single place.Garageband: up to 32 tracks on an iPad. &quot;Your favourite album was probably created on 24 tracks.&quot;Demo of Garageband ... which with iCloud you can access on Mac or iPad or iPhone..Updatedat 7.03pm BST6.43pmBSTPhil Schiller unveils Apple's new MacBook Pro.6.42pmBST&quot;That's our news today for Mac hardware. Over to Eddy Cue..&quot;Eddy Cue is in charge of internet and services. Cue is here to talk about apps that he says will be its &apos;&apos;biggest updates ever&quot;, so that&apos;s iLife - movies, music, photos.Brand new versions of iMovie, iPhone and Garageband for iOS 7 and for the Mac. We don&apos;t have time to go through all the features...iDVD seems to be MIA from iLife; nobody makes DVDs any more?Updatedat 6.49pm BST6.41pmBST" width="460" height="276" class="gu-image" />6.41pmBSTVideo from the Mac Pro factory in the USLike many factories, it&apos;s full of people in blue gowns - not the ballroom sort - putting things into other things. Though unusually for these days they&apos;re all western faces.Updatedat 6.49pm BST6.39pmBSTMac Pro: silence is... goldenSound output is 12dBA, as noisy (or quiet) as a Mac mini.2,000 people building this in the US. Built with technologies and processes unlike anything we&apos;ve ever done.And now a video.(The Mac Pro was a rumour for ages - it&apos;s been promised for nearly six months now, and certainly hinted at by Apple since about the end of 2012.)Updatedat 6.41pm BST6.37pmBSTMac Pro: prices and delivery dates....(this thing can handle a huge number of ports and devices) &quot;For next-generation video, 4K video, 16 times the pixels of HD video... there&apos;s never been a system that can do what the Mac Pro can do for 4K video.&quot; (Hint of a screen to come?)We&apos;ve been dying to get a few of them into peoples&apos; hands...Video editing.. some early users given the chance to work with them. They like it, a lot. Music.. Stuart Price, producer for Lady Gaga and the Killers says it&apos;s the perfect device for the recording studio...Cost: $2999 base configuration- 3.7GHz, 12GB RAM, 256GB SSD, 2GB.When? &quot;Before the end of the year.&quot;(It&apos;s been promised for ages.)Updatedat 6.50pm BST6.33pmBSTSo no new big screen.....they&apos;re disappointed. &quot;That&apos;s our news for Macbook today,&quot; says Schiller. &quot;Mac Pro.&quot;Someone claps. &quot;Someone wants to hear about it...&quot; quips Schiller.Previous generation had 8 fans, this has one, is one-eighth the volume of the previous one. Our vision of the future of the pro desktop.Fastest processor ever in a Mac - Intel Xeon E5, up to 12-core. Up to 64GB. DDR3. And AMD FirePro graphics.Updatedat 6.51pm BST6.30pmBSTAnd now Phil Schiller on the Macbook line...(It&apos;s a safe bet these won&apos;t be free...)Schiller is Apple&apos;s head of marketing. Reading out hero quotes from Stuff, Computerworld, etc. &quot;The best-reviewed Mac we&apos;ve ever made.&quot;Now to MacBook Pro - which has &quot;retina&quot; display. Presently available in 13in and 15in.Being updated:13in goes to 3.46lb, and 0.71in thick. Dual-core Haswell chip, Iris graphics which are 90% faster than previous generation,9 hours of battery life(which is a lot on a MB Pro).Faster Flash storage - up to 60% faster; wireless 802.11ac; Thunderbolt 2 connector. Running Mavericks. Cut the price by $200 to $1299 for 2.4GHz, 4GB, 128GB SSD. Shipping today.Next:15in has Intel Crystalwell chip (quad core), Iris Pro graphics (uses less power),up to 8 hours of battery life, also with PCIe-based Flash, 802.11ac wi-fi, with Mavericks. Was $2199, now $1999.6.24pmBSTExplaining the Mavericks pricing - available nowEven if you never updated, you&apos;re on Lion or you&apos;re on Snow Leopard, we want this on as many Macs as possible... even right back to 2007.. you&apos;re entitled to Mavericks. It&apos;s available today.(This is pretty radical.)Updatedat 6.31pm BST6.23pmBSTMavericks distribution: it's a free downloadThe days of spending hundreds of dollars to get more out of your computer. Today Mavericks ... is free.Updatedat 6.51pm BST6.22pmBSTSafari on Mavericks desktop: shared links and moreAn article appears about the Apple campus: &quot;I for one look forward to working in outer space,&quot; says Federighi, droll as ever.Maps app - shows how to get to places of course. (Apple is kicking Google off the desktop in the same way that it did on the phone and tablet - though the desktop audience is much smaller than the iOS one.)Updatedat 6.37pm BST6.22pmBSTTim Cook profileHere&apos;sa recent Guardian profile of the Apple chief executive:Tim Cookhas occupied the top seat at Apple for two years. That his company remains able to induce wild-eyed fanboyism in customers of all ages is a testament to the man who replaced Steve Jobs.The 52-year-old chief executive has faced no shortage of difficulties in his tenure to date – not least over the company&apos;s corporate tax arrangements – but the iPhone and iPad maker still sits among the top power-brokers in media and technology.In Apple&apos;s earnings call in July, Cook was typically enthused when alluding – albeit vaguely – to new products due to be unveiled in the next 12 months.&quot;We are laser-focused and working hard on some amazing new products that we will introduce in the fall and across 2014,&quot; he said, speaking after Apple&apos;s profits fell for the second successive quarter but managed to beat analysts&apos; estimates.The nugget was designed tactfully to tantalise Apple&apos;s greatest cheerleaders, but the message was also aimed at analysts who have questioned the company&apos;s ability to innovate at speed. It has been a year since the company launched a key hardware device and competitors have continued to gain significant ground.Apple&apos;s share of the smartphone market fell to 21.8%, from 23%, in the year to 2012&apos;s final quarter, according to figures from analysts IDC. Meanwhile, Samsung has broken from the pack and surged to a dominant 29% slice of the market – aided by a slew of Google Android smartphones – from 22.4% the year before.You canread the full profile here.6.19pmBSTNew apps: Maps, iBooksBringing Maps - the non-Google one - to the desktop. And iBooks. And now, a demo.(Showing off iBooks library as he studies a mission to Mars. iBooks can include video. Can drag data from (unprotected?) books into document editor.(The demo is a bit... undramatic. Desktop computing feels like something old.)An iMessage comes in from his wife, sent to &quot;Hair Force 2&quot; - as Federighi is known. &quot;Shirt untucked. Scandalous.&quot; (Best line of the day.) He replies: &quot;Phil [Schiller] is my fashion guru.&quot;6.16pmBSTApple describes its competitors as like a zig-zag road; trying everything from devices and software to progress, but getting nowhere fast.Updatedat 6.20pm BST6.15pmBSTAbout the graphics in OS X MavericksSome of our new Macs include high performance CPU and GPU on same die. OSX used to allocate set amount for CPU - but can allocate dynamically in Mavericks, so gets high performance no matter what you&apos;re doing.Open CL in integrated graphics - takes tasks that would run on the CPU and uses parallel compute power of the GPU, can get 1.8x or 2x better performance.Also offers &apos;shared links&apos; from people (same as on Safari in iOS 7). Replies in Notifications. Tags across the OS for searching. Better handling of multiple displays.Updatedat 6.25pm BST6.13pmBSTCraig Federighi on Mac OSXThe three core technologies to accelerate your Mac are: technologies, features, apps.Fundamentally upgrade your hardware, get more charge out of your battery, get more out of your GPU. We could go door to door but we&apos;re software guys and a little shy so we thought we&apos;d do it with code.1&quot;3in MacBook Air, if you install Mavericks you get an hour longer web browsing on a single charge and 90 mins longer video.Talking about compressed memory - Mavericks can compress inactive parts of memory, making space for new allocations - can fit 6GB of data into 4GB of system RAM, so can run more applications.Updatedat 6.25pm BST6.11pmBSTThe Mac desktop and laptop lineupCook says:We&apos;ve had one focus: to build computers that people just love to use. Through incredible hardware and beautiful design and OSX and apps like iWork and iLife. Phenomenal ... it all works ...&quot; [vocal stumble] &quot;It all works together.&quot;Our competition is different. They&apos;re confused. They chased after netbooks. Now they&apos;re trying to make PCs into tablets and tablets into PCs. Who knows what they&apos;ll do next. I don&apos;t know but we do have a very clear direction. We believe deeply in this category and we haven&apos;t slowed our innovation.We&apos;d like to start with OS X and invite [senior vice-president of software engineering] Craig Federighi.Updatedat 6.19pm BST6.10pmBSTApple's iPhone 5CUpdatedat 6.11pm BST6.09pmBSTApp Store updateUsers have downloaded an astonishing 60bn times. Developers have now earned over $13bn.It&apos;s hard to imagine your life without these.Updatedat 6.19pm BST6.09pmBST… and Tim Cook is backCook says:When we see customer response like this it makes all the hard work worthwhile. All the iPhones ship with iOS 7, the biggest change since the iPhone. David Pogue of the NYT called it &apos;some of Apple&apos;s best work&apos;.We make the updates quick and easy to get and just five days after launch over 200 million devices were running iOS 7. As of today nearly two-thirds of the devices are running iOS 7. This blows away the other guy. This gives our users the greatest features and the best experience.iTunes Radio … runs on iOS and your PC through iTunes … artists love iTunes Radio.&quot; Quotes Justin Timberlake: &quot;Even more importantly customers love it … over 20 million listening on iTunes Radio, listened to over a billion songs.(That&apos;s going to start costing Apple?)Updatedat 6.18pm BST6.06pmBSTStore video ...There&apos;s a video running: we get to see people activating phones, queueing, being on camera, being excited. Music: Life in Color by One Republic. (Is that a play on words - with colour?)(Those are busy, busy, busy stores.)Updatedat 6.16pm BST6.04pmBSTiPhone details: 5C, 5S ...Cook hails the iPhone 5C and 5S &quot;blazing fast&quot; and of course &quot;Touch ID&quot;. He quotes Harry McCracken of Time, Walt Mossberg of WSJ. Nine million by end of launch weekend (we knew that) &quot;making it the biggest iPhone launch ever&quot;.(Cook is sounding more confident than in the past; he can be a nervy speaker.)There&apos;s a video playing from one of the stores...Updatedat 6.18pm BST6.03pmBSTTim Cook backed by the 'flowers' invitationApple chief executiveTim Cookcomes onto the stage.I wanted to open with that video this morning because I think it does such an incredible job of talking about our videos. You&apos;re going to see some amazing products this morning which could only have been developed in that unique way. But a few updates beginning with iPhone...Updatedat 6.17pm BST6.02pmBSTAnd we're off....Strict warning on screen not to make a copy or modification of this broadcast. As if!A replay of the &quot;Choices&quot; marketing video shown at WWDC (Apple&apos;s Worldwide Develop Conference) .The first thing we ask is &apos;how do we want people to feel?&apos; ... then we begin to craft around our intention ... there are a thousand &apos;nos&apos;. We simplify we perfect we start over until everything we touch enhances each life it touches. Only then do we sign our work &quot;Designed by Apple in California.Updatedat 6.17pm BST6.00pmBSTWhile we&apos;re waiting for the big event, here&apos;s some of our other coverage that may interest you:• The new iPads - what to expect•Why does Apple go after &apos;retina&apos;?•iPads through the years - in pictures•Why Mavericks is a move against the open web•Which tablet is right for you?5.59pmBSTCurrently listening to...... Is This How You Feel by The Preatures.5.57pmBSTWhile we wait...I&apos;m sitting here with what seems like the rest of the UK&apos;s tech journalists (and quite a few from Europe). We&apos;ve just heard The Wire from Haim (good track) and now we&apos;ve moved on to Out Of My League by Fitz and the Tantrums. Perhaps Apple should do a compilation album of &quot;songs played before announcements&quot;.Thank goodness for Shazam ... oops, silence ... ah, no, it&apos;s a new track: Wait for Me by Kings Of Leon. Telling us something?Updatedat 6.12pm BST5.55pmBSTRemember 'one more thing'?• Possibly the biggest One More Thing was theiPod Mini, introduced at MacWorld 2004. The bulk of the presentation had been taken up with software introductions, including the whole of what would become the iLife suite, and the debut of Garageband. But at the end of the show, the iPod Mini, which would soon become the biggest-selling product in Apple’s line-up, was introduced to an unexpecting audience.• The year later, Apple tried to repeat the magic with theiPod Shuffle. But where the iPod Mini had been a runaway success, the first generation shuffle – bigger than some competitors but lacking a screen – flopped.• TheMacBook Pro, at Macworld Expo in 2006, was the latest in a long line of hardware introduced as a One More Thing, following the Power Mac G4 Cube, PowerBook G4, 17&quot; iMac G4, Power Mac G5 and 12&quot; Aluminum PowerBook G4. But the MacBook Pro was bigger news than them all – because it was the first computer Apple had made running on Intel chips.• But the very last One More Thing was underwhelming. At Apple’s 2011 developer conference, the last keynote Steve Jobs gave, he introduced the iTunes Match service, which lets users pay Apple to store their songs in the cloud.5.39pmBSTWelcome …Several hundred technology journalists are gathering at San Francisco&apos;s Yerba Buena centre right now – and 50 or so in a basement in London&apos;s Kings Cross – for Apple&apos;s latest launch event.The usual drill is one to two hours of sales figures, product announcements and speeches by Apple&apos;s great and good. And then it&apos;s the good bit: the hands-on with the new products. Which may or may not be new iPads.Apple attracts a unique amount of attention – much of it critical – for these events, but there is massive demand to find out what products Apple will bring to market next.And so, in a market stuffed with tablets offering fast, full-featured and increasingly cheap tablets, how will Apple try and claw back a bit of that declining market share?We&apos;re expecting a new, much thinner iPad 5, with Touch ID fingerprint security, and an iPad mini 2 with a retina screen and, possibly, in gold.Then there&apos;s the release date for OS X Mavericks, which will bring Apple&apos;s desktop computer software up to date as iOS7 has done for iPhone and iPad.And, probably, something else. So here goes …Updatedat 5.54pm BST
Apple has acted to fend off increasing competition in the tablet computer market  by introducing the iPad Air – a lighter, thinner, faster update of its high-end tablet, priced at £399 ($499).With the computing giant facing cut-price challenges from the likes of Google and Amazon Apple's pre-Christmas launch saw the company stick to a premium product, and premium  price, strategy.Apple also unveiled a new version of its smaller iPad mini, with its high-resolution "retina" display, priced at £319 ($319) and called somewhat literally the iPad mini retina. Both iPads will be on sale on 1 November.Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, attempted to dismiss the growing threat from rivals fighting for consumer attention, saying:"Everyone seems to be making a tablet, even some of the doubters. But regardless of what you might hear or read about how many are bought or sold or activated, iPad is used a lot more.""These new iPads underline Apple's dominance of the premium tablet market," said Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight. "Apple seems determined to disrupt Microsoft's business model. Apple's strength in hardware is allowing it make free updates to its OS X operating system and offer its iLife suite free of charge with new devices. That's a real headache for Microsoft, whose business model for Windows and Office depends on licence fees and upgrade charges."Earlier this month Reuters had warned that there was a risk that Apple could not deliver the new gadgets to consumers in time for Christmas, because of manufacturing delays. Cook, appearing to rebut those reports, said: "But we couldn't be prouder to present all of them to you in time for the holidays."Speaking at the launch event in California, Cook resorted to history to justify his company's competitive prospects, noting that the iPad had sold 170m units, which he said was "four times more than all of those other tablets put together, and this is what is important to us, because when you make a great product with a great experience, this is how you know it, because people use it and, even more important to us, people love it."Apple will have to contend with competing offerings in the shape of Google's  Nexus 7 and Amazon's Kindle Fire. The company's response was to drop the price of the year-old iPad mini to £249.Tablet sales are expected to boom in the runup to Christmas – so much so that research companies reckon they will outsell PCs worldwide during this period. IDC estimates that a total of 84.1m tablets will be sold, against 83.1m PCs – which have seen sliding sales for more than a year and a half.Tablets are seeing rapid uptake. According to research firm eMarketer, there are 69.9m iPad users in the US, making up 22.1% of the population; overall, it reckons there are a total of 128.1m tablet users there, and that by 2017 it will hit 160.7m, or just under half the entire population. For the UK, it puts the figures at 11.8m iPad users, and 20m tablet users in all; by 2017, it reckons there will be 34.8m tablet users, 52.7% of the entire population, of which iPad users will make up 40%.The first iPad mini, introduced last year, has become the world's bestselling tablet, even though Apple has seen its share of the market eroded in past months. In the second quarter, iPad sales fell to 14.6m, from 17m a year ago – though the previous year had included the launch of a new retina iPad with a higher-quality screen. That pushed Apple's overall share of the tablet market down to 39%.Microsoft and Nokia – two rivals once dominant in their market segments – also unveiled new tablets on Tuesday. Microsoft refreshed its Surface line – including the RT version, which has seen such poor sales that the company had to write off $900m on unsold ones in July, and admitted it had only sold $833m worth.Nokia meanwhile launched its own tablet, the Lumia 2520. That too runs Windows RT – and makes Nokia the only other company besides Microsoft to run that software. Microsoft is presently bidding to buy Nokia's handset and tablet business in a deal that is expected to complete early in 2014.While tablets running Google's Android software tend to be cheaper, Apple is able to point to its larger library of apps specifically designed for the iPad and iPad mini. Apple lists more than 375,000 apps designated to work on the iPad, compared with the "low tens of thousands" tablet apps in Google Play, according to research firm Canalys.
Apple has announced its latest slew of product updates in anticipation of the Christmas rush. Here&apos;s what you need to know.iPad Air• The new iPad is just 7.5mm thick and weighs 454g, making it the thinnest and lightest full-sized iPad to date. It is called the iPad Air.• The 64-bit A7 processor in the iPad Air has double the performance of the previous generation andadds performance and security benefits, along with potential reductions in complexity of both hardware andsoftware, which should aid reliability.• The iPad Air will cost £399 ($499) and upwards, with the 4G version starting at £499 ($629). They will be available from 1 November.iPad mini• The iPad mini stays the same size as the previous generation, but receives the retina display and A7 processor of its bigger sibling.• As a result, the new iPad mini costs more than its predecessor, from £319 ($399), with the 4G version starting at £419 ($529). They are also available in November, but an exact shipping date has not been confirmed.• At the low end, both the iPad 2 and the original iPad mini stay in the line-up. The iPad 2 will sell for £329 ($399), and the original iPad mini gets a price cut down to £249 ($299).MacBook Pro• Also unveiled were new MacBook Pros. The 13-inch model now weighs 1.5kg and is 1.8cm thick, and has been fitted out with Intel&apos;s Haswell CPUs and Iris integrated graphics.• The 15-inch MacBook Pro stays the same on the outside, but also gets a speed bump to Intel&apos;s &quot;Crystalwell&quot; CPU and Iris Pro graphics, as well as an Nvidia GeForce GT750M for gaming.• Both laptops have longer-lasting batteries, with the 13in increasing from 7 hours to 9 hours, and the 15in increasing from 7 to 8 hours.• The 13in MacBook Pro will retail from £1,099 ($1,299), and the 15in will retail from £1,699 ($1,999). They are available from today.Mac Pro• The Mac Pro, which was first announced in July and has been teased since 2012, was given a shipping date: December. It will retail for £2,499 ($2,999).Mavericks, iWork and iLife• Apple&apos;s operating system, Mavericks, is available free for anyone with a compatible Mac.• The OS works with iMacs and MacBook Pros from 2007, with MacBook Airs, MacBooks and Mac Pros from 2008, and with the Mac Mini from 2009.• Additionally, its iWork productivity suite and its iLife media suite are both available for free with any new Mac or iOS device.
Apple has announced the new iPad mini 2 complete with a new high-resolution retina display and four times the performance of the first generation of the small tablet.The new 7.9in high-resolution display brings the iPad mini 2 up to par with the full-sizediPad, as well as theiPhone, and will make text crisper and more easily legible on websites and books.Apple also significantly improved the internal components of theiPad mini2 with the same faster A7 64-bit processor as thefull-sized iPad Air withsignificantly improved graphics processing, which should make Apple&apos;s smaller tablet significantly better for gaming.The iPad mini 2 also maintains its 10-hour battery life, while a fitting in a 5-megapixel camera on the back for shooting photos and videos.Available in silver with white and grey with black, the iPad mini 2 will has a starting price of £319 ($399) for the 16GB Wi-Fi-only version, with the 4G iPad mini 2 costing £419 ($529) and up.The iPad mini faces stiff competition from a raft of high-resolution small Android tablets, including the £199 Google Nexus 7 and £199Amazon Kindle Fire HDX, as well as the£119 Tesco Hudl tablet.
Apple has updated its tablet range by announcing the new iPad Air, a thinner and lighter device with a much faster processor.The first significant redesign of the 9.7in Apple tablet since its launch in 2010, the iPad Air mimics the exterior design of theiPad mini, which was launched in 2012.It is being 20% thinner, with with a slimmer bezel around the high-resolution screen, and a 64-bit processor with M7 co-processor.Starting at £399 ($499) and available from 1 November in silver with white and grey with black, the iPad Air runs a 64-bit Apple A7 processor from the iPhone 5S.The relativebenefits of 64-bit processorsare unknown on the mobile platform at this stage, but the iPad Air is 8x faster than the first generation iPad, with web browsing and app loading twice as fast as the iPad 4 it is replacing, while still maintaining 10 hours of battery life.Tim Cook told an Apple launch event that the iPad has sold 170m units to date, while the App Store offers 475,000 iPad apps.
Apple&apos;s long-awaited successor to its &quot;professional&quot; tower desktop computer, the Mac Pro, has finally been released after having been banned in Europe since March.The new Mac Pro, which resembles a black bin with a novel new tubular design and integrated turbine-like cooling system, will cost $3,000 and be available for purchase starting in December, built in the US.The new Mac Pro reduces the user&apos;s ability to expand and upgrade the internal components of the computer for a more compact and efficient design. External expansion will be possible using the high-speed Thunderbolt 2 connection, as well as via USB 3.0.The new Mac Pro is capable of supporting up to three 4K ultra high-definition displays, supported by powerful twin-graphics cards, processors and high-speed flash storage, while being 70% more energy efficient and quiet.The old Mac Pro tower had been a staple of video and photo editing suites for years. However, an EU health and safety amendment put an increased regulatory requirement on computer manufacturers to put guards on cooling fans and extra protection around electrical ports. The old tower design of the Mac Pro lacked these additional safety features, leading to a sales ban in the EU, which took effect in March this year.
Apple has removed HMV's new iOS app from its App Store for enabling people to buy music downloads, despite approving the feature last month before it launched.The app has been "temporarily removed" from the App Store by Apple, after the company ordered HMV to remove the feature by 6pm yesterday (Monday 21 October) – a deadline HMV was unable to meet.The dispute between the two companies emerged in a series of tweets by Paul McGowan, chairman of HMV and chief executive of its parent company Hilco Capital, whichbought the retailer in April."After the first 5000 downloads of the #hmvapp overnight we get the first rumblings of discontent from Cupertino,"wrote McGowan, beforefollowing up with: "Apple have politely asked us to remove the  #hmvapp from the AppStore. We have politely declined."McGowan later added that the app had been approved by Apple on 15 September, andcriticised the companyfor setting an "unrealistic 6pm deadline" for HMV to change the app. By the evening, the app was removed from the store.The app had allowed people to browse and buy MP3 downloads from HMV's relaunched digital music store, while also scanning artwork and identifying music playing in the real world and providing preview clips."HMV's developers are working around the clock to deliver an updated version of the iOS app for Apple's approval which will retain the innovative Image Search and Sound Search functionality to discover music and listen to 30 second previews,"explained HMV in a statementlast night, with further criticism from McGowan:"It is disappointing that Apple has chosen to suspend an app that has proven to be very successful in only a few short days despite Apple having already approved the exact same version on 15th September," he said."We are unable to explain the change in Apple's position as we have been given no explanation by them as to any difference they view between the approved version and the one suspended this evening."Apple confirmed to The Guardian that the app was removed for "violating App Store guidelines", pointing to clause 11.13 in those guidelines: "Apps using IAP to purchase physical goods or goods and services used outside of the application will be rejected".The music-buying feature in HMV's iOS app had been a surprise, given that the clause is well-known. Non-iTunes stores like 7digital and Amazon have apps available on the App Store, but they synchronise songs bought on other devices.The UK's Entertainment Retailers Association has waded into the row with a statement suggesting the HMV app ban raises "serious issues of competition in the digital entertainment world", and calling for Apple to change its policy."iTunes is by far the dominant player in music downloads with a marketshare estimated to be over 70%, but just as importantly it also maintains an iron grip on access to the hugely powerful iPhone/iPad platform, which effectively hinders competitors from reaching millions of consumers and stands in the way of innovation," claimed ERA's statement.Apple may have a dominant market share in paid music downloads, but its minority share of the smartphones market – Android accounts for more than 80% of smartphones shipping globally, according to analysts – could throw a spanner in any potential anti-competition case.
Mavericks, the latest version of Apple’s OS X operating system for computers, is now available to download from today for free.Also known as OS X 10.9, Mavericks – named after asurf spot in California– can be downloaded from the Mac App Store by any user with a compatible computer.Included in the update are the new iBooks and Maps apps, part of Apple&apos;s movetowards the app-focused modeldebuted on the iPhone. A redesigned version of the Calendar app and an update for Safari, Apple’s web browser, are also included.Mavericks also introduces “iCloud Keychain”, a redesigned version of the company’s old Keychain service which syncs across devices. The feature also encourages users to create more secure passwords with a new generator, and allows credit card details to be saved for future use.
5.23pmBSTWhat about a Tesco tablet instead?The Tesco Hudl Android tablet is budget alternative to an iPad.Apple&apos;s iPad has always been at the premium end of the tablet market, but what happens when your budget won&apos;t quite stretch to £399 or even £269?Tesco&apos;s Android-poweredHudl tablet is a cheap and cheerful £119, but could be had for as little as £60 of Tesco Clubcard vouchers, should you be a Tesco shopper.The Hudl is a no-frills tablet – it&apos;s not an iPad, but then it&apos;s not priced like one. Its standard Android 4.2.2 operating system and fairly decent processor produce a relatively lag-free experience, while its high-definition screen makes text appear crisp and easily legible on websites and books, and photos look detailed and rich.The Hudl also has full access to Google&apos;s Play Store, including its 850,000 standard Android apps, as well as Tesco&apos;s stores and services, including its Blinkbox video on-demand service.Updatedat 5.28pm BST5.08pmBSTDo I need another iPad?Jemima Kiss, head of technology, on her tablet habit:We&apos;re a three-tablet household, but I never get a look-in. My husband is a photographer, so uses his iPad 4 to show off his portfolio. Then I have an iPad 1 still ticking over, and a Nexus 10 – both of which are taken over by my kids for videos (of tractor racing, usually) and games (Monster Trucks is a winner).Both tablets are sticky with child residue, but I&apos;ve always found the back of the Nexus 10 kind of sticky anyway. Tactile, it was probably supposed to be, but it&apos;s just slightly the wrong side of tacky.I&apos;m still very impressed by the Nexus 10. The choice of apps isn&apos;t as good as iOS, and the navigation is still a bit confused, but that&apos;s being picky. The software is beautiful and it&apos;s a very well-built device.As for my iPad – there is just no time in my life for leisure, and as I still need the full fat of my laptop day to day, there&apos;s no incentive for me to buy a new iPad.Unless, of course, it comes with free childcare, guaranteed 100% uptime connectivity (train tunnels!) and some sort of Siri mega-assistant that would learn and manage my entire digital life for me online, so I can go and play with the kids more. I may have to wait a bit longer than 6pm for that.Short answer: No.4.48pmBSTMore gamers: iPads are all fingers, and no thumbs!Michaël Samyn and Auriea Harvey co-founders Tale of Tales, an art game developer, are currently working on sensual pleasure sim,Luxuria Superbia. Samyn told Keith Stuart:Our game is about touching, but some of the ideas around that won’t work on iPad because what you’re touching is glass, and it’s kind of nasty glass. For me, the appeal of the iPad is its accessibility. You can give it to people who don’t play games at all.If you give them a computer and a controller, they just don’t know what to do. Give them an iPad and they don&apos;t say anything they just started experimenting with it – before you or even they know it, they’re playing the game. That’s very exciting.The tablet experience is different to the smartphone experience because you play with different fingers. With a smartphone it’s mostly thumbs, and you’re holding the object, but with the iPad, you’re more focused on what’s happening on the screen. It’s more sociable. I think what iPads and other tablets are showing us is that the idea ofgames as a distinct form is sort of disappearing – they’re becoming more and more diffuse.There’s still the old guard – games like Angry Birds – but there are all these other experiences, and we’ll see that more and more. Eventually, the iPad will have apps that are just fun, we won’t think of them as books, or games or music applications. But yes, we do need faster processors – a lot of our ideas just can’t be executed on current generation iPads, because the speed just isn’t there.Harvey adds:I’d like to see something done about the glass.I’d like to see some other sort of haptic surface, because there’s no feedback touching glass.Angry Birds: part of the old guard of iPad gamesUpdatedat 5.00pm BST4.34pmBSTThe best tablet for you?Google's Nexus 10 Android tablet was made by SamsungThere are thousands of Android devices alone (phones as well as tablets, that is) but you don&apos;t have to go far down the tail for the quality to deteriorate.The besttabletfor you depends how you use your tablet, of course.Samuel Gibbs has a roundup:Best for reading:iPad 4Best for travel:Sony Xperia Tablet ZBest for techies:Nexus10Best for beginners:AmazonKindleFire HDX 10inBest for apps:Apple iPad miniBest for gaming:Google Nexus 7Best for books:Amazon Kindle Fire HDX 7inBest for kids:Tesco HudlBest to avoid:Argos MyTabletUpdatedat 5.16pm BST4.14pmBSTGamers: we want an iPad we can drop, say designersGameCity: Cara and Keith's Power LunchGuardian games editorKeith Stuart is reporting from the GameCityfestival in Nottingham, UK, all this week – and it&apos;s stuffed to the rafters with the UK&apos;s gaming talent. There are some interesting takes on the iPad for gaming here, as indie game developer Michael Brough explains. He&apos;s behind Glitch Tanks, O and Helix.The iPad has become my main platform for gaming. It&apos;s portable, you can play it anywhere, but the screen is large enough to share: I love the fact that you can get it out put it down on a pub table and play. We&apos;re only just getting to grips with touchscreen tablets as gaming devices. Multiplayer games like mine, and Alistair Aitcheson&apos;s and George Buckingham&apos;s – there&apos;s some fascinating stuff going on.Mostly I don&apos;t keep up to date with OS updates or new processors – what they do is break things! I haven&apos;t upgraded my OS yet: I don&apos;t anticipate or get excited about updates, I look upon them with dread. Technology-wise, there are games such as Sophie Holden&apos;s forthcoming title, Leaper, which make really interesting use of the gyroscope.But for me, what I&apos;m waiting for is a future tablet technology that&apos;s more resilient –if we had a touchscreen device that we could smash around a bit or drop it on the floor without it breaking it, people will be more likely to try out different gaming experiences. My games don&apos;t need a new processor to run – they&apos;re enabled by the input device, but they&apos;re restricted by how breakable that device is.Updatedat 4.59pm BST4.07pmBSTWell, Apple's got at least one guaranteed iPad buyer...Alex Hern, Guardian tech reporter, has been saving £50 a month for an impressively long time, like people used to do before credit cards. We respect that kind of prudence.I&apos;ve owned a first generation iPad since December 2010 (stupidly bought mere months before the iPad 2 was launched), and it&apos;s served me through thick and thin. But over the years, its started getting a bit creaky, and I think it might finally be time to retire the poor thing to the great big Apple Store in the sky.So I will be picking up the new iPad, whatever it&apos;s like, tomorrow. In fact, I already have a savings account into which I&apos;ve dutifully been putting £50 a month since November last year.I&apos;ll probably opt for a full-size iPad rather than a mini, because reading comics on an iPad is just about passable on a 10in screen (a standard American comic being 12in on the diagonal), and I don&apos;t like the idea of cramming it down to the size of an iPad mini.Which leaves just two (or maybe three) choices left to me: size, maybe colour, and whether to splash out for 4G or not. For that, I&apos;m waiting to see the prices. Though if they do a gold one, I&apos;m there.Short answer: Yes.Updatedat 4.28pm BST4.00pmBSTWill you be buying one?Our own Samuel Gibbs, Guardian tech reporter, on his tablet set-up at home:I&apos;m between tablets right now. I have an iPad 2, which I bought on release, but I barely use it now. It&apos;s still going, and going well, but I no longer need a 10in tablet. At the time I was reading legions of scientific papers and the iPad allowed me to read them all in their thousands without cutting down trees.Right now, I have a hankering for a 7in 2013 Google Nexus 7 with 4G, but I just can&apos;t justify that £299 price tag given I already have a 5in Sony Xperia Z1. It&apos;s light, solidly built, with a fantastic screen and an adulterated Android the way Google intended. That means it&apos;s fast, unhindered by bloat, and gains Android updates rapidly – an important thing to consider given Android changes quite considerable, mostly for the better, with each update.Having said that I am interested to see what Apple&apos;s going to do with the iPad mini. The smaller, slimmer form factor is appealing, but the low-resolution screen is not. If Apple was to put a high-resolution retina display in the iPad mini as anticipated on Tuesday, I would certainly be interested.Short answer: No.Updatedat 4.06pm BST3.51pmBSTToday's Google Doodle...Google's Doodle celebrating French stuntman Andr&eacute;-Jacques Garnerin Photograph: /Google...celebrates pioneering French stuntmanAndré-Jacques Garnerin. He jumped 3,000 feet with just a silk parachute in October 1797. And without a tablet device of any kind. Imagine that!Updatedat 3.56pm BST3.43pmBSTThe Apple store is downThe standard dance of the Apple event continues –the online Apple store is down, pending the addition of new products.The Apple Store is down. Photograph: Apple.com3.19pmBSTiPad trade-ins spikeThe mobile phone recycling siteCompare My Mobilereports that the number of people going to their site to see how much they can get for their old iPad has risen by 47.75% today, as of 1pm.The iPad mini 16GB is the most-searched for tablet on the site, but when it comes to ones people are actually trading in, the iPad 2 16GB wins.Apple has 68.5% of the searches on the site for tablet trade-ins. Samsung has 12%, Google has 10.7%, and BlackBerry trails with 3.7%.2.54pmBSTNokia's first tablet - launched today!Nokia Lumia 2520 tablet runs Windows RT 8.1 in a colourful frame.Nokia had its Nokia World promotional event in Abu Dhabi planned months ago, so only the truly cynical would accuse Nokia of trying to steal Apple&apos;s thunder, or Apple of trying to do the same to Nokia.No-one seems quite sure what will happen to Nokia after the Microsoft acquisition. Microsoft&apos;s Surface tablets compete directly with theNokia Lumia 2520, announced this morning, but Microsoft may choose to keep a more consumer-focused tablet (look - it has colour!) and the only other tablet on the market that runs Windows RT.For our Nokia fans:Finnish mobile phone manufacturer Nokia announced its first colourful 10.1in Windows RT 8.1 tablet on Tuesday at Nokia World in Abu Dhabi, aiming to take on Apple&apos;s iPad.The Nokia Lumia 2520 features a full HD 10.1in screen, coming less than a month after theannouncementof Microsoft&apos;s second generationSurface 2 Windows RT tablet.Solidly built with seamless construction and weighing 615g, Nokia&apos;s tablet resembles the manufacturer&apos;s colourful, polycarbonate-clad range of Lumia Windows Phone smartphones, but runs Microsoft&apos;s Windows RT 8.1 ARM-based tablet variant of its Windows 8 PC operating system.Updatedat 4.13pm BST2.13pmBSTApple confirms livestreamingApple has just updated the front page of its website, confirming thatinterested viewers will be able to watch the event live.Users have to be on Mac OS X 10.6, iOS 4.2 or a second- or third-generation Apple TV, and must use Safari to view the livestream.Apple's front page. Photograph: Apple.com2.05pmBSTeMarketer: UK has higher proportion of iPad users than USBy 2017 there will be an estimated 161m regular tablet users in the US Photograph: /PRThose eMarketer stats in full...There are 20m regular tablet users in the UK, as of 2013 Photograph: /PRUpdatedat 3.14pm BST2.04pmBSTThe future of the tablet marketWe&apos;velooked at the past, but where might the tablet market go in the future? Figures from analysts eMarketer suggest that over the next few years, Apple&apos;s share of the tablet market will steadily decrease in both the UK and USA, even as the absolute number of iPad users continues to rocket ever higher.As of 2013, eMarketer records 11.8 million UK iPad users, making up 59% of all the tablet users in the country. By 2017, they estimate anothertwo million new iPad users, but another 14.8 million users of tablets in general. That would push Apple&apos;s UK market share down to just 40%.In the USA, the stats are less concerning. Apple already has 69.9 million iPad users, again making up 59% of tablet users in the country. But eMarketer estimates much higher future growth in America, with over20 million new users pushing the userbase up to 77.1 million by 2017. In the same period, the userbase of tablets overall is expected to rise from 93 million to 160 million, pushing the iPad user share down to 48%.Updatedat 2.22pm BST1.54pmBSTWay back when …Before the iPad was in production, there were prototypes - such as the device on the right. These pictures appeared in Apple's US court case against Samsung in 2012. Photograph: Buzzfeed1.30pmBSTThe changing landscapeThe fifth generation iPad is launching in a very different media landscape to that of the first.Data from Ipsos MediaCT shows the rapid change in how we use and consume music, movies and television. Since 2011, the proportion of Britons who have bought a CD in the last six months has dropped from 37% to 28%, while the proportion who have used free legal streaming has doubled from 7% to 14%. (The number of us who are using what is euphemistically termed &quot;unofficial digital&quot; – piracy – has stayed flat at 7%).Similarly, since the autumn of 2010, the proportion who have bought a DVD or Blu-ray disk has dropped from 40% to 28%, while those paying for digital downloads has gone from 7% to 11%. Again, piracy has stayed constant at 6%.The percentage who use the internet for social networking has increased from 35% to 50% – and 14% of those visiting social networking sites are now doing so on a tablet device.Even since spring of 2012, the proportion of Brits who own a tablet has rocketed. Back then, a tenth of the country had a tablet in the household, and four-fifths of them were iPads. Now, 30% of the country has a tablet, and a little under two-thirds of those are iPads. Apple&apos;s device remains dominant, but that lead is shrinking.And, of course, when the iPad was launched, it had very few true competitors (Although, as Bill Gates likes to point out,he was showing off tablet PCs in 2001). Now, you can&apos;t shake a stick for a company offering a device which is cheaper and with better tech specs. Apple will say its the experience which they can&apos;t match – but is that good enough?1.05pmBSTWill the iPad go gold or not?Following the launch of thegold iPhone 5S, and itsapparent popularity with iPhone buyers, a gold-coloured new iPad is certainly a possibility.Alleged leaked back shell for the iPad in space grey.Supposed leaks ofback shells for the iPadoriginally indicated that Apple would be moving the iPad to its new iPhone 5S-like &quot;space grey&quot; and silver colour scheme, replacing the current aluminium-only back colour option of the iPad 4 and iPad mini.Recentsupply chain predictionsfrom research firm KGI indicate, however, that a gold iPad will not appear at this time, contradictingleaks of an alleged gold iPad mini, complete with Touch ID home button ring, which appeared on Tuesday from China.Alleged gold iPad mini leak from China. Photograph: WeiboGiven the apparent success of the golden iPhone 5S, especially in China where Apple is hoping to make significant inroads, a gold iPad could still be on the cards even if not at this juncture.Updatedat 1.07pm BST12.13pmBSTApple's OS X Mavericks is a move against the open webOS X Mavericks takes one step closer to a siloed app existence, following the lead of Apple's mobile operating system, iOS.With OS X Mavericks, Apple is moving more and more towards the app model kickstarted by the rise of app-based smartphone operating systems like Android and Apple&apos;s own iOS.Instead of relying on the browser to provide services like maps, Apple is launching the desktop equivalent of its Apple Maps app from the iPhone - a paradigm shift that could launch a move against the open web and towards the siloed information clustering of isolated applications.Alex Hern asks, is appification necessarily a bad thing?What Apple&apos;s release of OS X Mavericks hints at is more of the company&apos;s software strategy. And what it says is that Apple has looked at the progress of its closed world of iPhone apps - and it likes what it sees.While there are advantages to switching from the web to an app, though, there remain trade-offs.Publishers are sometimes spooked by some by the open web&apos;sability to block adverts, or that sites don&apos;t stop the public copying and pasting content. But those &apos;problems&apos; are advantages for the public.The debate about whether information is better online or siloed away in apps has gone quiet when it comes to mobile devices; the two exist in an uneasy truce, with most publishers grudgingly offering both options.11.55amBSTNamed after a deadly surf break, is OS X Mavericks really that lethal?Apple's OS X Mavericks is named after a break at Half Moon Bay, California. Photograph: Frans Lanting/Getty Images/Mint ImagesFor its latest iteration of its Mac computer operating system, Apple has ditched its big cat naming scheme leaving OS X 10.8 &quot;Mountain Lion&quot; as the last of the kitties. Instead, Apple named OS X 10.9 &quot;Mavericks,&quot; which might conjure up images of a jet-washed Tom Cruise, but is actually named after a Californian surf spot with a deadly reputation, asAlex Hern explains:Mavericks is regarded as one of North America&apos;s most dangerous surf breaks. In 1994, it became one of the few locations to kill a professional surfer when Hawaiian big wave rider Mark Foo wiped out. In 2011, Mavericks claimed another life when Sion Milosky drowned.Just the month before, Milosky had won the North Shore underground surfer of the year,leading Surfing Magazine to write“we’ll be watching Si to see where this momentum takes him”. He used some of his $25,000 prize money to pay for the trip to Mavericks.Even among surfing&apos;s select group of big-wave riders – maybe 100 in the world – only a handful will take on the winter swells at Mavericks, where waves can reach 80 feet. Those that do need specialist equipment – helmets, sometimes lifejackets, jetski tow-ins and emergency backup. None of which makes for a comfortable marketing metaphor with a mainstream piece of computer software.11.20amBSTAfter retina, is 3D next?It seems increasingly likely that, after Tuesday&apos;s event, the entirety of Apple&apos;s mobile device line-up will have retina displays. In just over three years, the company will have moved all its iPhones, iPads and iPod touches to the high-resolution screens.But, Charles Arthur asks, what next?Given how keen Apple is to build its Chinese business, and how much it wants to push film viewing on the iPad, and how many films now come with a 3D version, you could tease out a thread of logic which says that it would gain a significant commercial advantage if it could come up with a screen able to display 3D films. How would that be done? Certainly not with glasses (they&apos;re a pain, easily lost or broken, expensive, and dorky), but perhaps with some sort of lenticular method.Likely? It&apos;s hard to tell.Updatedat 11.26am BST11.04amBSTiPad sales – going down the tubes?iPad 5 case leak shows slimmer iPad-mini like design. Photograph: Sonny DicksonNot the kind of coverage Apple will want on launch day of its new and, supposedly, big Christmas selling, tablets.Business Insider&apos;s Henry Blodgethas visualised iPad sales from June 2011 to now – and the graph isn&apos;t pretty.Sales dropped 14% in one year to 15m units – in a market forecast to grow 50% this year. Granted, Apple virtually created the market, so its market share was bound to drop. But raw sales numbers dropping too? Apple will be hoping that the new iPads turn this around.The larger problem, arguably, is that Apple is trying to maintain premium pricing in a market in which competitors are increasingly selling high-quality iPad alternatives for significantly lower prices …The company&apos;s profit margin is so high, and this is producing so much profit, that investors have made it one of the most valuable tech companies in the world. If Apple sacrifices its profit margin and profit to increase its mobile platform market share, investors will probably scream. (It is a slowdown in sales and drop in profits, after all, that has clobbered the stock over the past year.) If, on the other hand, Apple maximises its current profit at the expense of market share, as it appears to be doing, this will likely weaken the company&apos;s market position long-term …The right answer is for Apple to reinvest more of its gigantic profits by reducing the prices of its iPads and iPhones.Updatedat 11.16am BST10.57amBSTA built-in-keyboard cover?What to expect – we&apos;ve spelt outwhat&apos;s most likely from the Apple eventon Tuesday night. The teaser on Apple&apos;s invite was &quot;we&apos;ve still got a lot to cover&quot;, whichsomehave taken to mean Apple isactuallymaking a cover. That&apos;s quite literal. From Gizmodo UK:According to ex-Apple employee and industry commentator Jamie Ryan, Apple has been working on “a few different styles” of iPad keyboard covers for a while.Well yes, but working on new prototypes – of which you&apos;d expect Apple to produce hundreds before settling on a viable consumer product – doesn&apos;t mean it is Actually A Thing.We&apos;re giving a likelihood rating of2 out of 5. It feels a bit desperate.Updatedat 11.13am BST10.35amBSTGood morning!Apple fans queue for the iPad mini at a store in Tokyo. Photograph: Koji Sasahara/APApple is holding a launch event today in San Francisco&apos;s Yerba Buena centre, California, with webcasts in London&apos;s Kings Place and an event in Japan.As has become traditional this time of year, the tech world is widely expecting refreshes to the iPad line.iPad 5 is due to get slimmer, a faster A7 X processor and Touch ID, the fingerprint access Apple introduced with the iPhone 5S in September, whileiPad mini 2 is likely to get a retina HD displayand, if it&apos;s lucky, maybe a splash of colour.Release dates are likely for the new Mac Pro– a futuristic black cylinder designed around its ventilation shaft –and the operating software OS X Mavericks.Wild cards could be anew Thunderbolt display(that line hasn&apos;t been added to since 2011), anApple TV updateor even a newiPad cover with built-in keyboard.The much-rumoured iWatch, which has been gazumped by Samsung&apos;s Gear, among others, is not expected until 2014. But then, Apple traditionally likes to end its launch events with&quot;one more thing …&quot;And we have plenty of non-Apple tablet news to bring you too, all in the build up to Tuesday night&apos;s event. Watch this space …Updatedat 12.34pm BST
The latest Google doodle celebrates André-Jacques Garnerin, a Frenchman who 216 years ago made the first parachute descent.Garnerin on 22 October 22 1797 rode in a basket below a balloon to 3,000 feet above Parc Monceau in Paris, then released the basket and let the silk parachute billow out above him.Garnerin survived a harsh landing to become the world's first parachutist. The frameless parachute he used was seven metres across and of his own invention.He went on to perform numerous more balloon flights and parachute jumps before dying in a distinctly earthbound way – killed instantly by a falling beam in 1823 on a construction site where he was building his next balloon.
Facebook is notorious for policing what people can and cannot post to its site. The latest controversy –an apparent change in policy to allow beheading videos to be shared– is just the most recent in a string of accusations that the site bans things it should allow while allowing things it should ban.BreastfeedingIn 2012,Facebook's image censorship guidelines were leaked. They revealed that the site's moderators were told to ban images of breastfeeding if the nipples were exposed, while allowing "graphic images" of animals if shown "in the context of food processing or hunting as it occurs in nature".At the same time "deep flesh wounds" and "crushed heads/limbs" were allowed, but pictures of human bodily fluids banned if a person is visible. And semen cannot be shown anywhere.Mothers were not surprised to hear that Facebook banned images of breastfeeding, because the site had gained notoriety for marking such pictures as inappropriate. "A mother who is told by Facebook that her breastfeeding photos have been removed because her nipples were showing is quite likely to be humiliated, upset and one step closer to giving up on breastfeeding," said Rowan Davies.But recently, the site appears to have changed its tune. Itscommunity standardsnow say that it aspires "to respect people's right to share content of personal importance, whether those are photos of a sculpture like Michelangelo's David or family photos of a child breastfeeding."Violence against womenEven while Facebook was removing images of breastfeeding for explicit content, the site was being accused of moving far too slowly to remove pages which glorified violence against women.A page of violent jokes about abuse of female marines, for example,stayed up for three years. Even when it was removed, it was because the administrators were using fake accounts, rather than for violating the site's rules against bullying or hate speech.In May, the site came under more fire forblocking the administratorof an Australian feminist page after she posted a picture protesting the site's double standards. "My problem is that when we report things like violence against women or sexism against women or misogyny against women, they just say it's totally fine," said Jenna Price, co-founder of the Destroy the Joint group.The same month, the site relented in the face of calls from over a hundred advocacy groups, and updated its policies on hate speech. "We need to do better – and we will," the company said in a statement.Political protestFacebook's event tools are extremely useful for arranging political protests, but the site has been known to interfere in what users can promote. In 2011, the page for UK Uncut was deactivated, along with a number of other groups including Chesterfield Stop the Cuts, Tower Hamlet Greens, and the London Student Assembly.A Facebook spokeswoman "explained that the profiles were suspended because they had not been registered correctly and denied that the removal of pages was politically motivated", reported Shiv Malik at the time.In 2007,advertisersincluding Vodafonepulled their ads from the site in protest at its refusal to remove groups promoting the BNP.Even then, Facebook's terms of service banned users from sharing content which was "harmful, threatening, unlawful … inflammatory … hateful, or racially, ethnically or otherwise objectionable", but the site dealt with material posted on the groups' pages in a piecemeal manner.
Name:Randi ZuckerbergAge:31.Appearance:Familiar. Familial.What's that – are we doing anagrams?Let me see – Drain bucker zerg? Graze brine duck? Raze Dick R Bunger? Grand cruze Rik? Nardi grub zeeck? No, this isn't right.Really? It took you til Nardi grub zeeck to figure that out?Leave me alone.What is it then, if you're so clever?It is a she and she is the sister of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and former director of market development and spokeswoman for the company.I thought the name rang a bell.And gave you a strange insistent urge to divide everything in my life into reductive binary categories.Like?Yeah. Or dislike.So, what's Randi done? Found a way to divert the few pennies in the world not owned by her brother or Tesco into her pocket? Annexed the rest of digital space? Built a better mousetrap?She haswritten a children's book.Big deal. I could write a children's book. "Once upon a time, a little boy sat in front of a screen IM-ing and playing unfathomable games until his brain deliquesced and ran slowly out of his ears. His mummy and daddy were sad but to blame. The end."Actually, her book is about a girl called Dot who learns that there is more to life than scrolling through screens. It's designed to encourage children to get kids off their smartphones and tablets and back out into the world.What does Dot do?She finds that you can "swipe" with a paintbrush and make lovely pictures. That "sharing" can be something you do with a cookie and a dog. And that "tapping" can also be a kind of dancing.That's … I think you'll have to excuse me – I seem to have got something in my eye.I know. Like. She's got a book for adults, called Dot Complicated, coming out too. It teaches adults how to navigate the digital world and understand privacy issues.Won't this cause a family friction, what with Mark's apparent ambition to colonise everyone's thinkmeat and put the contents online as soon as possible?Who's to say? It depends whether blood is thicker than money.Do say:"I shall pre-order through a non-tax-evading book supplier right away."Don't say:"Is there an ebook edition?"Reading this on mobile?Click here to view the video
Convicted hackers could be recruited to the UK'S new cyberdefence force, the defence secretary has said.Philip Hammond announced plans for the unit last month, declaring it would have the capability to mount cyber-attacks against other countries as a means of deterring them from striking against Britain.Hundreds of computer experts will be recruited as reservists, trained with the help of GCHQ's joint cyber unit at Cheltenham. Asked if they could include convicted hackers among their ranks, Hammond said it was a possibility."As a matter of policy, the armed forces don't necessarily exclude people who have criminal convictions,"he told BBC Newsnight. "Each individual case would be looked at on its merits. The conviction would be examined in terms of how long ago it was, how serious it was, what sort of sentence had followed. So I can't rule it out."Hammond was asked for his views after the head of the new unit, Lieutenant Colonel Michael White, had responded positively, when the same question was put to him."I think if they could get through the security process, then if they had that capability that we would like, then if the vetting authority was happy with that, why not?" he said.With many of the belief that there is a deficit of cybersecurity experts in the UK, the hiring of hackers could help plug the gap.A survey of IT professionals last monthfound that 70% believed businesses should hire ex-hackers to safeguard and improve online security. In the US, it is already common practice, with many companies recruiting at hacker conventions.Last year, the UK's cyberdefences blocked around 400,000 "advanced, malicious cyberthreats" to the government secure intranet alone, according to Hammond. British ministers have not publicly named the culprits, partly because it is so difficult to prove who exactly are behind cyber-attacks but privately officials point the finger at Russia and China.The defence secretary has said the new £500m unit could disable enemy communications, nuclear and chemical weapons, planes, ships and other hardware. He told Newsnight  there would be flexibility around recruitment criteria, for example in areas such as fitness, as it would be unnecessary for someone employed in cybersecurity to show the same physical fitness standards as other members of the armed forces.
Facebook is introducing video advertising within its mobile apps, but for now the new units will be restricted to ads for other apps, rather than made available for a wider selection of brands.The new video feature is part of Facebook's Mobile App Ads for Installs scheme, which developers use to drive people to their apps on Apple's App Store or Android's Google Play store from within Facebook.They've become an increasingly common site in Facebook users' mobile news feeds in recent months, particularly for free-to-play games, with developers keen to use Facebook as an alternative discovery channel to Apple and Google's app stores.Now those units will come with videos of the apps. "Potential customers will be able to click play to watch a video featuring your mobile app before installing the app," explained Facebook in apost on its Developers blog."Video creative has proven to be an effective way to drive engagement in News Feed, and we look forward to helping developers use their video creative to find new app installs."Facebook cites slot-machine game DoubleDown Slots &amp; Poker as one of the first examples of a game taking advantage, quoting its vice president of interactive marketing as claiming "increased install rates and decreased costs per install" in its early tests of the new feature.The videos do not automatically start playing when encountered in a user's mobile news feed, so are unlikely to spark a backlash over their intrusiveness. In September, Facebooktested a feature to automatically play videos from other userswhen they appeared in its apps, which was seen as a precursor for this feature being used for video advertisements too.Facebook is also adding a new way for app developers to pay for the ads they buy on its service. Until now, they've paid on a cost-per-click (CPC) or optimised cost per impression (oCPM) basis, but now they can opt for cost per action (CPA) instead, only paying when people download and install their app from an ad."Based on internal Facebook tests, buying on CPA drives, on average, 20% lower cost per install than buying on CPC," claims Facebook's blog post.
In a packed noisyLondon coffee shoprecently, I sat with Joe Johnston and Paul Williamson from Cambridge-based tech company and had a play with what has been dubbed theworld’s thinnest touch surface.Other reviews have focused on the impossibly thin touch responsive membrane with a printed outline of a keyboard. It is true that the first thing you do is pick it up, hold it and flex it. Watching others engage with the keyboard for the first time, their first word is usually “wow”.But honestly, thatisn’tthe ‘wow’. The thin keyboard isn’t what piques my interest. It feels like an idea that is only 60% formed and missing the critical pieces to make me want one.Whatisreally interesting is actually the combination of theCIT touch membrane, theAtmel microcontrollerinterpreting the map of the membrane and theCSR Bluetooth(c) Smart chip.Side on view of the keyboard in action. The silicon at the top holds the CSR and Atmel chips as well as a battery. Photograph: Picasa/PRCSR, and fellow Cambridge tech firm CIT, both innovate in the space behind the businesses like Nike and Bose. They develop the technologies to connect us to our future devices and them to each other.Johnston and Williamson are not trying to suggest their keyboard is market ready, and one minute of playing with it proves that. But it’s the underlying technology that is market ready. CSR have proved convincingly that three independent business-to-business companies can quickly combine their innovations – and it works.The possibilities for small businesses to innovate in a space, especially when deploying common comunication technologies like Bluetooth Smart, mean they can suddenly punch far above their weight in the tech world.Do you have an idea for a consumer device? Would you like to link it to a smartphone? There is no longer a requirement to limit the connectivity of a device to just one OS platform or handset manufacturer.Common communication chips now mean companies can pitch a hardware offering via crowdfunding and by building an app for the various platforms. It means ideas now have real, scalable potential.Common communication technologies for hardware may well do for smartphones what apps did four years ago.So what’s my ‘wow’? Low energy, wireless communication. Common language protocols. Flexible responsive touch surfaces. Tiny, fast micro-controllers providing SoC processing. Everything that is in the keyboard but not actually the keyboard itself.There are many who have forecast devices using low power, flexible screens with physical touch input. This is another small but important step in that direction.And maybe, one day, we will be able to read the Guardian on a thin, light, flexible screen – and most importantly, complete the crossword by hand.
Finnish mobile phone manufacturer Nokia announced its first colourful 10.1in Windows RT 8.1 tablet on Tuesday at Nokia World in Abu Dhabi, aiming to take on Apple&apos;s iPad.The Nokia Lumia 2520 features a full HD 10.1in screen, coming less than a month after theannouncementof Microsoft&apos;s second generationSurface 2 Windows RT tablet.Solidly built with seamless construction and weighing 615g, Nokia&apos;s tablet resembles the manufacturer&apos;s colourful, polycarbonate-clad range of Lumia Windows Phone smartphones, but runs Microsoft&apos;s Windows RT 8.1 ARM-based tablet variant of its Windows 8 PC operating system.Top-flight specificationsThe Lumia 2520 also features top-of-the-range components, including a 2.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 800 processor with 2GB of RAM, which should handle multi-tasking and gaming well. Built in is 32 or 64GB of storage, depending on model, while the 2520 is equipped with a micro SD card slot for adding up to 64GB more storage.Nokia Lumia 2520 tablet comes in four bold colours.A 8,000 mAh battery should provide around 10 hours battery life, according to Nokia.Nokia has also included a micro USB 3.0 port for fast data connections to external devices, as well as micro HDMI for connecting to an external display or television.Work and playUnlike Microsoft&apos;s Surface 2, Nokia&apos;s tablet also comes equipped with 4G LTE for mobile broadband, and NFC for linking and sharing data with Nokia&apos;s range of Lumia smartphones.Nokia sees the 2520 fitting in between the entertainment and productivity markets, for those who use a tablet for entertainment, like watching videos, browsing the internet and playing games, and also for those who need to do word processing and other office duties.Running Windows RT 8.1, the 2520 comes with Microsoft&apos;s full Office suite, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Nokia has also added its own HERE maps and Nokia music applications to Windows RT.Nokia Lumia 2520 tablet has a keyboard accessory that turns it into a laptop hybrid with extended battery life.Nokia has also made a keyboard case accessory for the 2520, which, like the Microsoft Surface 2&apos;s excellent Touch Cover 2, turns the tablet into a laptop hybrid with a full keyboard, a trackpad and two USB 2.0 ports, as well as a battery that adds an extra five hours to the battery life.Windows RTMicrosoft&apos;s Windows RT, it&apos;s ARM-based tablet operating system that mimics Windows 8 but lacks compatibility with full Windows applications, was recently dumped byDellandAsus,leaving Microsoft the sole manufacturer of Windows RT tablets, until now.Microsoft&apos;s Surface RT tablet failed to live up to sales expectations forcing Microsoft to suffer a $900m (£writedown on its Surface RT stockand cut the price to shift inventory in July.• In September, Nokia released a Windows Phone with a 41-megapixel camera,the Luma 1020
Wikipedia has launched a new investigation of "non-neutral editing" on its website, blocking or banning more than 250 user accounts for a mixture of offences, including being paid to write Wikipedia articles promoting companies or products, and not disclosing conflicts of interest.The crackdown follows recent media coverage of what Daily Dot called"the largest sockpuppet network in Wikipedia history"– sockpuppet being the term used to describe an online identity used for purposes of deception (yes,Wikipedia).The Wikimedia Foundation's executive director Sue Gardnerrevealed more details of the investigation in a blog post, criticising "paid advocacy editing" by Wikipedia users, while pointing out that sockpuppets violate the site's terms of use."At this point, as reported, it looks like a number of user accounts — perhaps as many as several hundred — may have been paid to write articles on Wikipedia promoting organizations or products, and have been violating numerous site policies and guidelines, including prohibitions against sockpuppetry and undisclosed conflicts of interest," wrote Gardner."As a result, Wikipedians aiming to protect the projects against non-neutral editing have blocked or banned more than 250 user accounts. The Wikimedia Foundation takes this issue seriously and has been following it closely."Gardner also admitted that paid advocacy editing by PR companies and individuals has been "a divisive topic inside Wikipedia for many years", and warned that the Foundation "will have more to say in the coming weeks" on its plans to further crack down on the practice."Unlike a university professor editing Wikipedia articles in their area of expertise, paid editing for promotional purposes, or paid advocacy editing as we call it, is extremely problematic," she wrote. "We consider it a 'black hat' practice. Paid advocacy editing violates the core principles that have made Wikipedia so valuable for so many people."Wikipedia claims to attract 500m readers, making it one of the most popular websites in the world. The not-for-profit Wikimedia Foundation employs 150 staff to manage the site, including legal aspects, although the moderation is handled by its community.
Nokia announced its largest Windows Phone to date on Tuesday, revealing a 6in full HD-screen Lumia 1520 phablet with a 20-megapixel PureView Camera.The Lumia 1520 comes less than one month after the release of Samsung&apos;s latest in its popular phablet series, the Galaxy Note 3, which garnered much attention for its 5.7in screen and S-Pen stylus, and takes Windows Phone to new screen sizes and into a new category.Nokia&apos;s solidly built and colourful phablet - an oversized smartphone, or small tablet - resembles the slim profile and colourful polycarbonate design of its smaller Lumia 1020 and 925 Windows Phone brothers, but features a 6in full HD screen that makes watching movies and Office productivity easier.High-end specificationsThe Lumia 1520 packs high-end internal parts, with a top-of-the-line 2.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 800 and 2GB of RAM, which should easily be able to handle multi-tasking and demanding apps and games. A built-in 3,400 mAh battery with wireless charging provides up to nine hours video playback or 29 days standby time.To store music, movies, apps and games, Nokia equipped the 1520 with 32GB of storage as standard, plus a micro SD card slot for adding up to 64GB of extra storage. Microsoft is also bundling 7GB of SkyDrive cloud storage with each 1520.Nokia Lumia 1520 phablet stretches Windows Phone 8 to a 6in screen with more real estate for watching movies and Office duties.Nokia also brings some technology from its top camera phone, theLumia 1020, to the 1520. Eschewing the 41-megapixel sensor for a smaller 20-megapixel camera, the 1520 has optical stabilisation and oversampling technology for a two-times lossless digital zoom and shake-free pictures, which should make indoor low-light photos better with less blur and noise.Using the 20-megapixel camera, Nokia has also added the ability to refocus a picture after taking it, using some clever Nokia-developed software algorithms, while the new Story Teller app allows you to browse your photos in a timeline and across map locations provided by Nokia&apos;s HERE maps.Stiff competitionThe Lumia 1520 joins a raft of newphabletsthat have launched this year, including stiff competition from the 5.7inSamsung Galaxy Note 3, the5.9in HTC One Maxand 6.44in Sony Xperia Z Ultra.&quot;There are two markets for the phablet – the multimedia market, where the cheapest, largest screen wins, and the professional market, where the phablet with the most value-added features triumphs,&quot; said Francisco Jeronimo, research director of European mobile devices for research firm IDC,talking to the Guardian.Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Note line of devices differentiate themselves from the phablet competition, including Nokia&apos;s new Lumia 1520, by employing a feature-packed stylus that allows both drawing on the screen and provides multiple multi-tasking modes such as Samsung&apos;s multi-window.According to Jeronimo, it is these value-added features that attract the highly lucrative professional market&quot;The stylus tips the buyer in the Note&apos;s favour at the point of sale because, despite whether or not they will ever use the features, the more features available the more attractive the proposition when the price is equal,&quot; he said.Lumia 1320 the more budget phabletTo partner the 1520, Nokia is also launching a more budget phablet, the 1320, which has a lower resolution 720p 6in screen, a slower 1.7GHz dual-core Snapdragon S4 processor, 1GB of RAM and 8GB of storage with a micro SD slot.The 1320 mirrors the design language of Nokia&apos;s more affordable Lumia 625, with rounded corners and sports a traditional 5-megapixel camera without Nokia&apos;s PureView imaging technology.Phablets outpacing PCsMarket watchers predicted that 2013 would be “the year of the phablet” in January, after analysing the rapid rise of the large-screened phones in 2012.Phablet shipments outpaced tablets and portable PCs in the last year in the Asia-Pacific region (excluding Japan), with a total of 25.2m phablets shipped compared to 12.6m tablets (over 7in) and 12.7m portable PCs, according data from IDC.While phablet shipments are still a small proportion of overall global smartphone shipments, they are seeing a marked increase in sales according to IDC&apos;s data.&quot;Most vendors need a device in the phablet sector to compete, however, their sales figures are unlikely to be high given the strong competition from Samsung,&quot; concluded Jeronimo.• In October, Samsung released theGalaxy Note 3with a high-resolution 5.7in screen and enhanced S-Pen stylus functionality
Google is hoping to inspire children's interest in quantum computing by using one of their favourite digital pastimes: Minecraft.The company's Quantum A.I. Lab Team has collaborated with MinecraftEdu and Caltech's Institute for Quantum Information and Matter to launch a modpack for the popular game calledqCraft."It lets players experiment with quantum behaviors inside Minecraft's world, with new blocks that exhibit quantum entanglement, superposition, and observer dependency,"explained a Google+ post from the team."Of course, qCraft isn't a perfect scientific simulation, but it's a fun way for players to experience a few parts of quantum mechanics outside of thought experiments or dense textbook examples."qCraft is available to download as part of a number of other modpacks for Minecraft, including FTB Unleashed, Tekkit and Hexxit, although it can also be downloaded on its own from the qCraft website.According to Google, the release is an attempt to capitalise on the popularity of Minecraft among children and encourage them to experiment with quantum physics as they craft their virtual worlds."We built the Quantum A.I. Lab to explore the potential of quantum computing, and figure out what questions we should be asking. One question is clear: Where will future quantum computer scientists come from? Our best guess: Minecraft," explained the Google+ post."Millions of kids are spending a whole lot of hours in Minecraft, not just digging caves and fighting monsters, but building assembly lines, space shuttles, and programmable computers, all in the name of experimentation and discovery. So how do we get these smart, creative kids excited about quantum physics?"Minecraft has sold more than 33m copies on PC, Xbox 360 and mobile devices, becoming in the process one of the biggest brands in children's digital entertainment.A recent survey of 2,000 6-16 year-olds by marketing firm SuperAwesome found 13% citing Minecraft as their favourite mobile brand, more than double the number who cited Angry Birds or Cut the Rope.MinecraftEduwas set up to help schools make use of Minecraft for educational purposes, including creating customised versions of the game for classroom use, providing a library of worlds and activities, and training teachers.More on Minecraft for kids:Minecraft at 33m users – a personal story
After &quot;retina&quot;, what?When Steve Jobs introduced the iPhone 4 in 2010, one of its selling points was that it had a &quot;retina&quot; display - that the normal human eye couldn&apos;t discern the individual pixels on the screen at normal viewing distances. The pixel density is normally measured in &quot;pixels per inch&quot;; in the case of the iPhone 4 and its successors, the screens have 326ppi. In the case of the newer &quot;retina&quot; iPads (the first of which was launched in early 2012), the measure is just 264ppi - but the screens are typically viewed from further away, at 15 inches (38cm) rather than 10in (25cm) for a phone.The iPad refresh on Tuesday will almost certainly usher in a &quot;retina&quot; iPad mini - doubling the resolution of the device to 2048x1536, and taking it to 326ppi, up from its current 163ppi.Doubling the number of pixels doesn&apos;t double the PPI because the figure is related to the square of the number of pixels, divided by the screen&apos;s diagonal length. (To calculate PPI, work out the square root of the sum of the square of the number of horizontal and vertical pixels, divided by the diagonal length. So - at its very simplest - a 3x4 pixel device with a 5in diagonal would have a PPI of 1.)But if you&apos;re measuring things strictly on PPI, then rivals have stolen a march on Apple. In October 2012, for example, HTC launched a smartphone, the J Butterfly, with 1920x1080 pixels on a 5in display - which works out to 440ppi. It&apos;s a bigger number, so it must be better, right? Perhaps - though as we&apos;ll see, other factors come into play.More importantly, what does Apple do once its top-line iPads are all on &quot;retina&quot; screens? Will it next year ramp them up to even higher PPI such as that already seen on Google&apos;s newest Nexus 7 or Amazon&apos;s Kindle Fire HDX, which boast densities of 323 and 339PPI respectively?No spec raceThe answer is: probably not. While Apple likes to have bragging rights in any specification space that it gets into first - &quot;retina&quot; being a typical example - it tends then to ignore further moves there in favour of other elements. Despite the upping of PPI by many rival phone makers since the launch of the iPhone 4, Apple has simply stuck to the same PPI.Partly that&apos;s because Tim Cook, Apple&apos;s chief executive, prefers to focus on absolute screen quality - colour precision, lack of flawed pixels, and other specific measures - than simply chasing specifications. There&apos;s no evidence that having a higher PPI than &quot;retina&quot; actually sells more devices.It&apos;s also because Apple prefers not to upset the thousands of third-party developers, who would have to update their software to include new icons and other elements at the correct PPI - or risk their software looking out of date. Given that those developers have already been struggling over the summer with the problem of updating the look and behaviour of their apps to fit in with iOS 7 - which introduces gestures and fonts that make apps developed for earlier versions look entirely outdated - it&apos;s unlikely that Apple would put them through a similar process again.That doesn&apos;t rule out the possibility that Apple will introduce a super-high-quality desktop monitor in so-called &quot;4K&quot; resolution to go along with its expected Mac Pro; the desktop machine would be used by designers working on TV and film projects, and 4K (which offers double the resolution of 1080p HDTV) is one of the formats in which they might have to output content. So being able to preview it correctly on the same monitor would be useful.Screen testYet Apple is expected to do something dramatic with its screens - next year. According to DisplaySearch, a division of NPD, &quot;in 2014, Apple will once again rely on displays for innovation&quot;.It&apos;s a bold claim. David Hsieh, DisplaySearch&apos;s vice-president for the Greater China market, who wrote the article, saysIt is clear from its products that Apple is a strong believer in high resolution, wide color gamut and wide viewing angle displays. Apple has several “firsts” in its record: first to adopt a display with more than 300 ppi in a smart phone; first to adopt QXGA resolution in a tablet PC; first to integrate cover glass into product design; and of course, first to integrate touch sensor into the display (in-cell touch).The latter (in-cell touch) was used in the iPhone 5, in 2012. But what&apos;s next? Hsieh notes that competition now means that &quot;Apple is no longer able to offer unique features in its displays as a long-term differentiator. Mobile device brands are adopting the latest displays with large sizes, high resolution, wide color gamut and low color shift wide viewing angle, and low power consumption, supplied by many panel makers not “bounded” by Apple.&quot; In fact, the iPhone 5S and 5C didn&apos;t bring anything new in displays: &quot;Apple was once the initiator of advanced displays, but now has become a follower,&quot; Hsieh notes.Yet he says that its supply chain sources indicate that Apple is going to revamp its displays next year - and this.For the iPad, it expects at giant 12.9in device with a 2732x2048 resolution. That keeps the 4:3 ratio of the existing iPad, while expanding all its dimensions by a third.It also expects larger phones - a 4.7in 1280x720 product (which would give it 312pp) and a 5.7in 1920x1080 one (at 386ppi); the latter would count as a &quot;phablet&quot;, being over 5in.Pushing pixelsBut as Hsieh comments, it&apos;s not enough just to have a screen with a higher PPI. The pixels on that screen have to be controlled by the CPU and graphics processing unit (GPU), and increasing those puts a greater load onto the processing capability of the device; inevitably, that subtracts from what&apos;s available for other processes, such as handling touch events or calculations around games.As Hsieh notes,changing to a bigger display or a higher resolution is not as simple as changing the screen. The graphic processing unit (GPU) and operating system match the display hardware. A device with high resolution screen but without high-resolution GPU and OS capabilities is like a soldier driving a powerful tank but using a sword to fight.He reckons that &quot;What Apple does better than any company is integrate the hardware and software, as well as the implementation of the user interface, and finally the content ecosystem.&quot;Apple is giving mixed signs, though. The lack of bigger screens on its phones, the fact it doesn&apos;t use AMOLED screens (which have their critics over colour quality), and its latest focus on 64-bit chips and fingerprint readers seem to imply that it thinks that &quot;retina&quot; is the end of the road.Instead, suggests Hsieh, the real changes might come with a completely different category: wearables. There, he thinks Apple might adopt a flexible AMOLED screen. It&apos;s a new road - but just the sort of fork in the road Apple might take.Or... 3D?On Twitter, Stephen Collopy makes an interesting point. &quot;3D. It&apos;s the only logical step,&quot; hesuggested. The initial reaction is that that&apos;s ridiculous: 3D screens on smartphone have been tried (by LG and others) and roundly rejected by the market.But then Collopy pointed to aVulture.com article on &quot;Hollywood&apos;s blockbuster problem&quot;which contains the fascinating point that in the film business,China is the No. 2 market now. In 2020, it will be No. 1. That’s why movies must all be sequel-ized or sequel-izable. So that they become more and more familiar to the international audience, where 80 percent of the profits are now coming from. … And China won’t look at anything that isn’t 3D, which means everything is made that way—even with domestic audiences rejecting it.Given how keen Apple is to build its Chinese business, and how much it wants to push film viewing on the iPad, and how many films now come with a 3D version, you could tease out a thread of logic which says that it would gain a significant commercial advantage if it could come up with a screen able to display 3D films. How would that be done? Certainly not with glasses (they&apos;re a pain, easily lost or broken, expensive, and dorky), but perhaps with some sort oflenticularmethod.Likely? It&apos;s hard to tell. 3D TV hasn&apos;t been a hit, and in the US and Europe audiences aren&apos;t that keen on 3D films. Yet if China is driving demand for 3D, and Apple sees possibilities there, then that might be the next step.Updated: corrected values for iPad mini PPI and for &quot;retina&quot; iPad mini to 163PPI and 326PPI. Thanks Richard Gaywood on Twitter.
It's Tuesday. Don't forget to watch Cara and Keith's PowerLunch, live from Gamecity,today at 1pm!
Apple’s new operating system for desktop computers and laptops, OS X Mavericks, is expected to be given its release date today.While there will be no surprises in store with the software itself, which has been available to beta testers for three months, what the release does hint at is more of the company&apos;s software strategy. And what it says is that Apple has looked at the progress of its closed world of iPhone apps - and it likes what it sees.The iBooks and Maps apps arethe top-billed features of the release, but the only thing unexpected about iBooks is how long it has taken to launch.Apple has been selling ebooks since it launched the iPad in 2010, but until the release of Mavericks there has been no way to read them on a computer.That’s merely inconvenient when it comes to reading for pleasure - but inexplicably slow, given that the company has also been aggressively attempting to grow iBooks&apos; share of the textbook market.For students, being able to have a textbook open on the same screen as a word processor isn’t an edge case – it’s one of the biggest benefits of using ebooks for academic work. “If you’re a student hitting the books, keep as many open as you like and search through them with ease,” boasts Apple&apos;s site.The new Maps app, however, is something very different altogether. On smartphones, most of us don’t blink twice at using an app for something which we could do on the web.Just in the last month, I have downloaded apps for Eventbrite, Doodle, Yelp, Google Drive, Gmail, Ocado, Buzzfeed and Kickstarter, all companies with perfectly good websites. But the app experience is, by and large, faster, smoother, more reliable and better designed.With Maps, Apple is banking that the same approach can work on the desktop. And if the side effect is that it undercuts Google Maps, a key brand of one of its biggest competitors, it’s not going to complain.It’s got a high hurdle to clear. Google’slatest update to its web mapsfurther refines the market leader, and Apple still hasn’t fully washed off the stink ofswapping Google for its half-baked in-housemaps in the iOS 6 update.But if it pulls it off, it could lead to a rush of programs in the Mac App store from other developers. The ability to offer a completely tailored experience, and gain a precious piece of real estate in the user’s dock or applications folder, is a powerful proposition, if the app can break through to the top of the pile.While there are advantages to switching from the web to an app, though, there remain trade-offs.Publishers are sometimes spooked by some by the open web&apos;sability to block adverts, or that sites don&apos;t stop the public copying and pasting content. But those &apos;problems&apos; are advantages for the public.The debate about whether information is better online or siloed away in apps has gone quiet when it comes to mobile devices; the two exist in an uneasy truce, with most publishers grudgingly offering both options.But if app-led production does follow Apple, and make the jump to the desktop, expect that discussion to come back fiercer than ever.•Why did Apple name its operating system after a lethal surf spot?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy 'Android first' is a myth &gt;&gt; steve cheneyIn mobile, particularly in consumer markets, there has been an ongoing debate about when or if Android will become the first platform that sophisticated startups develop for. Often times, this argument is wrongly centered around vanity metrics for Android such as worldwide shipments or installed base of each platform.The reality is that platform constraints at the engineering and financing levels tell a much different story. "Android-first" faces structural and financial barriers which are unlikely to be overcome. iOS will remain the primary platform that startups develop for regardless of how much more quickly Android grows share. Here are the reasons why:Cheney's argument is about startups, not established firms; and certainly applies most strongly to the US. Commenters provide some useful counter-evidence (though also reinforcements). This isn't about why or whether your bank would write an app for one of the other platform first.(And is it nearly two years since Eric Schmidt said that in six months developers would be writing for Android first? Yes, it is in December.)Neurio: Home Intelligence by Energy Aware Technology Inc. &gt;&gt; KickstarterNeurio is a home intelligence™ technology that makes your ordinary appliances smart and your home more efficient. Using a WiFi power sensor and a cloud service with some smart pattern detection algorithms, Neurio monitors your home's electricity to figure out what your appliances are up to - without the need to install sensors on every device.It's the last bit that's important; adding sensors to devices is utterly boring. Enough pledges, and they'll go for CE certification.Why iTunes doesn't support FLAC files &gt;&gt; KirkvilleSupporting FLAC in iTunes and on iOS devices could be a legal nightmare for Apple. Many open source software algorithms can be targets of patent trolls. While no one cares much about FLAC use in small apps and hardware devices, were a big company such as Apple – or Microsoft, who doesn't support FLAC either – to start supporting that format, it's very likely that someone would dredge up a patent and seek copious damages.Ah, the American patent-legal complex again.Introducing WhiteHat Aviator – a safer web browser &gt;&gt; WhiteHat Security BlogRobert Hansen:I want to share publicly for the first time some details about WhiteHat Aviator, our own full-featured web browser, which was until now a top secret internal project from our WhiteHat Security Labs team. Originally, Aviator started out as an experiment by our Labs team to test our many Web security and privacy theories, but today Aviator is the browser given to all WhiteHat employees. Jeremiah, myself, and many others at WhiteHat use Aviator daily as our primary browser. We're often asked by those outside the company what browser we use, to which we have answered, "our own." After years of research, development, and testing we've finally arrived at a version that's mature enough for public consumption (OS X). Now you can use the same browser that we do.Built on Google's Chromium, it blocks ad-tracking, among others.Why does Windows have terrible battery life? &gt;&gt; Coding HorrorJeff Atwood has been looking at the Surface 2's battery life, which is better, but not stellar:here's what really bothers me:1) The Windows light usage battery life situation has not improved at all since 2009. If anything the disparity between OS X and Windows light usage battery life has gotten worse.2) Microsoft positions Windows 8 as an operating system that's great for tablets, which are designed for casual web browsing and light app use – but how can that possibly be true when Windows idle power management is so much worse than the competition's desktop operating system in OS X – much less their tablet and phone operating system, iOS?Galaxy S5 Specs: Case may be plastic and pleather, not metal &gt;&gt; BGRAccording to a reportfromGalaxyS5Info, Samsung's upcoming Galaxy S5 handset will not feature a metal case as had been previously rumoured. Instead, the site says Samsung will continue to use plastics for the device's housing. Specifically, Samsung will supposedly carry the leather-look plastic from the Galaxy Note 3's case over to the new Galaxy S5.WhileGalaxyS5Infois an unproven source, the report was relayed by the often-reliableSamMobile.The report goes on to say that Samsung is indeed working on a new metal phone, but it will belong to a new premium smartphone line referred for the time being as to as "Galaxy F".SamMobile simply sources the GalaxyS5Info site and has no idea whether it's right, but hey.HTC hints at life beyond smartphones &gt;&gt; FT.comTim Bradshaw and Sarah Miskin:[CEO Peter] Chou insists HTC's problems are different because its flagship device, the HTC One, is doing well. "The market share loss is mostly coming from the mid- and entry-level segment," he says. With his renewed focus on products, he plans to revamp HTC's midrange portfolio…In spite of its acquisition of Nokia, Microsoft is keen for HTC to keep producing Windows Phone devices. But HTC's sales of Windows devices have been "pretty small", Mr Chou says. "First we have to figure out how we do the business side, and how we position a Windows Phone product in the market."Mr Chou and Ms Wang seemed far more animated by ideas for new devices beyond simply smartphones, hinting that HTC has both a new tablet computer and a wearable device, which might compete with Samsung's Galaxy Gear smart watch, in development.Wearable technology is "a critical segment for us", Mr Chou says. "It matches what we do today as a mobile experience overall. That is one area we are excited about."(Subscription required to read full article.)Analysis: What's the future for Google's plunging $12.7bn AdSense business? &gt;&gt; ZDNetTom Foremski points out that AdSense (Google ads that appear on third-party sites) showed zero revenue growth in Q3, against 22% for AdWords (which appears beside Google searches):In Google's Q3 conference call with analysts, CFO Patrick Pichette said, "advertising policy changes" were to blame for the change in AdSense performance.With three quarters of sequential decline in revenues the future of the ad network is uncertain — especially since it shares about 80% of the revenues with its network but keeps 100% of AdWords revenues.The AdSense network has large, legitimate publishers but it also has smaller sites filled with spam, or content stolen from other sites. Google has been criticized for aiding such content theft by allowing pirates to profit from their actions through AdSense, and then sending them traffic through search — effectively making Google an accessory.A blip? Or something longer-term?Google's iron grip on Android: controlling open source by any means necessary &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaRon Amadeo:Google has always given itself some protection against alternative versions of Android. What many people think of as "Android" actually falls into two categories: the open parts from the Android Open Source Project (AOSP), which are the foundation of Android, and the closed source parts, which are all the Google-branded apps. While Google will never go the entire way and completely close Android, the company seems to be doing everything it can to give itself leverage over the existing open source project. And the company's main method here is to bring more and more apps under the closed source "Google" umbrella.A tour de force showing how Google has intentionally left AOSP to rot, and closed essential functionality and APIs. A must-read, especially for those who think Google Android is "open"; it's increasingly as closed (and locked) as iOS.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
BlackBerry has relaunched its BBM messaging app's new iPhone and Android versions, a month after pent-up demand forced the company to cancel their original launch.BBM is now available to download from Apple's App Store, Android's Google Play store and some countries' Samsung App Stores, but BlackBerry is using a virtual "line-up system" to stagger access to the new app.It's asking people to download BBM and register their email addresses, then wait for an email to notify them that they can use the app. The 6m people who signed up for information on the BBM website before the original launch in September get immediate access, however."If you didn't sign up in advance, don't worry – we are focused on moving millions of customers through the line as fast as possible,"wrote BlackBerry's head of BBM Andrew Bockingin a blog post explaining the steps the company is taking to ensure a "smooth roll out" for the apps."Our team of developers and engineers has been working around the clock to bring you BBM – and make some upgrades while we're at it – and some incredible work has been done."BlackBerry originally planned to launch BBM for Android on 21 September and BBM for iPhone on 22 September, but aversion of the Android app leaked early, and was quickly downloaded by more than 1m people.BlackBerry said that the unreleased app "resulted in volumes of data traffic orders of magnitude higher than normal for each active user and impacted the system in abnormal ways", forcing the company to cancel the planned launch.BBM's rollout beyond BlackBerry smartphones is an important moment for the company, as it battles competition from other instant messaging apps including WhatsApp, Kik Messenger, WeChat, Line and KakaoTalk.As a BlackBerry-only service, BBM has 60m users, but being available on iOS and Android has helped WhatsApp grow to more than 300m users.
The new iPhone 5S and iPhone 5 made Apple the US top smartphone seller in September, despite their only being on sale for 10 days of the month.New data from Counterpoint Research provided exclusively to the Guardian shows that Apple sold 4.8m phones there in September, jumping to a 38% share of the entire US smartphone market for the month. The figures include sales of the new iPhone 5S and 5C, which went on sale there on 20 September.The competition saw Samsung drop to overall second place after having led the market since May.Individually, the 5S was the best-selling phone, while the Samsung Galaxy S4 was the second best-selling. The cheaper 5C was in third spot.But together, the two companies dominate the US smartphone business. Data from Counterpoint research shows that of the 68.1m smartphones sold in the US from April, 41.9m - or 61% - came from the two companies. Samsung is ahead of Apple, having sold 23.4m phones there in that period, against 18.5m for Apple.That balance however is expected to change as more buyers seek out the iPhone. Separate data from ComScore suggests that growth in the total number of Android owners in the US has slowed over the summer, while that for Apple has held steady. The introduction of the new iPhones is expected to accelerate that.However the cheaper iPhone 5C has not proved hugely popular with buyers so far, said Peter Richardson, research director at Counterpoint. &quot;In general it seems that the 5C has been overshadowed by the 5S,&quot; he said. &quot;The nature of the iPhone buyer is that they seem to be willing to pay for the best experience. The 5C is still regarded as slightly downmarket.&quot;Separate data from Mixpanel, which monitors apps and other usage,suggeststhat the 5S is outselling the 5C by just under 4:1 on a global scale.How Samsung and Apple have sold in the US in the past six months. Source: Counterpoint Research. Photograph: /GuardianRichardson said that the top-end Samsung Galaxy S4, launched in May, &quot;did well initially but as with a lot of Samsung products, it burned brightly but briefly.&quot; He says Samsung had big expectations about how many handsets it would sell but it underperformed: &quot;if you&apos;re in the supply chain for the S4, the order book is closing down.&quot;Apple tends to sell strongly in the US around Christmas, which has been timed around the release of phones over the past three years.Among other Android brands, Counterpoint said that none fared well. LG&apos;s share fell below 10% of total sales despite launching its G2 model. Motorola increased its share slightly, to around 5%,while HTC&apos;s fell to around 3%.Nokia&apos;s share was lower than HTC&apos;s, according to Counterpoint, suggesting that it sold fewer than 400,000 phones in the US during September. For the quarter, Counterpoint&apos;s data suggests that Nokia sold fewer than 1.5m phones in the US.US phone share by month. Source: Counterpoint Research. Photograph: /PR
They share, like, everything. How they feel about a song, their maths homework, life (it sucks). Where they'll be next; who they're with now. Photos, of themselves and others, doing stuff they quite probably shouldn't be.They're the digital natives, fresh-minted citizens of a humming online world. They've grown up – are still growing up – with texting, sexting, MSN,Facebook, Vine, Snapchat. They're the young, and they couldn't care less about privacy.At least, that's the assumption. But amid a rash of revelations about government surveillance, it seems it's wrong. Young people do care, a lot, about privacy – just not the kind of privacy that exercises their parents.True, young people post information about themselves online that horrifies their elders.A report in Mayby the Pew Internet and the American Life Project found 91% of the 12-to-17-year-olds it surveyed post photos of themselves (up from 79% in the last such survey, in 2006) and 24% post videos. Another 91% are happy posting their real name, 60% their relationship status, 82% their birthday, 71% the town where they live and the school they attend, 53% their email address and 20% their mobile number (compared with 2% in 2006). And in the UK at least, where the data trends are broadly similar, there remains "a basic lack of awareness" about "the potential longer-term impact of information leaks", says Andy Phippen, professor of social responsibility in information technology at Plymouth University."Many younger people just don't think in terms of their future employability, of identity theft, of legal problems if they're being provocative. Not to mention straightforward reputational issues." (Paris Brown, Phippen adds, "clearly never thought what she tweeted when she was 14" might one day stop her being Britain's first youth police commissioner.)Far more should be done in schools to teach children to be more concerned about the future impact of their online profile and reputation, Phippen argues. But they fact that they make mistakes does not mean they don't care about privacy. "Teens are often involved in a process of identity formation that involves not just exploring different concepts of self, but presenting such identities to others," says Jay Stanley, senior policy analyst at the American Civil Liberties Union. "That's something teens have always done – but today it's done electronically,"Stanley said in a blog post. "That may mean identity experimentation has bigger privacy consequences today than for past generations, but it doesn't mean teens don't desire privacy overall."In fact, the same Pew report found teenagers cared enough about online security for 60% to set their Facebook profiles to "private" and to judge privacy settings "not difficult at all" to&nbsp;manage. A similar number said they routinely delete past posts, block people, and post comments only particular viewers – typically, close friends – would understand."You have to think about what privacy means," saysDanah Boyd, a leading youth and social media researcher. "What matters to them is social privacy: it's about how to control a social situation, which is something very different from controlling information."The Pew report found that only 9% of teens were "very" concerned about third parties like companies or government agencies accessing their personal information – compared with nearly half of their parents. Most&nbsp;young people have precious little idea of how much data social networking sites are collecting on them – but they tend, on the whole, to be quite relaxed about the idea, particularly if it comes as a trade-off for free use of the service.Teens, Boyd says, tend to be concerned not by unknown third parties accessing data about them, but by "things that might be seen by the people who have power over them: parents, teachers, college admissions officers. The concern is more about your mother looking at your Facebook profile … than government agencies or advertisers using data you've shared."Young people are concerned, in other words, about getting into trouble. But that concern is every bit as real. So teens now manage their online security with "a whole set of strategies", says Boyd. Many don't tell the truth online: according to the Pew Internet study, 26% of teen social media users say they post fake information like a false name, age or location. Others are more subtle. Boyd uses the term "social steganography" to describe the practice of more than 50% of young people who use in-jokes and obscure references to effectively encode what they post."The point is to allow access to the content, but zero access to the meaning," she says, citing the example of a teenage girl she recently interviewed who had just broken up with her boyfriend, was feeling truly awful, and badly wanted to say so – but without her mother finding out. "Teenage girls express what they're feeling by putting up song lyrics," Boyd says. "This one put up Always Look on the Bright Side of Life. Her friends knew it was sung from the crucifix, but her mum didn't get it. In fact, her mother posted the comment, 'Looks like you're having a great day!'"Context is all in social media, which poses a challenge when it comes to privacy. Teens' impulse is "to connect, to hang out. For me, the place for that was in the mall; they do it online, and it leaves traces," says Boyd. "No one can imagine all the possible interpretations of everything they say online."Nonetheless, says Mary Madden, co-author of the Pew Internet report, all the signs are young people today are increasingly "practising good judgment. They'll say, 'I use a filter in my brain'; they do a lot of profile pruning, deleting and editing content, deleting tags. There's a new awareness." This generation has, after all, "grown up, learned to function in a world of social surveillance", says Madden. "Far from being privacy-indifferent, they are mindful of what they post. They have a sense that adults are watching."That sentiment may in part explain the recent popularity of new social networking services like Instagram and Snapchat, says Madden: "Some feel the burden of the public nature of social networking. They're creating smaller groups with these new services."Snapchat in particular appeals because it allows users to send annotated pictures, videos and messages to a controlled list of friends – and, crucially, to set a time limit for how long they can be viewed before they disappear and are deleted. Overall, confirms Madden, "We're seeing a pattern that runs counter to the assumption that there's this sea of young people who just don't care about privacy. It's not borne out by the data. And in some cases, they actually have stronger opinions than some adults."That certainly seems to be the picture emerging from two polls conducted earlier this year by the Pew Research Centre for the People and the Press with the Washington Post and USA Today, in the wake of Edward Snowden's revelations about broad surveillance by state security services.Inthe first of these polls, on 10 June, younger respondents proved much more likely than older to put personal privacy above an anti-terrorism probe: 45% of 18-to-29-year-olds said personal privacy was more important, even if protecting it limited the ability to investigate terrorist threats – compared with 35% in the 30-to-49 age range, and 27% of the over-50s.The second poll, on 17 June, askedwhether Snowden's leaks of classified information about the NSA's phone and email surveillance programmes was in the public interest. It found that people under 30 were the only age group in which "a clear majority" – 60% – felt the revelations served the public interest. Older age groups were either divided, or thought the disclosures harmed the public interest. Similarly, 13-to-29 year-olds were less likely to feel Snowden should be prosecuted: fully 50% felt he should not be, against 44% who thought he should. That compares with 63% of over-50s who wanted see the whistleblower pursued.Carroll Doherty, co-author of the second report, said previous surveys showed also that younger people – perhaps because they came of age after the 9/11 attacks – were generally less anxious about the risk of terrorism, and less likely to be concerned about the rise of Islamic extremism. Even after the Boston attacks earlier this year "made young people more aware of threat", Doherty says, recent polling shows they still remain "less likely to link Islam to terrorism, and less likely to say that government should investigate threats at a cost of personal privacy". There is "quite a consistent pattern here", he says: "Young people tend to take a more liberal approach to issues around security and terrorism."So should the older generation worry? Stanley of the ACLU thinks not. Many people, advertisers included, are all too happy to create the impression that young people don't care about "silly old privacy concerns",he blogged.Many privacy invasions, too, "are silent and invisible, and only a minority of people will know and care about them. But where people are aware of their loss of control over how they are seen by others, people of all ages will always assert their need for privacy in the strongest way."
Facebook says it has now repaired a widespread service outage today that prevented millions of users posting status updates, liking posts or submitting comments for more than four hours.The error, which began just before 1pm GMT, prompted the warning message: &quot;Couldn&apos;t Update Status. There was a problem updating your status. Please try again in a few minutes.&quot;&quot;Earlier this morning, while performing some network maintenance, we experienced an issue that prevented some users from posting to Facebook for a brief period of time,&quot; said a spokesperson.&quot;We resolved the issue quickly, and we are now back to 100%. We&apos;re sorry for any inconvenience we may have caused.&quot;The issue had also affected payments on the site, as verified by alerts byFacebook&apos;s developer status. The problem effectively turned the site into &apos;read only&apos; mode and was triggered by network maintenance.Facebook has an estimated 700 million users daily. Its UK spokesman promptly tweeted that: &quot;We&apos;re aware that some people are having trouble posting to Facebook at the moment and we&apos;re looking into it.&quot;IT management firm Compuware, which has a dedicated tool for monitoring outage problems, said more than 3,500 third-party sites were being affected by the problems, which began at 12.50 GMT.&quot;This outage will have an enormous impact on millions,&quot; said Michael Allen, Compuware&apos;s director of advanced plant management, who had advised sites to check Facebnook&apos;s status before troubleshooting their internal systems&quot;At least 3,587 other domains were impacted although the actual number is likely to be far greater... many other businesses and websites are connected to Facebook through the integration of services from Facebook.Outages on the major consumer websites have become more rare, but do still happen. Twitter&apos;s &apos;fail whale&apos; was once a regular symbol of down time on the social network, but the service has become much more stable - despite a brief 40-minute error on the site in September.Google&apos;s Gmail also suffered a 15-minute outage to its browser-based version in December 2012, andSpotify went downearlier this month.•Radiohead&apos;s Thom York recently described Spotify as &quot;the last desperate fart of a dying corpse&quot;
Bitcoin, the cryptographic peer-to-peer digital currency, has reached a new price high since the market crash in April this year.Over the two weeks to 21 October, the value of one bitcoin rose by almost $60, and on Tuesday hit a high of $197.40at the largest exchange, Mt Gox.An estimate of the current pricetaking a broader spectrum of exchanges into account shows it at $182.74.The price of one bitcoin peaked at $266 on 10 April, before tumbling rapidly to a low of $50 shortly after. Since then, the price has not risen above $170 until this week.Some observers worried that theshutdown of the online drugs marketplace Silk Roadwould hit the Bitcoin economy.A paper from 2012estimated that almost one bitcoin in 20 was spent on the site, andeconomist Jeffrey Cook of World’s First currency brokers warnedthat investors were “scrabbling for the exit”.But others pointed out that the closure could provide a source of strength for the fledgling currency. “If anything, the fall of Silk Road has done Bitcoin a favour,” said Emily Spaven, editor of the digital currency news websiteCoinDesk. “Hopefully now that the website no longer exists, people will start to see Bitcoin in a more positive light and appreciate the numerous benefits it offers.”That latter prediction seems to have stood up. The price drop caused by the closure of Silk Road was reversed in less than two weeks, and the value of a bitcoin has seen near-continuous growth since then.The currency has not completely lost its association with the darker side of the internet, however. In a report from McAfee, Digital Laundry, authors Raj Samani, François Paget and Matthew Hart assess a number of different digital currencies for their potential criminal uses.Bitcoin receives criticism for its “mining” mechanic, whereby users are given bitcoins for doing the complex calculations which enable the currency to operate.“Once cybercriminals recognised the monetary opportunity in Bitcoin,” the authors write “it became a key focus of their activity.” They detail an occasion whena rogue employee of the E-Sports Entertainment Associationupdated the company’s software, used by serious gamers to play online competitively, to make its computers mine for him. In a few weeks, he earned 30 bitcoins, currently worth about $6,000, but damaged customers&apos; computers in the process.They also point to the ability to rent botnets, huge networks of computers taken over by hackers, and set them working at mining Bitcoins.A new virus is also reinforcing the link between Bitcoin and criminality.CryptoLocker encrypts victim’s files, and then demands payment– currently either $300 or two bitcoins – within three days to unlock them. Unlike similar &quot;ransomware&quot; viruses, Cryptolocker makes good on its promise, leaving users with a tricky choice.But the virus underscores another perennial problem with Bitcoin: when the prices were set, two bitcoins were worth slightly less than $300. Now they are worth almost $100 more, the currency’s notorious volatility having left the old prices out of sync with each other.•The man alleged to be behind the Silk Road says he is not &quot;excessively concerned&quot; about his future.
Apple is expected to unveil two new iPads at a press event on Tuesday, revealing the fifth version of its iPad tablet as well as the second iPad mini.A new Mac Pro desktop computer is also due, as well as a release date for OS X Mavericks, Apple&apos;s latest Mac operating system.Invites for the California event, which will be simulcast in Japan and London, did not give details, teasing with the line &quot;we still have a lot to cover&quot;.The new iPad is likely to follow the lead of the iPhone 5S, unveiled in September, which features a faster A7 processor – the processor for the iPad 5 would be the quad-core A7X, speeding up graphically intensive games and high-resolution video playback.The iPad, which already includes a high-quality &apos;retina&apos; screen, is thought to be much thinner and with a slimmer &apos;bezel&apos;, or frame more like the latest iPad mini.The new iPad mini is expected to feature a retina screen upgrade, while rumours of a gold back – like the iPhone 5S – have largely been dismissed.Touch ID, Apple&apos;s fingerprint-reading access feature, is expected to be added only to the iPad 5.Apple is also due to announce release dates for OS X Mavericks, its new software for its desktop computers and laptops, and the Mac Pro, its remodelled, high-end computer which will sell as part of a basic system for around £2,000.Less reliable predictions from analysts and the supply chain have claimed a cover with built in-keyboard is in the works – hence the invite line about &apos;we&apos;ve got it covered&apos; – along with a new Thunderbolt external screen. Apple has not introduced a new display since 2011.•Which tablet computer is right for you?
Microsoft is working on a fix for a &quot;issue&quot; that bricked Microsoft Surface RT tablets after updating to the new Windows RT 8.1 operating system.Microsoft was embarrassingly forced to &quot;temporarily&quot; remove the operating system update for its Surface RT tablets from the Windows Store after some of the updated devices could not be restarted.One user hasposted a suggested fix for the problem, which involves creating a bootable USB drive from another Windows computer, and then repairing the boot drive on the tablet.The update is limited to a small number of Windows RT tablets – using ARM chips – and not fullWindows 8PCs with Intel chips, including the Surface Pro.&quot;Microsoft is investigating a situation affecting a limited number of users updating their Windows RT devices to Windows RT 8.1. As a result, we have temporarily removed the Windows RT 8.1 update from the Windows Store,&quot; a Microsoft Surface support engineerexplained on a Microsoft community forum.&quot;We are working to resolve the situation as quickly as possible and apologise for any inconvenience. We will provide updates as they become available,&quot; he said.Tablets damaged by the update can be recoveredThe number of Microsoft Surface RT machines affected by the update issues is unknown. Microsoft was estimated to have shipped 260,000 Windows RT tabletsin Julywhen it reported a significant $900m writedown on its quarterly results due to unsold inventory and price cuts on the tablets.Released on Thursday 17 October at the same time as a Windows 8.1 update for Microsoft&apos;s full Windows 8 PC operating system, the Windows RT 8.1 update is designed only for a limited number of Windows RT machines, which include the Microsoft Surface RT tablet, as well as the Dell XPS 10 and Samsung ATIV Tab.The update issues are therefore all the more embarrassing for Microsoft as the Windows RT 8.1 operating system is designed to run on a restricted range of devices, unlike its full Windows 8.1 operating system for desktop, laptop and tablet PCs.Unlike Windows RT 8.1, minimal issues have been reported concerning the full Windows 8.1 update.• Read the review: Microsoft released a brand new and updatedSurface 2 Windows RT tabletwith a faster processor and significantly improved screen.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 19 October 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Grand Theft Auto V (18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (43)52 (2)Fifa 14 (3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (41)Wii (1)43 (–)Skylanders Swap Force (7+)Wii (37)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (19)Wii U (4)14 (3)Pokemon X (7+)3DS (100)25 (4)Pokemon Y (7+)3DS (100)26 (5)Beyond: Two Souls (16+)PS3 (100)27 (8)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)178 (6)F1 2013 (3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (41)39 (7)Just Dance 2014 (3+)Wii (87)Xbox 360 (8)Wii U (4)PS3 (2)310 (9)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (36)Wii (33)PS3 (23)Wii U (4)911 (–)Sonic: Lost World (7+)Wii U (69)3DS (31)112 (12)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (33)PS3 (19)3DS (13)Wii (13)6713 (–)Killzone: Mercenary (18+)VITA (100)314 (14)Max Payne 3 (18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)PC (0)3015 (–)Virtua Tennis 4: World Tour Edition (3+)Vita (100)116 (10)The Legend Of Zelda: The Wind Waker (7+)Wii U (100)917 (18)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (100)1718 (11)Saints Row IV (18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (38)919 (–)Lego The Lord of the Rings (12+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (23)Wii (17)DS (9)3420 (17)Tomb Raider (18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (32)PC (1)31UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Update:DJ Mixer for Spotify has been removed from the App Store, after Spotify told the developer that it was breaching the API terms of use.Spotify playlists are increasingly common at parties and wedding receptions, but a new iPad app aims to put the streaming music service to work in the hands of budding DJs.DJ Mixer for Spotifylaunched on Apple's App Store as a free download over the weekend from developer Musicsoft Arts, based on its existing DJ Mixer apps.Claiming to be "an advanced player for Spotify with enhanced DJ-style playback controls", it gets people to sign in to their Spotify accounts, then transfer across songs from its 20m-track catalogue, including those saved on their existing playlists.Tracks are stored on the device, so do not require a working internet connection when they're played as part of a set. The app uses Spotify's "Core" API, which is why it's free: the streaming service does not allow developers to charge for apps using the API.The app resembles other iPad DJ apps such as djay, with two virtual decks and controls to mix, adjust the tempo and pitch of tracks, and set loops and hot cue points for the purposes of (hopefully) smooth mixes. It can also be used in single-deck mode.DJ Mixer for Spotify is part of a growing swell of development around tablets and DJing, aimed more at the burgeoning market of amateur DJs practising at home or DJing at friends' parties.Not all ape physical decks in their user interfaces, either. Earlier this year,Native Instruments released its Traktor DJ iPad app, which turned tracks into waveforms manipulated through a range of multi-touch gestures.DJ Mixer for Spotify is not the first DJing app to tap into the catalogue of a streaming service, though. French startupEdjing'sapp of the same name can pull tracks from Deezer and SoundCloud, with the companyrecently raising $2.5m of fundingto continue its development.There's even a streaming music service designed specifically for DJs, calledPulselocker, which enables people to stream tracks for free, but then pay between $9.99 and $59.99 a month for a subscription depending how many tracks they want to store on their laptop for playing live.DJ apps based on streaming services may be controversial, though. There is already aheated debate about how much musicians get paid from streams of their songson Spotify, Deezer and rival services, but with DJs traditionally heavy music buyers, streaming DJ apps may generate their fair share of arguments too.
Apple has warned that some solid-state drives in its MacBook Air computer range sold between June 2012 and June 2013 could fail abruptly, losing all data.The company has offered a downloadable software diagnosis and remedy system, though in cases where the problem cannot be fixed it is recommending owners to seek a free replacement.&quot;Certain&quot; 64GB and 128GB flash storage drives &quot;may fail&quot;, Applesays in a support page about the problem. Although it does not specify the manufacturer, ateardown by iFixitlast year suggested that it has a Sandforce controller and is made by Toshiba.To test whether the drive is affected, users should launch the Mac App Store (on the top left-hand menu of the screen) and choose &quot;Updates&quot;. If no update called &quot;Firmware Update 1.1&quot; appears, the computer is unaffected.If the Firmware Update app does appear, install it (which requires being connected to a power source) and run it. The app will check the drive and install new firmware. If the drive suffers from the data-loss problem then it will direct the user to the support page, where they have a number of options to get the drive replaced.Otherwise it will show a dialog box indicating that the firmware was successfully installed. No other action is required.The SSD in a MacBook Air cannot be easily replaced by the user - although some sites such asEverymacandiFixithave detailed instructions on how to do it. iFixit, which provides guides on how to replace parts for a huge range of hardware, describes the difficulty of the replacement as &quot;moderate&quot;. It requires a special &quot;pentalobe&quot; screwdriver for some of the screws, however.Otherwise, replacing the drive means a visit to an Apple store or &quot;service provider&quot;. Apple says it will cover the costs of repair.Apple sold 16.7m desktop and laptop computers in the year from July 2012 to June 2013. Around 80% of those, or 13.3m, would have been laptops, but the MacBook Air is only one of a number of different laptops the company offers. It&apos;s unclear what proportion of devices might have been affected.Apple warns owners that if their system is affected by the problem then they should not install operating system updates or new applications - effectively leaving the system untouched apart from some data. Users should make regular backups, and to back up all their data before taking the device for repair, because only the hard drive - and not the data - will be replaced.The program will last for three years from the sale of the computer.
Chinese tech firm Huawei has sought to dispel rumours that it spies for the Chinese government.In a foreword for a cybersecurity paper issued by his company, deputy chairman of the board Ken Hu writes that Huawei has “never received any instructions or requests from any government or their agencies to change our positions, policies, procedures, hardware, software or employment practices or anything else, other than suggestions to improve our end-to-end cyber security capability.“We can confirm that we have never been asked to provide access to our technology, or provide any data or information on any citizen or organization to any Government, or their agencies.&quot;Hu’s statement comes after an American congressional report from last October that labelled Huawei a security risk. The chairman of the committee which authored the report, Mike Rogers,told US corporations to“find another vendor if you care about your intellectual property, if you care about your consumers’ privacy, and you care about the national security of the United States of America”.In July this year, Huawei issued a rebuttal to such rumours, pointing out that no hard evidence had ever been provided to back up hacking allegations, and accusing those who perpetrated them of “racism”.In a statement to US tech site the Verge, the company said that allegations from the former CIA head Michael Haden were “tired nonsense we’ve been hearing for years…”“Misdirecting and slandering Huawei may feel okay because the company is Chinese-based – no harm, no foul, right? Wrong. Huawei is a world-proven multinational across 150 global markets that supports scores and scores of American livelihoods, and thousands more, indirectly, through $6 billion a year in procurements from American suppliers.“Someone says they got some proof of some sort of threat? Okay. Then put up. Or shut up. Lacking proof in terms of the former, which seems clearly the case, this is politically-inspired and racist corporate defamation, nothing more.”•&quot;To give you an analogy, we&apos;re having the people who can hear the gunfire command the operation,&quot; Huawei boss Ren Zhengfei promised in May, in an attempt to bolster Huawei&apos;s credentials in the West.
Freemium games like Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans are making a killing on the UK app stores. Now they're facing competition from the most lucrative Japanese mobile game, Puzzle &amp; Dragons.Published by GungHo Online, the gamelaunched quietly for iPhone and iPadon Apple's UK App Store last week, after notching up more than 20m downloads in Japan since its launch there in early 2012, as well as more than 1m in the US and 1m in South Korea.Analytics firm Distimo estimates thatPuzzle &amp; Dragons was the fourth top grossing iOS appand the top grossing Android app on Google Play globally in September, despite its limited geographic availability.Its success helped GungHo make $446m in revenues in the second quarter of 2013, with Japan-based consultant Dr. Serkan Toto claiming thatPuzzle &amp; Dragons was "the main driver" behind those sales.The game itself is a combination of match-three puzzling and RPG-style monster battling, with players having to match coloured orbs to attack enemies, collecting treasure and new monsters along the way.It's essentially a blend of Puzzle Quest and Pokemon, but built for the free-to-play business model that's dominating the mobile games market, with players able to buy "magic stones" for a variety of in-game uses.GungHo's background is in online games, but it's fast becoming one of the key publishers in mobile gaming, thanks to Puzzle &amp; Dragons' success. Earlier this month, itinvested $300m in Clash of Clans developer Supercellas part of a $1.5bn strategic investment round, alongside Japanese telco SoftBank.GungHo and Supercell have also worked together on a marketing campaign in Japan that sawClash of Clans characters appearing in Puzzle &amp; Dragons, with the potential for the latter's monsters to travel the other way in the future.It remains to be seen whether British mobile gamers will take to Puzzle &amp; Dragons in droves, but GungHo is already working on its next mobile game:Divine Gate.
Apple is about to announce the release date for Mavericks, the latest version of the software that runs on all its desktop computers and laptops.Since 2001, every edition of OS X has been named after big cats, starting with the code-names Cheetah and Puma, and followed by Panther, Tiger, Leopard, Snow Leopard, Lion and finally Mountain Lion in 2012. Eventually Craig Federighi, Apple&apos;s senior vice-president of software engineering, joked about naming its next operating software release “Sea Lion”, and the era of the big cats was over.Apple toyed with 10.9 Cabernet and 10.10 Syrah, but apparently couldn&apos;t stomach a wine-related meme and announced in June that the next releases will be named after Californian locations.No doubt Apple&apos;s marketing department (and the California tourist board) are brewing Bay Bridge, Lake Taho, Sacramento, Humboldt, Yosemite and others. But where and what exactly is Mavericks?It&apos;s easy to imagine what went through the mind of the marketing team; the endless summers of the California surf aesthetic, and those timeless, artful shots of breaking waves and barrels. But the romance stops there.Mavericks is regarded as one of North America&apos;s most dangerous surf breaks. In 1994, it became one of the few locations to kill a professional surfer when Hawaiian big wave rider Mark Foo wiped out. In 2011, Mavericks claimed another life when Sion Milosky drowned.Just the month before, Milosky had won the North Shore underground surfer of the year,leading Surfing Magazine to write“we’ll be watching Si to see where this momentum takes him”. He used some of his $25,000 prize money to pay for the trip to Mavericks.Even among surfing&apos;s select group of big-wave riders – maybe 100 in the world – only a handful will take on the winter swells at Mavericks, where waves can reach 80 feet. Those that do need specialist equipment – helmets, sometimes lifejackets, jetski tow-ins and emergency backup. None of which makes for a comfortable marketing metaphor with a mainstream piece of computer software.As for how the surf break got its name, it owes more to dogs than cats.For years, most thought Mavericks too dangerous to be surfed and just one man, Jeff Clark, rode it alone, for 15 years. The name though, predates him.In 1961, three surfers arrived in Half Moon Bay to try it out, accompanied by a German shepherd called Maverick. While the men had a mediocre day, steering clear of the big waves which would make the spot famous, Maverick had a great time, swimming out to join in until he had to be tied up on shore for his own safety. Since he was the only one of the four who seemed to have had fun, they decided to name the place after him, and so &quot;Maverick’s&quot; was born.If the California thing doesn’t work for Apple, it can always switch tack and say that animals were the plan all along – the names have just switched from cats to dogs. Could Mac OS X Lassie be next?
