EA seems to be undergoing something of an existential crisis. Last week at E3, EA Games chief Frank Gibeau wastalking abouthow the company had released too many new titles in the fourth quarter of 2008:"...in hindsight, I probably would have picked a couple different windows for Dead Space and Mirror's Edge. It was kind of unnoble at the time because a lot of IP gets created in those times of big traffic and lots of volume. And we didn't anticipate a dramatic downturn in the economy."A couple of days ago, Gibeau was in the press again, this time seeminglytelling the LA Timesthat there would be no more Godfather games after the lukewarm reaction to its Godfather II title. "We're not going to do another one [...] The bloom is really off the rose for licensed games," he said. And, of course, the company has already jettisoned the James Bond and Lord of the Rings licenses.Quickly, though, an EA publicist, mindful of the company's relationship with the relevant movie studio, emailed the paper to clarify the exec's comments.  "We do not currently have a Godfather game in development," she is reported to have written, before adding robotically, "Nothing has been decided as to future sequels. Paramount is a great partner."Clearly, though, EA - like all other publishers - is now having to re-negotiate its relationship with gamers in a climate of economic uncertainty and in a modern industry where videogame brands have more sway than movie names. A couple of years ago, you could comfortably attach a film title to any old second-rate platform adventure and see it disappear from the shelves like warm baked goods. But that might not be the case anymore. The casual gamers who would once have chanced their arm with a Pixar tie-in, are now more likely to have a bash at Wii Fit or Rock Band, or just pay a fiver for something quick and simple on iPhone.Godfather II wasn't a terrible game, but it could never get away from the fact that it was GTA without Rockstar's sense of anarchy. Plus, the movie series, though revered, doesn't have ludic associations for modern gamers; it's not just that the best two titles in the series came out over 30 years ago, it's that no-one really aspires to be a fat Marlon Brandon, making barbaric decisions from the comfort of his armchair. Conversely, Scarface: The World is Yours, based on a twenty-year-old movie (well, 74 years-old if you're thinking of the original film) shifted a respectable 2.5 million copies in 2006 - that's because Tony Montana chainsaws people to death, wears a cool suit, has sex and snorts most of Bolivia into his angry little head. Arguably the best GTA game - Vice City - was a wide-eyed tribute to De Palma's maniacal film. That did quite well too.For EA, it must now make little sense to explore further movie installments - apart from the Harry Potter cash cow, of course, which is no doubt set to squirt yet more rich creamy cash milk into the coffers, via the Half-Blood Prince titles. Instead, the publisher's own brands (the EA Sports series, Sims 3, it's Pogo casual titles) as well as its stable of second- and third-party development projects (Mass Effect, Burnout, Rock Band, APB, etc) represent a much safer series of bets.Frankly, if just a fraction of the development budget that would have been spewed on Godfather III is redirected toward, say, APB, the industry will be a subtly better place. Movie tie-ins can work - they're not going to die. But they do need to evolve. The trend over the last five years toward closer integration between studio and game developer needs to start coming up with the goods. Avatar is going to be a benchmark here. But that's a whole different story...
Tuesday's on time edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The fact that Steve Jobs was never due to appear atApple's WWDC announcements yesterdayhasn't stopped everyone and their dog from indulging in a bit of chin scratching. Fast Company's David Lidsky suggests that without Jobs,"what felt revolutionary now seems incremental and small"; while Business Week speculates on whetherTim Cook will take over as CEO. Your thoughts?&bull; One for the maps fans out there:Walking Papersis an attempt to infuseOpenStreetMapwith more data by adding in highly localised information.Michal Migurski has more.&bull; Talking of maps, Oobject has someamazing maps of underground facilities- including the Large Hadron Collider, Piccadilly Circus and the Viet Cong's tunnel network (via Kottke)You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
After a string of successes with the iPod and iPhone, Apple is hoping it can keep wowing shoppers with the latest version of its popular mobile handset.The iPhone 3GS, which will go on sale on 19 June in the UK, will sport a number of upgrades from its predecessors – including a doubled capacity of 32GB; a digital compass; and the ability to record videos."The iPhone has changed how people think about their phones - it wasn't too long ago that people were frustrated with these... what I'll call crappy devices," said Apple vice president Phil Schiller, launching the product at the company's Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco. "The "s" stands for speed – because it's the fastest, most powerful iPhone we've ever made."It is going on sale in Britain at the same time as it becomes available in the US, with prices depending on model and contract. Buying a new 32GB iPhone 3GSwill cost an initial fee of £274 as part of an 18-month dealon a tariff of up to £34 a month. That is in contrast to American prices, which remain stable at $199 (£124) for a 16GB model and $299 (£187) for the 32GB version.O2, however, appears to have retained its exclusive rights to be the only British network to sell the iPhone, more than 18 months after first forging a deal with Apple.The news of a more powerful version of the iPhone marks the third generation of the handset in two years, as the company seeks to increase its influence and footprint in the fiercely competitive mobile industry.The larger memory will allow iPhone owners to store up to 7,000 songs or 40 hours of video on their handsets, which they can now download directly from the iTunes store.It also introduces a number of features that are already standard on other phones – including voice activated dialling, copy and paste and multimedia messages. For the first time, it will also be able to act as an internet connection for computers – letting laptop computers piggyback on the phone's pipeline to the internet, much like a mobile 3G dongle.Since it launched in 2007, the iPhone has sold more than 20m units. While that remains just a small fraction of total mobile phone sales worldwide, it has pushed the California technology giant into the frame as a manufacturer of high-end phones – trailing only Nokia and BlackBerry.Perhaps, more importantly, the success of the iPhone has also made Apple massively influential in the competitive mobile market, with its rivals scrabbling to build their own phones that mimic the iPhone's touch-sensitive screen, downloadable applications and user-friendly web browsing.Rumours and speculation over the launch began circulating months ago, with predictions that included everything from a tablet computer to a smaller "iPhone nano" handset aimed at the mainstream market. The company did say it was cutting the price of the existing iPhone 3G to just $99 in the US, but only a handful of the rumours proved to be correct.Another surprise that the company's fans had hoped for also failed to materialise. Despite some suggestions over the weekend that the event would see the return of Apple chief executive Steve Jobs – who has taken a six-month leave of absence to fight a "serious" health problem – the crowds were not treated to an appearance by the company's enigmatic co-founder.It is a year since speculation over Jobs' health started to snowball, following an appearance at the same event that saw him looking drastically thin and frail.While the company at first denied that Jobs – who underwent surgery for a rare form of pancreatic cancer in 2004 – had health complications, he eventually announced in January that he would take six months off his duties at the Silicon Valley company to try to fix digestive problems that were a result of the cancer treatment.The company says he is due to return  this month, and the event was instead hosted by Schiller - who has taken over Jobs' role as the face of Apple at public events while chief operating officer Tim Cook oversees the running of the company.Schiller also announced a number of other new products from Apple, including updates to its laptop line and Snow Leopard, the latest version of the company's operating system that will be launched later this year and will go up against Microsoft's forthcoming Windows 7.
So should Nintendo worry about the motion control advances revealed by Microsoft and Sony at E3? Not according to Nintendo of America chief, Reggie Fils-Aime.Speaking to CNET, the exec was in bullish form, down-playing the tech unveiled so lavishly by his rivals:"The only thing I'll say is a rhetorical question. Is it fun? If it's fun, then I tip my hat and say, 'Well done.' But what's happening sounds to me a lot like, 'Who's got the prettiest picture. Who's got high-definition. Who has the best processing power?' It sounds like technology, when the consumer wants to be entertained. Our focus is how do we take active play and make it entertainment. And that's what we're going to continue to focus on. And I think we've done a great job with Wii Motion Plus, and the Balance Board. And we're going to continue to push the envelope in ways to make it more fun."This was, of course, a rather disingenuous comment, as Nintendo, too, was at the show hawking new hardware - the bizarre Vitality Sensor; a technology in search of an application if ever there was one. Also, Reggie's disinterested and rather disparaging viewpoint on the Sony/Microsoft turf war is undermined earlier in the interview:"The near-term opportunity is the consumer who owns an PS3 or an Xbox 360 and has been bad-mouthing Wii to their friends. We can reach that consumer with games like The Conduit or Tiger Woods with Wii Motion Plus [...] We think we win over the Halo audience with something like The Conduit, a multi-player, online, shooting experience, or Dead Space Extraction. And you know what? Once those people buy into Wii, they'll go buy Mario Kart or Wii Fit Plus. We're not going to be satisfied just picking up that existing gamer. We have to reach beyond and get that consumer who doesn't game. That's the only way we'll be able to continue growing as a company and as an industry."Nintendo isn't an aloof agent working beyond the confines of the traditional games market, as it is sometimes pictured. It is in there with its sleeves rolled up going after the 'core gamer'. After all, there are 30 million people with Xbox consoles, and the machine boasts the highest attach rate in this generation, with owners buying, on average, eight games a year - three games higher than Wii or PS3 customers (see Gamasutra researchhere).And now Microsoft's Natal project looks to be a serious encroachment into Wii territory.According to Buzzstudy, the full body motion detection tech achieved the highest amount of positive online 'buzz', compared to Sony's motion controller and Wii's Motion Plus.Of course, there's a whole universe of variables between impressing a bunch of bloggers and getting mainstream users to 'buy in' to the new Xbox vision, but Natal must be a concern. It has proved suitably beyond the Wiimote to capture the imagination of news editors around the globe, and judging by the number of my non-gaming friends who've asked me about the hardware ("It's like that computer in Minority Report, right?") it has crossover potential.It's not just the complete absence of a controller that's getting people, it's the new forms of interaction hinted at during the press briefing. The idea of holding up an object or drawing and getting the game to 'copy' it (in one demo we see a kid holding up his customised skateboard which is then scanned for use in a boarding sim) hints at a new form of hassle-free creative interplay. Even more significant, the suggestion that the character inLionhead's Milo democan recognise the player's voice and even his or her emotions suggests a revolution in human/avatar interaction.On the other had, some (here'sone) have felt that Microsoft's Natal dream was too intangible, while Sony delivered compelling real-world promise with its PSP Go and magic wand announcements. There's plenty of mileage in this standpoint. And away from all those new technological titbits, Sony got one of the key new gaming franchise announcements of the show: Agent.Certainly, though, what we're seeing in the post-E3 landscape, is a strange reversal of roles - Nintendo is determined to grab the hardcore, Microsoft and Sony are continuing in their pursuit of the casual marketplace. As gamers, we can only benefit from the ensuing chaos.
Monday's better late than never edition of Chatterbox
Block 1After months of speculation, Apple is expected to launch a new version of its iPhone today at its Worldwide Developers Conference - WWDC - at the Moscone center in San Francisco. It's also expected to talk about the next version of its computer operating system OSX, codenamed "Snow Leopard". And there had even been claims that Steve Jobs, its chief executive - not expected to return to work before the end of the month – had been seen on the premises.Within the next couple of hours, we should know which of the rumours were right, and which were mere idle fantasy.Block 2Photograph: Paul Sakuma/AP5.34pm:: Slogan visible on the posters around the centre "One year later. Light years ahead." Miaow!Block 35.34pm:Pretty busy in here, with about 30 mins to go. Crowds parked in several distinct groups while we mill about waiting to get in.Block 45.39pm:And lo, the doors opened. Crowd starting to bustle into the hall.Block 55.47pm:Just spoke to Alan Hely, head of European PR for Apple, who implied a major product announcement.Block 65.48pm:The music is from Phoenix, according to Gizmodo, which also says that there's a "Tron-like glowing Mac" on the stage. And Gizmodo is confidently predicting.. Coldplay and MGMT on the playlist.5.49pm:Block 75.50pm:Definitely more buzz than the January Macworld keynote. I think the crowd's going to be very disappointed if Steve Jobs doesn't appear. There was a tweet earlier in the day of someone saying they'd "definitely" seen Jobs walking through the Moscone centre, but it's hard to tell if that's correct. (Music now: Radiohead. 15 Step.)Block 85.55pm:Engadget has aneat picof the "before everyone got in" with a poster with "64" and "full speed ahead" on it. As in, 64-bit.And also apicture of the queueoutside the Moscone. That's big.Block 95.57pm:And they're off. The announcer has told people to "silence all cellphones and paging devices". Does that include iPhones?Block 105.59pm:Trying to see which famous faces are in attendance, but the media is corralled on the opposite side of the room from the VIPs. Bruno? Eminem? John Mayer? No sign.Block 116.03pm:Lights dim, crowd whoops and music finishes. Ladies and gentlemen, we're ready to go.Block 126.04pm:The Apple Store online is down, a sure sign that Something New is coming our way.Block 136.04pm:Kicks off with John Hodgman as PC - begging the crowd to stop innovating. Phil Schiller takes the stage to warm applause.Block 146.05pm:Schiller: "this is the best level of anticipation and excitement for our developer conference yet." 5,200 developers here from 54 countries around the world. Subjects to be covered: Mac, iPhone and iPod Touch. In the past two years the number of OS X users has tripled. [But is that including iPhone/iPod Touch users in the OS X users?]Block 156.07pm:ah yes, it is the iPhone which has increased the number of OS X users.Block 166.08pm:first new product announcement:new version of the 15" MacBook Pro. Built-in (ie non-replaceable) battery. (Is this Apple's new USP now?) Good for 1,000 recharges and 7 hours' use, Schiller says. Five-year life claimed.60% more colour gamut, "the nicest display we've ever had in a notebook". Shows it off with something like an ostrich's feathers. And an SD slot - because so many MacBook Pro users are photographers. Smart.Block 176.10pm:Up to 3.0GHz and 8GB of Ram, 500GB hard drive. Cheaper than before.Block 186.10pm:Costs $1699 for the introductory level ($300 less than before). [We'll have to wait for the Apple Store to come back to find out the UK prices.]Block 196.13pm:Available today [in the US; have to see about the UK]. The crowd likes it: they're power users who appreciate the boost - from $1699 to top config $2299. Apple's also updating the 17" model.Block 206.14pm:But the 13" MacBook, normally a consumer product, is now more like a MacBook Pro - it's gained a backlit keyboard and has a Firewire slot, which was removed from the MacBooks in the autumn update. Crowd enthusiastic about that too. And now the 13" MacBook is a MacBook Pro.Confusing: seems to mean that only the old 13" white (non-aluminium body) MacBook is still a MacBook. Or maybe there's more to come. Interesting that John Gruber (daringfireball.bet) predicted exactly this.Block 216.18pm:MacBook Air gets an update, price comes down slightly. Now Schiller's trumpeting Apple's eco credentials, which it has been battered with before. "This is world's greenest lineup of notebooks," he says. We'll await Greenpeace's verdict.Block 226.19pm:Now on to Mac OSX 10.6 - aka Snow Leopard. Bertrand Serlet, head of OS, comes on and takes a poke at Microsoft and Vista in his thick French accent. "What a sharp contrast with what's been happening up north," he says. "Microsoft has dug quite a big hole for themselves with Vista."Block 236.21pm:Underneath Windows 7, he says, is still the same problem. "The same old technology... fundamentally, it's just another version of Vista. The challenge we set for ourselves was to build a better Leopard."Three key elements of Snow Leopard: refinement of Leopard, new technologies and support for Exchange. "There are lots of little benefits and touches when you start using Snow Leopard."Block 246.22pm:Apple has now built Expose into the dock. Click and hold and the windows splay out. [That would be horrendous if you have lots of windows...]More than 90% of what was in Leopard has been "refined" in Snow Leopard.Block 256.23pm:Key thing with Snow Leopard: Up to 45% faster to run, common operations are faster. And after you install, you recover some disk space - it's got a smaller footprint, about 6GB less, through file system compression.Block 266.24pm:new software:a new version ofSafari, Safari 4, shipping today for Macintosh and Windows PCs. (It's there now, just checked.) Serlet says it's faster than Google Chrome and scores 100/100 on the Acid 3 test (a test of how well browsers can lay out complex HTML). And it runs Javascript (used in all sorts of web systems like Google Maps etc) much faster than Firefox et al.Block 276.28pm:QuickTime, the venerable media system, has been updated to "QuickTime X". Works with any web server. (You wanted to know that, right?) And changed the user interface. (We never liked the old one too much.) Now more like Apple's Front Row. Aaaannndd.. demo time.Block 286.30pm:Craig Federighi, vp of Mac OS engineering, on stage doing the demo. Crowd's excited by the speed of Safari. He opens NYT home page - amusingly, it has huge adverts for Microsoft's new Bing search engine splashed all over it.Block 296.35pm:Bertrand Serlet back on stage. Time to talk about the underpinnings. "When you look at a modern Macintosh, you have an incredible set of components that were unthinkable a few years ago." It is "the power of silicon!" (Should we bow?)Today he's going to talk about three technologies: 64-bit (because of course with 32-bit you can only use up to 4GB of RAM - oh, woe): "We've been on a trajectory to enable more 64 bit, and Snow Leopard is the final stage. All the major apps run in 64 bit mode." (Note that word "major": why is that there?)Block 306.37pm:next, multi-core. As in processors. How do you take advantage of multi-core processors? With multi-threaded programming. But threads (individual processes in an app) aren't that efficient, so Grand Central Dispatch is a new technology in Snow Leopard with built-in support for multi-core, which organises threads.Block 316.39pm:Turns out that Apple Mail in Leopard, when it's busy, has quite a few threads running. When it's idle, it uses *even more*. (So that's why it's so rubbish at times.)In Snow Leopard, Mail uses fewer threads when idle. (This feels like progress defined as "doing what we should have done ages ago".)Block 326.41pm:finally, graphics - OpenCL, a C-based language that Apple is making an open standard which uses resources on the graphics processing unit. Snow Leopard can operate at a teraflop - 1 trillion operations per second. "We want to use this power for all kinds of things".That's three main new technologies in Snow Leopard - enhanced 64-bit support, Grand Central Dispatch and OpenCL. All heavily developer focussed.Block 336.42pm:not a new technology, but something many business users will have wished for (or worked around): Microsoft Exchange support. In Snow Leopard, built into Address Book, iCal, Mail. (So not everything Microsoft does is bad, apparently.) Spotlight, the search function, also works within the Exchange interface.Block 346.46pm:Exchange support requires that the server is running Exchange Server 2007 (is that widespread?). Support is free. "Windows PCs charge extra for Exchange support," Serlet says. Crowd whoops at not having to pay anything.Block 356.47pm:Pricing for Snow Leopard: $29[UK price to be determined]. (Wow, that's cheap - but hard to see how they could do otherwise given that it doesn't have any fancy new features.)Block 366.48pm:That's a big contrast with Leopard, which like almost every other Mac OSX upgrade was a $129/£79 paid upgrade (apart from 10.1, back in autumn 2001). Gets a really big cheer from the audience. Lower prices = good business for Apple, looks like. Family pack will cost $49.Guessing at the UK price - £15? £30? What's your guess?Block 376.50pm:OK, let's move on to those "iPhone" things. Scott Forstall takes the stage: he's svp of iPhone software."It has been an incredible year for the iPhone. it was less than a year ago that we launched 2.0 and with it the SDK.""The response has been staggering - developers have downloaded the free SDK more than a million times. There are now more than 50,000 apps on the App Store. [applause] Now we've been working really hard to grow the user base for your apps.""We have already sold more than 40m iPhones + iPod Touches." That's a lot of devices. And of course passed a billion downloads.Block 386.51pm:Now showing a promo video, featuring smiling developers who have made a mint out of their apps. (Not shown: developers whose apps were refused for no reason anyone can make out.)Block 396.54pm:The video's part pep rally, part marketing seminar, part religious event: if you build apps, you too can be successful and change the world!Block 406.55pm:In the video we hear from Major League Baseball, doctors who have built apps, gaming companies and so on. OK, done, and Forstall is back on stage. He's going to talk about iPhone OS 3.0 (which you know all about because you looked atour gallery, of course)Block 416.58pm:cut and paste... MMS ("the big news" - huh? A turn-of-the-century technology?).. landscape keyboard.. search... (Sidenote: AT&amp;T "will be ready to support MMS later this summer". Gizmodo people are fuming that it hasn't been there since June 2007.)Parental controls on films and TV shows from the iTunes Store on the iPhone. And on apps. (Does this mean rude apps will be allowed more easily in future? Will the bowdlerisation of apps end?)Block 427.03pm:and next: tethering. Or untethering. You can use your iPhone as a 3G modem. (Actually you could do that before with NetShare, but Apple pulled it from the App Store wayyy back.)Interesting graph that Forstall shows has both Vodafone and O2 among the carriers, but that may be the Vodafone deal in another country, not the UK.Block 437.06pm:Dynamic language switching - is this for bilingual households? ("Cherie, can I borrow votre iPhone?") And for the times when you lose it, "Find my iPhone".Showing Tina Fey clip from 30 Rock where she's blackmailed by someone who finds her phone. (Is that sensible?)MobileMe subscribers only - will show you on a map where your iPhone is. Alert sound will play whether or not you left it in silent mode. Goes down a storm with the devs, who must have had that heartstopping moment once or twice.Block 447.08pm:Also - and this will please the corporates - "Remote Wipe": will delete all the data, so that you know your data is gone. But you can restore it from backup if you ever find the phone. (Await eager experiments by iPhone owners, and concomitant howls at backup failure.)Block 457.09pm:Things starting to warm up now. There was a bit of a mid-event lull, but Forstall is getting his mojo going now, standing on the stage confidently and starting to command things. A shade of Jobs in his approach.Showing off peer-to-peer connections: "great for games, will automatically find the other player over wireless or Bluetooth, no carrier needed." (Interesting from a security - or filesharing - standpoint.)Block 467.11pm:More support for hardware accessories: apps can talk to third-party stuff such as a diabetes monitor. (Same thing as they showed off with the iPhone 3.0 talk really. Have you looked at the gallery? Oh.)Developers can embed Google Maps straight into their apps. (No Bing Maps? Are there Bing Maps?) And also build turn-by-turn directions in: will satnav companies start to sweat? (Though turn-by-turn implies.. a compass. Doesn't it? We're all starting to get bored with the software stuff now, want the hardware.)Block 477.16pm:By the way, did you notice what they did with that Snow Leopard price thing? They told us the price - butnot the release date. Very sneaky.Block 487.17pm:demos are showing medical stuff. Airstrip technologies, creating medical apps that help people track their records. "The medical community is flocking to the iPhone." Remote logins to patient monitors, real-time waveform data as if they were at the patient's bedside.(It's going to make those episodes of House more boring. He'll never leave his grumpy room, just figure it all out while playing Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz.)Block 497.20pm:Ooops, correction - Snow Leopard this September. Set your clocks.Block 507.22pm:Next up: Scroll Motion. They have a book buying application. (Make your own joke.) They're making magazines and daily newspapers available on the App Store. (Hmm, can you think of any uses for that?).Once downloaded, comes up with neat app; copy/paste/email text from inside the books. Academic text books too.Block 517.24pm:And now satnav maker TomTom, to a few gasps from the audience. Co-founder Peter-Franz Pauwels comes on stage to do a demo. TomTom software, applied to the iPhone. Voice prompts too.But you wouldn't want to hold it in your hands - "so we've created an accessory, the TomTom car kit." (Is that the future, where everything becomes an accessory to a mobile phone?) In-car dock that sticks to the windscreen/dashboard. Enhanced GPS, built-in loudspeaker and microphone. Warm reaction from the crowd... which is still waiting for a, the, big announcement.Block 527.28pm:We've been going for nearly 90 minutes. Is there time enough to show off a new iPhone? Or is this just some existential torture?Block 537.30pm:More demos. Slightly losing the will to.. what was it we came here for?Block 547.31pm:Scott Forstall comes back on stage in white coat and goggles; takes part in demo by Pasco of its science project app. Deflating a balloon. (Is that some sort of metaphor, Scott?)Block 557.33pm:balloon fails to behave, demo goes wrong, graph on Pasco app stays resolutely at top. Is that the end of the demos?Scott Forstall shows off the iPhone 3.0 software. Photograph: Robert Galbraith /ReutersApparently not. Now we need another demo. Zipcar. Hello Zipcar. You are not an iPhone, unlike the object in this picture. Zipcar will unlock your car. (Don't ask us how.) Crowd comes back to life, anticipating something... which turns out to be another demo. Musicians who can control their gear from inside an iPhone. (We get it: there are many apps for the iPhone.)Block 567.40pm:Now a guitarist is showing how he can control his amp from his iPhone. (Would you do that?) He looks like Sawyer from Lost. Perhaps he'll starting singing "Come on, everybody".Block 577.42pm:If Steve Jobs *is* here then he'd have thrown a bag of cameras at so many demo f..ailures. Forstall back on stage insisting the app is cool, really.Block 587.43pm:iPhone OS 3.0 pricing: free to all iPhone users, $9.99 (=£6?) for iPod Touch users; worldwide availability on June 17.Block 597.44pm:iPhone OS devs get the GM (Gold Master) seed today.Block 607.44pm:Ah, this is more like it. Phil Schiller back on stage. "To call the iPhone 3G a hit would be the understatement of the year. The iPhone has changed how people think about their phones - it wasn't too long ago that people were frustrated with these... what I'll call crappy devices." He's pacing back and forth across the stage.Graph: 2/3 of all mobile browsing (in the US?) is done on an iPhone or iPod Touch. Schiller compares the iPhone App Store's 50,000 apps to Google Android's 4,900, Nokia's 1,088, RIM's 1,030, Palm's ... er, 18.Block 617.46pm:"The iPhone 3G has been great, so that's why i'm excited to tell you about an entirely new version - the iPhone 3GS."(Who had 3GS on the bingo card?)Block 627.47pm:"The S stands for speed - because it's the fastest, most powerful iPhone we've ever made." Apparently about three times faster on average, depending on benchmark. Launching messaging is 2.1x faster, loading SimCity (eh?) is 2.4x faster, loading the New York Times 2.9x faster. (But what about Guardian Technology, eh?)Block 637.49pm:New features includes new camera - 3 megapixel autofocus (better than 2MP on old ones) - with autofocus: tap to focus on different parts of the picture, improved light sensitivity for indoor and nighttime shots.Crowd is noticeably happier now.Block 647.51pm:And - yes - it supports video recording: can get 30 frames per second at VGA quality (someone near me whistles). Demo of kids playing in garden gets a smattering of claps. Auto white balance, auto exposure, autofocus.Block 657.53pm:Videos can be sent as MMS "if you carrier supports it". Gizmodo people snarling again at AT&amp;T. Can share video via YouTube, email, or MobileMe.Schiller predicts that it will become "the most popular video device."Block 667.54pm:And now, "wouldn't it be great to be able to dial friends and family just from the sound of your voice?" (Umm, hate to disappoint, Phil, but that's been standard in many phones literally for years.)"We call it Voice Control." (So do we, but without the capitals.) You can get it to dial someone - "Call Scott Forstall" - or play songs. "Play songs by The Killers."Block 677.55pm:Includes a compass. Someone at the back completely loses their mind. "A cool compass fan there," says Schiller. (Not sure about the "cool".)Compass app will show your orientation, longitude, latitude, and can link to Google Maps, which will rotate to match the way you're facing. (It's like that REM song...)Block 687.58pm:Battery life? Schiller runs down the iPhone 3G (you know, last year's thing).iPhone 3GS (can't we call it the Video?) gets 50% more on Wi-Fi (9hrs), 33% more on video (10hrs), 30hrs vs 24hrs on audio, 20% more on 2G talk (12 hrs), and the same 5hr life on 3G.(Looks like you'll still be charging the iPhone every day, then.)Block 698.00pm:Pricing: $199 in the US for 16GB version. Doesn't mean much to UK readers though - we'll have to see what's happening with O2 and any other carriers, if there are others.Block 708.01pm:but there's also a 32GB version, costing $299 (again: UK prices will vary depending on contract).Note: no front camera, so no video calls. All those who make video calls, tell us why this is a big oversight. If it is.Block 718.02pm:price dropped on the iPhone 3G, to $99 for 8GB model. Again, wait for the UK details.(So does this leave any time for, or interest in, an "iPhone mini"? We're thinking not. Then again, is there any time for a "one last thing"?)Block 728.05pm:iPhone 3GS introduction date: June 19.Block 738.06pm:Schiller reminds everyone of what they've seen today: new MacBook Pros, Snow Leopard, the iPhone 3GS.. um, that's it. There's no "one more thing", there's no tablet, there's no netbook, there's no iPhone mini, and most - or least - of all there's no Steve Jobs.Although if you're reasonable, then none of those last four things was ever on the agenda.Block 748.09pm:Final verdict: It's a bit surprising that the iPhone 3GS will be available so soon. The crowd is filing out, buoyed but not exuberant. This was solid, but not many surprises.So now, over to you:1) is the iPhone 3GS - with its added video and slightly improved battery life and faster processor - good enough to make you want one, or upgrade?2) will you upgrade to Snow Leopard? (Not clear whether you'll have to buy Leopard first if you're upgrading from 10.4 to 10.6; we'll seek clarification.)3) are the new MacBook Pros, and the strange gap left - there's only one MacBook model now - compelling?Block 758.18pm:At the moment, the Apple UK Store shows the iPhone 3GS prices as "coming soon" on an O2 Pay &amp; Go plan (the only form that you can get online). Apparently no other carriers. The iPhone 3G is priced at £342.50 - but that too is on a Pay &amp; Go deal.
Microsoft admits it missed the importance of search - more accurately, it didn't realise there was so much money in it, until Google startedpiling up billions. It's trying to catch up. First, it converted MSN Search into Live Search, and now it has launched a new version,Bing, with aTV advertising campaign.Microsoft's Steve Ballmer said Bing was one of the few available short names that worked on a worldwide basis. The company hasn't confirmed that it stands recursively for Bing Is Not Google, but that's the sort of joke software engineers enjoy.So far, the "full" Bing isonly available in the US. Bing's benefit - and its major problem - is that it does more than simple search, and some extra features depend on local data. The British version is being developed by more than 60 Microsoft engineers in the UK.Microsoft says Bing goes beyond today's search engines by providing "intuitive tools to help customers make better decisions, focusing initially on four key vertical areas: making a purchase decision, planning a trip, researching a health condition or finding a local business." For example, if you search for BA48, Bing recognises it's a flight number and tells you the arrival time and terminal at Heathrow. In many cases, you can find the information you need without leaving Bing.No doubt more "vertical areas" will be added, but each one requires a lot of work.Bing has some useful features. For example, if you position the mouse cursor towards the right of a result, a thin vertical line appears, and Bing fetches text from the site. That can help you decide whether or not to visit it. Bing also lists your previous searches down the left hand side.Some of Bing's innovations were already present in Live Search, but not widely known. These include the excellent image search, playing videos on the results page when you hover the mouse over them, and the xRank celebrity tracker.Whether Bing's search results are as good as Google and Yahoo is open to doubt. However, this weekend, someone put up a"blind test" pagethat showed results from all three and invited you to pick the best, without knowing which was which. Bing took an early lead, then ran level with Google. At the time of writing, Google was in the lead (40%), with Yahoo and Bing about level (30%).I'd expect Google to win the vote because we're familiar with its results, and people generally like what they know. However, two friends who are respectively Linux and Mac fans overwhelmingly chose Bing results, while my results were mixed but slightly favoured Yahoo.This suggests that Google does not provide dramatically better results than its rivals, which its market dominance might suggest. It's worth trying all three to see which search engine suits you best. You might be surprised.I doubt whether Bing can overtake Yahoo, let alone Google, but having more innovation in the search market should benefit everyone.
Personal Computer World was, I think, Europe's first personal computer magazine (there were American ones, such as Byte) and first appeared withan undated issue in 1978. You can see the first coverherePCW was very popular in the 1980s, partly because it covered the whole field from the Sinclair Spectrum to the IBM PC, and for some of us, because of Guy Kewney's idiosyncratic but extremely readable news column. PCW was never the same without him.Its market was, of course, rapidly undercut by the growth of more targeted magazines, with one or more titles appearing for almost every computer platform and numerous special interests. Under the circumstances, perhaps PCW survived longer than many might have expected.PCW is now owned by Incisive Media Ltd, which bought it as part of VNU Business Publications in 2007. According toPress Gazette, "Incisive has blamed the closure on the 'unprecedented adverse economic climate'."In the early 1980s, I edited what was probably Europe's second personal computer magazine, Practical Computing, which many considered a rival. In fact, of course, we were all friends, and later I wrote a column for PCW. In this kind of market, the real competition is made up of photography, hi-fi, car, boating and other rival interests.
Apple is due to unveil a new version of the iPhone today, in an attempt to boost its standing in the mobile market further and take another swipe at its rivals.The announcement, expected to take place at Apple's worldwide developers conference (WWDC) in San Francisco, has been hotly anticipated by the company's fans – with dozens of rumours flying online over the potential launch.According to sources, however, the new iPhone will have twice as much memory – allowing storage of up to 7,000 songs or 40 hours of video – and other features including a faster processor and an improved camera capable of recording video.Although a launch date has not yet been confirmed, individuals familiar with the product indicated that it is likely to go on sale in Britain in mid-July at existing prices starting at £342 pre-paid, or £35 a month on a two-year contract.In Britain, O2 will stock the device although its exclusive contract with Apple is believed to be ending. Carphone Warehouse is expected to continue as the only UK independent to stock the device.Apple clamps down hard on any of its suppliers who leak details of its new devices and on Friday Carphone's chief executive, Charles Dunstone, refused to comment on talk of a new iPhone. "It is more than my life's worth to ever say anything," he said. "They keep us terrified."However, store insiders said late last week that the company's internal supply database has been updated to show four new "version 3" iPhone handsets – 16GB and 32GB devices in black and white. O2 also refused to comment.Although the new iPhone is only an incremental improvement on its predecessors – neither as fresh as the original model, nor as significant an upgrade as the 3G version launched last summer – it will be seen as a serious blow to one of Apple's rivals, Palm.The struggling Silicon Valley smart phone pioneer began selling its own high-end, touchscreen phone in the US over the weekend.The Palm Pre – believed by many to be the most credible challenger to the iPhone so far – uses a redesigned web-friendly system and is able to charge up without being plugged in.Although the Pre has received rave reviews from the US press and bloggers, many have suggested that going head to head with the iPhone launch could prove a critical moment for Palm and Sprint, the US network that has an exclusive deal to stock the new handset.Such concerns did not stop consumers in the US queuing up to buy the phone on Saturday, however, with shops around the country entertaining small groups of dedicated fans desperate to get their hands on the new Palm device.Although reports of very low stock levels have flooded in – with just a handful of units at shops in time for launch day – lines of fans queued up to buy the gadget."I wanted their iPhone killer. I've been anticipating this for a while," one shopper, Peter Lewis, told Reuters in Chicago.One advantage that Palm has is lower cost – with Sprint's contract deals coming in cheaper than those for the iPhone – but rumours that Apple would respond by producing a smaller, cheaper version of the handset appear wide of the mark.Sources suggest it will not release a version with a smaller screen, but the prospect of price cuts remain  – largely funded by the mobile phone operators, not Apple.
&bull; Apple's getting ready to announce its new iPhone at theWorldwide Developers Conferencein San Francisco - andJohn Gruber at Daring Fireball, who is almost always the most accurate reader of Apple's tea leaves, agrees withour report: 32GB, faster processor, video recording. Probably no cheaper iPhone nano, though there may be some price cuts. Name? Current speculation is eitheriPhone videoor the more obtuseiPhone 3GS. The announcement will start at 6pm UK time:check back to the Technology Blog for updates.&bull; Thetragic deathof Stanford University professorRajeev Motwani, who mentored hundreds of startup companies - most notably Google - is still reverberating around the hi-tech industry. Tributes have gathered over the past two days, including from Google's ownSergey Brin, tech writerOm Malik, angel investorRon Conwayand VCDavid Hornik.&bull; Plenty of good reads over the weekend, but the most volatile stuff came when theNew York Timeswent on a bit of an anti-blog crusade. One piece fromDamon Darlinasked whether (snooze) blogs are destroying journalism; another questionedwhether blogging is dead(using the rather perplexing example of somebody who had a blog, stopped, and now has another one). Guardian columnist Jeff Jarvis was among thosemoved to respond.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The Pirate Party, which wants to legalise internet file-sharing, has won one of Sweden's 18 seats in the European parliament.AFPreports that the Pirate Party won 7.1% of votes with ballots in 5,659 constituencies out of 5,664 counted.And according to theTorrentFreakweb site: "Sweden has 20 seats, but until the Lisbon treaty passes only 18 with voting rights. This means that the Pirate Party will have 2 seats."The party, founded in 2006, benefited from publicity around the lawsuit against Sweden's Pirate Bay website, which helps users find BitTorrent files for peer-to-peer file-sharing. TorrentFreak says:After the Pirate Bay verdict, Pirate Party membership more than tripled and they now have over 48,000 registered members, more than the total number of votes they received in 2006.A German Pirate Party also took part in the European elections, and there's no reason why similar parties should not be launched in the UK and other countries.Part of the Pirate Party's platform is to increase people's privacy on the web, and to protect freedom of speech, says party leader Rickard Falkvinge. It also wants to reform the copyright laws and patent system. These ideas could well attract support in the UK, where the government appears to have little interest in protecting people's privacy.Update: As KTetch points out in a comment (thanks!): "There *IS* a UK Pirate Party (http://pirateparty.org.uk/), and there's a US (http://pirate-party.us) one, and one in a few dozen others."
Like most things, the best text messages happen late at night. There is something distinctive about a nocturnal text - exposing, intimate, revelatory, sometimes plain drunken. Other people's make for gripping reading, which might explain why each morning around 10,000 messages from the night before are posted on a website,Texts From Last Night, devoted to the genre. Each reads like the shortest of short stories. "Well, its 5.30am and you haven't let me in, I guess I'll go home," says one. "I knocked on some stranger's door, you didn't have to give me a fake hotel room number," says another.The site was set up in February by Lauren Leto, a 22-year-old law student, and Ben Bator, a 23-year-old "almost" law student, after "more than a few good weekends" of their own. All messages published are anonymous, and Leto and Bator say the site creates a sense of camaraderie, and helps, they say, to "convey the feeling that the person is winning in the game of life".The duo live in Detroit but, intriguingly, most of the messages come from Manchester and London.
A US computer science professor who played a key role in the creation of the internet search giant Google has been found dead at the age of 47 after apparently falling into his swimming pool.Rajeev Motwani was mentor to Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, when they were PhD students at Stanford university. His body was found in the pool of his home in Atherton, California, on Friday.A spokesman for the university said the cause of death was unclear. Friends said he could not swim, but was planning to learn. Some reports speculated that Motwani, who regularly worked late into the night, could have accidentally fallen into the pool after going outside in the dark.On his blog, Brin led tributes to Motwani as the inspiration behind a number of computing advances. "Today,whenever you use a piece of technology, there is a good chance a little bit of Rajeev Motwani is behind it,"he wrote."When Larry and I began to work together on the research that would lead to Google, Rajeev was there to support us and guide us through challenges, both technical and organisational."A 1998 paper written by Page, Brin and Motwani, unearthed by the blog TechCrunch, discussed the development of Google. "We have developed a global ranking of web pages called PageRank based on the link structure of the web that has properties that are useful for search and navigation … We have used PageRank to developa novel search engine called Google,which also makes heavy use of anchor text," it said.Stanford said Motwani's work on data mining influenced the way algorithms are used in Google searches. It pointed out that he was also an influential investor who backed the initial development of what turned out to be a number of successful hi-tech companies and initiatives, including the internent payment giant PayPal."Rajeev's connections to Silicon Valley were all important, but he will be remembered most for the personal friendships he had with students, faculty colleagues and staff in the department. We will all miss him tremendously," Jim Plummer, the dean of the school of engineering, told theuniversity's news service.Motwani was born in Jammu, India, and grew up in New Delhi. He travelled to the United States for his doctorate in computer science at the University of California, Berkeley. He is survived by his wife, Asha Jadeja, and two daughters.
Taga Stroller CyclePrice:&pound;1,695Seats:Up to 3Emissions:ZeroGood for:Yummy mummiesBad for:Slummy daddiesSugar, milk, light bulbs, a hedge trimmer... over the years I've borrowed many things from my neighbour, but this is the first time she's lent me a baby. "What do you want him for?" she asked anxiously. "Crash dummy for a vehicle I'm testing," I replied. "Oh, right," she answered brightly. "Keep him all afternoon if you want." The vehicle I was proposing to strap young William into is the "multi-function urban Taga", which has been specially created for transporting children in an ethical way around congested centres. It was launched earlier this month at that shrine to high-end functionality, the Design Museum in London. And the single most annoying thing about it is that it makes you pinch yourself and think: "Now why didn't I think of that?" The Taga is a pushchair that doubles as a tricycle. Or, in the puff-tastic words of its brochure, it is "a new transport modality". It came into being a couple of years ago when Dr Shlomo Barak, a Dutch inventor, was left to look after his young grandchild for a few weeks. Casting around for a safe and fun way to enjoy the outdoors, he decided to knock together an old stroller and a folding bike that were kicking about his workshop. Shlomo was rather pleased with his ad-hoc design and showed it to his two sons, who loved it. They built a proper prototype, spent a year testing it and, hey presto, their stroller-cum-trike was ready for the market.Based in Holland, Barak was used to seeing parents pedalling about with their wailing children belted into seats behind them. But you can't keep an eye on your little darlings if they're sitting behind you. Their feet and arms have a habit of coming free and they always look so bored - all they can see is the small of your sweating back. Inspired by a big-basketed butcher's bicycle, Barak hit on the idea of putting his precious cargo in front of him. Then he went a step further, thinking: wouldn't it be great to arrive at the school/shop/caf&eacute;/park and be able to unload the baby into a pushchair? His inventor's brain whirred into action ...In its stroller guise, the Taga looks like a fairly chunky three-wheel buggy. The seat is tough but comfortable, there are pockets and shelves for storing things, and it is easy to manoeuvre. Lift off the seat, though, and flip over the front wheel and the Taga is instantly transformed into a neat tricycle. "Wow," gasps two-year-old William, as if I have just pulled a rabbit from my hat. I strap him in, climb on behind and we are off. He whoops with joy, as if he is in the front of a rollercoaster. With a traditional child's seat there's always the worry of the bike tipping over, but having three wheels, the Taga is immensely stable. There's even a parking brake, so it won't roll away while you are loading up.But who will buy it? The hefty price tag puts it firmly at the luxury end of the market. But Barak and his sons have done all they can to give it as long a shelf life as possible. It will carry children from birth to six years of age, at which point the seat can be changed for a cargo basket. It also has an entirely modular construction, so any worn pieces can easily be swapped out. And then, of course, there is the cycling dividend. Up to 30% of all car journeys are less than two miles, a range well within the reach of the Taga. Just think of the fuel savings and health benefits. And, as William said: "It's way more fun."martin.love@observer.co.uk
The enquiry "do you like hospital food?" marks the pinnacle of humour for many a bully. If the threat of physical violence isn't bad enough, the thought of having to endure NHS catering is even worse. Australians seem to have a better time of it - their hospital grub seems to be of a standard Gordon Ramsay wouldn't complain about - but around the world, from Poland to Japan, the food that patients are expected to consume appears to be on a level just one rung above what you'd give to a cat, as evidenced by a plate delivered at a German university hospital. Here the grim cavalcade of seriously terrible food is revealed in a series of photographs and reviews that like similar site Airline Meals (airlinemeals.net) are oddly fascinating.
The biggest reason why watching a movie at home is better than at the cinema has nothing to do with people texting, eating or talking. The best thing is that you can pause a DVD while you go to the loo. However, should you find yourself at the multiplex having over-indulged on a mega-gulp portion of cola, the problem is solved by this site which acknowledges that we all have to visit the toilet sometimes and quite often that sometimes is in the middle of a film we've just paid &pound;7 to see. A timebar for each new release advises on the optimum moments to leave your seat - in Star Trek it's after 52 minutes, or, if you miss that time frame, about an hour in, when Spock says, "I'm now a member of an endangered species" - how long you can be away without missing anything and, so as you don't have to ask "what did I miss?", a quick summary of what went on while you emptied your bladder.
It used to be the case that what ended up on the cutting floor remained there – at least until a series of comical out-takes was produced a few years later. But in the era of Twitter, utterances muttered on set can rapidly find their way to whole new audience.The producers of Relocation, Relocation decided to reshoot a scene after deciding that presenter Kirstie Allsopp had gone too far when she used the expressions "for God's sake" and "Christ almighty" to vent her frustrations after things went wrong during filming.The 35-year-old then wrote on her Twitter webpage: "Just been told I can't say 'for god's sake!' or 'Christ almighty' on TV (&amp; it's channel 4!!) I am so sick of compliance I cld scream Aah!"The story was picked up and a spokeswoman for Channel 4 confirmed Allsopp was asked to do a retake in case the language breached the broadcasting code. The broadcaster said the decision to reshoot the scenes was made by the show's production company, IWC Media, and not Channel 4, which was only made aware of the issue following a call from a journalist. "Nobody at Channel 4 has yet seen the footage and it may well turn out to be perfectly fine so it was just a precaution," she said.Later, responding to what she deemed "Christalmightygate" Allsopp wrote on her Twitter webpage: "OMG Talking to boss, then he says "what's this? Ch4 Prss offce just had a call re you, us &amp; our swearing policy"!! Proof journos use Twitter."
"Danger!" warns the sign. If it were in front of a cliff, you might step away. Seeing though as it's in front of a piece of software, and moreover it's software from Google, it instead has roughly the effect of saying "Naked dancing and free beer inside!"For thus it is with the announcement of"developer builds" of Google's Chrome browser to run on Mac OSX and Linux.Come on, get it while it's hot:whatever you do, please DON'T DOWNLOAD THEM! Unless of course you are a developer or take great pleasure in incomplete, unpredictable, and potentially crashing software.Why, what's missing?How incomplete? So incomplete that, among other things , you won't yet be able to view YouTube videos, change your privacy settings, set your default search provider, or even print.The list of things that are among the other things ispretty extensive, running to 445 at the moment, though it's not obvious at a glance which ones are the showstoppers and which are just a bit annoying. (I'd point out that Cmd-L doesn't select the location bar, which can be a bit annoying).Asnoted previously, Chrome creates each new tab (or window) as a separate processor instance, meaning that you can kill them from the command line without affecting others - which is great if you have a runaway (or stuck) process in one tab/window and don't want to have to bring the whole thing down. The problem is still figuring out which of the many processes, each called "Chrome", is the one you want to kill, though.What's still missing overall from the Chrome experience though is a big enough group of developers who have gotten to grips with a plugin framework so that they can begin to make it more than just, well, a browser. That is arguably what made Firefox rise so dramatically from the ashes (or parting of the ways) of the Mozilla project; theGreasemonkeyplugin lets people write scripts that will configure web pages they visit as they want them to be (and wasused to great effect at the Guardian's Hack Day, and doubtless many others) is a game-changer, for example.But when you look at the Google Chrome blog, there's onlyone entry about plugins. Hardly encouraging. Chrome, at present, is looking like a good idea that has gotten left behind in the eagerness to do other things that will catch up with potential rivals in search such as Wolfram Alpha and Microsoft's Bing. It's not in trouble - but there's a serious danger of losing momentum if something doesn't start happening that ties it in with other things.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Probably my mini portable radio … I always have it with me. It helps me keep up to date with what's going on and feeds my bad-pop addiction.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Just listened to some random pirate station on my cycle back home from town … I heard some lyrics which even made me blush which I won't repeat here.What additional features would you add if you could?I like 6 music and would like to be able to get that on terrestrial [non digital] radio … also "listen again" in my mini radio would be pretty good.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No I think it will just have listen again/radio on demand and also have DAB … unless the UK follows America and doesn't adopt digital radio.I think radio has proved its longevity as its place as something to can engage with whilst doing something else. Also as it's just sound I think radio gives more space and exercise to my imagination, maybe?What always frustrates you about technology in general?I want to escape and be able to get away from technology … I don't want to be looking at a beautiful sunset and feel tempted to just Google what the weather will be like tomorrow. Without sounding too cheesy it's good to be able to live in the moment and I think the internet etc allow you to split yourself and focus on somewhere else.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Use in moderation. And if you're interested in film making, learn Final Cut Pro: it's a brilliant editing programme for any moving image stuff. Also, I have an in-shower Homer Simpson radio – that's pretty good for getting the most out of the technology known as showering.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably a Sony HDV camera. I shot nearly the whole of my feature Sounds Like Teen Spirit on it, on £2 tapes, and the picture is beautiful… even blown up to 35mm for cinema. The camera cost about £3,500 and it's brilliant that you can make a cinema movie on it.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. I've used Macs from the age of about seven. My dad bought a Mac Plus and I used to draw with Mac Paint. The whole computer had 1mb of storage. I drew dogs dressed as humans in a street scene – it's pretty good even if I do say so myself.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download music. I bought the Wicker Man soundtrack last week.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I made a film about people who own Aibos (Sony's AI robot dogs, which who recognise your face and voice and are designed to engender feelings of love) and I think that a robot butler would be preferable to an Aibo – as long as it was like Jeeves and would allow me to be as stupid as Bertie Wooster.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Either an electric drum kit or one of those hot tubs that has a DVD player in it. Otherwise, probably a hoverboard: Back to the Future 2 had just come out when I was in school and everyone in my craft design technology class tried to build them by wrecking their mums' Hoovers. No one I knew ever succeeded, but the dream was there.•Jamie Johnson is the director ofSounds Like Teen Spirit, out now on DVD
Click image for larger versionYou may have heard of Gordon Moore, if only for his "law": he was the one who looked at how large-scale integration of circuits onto chips was progressing in the 1960s, and drew a line suggesting that you'd get twice as many transistors onto the same area every 18 to 24 months. That usually translates into a doubling of processing power for the same price.You'll be glad to know that although Moore's law is looking a bit troubled when it comes to desktop computers - heat dissipation turns out to be a challenge, which is why chip makers are turning to multi-core systems - it still holds true in smaller chips. Such as those used for smartphones. Such as the iPhone.Which means - given that the first iPhone went on sale two years ago this month - that Moore's law is still in operation.The graph shows what you therefore should be able to expect. Thanks to Craig Hockenberry, a third-party developer, whodeveloped a system for investigating the CPU and bus speed of iPhonesand iPod Touches, we can say that the first iPhone (June 2007) ran at 400MHz, with a bus speed of 100MHz. Then there was a software update in January 2008 that saw it rise to 412MHz, and 103MHz. The memory remains at 117MB (reckoned to be 128MB of onboard memory, of which 11MB is used for video.)You might ask: how does that work? How can a software update make a chip run faster? Simple: the chips on the iPhone are underclocked - running at well below their top speed so that they use less power (and also generate less heat). TheWikipedia page about the iPhonereckons that it has an underclocked 620MHz ARM processor. Though the number varies quite a bit: some say it'scapable of 667 MHZ() or maybe it's620-700 MHz.  (Underclocking, and then providing extra performance through software updates, was quite a common tactic used by IBM back when it had a monopoly on mainframes.)Underclocking the CPU by in this way gives you at least 15% more battery life (the phone has to do other things, such as run the GSM/3G radio, so the CPU isn't the whole story). If Apple ran the iPhone CPU at full speed, you'd have a very hot phone that would run out in a matter of a few hours.Move on to July 2008, and you have the iPhone 3G, which added 3G capability, and GPS. But the Hockenberry Query shows that it has the same CPU and bus speed as the original. Howcome? After a year you'd expect it would be about 50% faster, wouldn't you? Yes, you might, but Apple clearly took the decision to ration battery life, especially with GPS and 3G sucking it up too.But then came the updated iPod Touch, which turns out to have a CPU running at 533MHz, and a bus speed of 133MHz. Aha - now we're getting somewhere. The iPod Touch doesn't have GPS or 3G: so it shows you what Apple would be capable of if it weren't husbanding resources. (There is a rumour that the iPod Touch v2 CPU is actually capable of 800MHz - which would again fit with Moore's law, since that's only a 33% increase on the maximum clock speed compared to a year previously; you'd expect about 50%.)From that we can make a pretty straightforward, Moore's law projection about what next week's iPhone will contain - and thus, be able to do.Simply, it's this: a processor running at around 650MHz, and a bus speed of about 180MHz. And, as the top (yellow) line on the graph suggests, the CPU will be capable of about 950MHz, but will be underclocked at the same ratio - two-thirds of its top speed - meaning that battery life should be as good, if not better, than earlier versions, because the radio and GPS chips will have shrunk in the past year and so draw less power.That will mean much faster processing: browser pages will draw more quickly. Email will display more quickly. Video will be smoother.The next iPhone will be able to capture video: there will be enough processor power there. (Other mobile phones have had video capabilities for ages, but Apple appears to have wanted to have something special to sell, and wanted to preserve battery life.) Expect an improved camera - 3 megapixels, up from the present 2MP, is a reasonable upgrade.We can also make a number of other forecasts based on those, and other ineluctable realities about the cost of components in computing.1) Its Flash storage will be doubled. Prices there are halving every year, so rather than the present 8GB and 16GB models, you'll see 16GB and 32GB. A separate data point on this comes from Darren Waters of the BBC, whosays he has heard this, independently, from a Carphone Warehouse source. (CPW sells iPhones in the UK.)2) You'll have a lot more onboard RAM: 256MB in total, rather than 128. Again, simple economics: it costs the same for that much as it did two years ago. That will mean that applications can store more data in memory and boot faster. It might also mean that you'll get better video quality, since there will be more available for the graphics chip.Interestingly John Gruber, a keen observer of Apple, who has his sources -  who haven't led him wrong in any significant way that I can recall, especially on hardware - hasalso made a set of predictions about what's coming: he says thatBased on information from informed sources, I believe the processor in the next-generation iPhone is going to be that kind of upgrade [comparable to the Intel Pentium's speed against its 486 predecessor).The original EDGE iPhone and iPhone 3G use the same 400 MHz processor. Let's say the rumors are right — and I believe they are — that the next-generation iPhone's CPU will be running at 600 MHz. In the same way that, say, a 90 MHz Pentium was more than 1.5 times as fast as a 60 MHz 486, the 600 MHz CPU in the next iPhone will be more than 1.5 times as fast as the current 400 MHz iPhone CPU.He then makes the interesting point thatMuch of what the iPhone does now is constrained by its CPU. App launching speed, for one thing — faster app launching should make it feel more like switching between apps and less like quitting/relaunching them. Web page rendering is also significantly constrained by the CPU. When I first used NetShare I was amazed at how fast Safari on my MacBook Pro could render web pages using the iPhone's cell network connection. Web page rendering on current iPhones is hindered at least as much, if not more, by the CPU than by the speed of the 3G network.Two last questions remain.First, will it be able to run Flash, so that you can look at all those pages and hunt around for the "Skip Intro" button (or, alternatively, be able to browse YouTube and Vimeo without hitting blank spots)? Last June iPhone Atlaslooked at Flash performance on mobile processors. The problem is that Flash isreallyprocessor-intensive: great for grown-up CPUs, not so good for portable devices with small batteries which like the CPU to sip, not slurp, power. And despite somebrave-faced talk from Adobe last summerabout "getting Flash on the iPhone", it's not happening in a hurry: Apple doesn't really need Flash, because the BBC and YouTube have made MP4 versions of their videos that work just fine on the iPhone/iPod Touch. In fact, Adobe needs Apple rather more than Apple needs Adobe at the moment. Conclusion: no Flash.Secondly, what will the price be? There has been speculation about a cheaper "iPhone mini" - some of themore credulouswrote excited stories suggesting it would be released or at least announced in January. After all, Apple did start splitting the iPod into multiple products,introducing the iPod miniin January 2004.But I don't think it will. The iPod mini was a move to take control of a market whereApple had already led for a year; it was expanding the market. The iPhone, for all its merits, isn't leading the market, and isn't pulling away from the market. Apple will prefer to stick with the single product for now.Oh, and the price? The same, I'm afraid.The quick 5-second roundup:-significantly faster-will record video-better camera-no FM. (Uses battery, so let accessories companies fight for it)-twice the storage of current models-still no Flash-will work as a modem (it's always been able to, but networks refused to allow it)-same price.So - does that sound like enough, or is it still eminently resistible for you? Is a smartphone on your buying agenda, and if so, which one?
The mobile phone maker Palm is gearing up for what could be the most important product launch in its history, the release of the new Pre handset tomorrow.The gadget, which goes on sale at midnight in America, is being pitched as a competitor to Apple's hugely successful iPhone – and could possibly mark Palm's last attempt to try and rebuild its struggling business.Since pioneering the handheld computer market in the 1990s with the Palm Pilot, and being one of the first companies to make so-called "smartphones", Palm has proved powerless against its rivals in recent years.The runaway success of handsets including the BlackBerry and iPhone have taken users away from Palm and eroded the company's prospects to the point where it was forced to sell almost half the business to Elevation Partners.But in the Pre,which was first unveiled to great acclaim in January, it believes it has a device that can generate enough buzz to rectify its problems.Technology fans are eagerly awaiting the launch, and early reviews of the device have been generally positive – handing the Silicon Valley company a crucial lifeline in its attempt to recover from the slump.The touchscreen Pre uses a new operating system, WebOS, that integrates much more tightly with the internet,&nbsp;though many have highlighted the effect that internet connectivity has on the handset's battery, which can be charged wirelessly using the $70 Touchstone add-on.Writing in the New York Times,David Poguesays that the Pre's system "borrows plenty from the iPhone ... but has its own personality", while the Wall Street Journal'sWalt Mossbergsaid it was a "smart, sophisticated product".Joshua Topolsky, the editor of Engadget,said the device is still a work in progress, but that although "there's no doubt that there's room for improvement in webOS and its devices ... there's also an astounding amount of things that Palm nails out of the gate".Although there is no news yet on when the handset will arrive in Britain – the American model is not compatible with European phone networks – the Guardianrecently reported that O2 had secured the rightswhen it does finally go on sale in the UK.One area that reviewers have said requires improvement is in the scope of the Pre's downloadable applications – extremely limited at the moment. Palm has been incredibly tight-lipped about working with developers, and there still appear to be a large number of bugs with the service.That has led to some concerns that Palm may not be able to match Apple's App Store, and resulted in a broadside fromthe prominent developer William Hurley, who argues that Palm's failure to work with the software community will be its downfall.In its fight to regain its position in the market, however, Palm will not just have to cope with critics, but also Apple's publicity machine. On Monday – just two days after the Pre goes on sale – Apple is expected to announce a new iPhone model at its annual Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco. The upgraded device is expected to include enhanced functions such as video, faster chips and larger memory, with the potential to make the Pre's moment in the sun very short indeed.It is not just pride at stake for Palm. After a torrid period in which the BlackBerry and iPhone have drastically reduced the company's market share and profits, it is desperate for the Pre to be a success.In March, the company revealed that its revenues for the last financial quarter had fallen 73% on the previous year – partially because buyers were waiting for the Pre – and burned through more than $100m of its cash reserves, leaving $220m in the bank.Analysts estimate that Palm could sell as many as 850,000 Pre phones in its first quarter – a small fraction of the 6.9m handsets sold in the three months after Apple launched its iPhone 3G, but enough to offer the company some respite from the gloom.Talking to the Guardian earlier this year, Palm's chairman, Jon Rubinstein, said that launching a hit device was the vital first step on the road to recovery."We've been fighting the battle with basically both hands tied behind our back for the past year and half," he said. "Now we're getting on the playing field, and we're going to be extremely competitive. But it's the beginning."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; And lo, thePalm Prereviews emerge: thumbs up, more or less, from everyone - including the usual suspectsDavid PogueandWalt Mossberg, while Engadgetthree part review. One major point seems to be the lower prices and differences in coverage you get with network provider Sprint - which means little to British customers of course, who arelikely to have to opt for O2if it ever arrives in the UK.&bull; As if to squish the Pre before it gets going, more iPhone rumours have started ahead of Monday's Apple announcements at WWDC. TUAW wonders if it will be called theiPhone video. AppleInsider speculates that Carphone Warehousepreparing for four new models. The FT suggests that theprice may fall again.&bull; With the weekend fast approaching, here's a little light relief for a Friday: Cracked.com's gallery ofgreat historical moments ruined by modern technology. Jack mentioned it on Twitter yesterday, and it got a couple of laughs out of me.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
My final day at E3 was spent in a whirlwind of activity, trying to get around as much of the show as possible to find the games that I hadn't heard too much about. While you can hardly move for people chattering about the big titles, there's a lot of other stuff on show that is worth playing - so I was ready for a day of serious game.First up wasBatman: Arkham Asylum, the latest in a seemingly unending stream of games and movies based on the caped crusader, who must now rank as one of the most profitable characters in entertainment history. It has a graphical spin that's not quite cartoon, and not quite photo-real - something that adds a and (appropriately enough) a nightmarish edge.The game itself seemed a familiar sort of 3D fighting puzzler - no surprise when it comes from Eidos - but the emphasis is really on using Batman's wide spread of abilities to beat enemies, not just getting into a fistfight with them. The vast array of skills and technology at his disposal was a little overwhelming - even on the tutorial level - but I'm a sucker for Batman, so I'll probably be placing an order when it's released later this year.As I around E3 I took a peek atLego Rock Band(which looks like, well, Rock Band with Lego graphics) andRed Steel 2- a sequel that, frankly, doesn't seem to have erased the frustrating inaccuracy of the Wiimote... even though it uses the new WiiMotion Plus.And then I ended up at theIndiecade, a small selection of independently-developed titles hidden away at the back of one of the halls. This was great fun, in part because it lacked the bombast and balls-out machismo of the rest of the show: the games were presented on their own merits, and very little else.I passed over the latest iteration of theinsanely frustrating retro dexterity gameFlywrench, and cast my eyes over a couple of gorgeous European platformers:And Yet It Moves, a puzzler where you move the world around your character (more here) and thenBlueberry Gardenfrom Sweden (you may remember developer Erik Svedang fromWorld of Pong.Blueberry Gardenwas so beautiful I almost wanted to put it in a ribbon-wrapped box with a kitten and cry a little. And, it felt, a perfect coda to the week - showing the entire spread of games on offer - from the brash and brutal stimulations of the big boys, to a dainty little piece of indy magic.
The government will acquire powers to apply "technical measures" to crack down on persistent illegal filesharers on the internet, the culture secretary, Andy Burnham, said today.The government's response to problem filesharing of music and video is due to be unveiled in the Digital Britain report later this month.Today Burnham said any solution was likely to involve a requirement that internet service providers (ISPs) notify users caught stealing digital content.Speaking at a Music Week conference about monetising digital music, Burnham said that while a great deal could be done with voluntary measures, the government was willing to back these up with force. He said: "There will be many who don't think a simple notification would be effective and we will reserve the powers to apply technical measures for persistent offenders. Applying these measures will be a serious business, and not one we take lightly, but it is right that they are in place."Burnham would not give details about specific measures before publication of the Digital Britain report or discuss what legal action could be taken against filesharers, but dismissed the previously floated idea of "three strikes and you're out" – in which users would have their connection cut if they continued downloading illegally – as draconian.He said any new legislation would be overseen by Ofcom, a proposal which dismayed some music industry figures who doubt the regulator's ability to make an impact.Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the British Phonographic Industry, welcomed the promise of legislation, but said it must go further than forcing ISPs to send educational letters and had to be backed up by measures to steer persistent illegal filesharers towards legitimate online services."That type of graduated response solution needs to be put in place now, not in a few years' time. The long-term harm that will be done to the UK's outstanding creative industries – and the new jobs they create – will be enormous if Government puts off hard decisions now," he said. "This is no time to fiddle while Rome burns."Feargal Sharkey, the chief executive of UK Music, said: "The government threw down the gauntlet to the music industry on this 12 months ago. We have done everything in our power to tackle the problem head-on so we can make sure we protect artists and keep producing amazing music. Now we are incredibly keen to see the government in the Digital Britain report reciprocate their side of the bargain."Charles Caldas, the chief executive officer of Merlin, a licensing body for the independent music sector, was concerned that legislation could pose more problems than it solved. "I haven't met an indie label that wants to see its customers prosecuted," he said. "Yes, we need to protect artists but first there has to be a compelling commercial offer for users." A system of educating users and encouraging them to move towards an efficient legal model would be more effective, he said.Burnham urged the music industry not to cling to "the old order", comparing the current turmoil to the "severe wreckage" in Westminster. "There is, at the moment, a head-on crash between the old and the new worlds," he said. "That change will bring a world where people are more empowered and where abuses of power are not tolerated."
Some of you may have spent the last few days trawling game sites for the latest E3 trailers - but even if you have, there may have been a few lesser known treats you've missed out on. I've selected five interesting game flicks for your perusal. Have a watch and then give us your critical repsonse...WET(Publisher: Bethesda. Developer: Artificial Mind and Movement. Formats: PS3, Xbox 360. Release: autumn 2009)Described as a, "highly stylized third-person shooter that seamlessly blends acrobatics, gun play, and sword kills." The demo is an unashamed Tarantino-fest, with added John Woo. Despite my better instincts, I find it rather exciting.Homefront(Publisher: THQ. Developer: Kaos Studios. Formats: PC, PS3, Xbox 360, Release: TBC)Scripted by Apocalypse Now and Red Dawn writer John Milius, Homefront is an FPS set ten years after the economic collapse of the United States. A Civilian Resistance must now fight to reclaim their homeland from, "an oppressive North Korean occupation". Hey it could happen. Lots of rocket launchers and shouting - possibly a good indication of whatwouldactually happen.Lego Battles(Publlisher: Warner Bros. Developer: Hellbent Games. Formats: DS. Release: Summer 2009)Announced earlier this year, I knew absolutely nothing about this RTS-style battle game which uses Lego Space, Lego Castle, and Lego Pirates elements to provide players with a range of customisable armies. The trailer has a hint of the usual Lego game humour.Invizimals (Publisher: Sony. Developer: Sony. Format: PS3. Release: TBC)A strange augmented reality game, which employs the PSP camera. From the press release: "Using the PSP on-screen sensor, players can track down the mysterious Invizimals and lay down magical traps to capture as many of them as possible."Tatsunoko vs. Capcom: Ultimate All-Stars(Publisher: Capcom. Developer: Capcom. Format: Nintendo Wii. Release: TBC)Another hyper-kinetic 2D fighter, this time pitching classic Capcom combatants against characters from anime production studio,Tatsunoko. That means, say, Street Fighter's Chun-Li or Morrigan from Darkstalkers versus Ken the Eagle or Jun the Swan from Science Ninja Team Gatchaman (Battle of the Planets in other words)...
Just in case you didn't see this today, Konami has cleared up a little ambiguity regarding its forthcoming Metal Gear Solid: Rising title. The game's appearance at the Microsoft conference on Monday, together with a carefully worded press release, seemed to suggest that the title might be an Xbox exclusive. It's not - it'll be out on PC and PS3, too, at the same time.While I'm on the subject of Konami, the publisher also revealed today that actor Tobin Bell will be on voice acting duties for the forthcomingSaw movie tie-in. He'll reprise his role as the psychotic creator of deadly traps and tricks. Developed byZombie Studios, the game is scheduled to be released alongside the cinematic arrival of Saw VI, in which the fiendish Jigsaw character cunningly traps great swathes of gullible teenagers into watching a movie they have already paid to see five times before.From the press release:SAW invites players to engage in a horrific game inside the treacherous corridors of an abandoned insane asylum that has been transformed into a gauntlet of terrors that Jigsaw alone controls. Players will match wits with Jigsaw as they fight to overcome his horrific traps and the mind-bending puzzles that have become synonymous with the SAW film series.Meanwhile, over in Castlevania land...Konami has confirmed that the title shown off last year as Lords of Shadow is now to be known as Castlevania: Lords of Shadow. Yep, it's a whole new title in the long running gothic adventure platforming series - developed by Madrid-based Mercury Steam in conjunction with Kojima Productions, we're assured it's a radical new take on the franchise. You play a holy knight named Gabriel who must restore order to the universe by banishing an evil force known as the Lords of Shadow from the Earth.The action takes place in the Europe of the Middle Ages, with snowy mountain ranges, Gothic castles and undead-strewn wastelands providing the backdrop. Apparently, it's all based in a large open world, so you can forget about the scrolling platform action of old. I'm interested in the use of both Japanese and European talent - when IinterviewedBionic Commando producer Ben Judd last month, he talked about how Capcom was hoping to re-connect with Western gamers by combining the skills of different studios - that game was a joint development by both Capcom Japan and Euro-studio, GRIN. Perhaps Konami is following a similar policy. Whatever the case, it looks intriguing and is set for release on PS3 and Xbox 360 next year.
One striking aspect of this year's E3 has been the number of sequels in evidence. It is currently de rigueur, apparently, to have the number 2 (or II) after your game's name. In the past, this would have been perceived as a bad sign – sequel games, for years, have been held to convey a lack of adventure and imagination. But some of the best games at E3 2009 are sequels, and I have a theory as to why that is.Whether a sequel game is a good or bad thing depends on the original game. And in the previous development cycle, two years ago, there were a number of very good games, which were almost great but were slightly flawed. Those are the games which might spawn great sequels. On the other hand, if the first iteration was near-perfect, then difficult second album syndrome might rear its ugly head.A classic example of the former isUncharted 2. The original was one of those games that came from seemingly nowhere – expectations were low when it arrived, but it proved to be great fun to play. You wouldn't have said it was a classic, though. But Uncharted 2 just might be a classic. It is absolutely stunning, with incredible environments, many of which are destructible in a technologically impressive way, and as far as one can tell from the two levels on display at E3, another rich and involving storyline like the original. The quirks of Nate Drake's movement and the shooting system appear to have been cleaned up, and it strikes me as a game which has benefitted from a dispassionate assessment of its predecessor (something that developers, who get too close to their precious efforts, aren't always good at). Uncharted 2 will definitely be one of this Christmas' biggest draws.Pretty much the same could be said ofAssassin's Creed II, except that the original arrived in a blaze of hype. While the first game flattered to deceive – the gameplay suffering from monotony – its sequel puts forward a convincing case for keeping what made the first game good, and fixing the slightly broken bits. The Rennaissance setting is fantastic, and Ezio's movement and combat has received plenty of attention, while the AI has been restarted from scratch.BioShock 2, sadly, could be an example of the second type of sequel. The original was so fresh, original and generally brilliant that it was always going to be a tough act to follow, and it generated a significant fan base. Very few of whom are at all happy at the prospect of having to play BioShock 2 as a lumbering, clunky Big Daddy. The prospect of a multiplayer mode is heartening, but again there are mutterings about expecting something a bit more innovative than Deathmatch and Team deathmatch. Maybe we'll be proved wrong, but we're a bit worried about BioShock 2.CallingModern Warfare 2a sequel is stretching it a bit – it is, more correctly, the sixth Call of Duty game. But it's a strong candidate for game of the show. What strikes one about it is its astonishing attention to detail – it's even more cinematic than its predecessors.Super Mario Galaxy 2, on the other hand, could suffer from the same problem as BioShock 2 – it's reassuringly familiar, but will it feel over-familiar in the final analysis?Efforts likeCrackdown 2andMass Effect 2(yes, it will again feature sex with female aliens) could benefit from advances in engine technology since the original was made, and a more relaxed development cycle.Red Steel 2, thanks to the Wii Motion Plus, could be as good as the original was bad.Maybe, on reflection, it's that third game which is the difficult one. And if ever there was a game that could be described as its predecessor with extra blood (and, surprisingly, currently suffers some frame-rate issues), it'sGod of War III. Once you get to the third iteration of a franchise, you lay yourself open to accusations of milking it for all it's worth. And gamers are too savvy to tolerate that these days.
Yesterday for me revolved around two mightily impressive looking titles –Mass Effect 2andAlan Wake. Yes, you read that right, Alan Wake – first announced in 2005 – was demoed live and looked fantastic. Think Silent Hill/Twin Peaks/X-Files/Lost – this is a sci-fi/horror game with an interesting use of light. Shining your torch at assailants is the main way to defeat them but the game looks to be as much about the story – author goes to mysterious town to cure writer's block only to see wife disappear  - as the action. The "previously on Alan Wake" and "in tonight's show" give the game the intended feel of a TV show and I can't wait to play this next spring (assuming it makes this deadline of course).The other biggie for me was Mass Effect 2. From the Blade Runner-style opening scenes – the music in particular is deliciously Vangelis again, all retro synth – to the frankly market-leading facial animation Mass Effect 2, really stands out. Sadly the game wasn't playable, but the live demo suggests a slightly more accessible combat system – though tactics are still crucial – and a harder-edged story.The latter was particularly evident with lead character Shepard allowed to "die" – apparently one of numerous endings. Owners of the original game will be able to carry their character over to the sequel too, complete with all the consequences of previously made decisions. Other new touches include the ability to butt into conversations and (hurrah!) beefed up planetary exploration. In short Mass Effect 2 looks like fulfilling the huge potential of the first game.Fellow role-playerDragon Agelooked almost last-gen compared to Mass Effect. The character animation – particularly the facial movement in the cut-scenes – was way off Mass Effect 2's pace.  The look of the game reminded me a little of Oblivion which is fine, but the demoincluded a "love" scene that felt contrived rather than convincing. But when the action started things got better. A dust-up with a dragon looked entertaining although for me the appeal was as much in the rather pretty landscape fading off into the distance, which suggests exploration is a key part of the game. A hands-on with the 360 version showed promise and while it lacks Mass Effect 2's majesty Dragon Age will likely gather a large fanbase on release.Other notable spots includeDante's Inferno– think God of War goes to Hell – and perhaps my most pleasant surprise,Splinter Cell Conviction. The latter looked different – objectives are "beamed" onto walls and floors rather than hidden in menus – and had a pleasingly athletic feel with little of the overly-fussy stealth that characterised the older games in the series. Whether this means the game has been dumbed down remains to be seen but both this and the gorgeous Assassin's Creed 2 suggest Ubisoft has got two big hits this Christmas.Finally and totally differently, special mention has to go toScribblenauts, the unique DS puzzle game. The action involves writing down the names of items – which then appear on the top screen – and using them to solve the puzzles. Addictive and fresh are two words that sprung to my mind.It may lack the one title that blows everything away – although a live demo of Natal or the PS3 wand may have done that – but this E3 has been a general success with enough new titles to please most gamers.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation is one of the latest organisations to fall foul of AASS -- Apple App Store Stupidity -- albeit indirectly. It seems Duane Fields ofExact Magicdeveloped an iPhone application that displays content from the EFF's RSS feed, and Apple rejected it.As the EFF puts it:Why? Because it claims EFF's content runs afoul of the iTune's App Store's policy against "objectionable" content. Apparently, Apple objects to a blog post that linked to a "Downfall" parody video created by EFF Board Chairman Brad Templeton. The parody casts Hitler in the role of entertainment industry executive, ranting about the failure of DRM and the continued popularity of fair use. The parody includes the fleeting appearance of the f-bomb in a subtitle.If Apple thinks this makes sense, then it should immediately remove the Safari browser from all its products, because that can be used to view exactly the same YouTube video, a couple of dozen similar Downfall parodies, and no doubt much worse things besides.Further, Apple should probably remove the software keyboard, the camera, the SMS capabilities and the voice functions from the iPhone as well. Any of these might end up with users encountering rude words and pictures that are not allowed in Apple's Brave New (Censored) World.As the EFF notes:This is just the latest example of the failings of Apple's iTunes App Store approval process, which has been revealed to be not just anti-competitive, discriminatory, censorial, and arbitrary, but downright absurd.(Please see the original paragraph for the links!)However, I suspect the EFF is delighted it's happened. It's trying to get a DMCA exemption to cover the "jailbreaking" of iPhones, which will mean users can load any apps they like, not just Apple-approved apps. The more patently absurd Apple's control-freakery, the louder the cries for removing it.
Video games giant Electronic Arts has found itself in difficulty because its products "haven't been good enough", according to the company's president and chief operating officer.The world's biggest games publisher has long been one of the most powerful forces in the industry, with a string of hits including the Fifa football series and The Sims.But after more than a decade of unparallelled success the company is struggling to win over gamers, recently announcing a $1bn loss for the previous financial year and slashing 1,100 jobs.Speaking to the Guardian at the E3 conference in Los Angeles, John Pleasants – the company's president and chief operating officer – said that EA had failed to produce hits and suggested that the quality of some games had suffered in recent years."If you go back three years, EA would have had 10 or 12 games in the top 30," he said. "Look at last year, and we have four or five. You've got to chart. If you don't chart, in the history of the business, you can't get out from underneath it."Pleasants, who joined Electronic Arts last March, said the company had lost focus and failed to improve its products in recent years."Our hits haven't been good enough," he said. "Maybe we didn't market them right, maybe they're not innovative enough. Maybe they're not positioned correctly, maybe the quality's not still the top, top tier that it needs to be.""That all needs to be worked out of the system so we've got big, blockbuster, tentpole titles … I think then you may start to feel a little bit of reprieve from some of the pressures that we've been under."Pleasants said the company was beginning to turn things around by focusing more on what gamers want, and on building better propositions in fast-growing areas such as online gaming, multiplayer titles and the Nintendo Wii.The company's struggles have been in marked contrast to the rise of Activision-Blizzard, the rival formed by an $18bn (£11bn) merger in 2007 between the American and French publishers. Pleasants said he respected Activision's achievements – which include a string of enormous hits such as World of Warcraft, Guitar Hero and Call of Duty – but insisted Electronic Arts could not focus on what its competitors were doing."I give Activision a lot of credit, they made a lot of smart moves over the last few years that have positioned them to have three hits – not just hits, but megahit franchises," he said. "But I don't wake up every morning wondering what they're going to do."Pleasants added that EA was considering acquisitions as a way of boosting its presence in some areas.While recent attempts to buy smaller publishers have not always been successful – including a drawn-out attempt to buy Take Two, the publisher of the best-selling Grand Theft Auto franchise, that ultimately failed – he suggested the company had a war chest of about $1bn that it was prepared to use to secure its future."I would consider us to be quite active in looking at things," he said. "In the past we've spent a lot of money on traditional game studios and intellectual property, but I think right now we're looking at a lot of online activities, digital distribution activities, things that can take our portfolio and bring it to new markets, new genres, new platforms."
Chinese internet users are rebelling against an internet crackdown brought in on the anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre.Twenty years after the pro-democracy protests that claimed the lives of hundreds – or even thousands – of unarmed civilians in Beijing, a number of websites appear to be making a veiled protest at state censorship by referring to the date sarcastically as "Chinese Internet Maintenance Day".Earlier this week the governmentblocked access to a number of popular western websites, in what was widely seen as way of controlling access to information about the events at Tiananmen Square. Among the sites that were screened out were photo-sharing website Flickr, Microsoft's Hotmail email service and the popular online messaging site Twitter.A number of other sites appear to have gone down over recent days, however, in a move that may be part of an ad hoc anniversary protest online.According to Chinese media blog Danwei, the music-sharing service VeryCD has been taken down, as well as Fanfou, a local version of Twitter. But rather than simply fail to load, which would be typical for websites blocked by the firewall, many of the sites are now carrying messages saying that they are closed for maintenance.It is not clear whether any of the sites took down their services as a result of government pressure: most have had previous trouble with the authorities in Beijing, and reports suggest that many sites were told that they would face serious consequences if they published anything relating to the events of 4 June 1989.But it was also suggested that the phrasing used by some of the websites indicates a subtle attack on the government.While deliberate government action cannot be ruled out, more than 300 Chinese sites appear to have posted increasingly blasé maintenance messages on the anniversary."The Fanfou server is undergoing technical maintenance. Service is expected to resume before dawn on 6 June," said one message. On dictionary website WordKu.com, its owners said they had taken the site down for Chinese Internet Maintenance Day.Blog hosting service Bullog.org, meanwhile, says it has gone "on strike" for the day, and Wuqing.org carried a message saying: "I, too, am under maintenance!"Internet users in China often deploy subtle methods to criticise the government without falling foul of the law.Among the favoured techniques is repurposing internet slang to make fun of leading political figures or mock their policies.In the past the term "grass mud horse" –a lewd punintended as a jab at the censorship of bad language – gained currency among China's internet-savvy crowd. A string of empty government slogans, meanwhile, was parodied in a popular meme known as "the river crab wears three watches".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Most indie game developers would give their right arms to get their game ideas in front of game gods like Sid Meier and Will Wright. Fancy it?Intel'sLevel Up 2009competition'sjudging panelis full of heavy hitters, including Wright and Meier, and all you have to do to show them your bits and bytes is submit a game idea. Sex it up with some screenshots if you wish. Here are the details:Level Up 2009 is a worldwide competition providing developer's greater exposure to the gaming community. Submissions (in the form of an abstract, any screenshots or movies -- code is not necessary) from professional, aspiring and student game developers will be accepted until July 1, 2009. The games will be judged in three categories: Best Threaded Game, Best Game-on-the-Go, and Best Game Optimized for Intel® Graphics.On July 20, 2009, finalists will be notified by email, and by August 10 executable programs and articles are due.Winners get hardware and the attentions of the top developers in the world. Check out your competitionhere.Gosh, makes ourGame Pitchfeature feel like child's play.Thanks for the heads-up, Erik!
&bull; American government officials areinvestigating the hiring practices of the country's biggest technology companies, reports the Washington Post. According to reports, the investigation is looking into claims that there may be innovation-stifling collusion between the likes ofGoogle,AppleandYahooover the switching of staff (that's despite a sequence ofhigh-profilelawsuitsover executive poaching).&bull; Just days before the much-anticipatedPalm Prelaunches in America, thecritics have come out fighting- with a Business Week piece by chagrined Pre developer William Hurley saying that the launch "will be hampered by its lousy applications, high price and marketing missteps". Sour grapes? Maybe. But his analysis doesn't seem too wide of the mark.&bull; Thursday is election day for many Britons - and you can cast your vote in favour ofTechnology Guardianby picking up a copy of the paper today at your local polling booth/newsagent. Our cover story looks ata hacking counteroffensive being run by the UK and USin response to online attacks, while inside we examine thefuture of satnavand columnistBruce Schneier wonders about cloud computing. Read it onlinehere.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
This is my first visit to E3, so - unlike the hordes of games professionals who patrol the halls here every year - I've not got much to compare it to, much less the glory days when the expo was all glitz, glamour and booth babes.Still, it's a little smaller than I expected, and there fewer games getting the public test run than I imagined. This is still an industry that enjoys giving canned demonstrations but saves the real deal until punters have forked out their money.Underneath the facade of booming sound systems and flashing lights, there's almost a silent culture war taking place here, with the Japanese giants Sony and Nintendo nestled next to each other in the expo's west hall, while the ultra-American Microsoft and Electronic Arts huddle together in the neighbouring building.The floor space is expansive, but not stuffed to bursting point - certainly smaller than you might expect for an industry which is, as one Nintendo exec boasted yesterday, bigger than cinema and music combined.That doesn't mean that they aren't trying to impress us, however.Activision's booth, at the first E3 after its big merger with Blizzard, is a testosterone-fuelled extravaganza, monolithic black stands filled with crowds desperate to look at the newModern WarfareandDJ Herogames, as well as taking a pop atTony Hawk Ride, complete with skateboard-style controller.Without serious new hardware to excite the crowds - apart from the neatly-done but frankly uninspiringPSP Go- we are, instead, left staring at banks of screens and trying to get our hands on the most exciting software.So what's really exciting? The easiest games to examine here are the sort of fast and furious casual titles that are simple to learn but difficult to master - I enjoyed a blast onFight Night Round 4(looks great, but I always struggle to maintain interest in boxing games) and took a turn onBrutal Legend, which - in the five minutes I spent with it - struck me as amusing but a bit pedestrian in terms of gameplay.I was also really impressed with the look Shadow Complex, a new Xbox Live Arcade game from Epic which looks like a really nice spin on the sideways scrolling, 2D shooter.The biggest crowd thrills I've seen, meanwhile, came at a showing of theAlan Waketrailer, where the much-anticipated got its longest preview yet. It looks great, Wake creeps around his environment, shining a torch and fighting off nightmarish enemies with a flash of light. It's certainly impressive, but considering that the game has already been in development for four years, with release dates getting pushed back several times - I'm prepared to remain sceptical until they show us something that human beings can play.Aside from such reservations, however, the pure excitement of seeing a new game is still here - and in the unlikeliest places.In one short break between events yesterday, I popped into a nearby bank. One of the staff came up to me, and I braced myself for the usual cheery 'how-can-I-help-you' grin."Are you here for E3?", he gasped, pointing at the badge I was wearing. He drilled me on the details about big titles: what was Modern Warfare 2 like? Had I seen Assassin's Creed 2 yet? Was there anything good for the Wii?It might not be the enormous event of yesteryear but, it seems, E3 still has a draw.
Only 10 days ago, I wrote a weeklyNetbytes column about Rocketboom, mainly because YouTube star Caitlin Hill (TheHill88) was doing such a terrific job in the seat once occupied byAmanda Congdon. But it seems she's not doing the job any more. FounderAndrew Baron writes on his blog:Personally, I believe that Caitlin is perfect for Rocketboom and so when we had the chance to work with her, we jumped right in. If you saw any of the videos she was in on Rocketboom recently, I think you will agree, she is a natural talent.  Both Caitlin and I both really want her on Rocketboom but, unfortunately, we have not been able to come to terms with her company, Hitviews.He's decided that he now needs two anchors in a hurry -- one for New York and one for Los Angeles -- and has launched atalent search. Applicants can respond via YouTube.Presenters come and go, of course, and the search could turn up someone even better than Caitlin. Or two people. Or maybe even four. Real TV news operations are never wholly dependent on a single presenter, and web news sites shouldn't be either.
I'm travelling for five months with a high-def camcorder. I want to take an ultraportable laptop with me so that I can store/edit some footage as I go.Gareth WeetmanMost netbooks aren't powerful enough to play HD footage reliably, let alone edit it, but you could still use one for backing up files. The Samsung NC10 and similar machines have 160GB hard drives, and you could also carry an external hard drive: choose one ­specifically designed for portability.The sort of thing you'd need for editing on the move would have an HD screen, a dual-core processor, a FireWire port and, ideally, a Blu-ray drive, which is needed to burn HD to DVD discs at full quality. I don't think there are any of those around, but the Sony VAIO VGN-CS11Z/R (where /R indicates bright red), VGN-CS21Z/Q, VGN-CS25X and VGN-AW21M/H come closer than most. The CS25X has a 2.4GHz Core 2 Duo, 3GB or 4GB of memory and Blu-ray drive at a relatively light 2.5kg, but the 14.1-inch screen only has a resolution of 1280 x 800 pixels. The AW21M has an 18.4-inch 1680 x 945 widescreen for around £1,100 but is nobody's idea of an ultraportable. Someone with a PhD in Sony model numbering schemes may find something more suitable.Instead, store your movie files on a smaller, cheaper laptop or netbook until you get home, then edit them in HD on a desktop PC with a quad-core processor, 4GB or more memory, and 64-bit Windows Vista or Windows 7 for less than the cost of a comparable laptop. Either way, maintaining full HD quality from camcorder to HDTV set can still be something of a challenge.
I get around 10 to 15 spam emails a day. How much should I expect and put up with? Is it a good idea to change email addresses, or will it just start again?Rob KilbyI really have no idea how much spam is "average" but as the vast majority of email is spam, the real question is how much of it gets eliminated on its way to you. I get well over 100 spam emails a day over three accounts, but I'd only see three or four a day if I didn't look in my spam folders for real mail caught by the filters. If you're seeing 10-15 in your inbox, you could get better spam filtering, or switch to Gmail, which does an excellent job of catching spam.Changing your email addresses should reduce spam, but as you say, it will just start again. You can reduce the risk by not publishing your addresses on the web, and by not replying to spammers or any other emails that look dodgy.
When I connect a camera to my computer, a window usually pops up and asks what I would like to do with the images on the card. This no longer happens. Some time ago, you warned us of a virus that entered via a memory stick and suggested that we downloaded a piece of software that removed access to the stick by removing AutoRun. This I did.George SmithIf you have Windows XP, the simplest approach is to download the freeMicrosoft XP PowerToy called TweakUI. This is very small and does not need to be installed. Basically, it edits the Windows registry for you, so all you have to do is tick a few boxes to customise Windows. To get to the section for controlling AutoPlay, go to the left-hand menu and click the plus signs for My Computer and AutoPlay, click the word Types, and tick the box where it says "Enable AutoPlay for removable drives".In Vista, open the Control Panel and look for the Hardware and Sound icon. Click the first entry under that, where it says: "Play CDs or other media automatically". (Typing au in the search box also finds AutoPlay.) Next to Pictures, there's a drop-down list – select the option you want: Import pictures using Windows.
John is a worried man who may owe HM Revenue and Customs several thousand pounds in uncollected VAT and financial penalties. How could he make such a costly mistake? By being persuaded by the porn biller Platte International not to charge VAT on debit- and credit-card processing services he provided between mid-2008 and February 2009, he says.Telling the Guardian about his concerns before informing HMRC is an unusual move. John (not his real name) runs a small business employing fewer than a dozen ­people. Platte, which has now ceased ­trading in the UK, offers three-day free trials to view pornographic movies and, if not cancelled, hidden software ­repeatedly pops up bills.Norway's consumer ombudsmandescribed Platte's business practices as "unfair and illegal". "We had nothing to do with their popup billing software at all," says John. "This was providing a means for them to take payment from their call centre, and that's it."John says that Platte provided the consumer card details, his company processed the financial transactions, and the funds were deposited into a UK bank account. Platte was charged a percentage on the transactions as a fee but, when John mentioned VAT on "numerous occasions", Platte always told him not to charge it. "They maintained that our contract was with the British Virgin Islands company and therefore it wasn't liable to VAT," he says.Thanks to careful records, he hopes to demonstrate to HMRC that he made "every effort possible to resolve a situation that we had concerns about". He also has an insider's view on Platte's liability to charge VAT on electronically supplied services to UK consumers, asfirst raised by this newspaper last October. "The numbers of transactions that they were putting through, I would have thought would have taken them over the VAT limit."Should John have charged Platte VAT on his services? His unease about dealing with Platte in the UK (his contacts were all in Leeds) yet invoicing an overseas company without adding VAT, now seems warranted. "In order to decide whether UK VAT should be charged on a supply of a service, the place of supply of the service and the VAT liability of the supply (ie an exempt, standard rate, reduced rate or zero rate supply) must be determined," says an HMRC spokesman, who is happy to outline the principles but will not comment on individual companies.We also asked Oriel of Cheltenham whether it charged VAT to Platte. It carried out debt collection for Platte in the UK for months, sparking numerous complaints to the Guardian, Trading Standards, and the Office of Fair Trading. "Your interest in Platte is well documented but it is not for me to comment any further on this or any matter relating to their business," says Oriel's director of collection ­services, Adrian Stalley, who also revealed that "our dealings with Platte have come to an end".Platte International has not responded to our questions about VAT.
Travelling with HDI'm travelling for five months with a high-def camcorder. I want to take an ultraportable laptop with me so that I can store/edit some footage as I go.Gareth WeetmanJS:Most netbooks aren't powerful enough to play HD footage reliably, let alone edit it, but you could still use one for backing up files. The Samsung NC10 and similar machines have 160GB hard drives, and you could also carry an external hard drive: choose one ­specifically designed for portability.The sort of thing you'd need for editing on the move would have an HD screen, a dual-core processor, a FireWire port and, ideally, a Blu-ray drive, which is needed to burn HD to DVD discs at full quality. I don't think there are any of those around, but the Sony VAIO VGN-CS11Z/R (where /R indicates bright red), VGN-CS21Z/Q, VGN-CS25X and VGN-AW21M/H come closer than most. The CS25X has a 2.4GHz Core 2 Duo, 3GB or 4GB of memory and Blu-ray drive at a relatively light 2.5kg, but the 14.1-inch screen only has a resolution of 1280 x 800 pixels. The AW21M has an 18.4-inch 1680 x 945 widescreen for around £1,100 but is nobody's idea of an ultraportable. Someone with a PhD in Sony model numbering schemes may find something more suitable.Instead, store your movie files on a smaller, cheaper laptop or netbook until you get home, then edit them in HD on a desktop PC with a quad-core processor, 4GB or more memory, and 64-bit Windows Vista or Windows 7 for less than the cost of a comparable laptop. Either way, maintaining full HD quality from camcorder to HDTV set can still be something of a challenge.Spam spam spamI get around 10 to 15 spam emails a day. How much should I expect and put up with? Is it a good idea to changeemail addresses, or will it just start again?Rob KilbyJS:I really have no idea how much spam is "average" but as the vast majority of email is spam, the real question is how much of it gets eliminated on its way to you. I get well over 100 spam emails a day over three accounts, but I'd only see three or four a day if I didn't look in my spam folders for real mail caught by the filters. If you're seeing 10-15 in your inbox, you could get better spam filtering, or switch to Gmail, which does an excellent job of catching spam.Changing your email addresses should reduce spam, but as you say, it will just start again. You can reduce the risk by not publishing your addresses on the web, and by not replying to spammers or any other emails that look dodgy.Restoring AutoPlayWhen I connect a camera to my computer, a window usually pops up and asks what I would like to do with the images on the card. This no longer happens.Some time ago, you warned us of a virus that enteredvia a memory stick and suggested that we downloaded a piece of software that removed access to the stick by removing AutoRun. This I did.George SmithJS:If you have Windows XP, the simplest approach is to download thefree Microsoft XP PowerToy called TweakUI. This is very small and does not need to be installed. Basically, it edits the Windows registry for you, so all you have to do is tick a few boxes to customise Windows. To get to the section for controlling AutoPlay, go to the left-hand menu and click the plus signs for My Computer and AutoPlay, click the word Types, and tick the box where it says "Enable AutoPlay for removable drives".In Vista, open the Control Panel and look for the Hardware and Sound icon. Click the first entry under that, where it says: "Play CDs or other media automatically". (Typing au in the search box also finds AutoPlay.) Next to Pictures, there's a drop-down list – select the option you want: Import pictures using Windows.Slow Waitrose broadbandMy Waitrosebroadband connection goesat a snail's pace. Each time I askfor help, I have to work my way through12 to 20 "troubleshooting solutions".A Slow AnonymousJS:Waitrose's small broadband service had a good reputation when it was run by Brightview, which also ran Madasafish. BT bought Brightview two years ago. You may now be better off switching suppliers, even if you switched to BT. However, smaller ISPs such as Be, NewNet and Zen generally offer a better service than ones going for volume. Try reading the reviews atispreview.co.ukand similar sites, rather than the price comparison sites. Results are variable as not all exchanges are equal, but cheap broadband is rarely good broadband.On Windows accountsYour answer about signing into a limited accountwas very interesting, but how do you find the limited account tab?Bob JonesJS:Go to the Start button, select Settings and then the Control Panel, and the last applet should be the one called User Accounts. Microsoft's site has a fully illustrated guide:Create and customize user accounts.Backchat• A few people ran into problems runningthe PC Pitstop full testsin Vista, because you must have admin privileges. You should be able to right-click Internet Explorer and choose "Run as administrator". If not, see Microsoft's help file,How to use User Account Control(UAC) in Windows Vista.
Amid the hype and hysteria surrounding the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), the games industry's annual shindig in Los Angeles, Microsoft's big surprise – called Project Natal – turned out to be one of the standout announcements.The system promises to bring gaming even further into the real world, allowing players to interact with the onscreen environment simply by moving or talking. It works its magic thanks to a sensor bar, attached to an Xbox 360, which is able to track their movement and actions in three dimensions. And as it even sports voice control and facial ­recognition, the stunning demonstrations on the E3 stage were more than a little reminiscent of the Tom Cruise film Minority Report.So-called "gesture control" systems are a hot topic right now, bolstered by the success of the Nintendo Wii, a console that proved that ditching the old joystick and keyboard model can bring new audiences to gaming.Project Natal has inevitably drawn comparisons to Nintendo's motion-sensitive Wiimote, and also to Sony's EyeToy – the PlayStation camera add-on first released in 2003 that never quite broke into the mainstream.But while the resemblance is certainly there – and without the Wii, Microsoft would probably not be exploring this option – it is fair to say that the technology behind Natal is several levels more complex than either of its predecessors.Not a great deal is known about its origins, but is seems that the system relies on technology from two pioneering Israeli companies working on depth-sensitive cameras, 3DV Systems and Prime Sense. Those systems involve technology originally developed for use on ballistic missiles that has been reworked to make it more palatable for use in people's homes.Essentially, the camera sensors project radar-like beams that hit objects in the room and bounce back, allowing the machine to build up an accurate picture of what is in front of it.Such systems have a surprisingly fine level of detail, even able to recognise different hand signals or small movements. Add the capability to incorporate facial recognition, and it's the sort of development that has not only gamers salivating, but also games producers.Peter Molyneux, the legendary British game designer who sold his Lionhead studio to Microsoft in 2006, was among them – showing off a Natal-based project called Milo. Named after the game's virtual friend, Milo is able to understand what you do and react accordingly, including creating virtual replicas of the things you show to him. The display had the crowd enraptured.But while Natal looks like science fiction made real, gamers are well aware that technology companies can make anything can work well in a demonstration. The real test will be when Natal goes on sale – which won't be until next year at the earliest.
Imagine that you have your own personal travel guide. It has satellite navigation, so when you get into your car it can direct you to where you want to go. It can choose the most carbon-efficient route and make sure you avoid crowded town centres, traffic jams and roadworks. It can let you know where the next petrol station is, and whether there is an Italian restaurant near your hotel. Before you arrive you will know which of the town car parks have spaces left. And when you've finally parked the car, take your guide with you and it will direct you, on foot, to your final destination.For anyone who has found themselves stuck in a traffic jam, or has been unable to find a car park in a busy town centre, or has got lost on foot, it sounds too good to be true. Yet the technology to make it happen is already here. So why aren't we all carrying such a device in our pockets?"The reason why the universal travel widget isn't at hand is because several different worlds are having to collide and co-operate," says Jonathan Raper, professor of Geographic Information Science at City University and chief executive ofPlacr, a startup making geospatial mobile gizmos. "You've got massive competition in terms of platforms: you've got proprietary platforms like TomTom and Garmin, and then you've got the five major mobile phone operating systems."Mutual suspicion and lack of co-operation may be one problem, but another is that mobile companies have yet to ­recognise the potential of phones as ­navigation devices. Although many mobile phones are now GPS-enabled, this doesn't necessary make them effective at navigation. "The mobile phone world is slowly coming to terms with the needs of navigation on mobiles, such as better ­battery life and bigger screens," says Raper. "GPS alone," he adds, "doesn't offer the precision needed to navigate pedestrians, and so to be useful needs to be combined with another positioning service such as Wi-Fi." This has has been done with the iPhone, for example.Grainy detailAnd then there's the data. "The accuracy and granularity of data used in satellite navigation systems is improving all the time," says Mark Lepage, a geographic information consultant at Ordnance Survey, which works with local authorities and other organisations to collect up-to-date information about local conditions. The real problem lies in integration: the data needed to provide a coherent information service to a navigation device is held by different organisations in a number of different places. While some business are providing some location-based information – such as information about ATMs, speed cameras, train times or tourist sites – there is no business that offers everything. "Combining that information isn't easy," says Bob Cockshott,director of the Location and TimingKnowledge Transfer Network . "There's a data aggregation problem to bring it altogether, including highway changes, updates from local authorities, through to leisure-type information. There's a physical problem in gathering all that up.""It's not just a technical issue," says Cockshott. "The other part of the problem is revenue: how do you make money out of it? There's a difference between what can be done technically and a viable ­product that can be sold. How do you turn that into something that fits in a business model?"Organisations that have valuable data rarely want to give it away for free. As a government agency, Ordnance Survey is expected to recover its costs, which means licences to reuse its mapping data commercially are expensive. Similarly, there is no incentive for the Highways Agency or local authorities, for example, to share information about traffic conditions. Even the government websiteTransport Direct, which provides free up-to-date transport information, has restrictions on the integration of its content with other services. "If you want to bring these together into one place, everyone wants their pound of flesh, everyone has developed their own data infrastructure and it's just very difficult to get them to agree," says Raper.Turn, turn, turnYet the demand for an all-in-one travel service almost certainly exists. Tracy Ross, a research fellow at Loughborough University, who works in the area of safety and ergonomics, has carried out research on what people would like in terms of travel information. "What people really wanted was integration, so across different ­locations – home, work, on the move," she says. That included information pre- and post-trip (advice about what to take, and how much time to allow, as well as what hotels to stay in).Raper believes the emergence of a ­genuinely integrated solution will depend on a government initiative to force public sector organisations such as Highways Agencies, Transport for London and local authorities to to collaborate, or on a private sector organisation taking a ­commanding lead in terms of developing location technologies. There is one obvious candidate, he says: "Google is creeping up with a whole series of ­initiatives that are steadily putting the pieces in place." Google Maps is now available on all mobile platforms, he points out, and is integrated with traffic data from the Highways Agency, while the Google Maps application interface (API) allows third parties to build their own applications. Google Latitude enables users to keep track of their friends. "Google are in the best place, and it may be their strategy is to keep adding in streams of data that they can get their hands on until they pass some sort of threshold, and people have to turn to them as the best providers," he says.If he is right, it may be that within a few years, location technologies will be something we take for granted. Raper believes so: "Location is such an absolutely fundamental framework for our lives, and we inevitably must embrace tools that allow us to manage that. I foresee a society in 20 years' time revolutionised by the ability to know where people are, and to be able to wring efficiencies out of that."
There aren't enough novelists writing ­videogames. Last week, the Vancouver-based independent studio Smoking Gun Interactive announced it would be working on an ­innovative new game project with the award-winning author Douglas Rushkoff. Responsible for the hip drug novel Ecstasy Club, as well as non-fiction on cyber-culture, Rushkoff will, according to the press release, "develop story narratives across a range of media formats that can feed off one another and exist concurrently". Vague, but intriguing.This kind of partnership between author and videogame studio is surprisingly rare. Way back in the ZX Spectrum era, Douglas Adams helped to write The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy game, and later designed the PC adventure title, Starship Titanic, while the US sci-fi author Thomas M Disch penned the mystery title Amnesia for Electronic Arts in 1986. For a contemporary example I could only think of PJ Haarsma, author of The Softwire Series, and designer of online adventure titleRings of Orbis. And don't mention Tom Clancy – he's had little do do with Ubisoft's game conversions of his hit airport novels.This is a pretty poor showing, especially when you consider how authors such as Iain M Banks, Neal Stephenson and William Gibson have been inspired by game culture. So why the paucity of novelist/game crossovers?As a narrative medium, videogames would seem to have much more in common with movies than novels. Primarily visual, they have an emphasis on spectacle and action. Plus, while novelists tend to work alone, games are almost always collaborative.But imagining all videogames as epic cinematic adventures is reductive. Indeed, there's a whole sub-genre that has grown up beside the mainstream games industry. These experiences started out as Multi-User Dungeons and text-based adventures in the late 70s and early 80s, and are being created to this day by a vibrant IF community – comparatively modern works, such asEverbody DiesandBlue Lacunastill mainly rely on text, with the player inputting written commands.Then of course, there are even more specialised offshoots. With "collaborative fiction" – or "addventures" – online communities work together to create stories. Then there's hypertext fiction, a web-based non-linear narrative form in which the text contains hyperlinks to other plot threads and imagery – seeMark Amerika's Grammatronor Caitlin Fisher's These Waves of Girls. Perhaps the reason the possibilities haven't been explored is these are rather arcane formats, enjoyed by, and dispersed among, dedicated communities. There's no commercial or reputational benefit for well-known authors. However, with the growing popularity of digital reading devices such as Amazon's Kindle, as well as reading applications on the Nintendo DS and the iPhone, a vast new audience is opening up for interactive fictions. With book sales nose-diving, it would seem to be a natural avenue. And, with Hollywood moguls such as Steven Spielberg, James Cameron and Jerry Bruckheimer keen to get into the games industry , we desperately need some alternatives.We can't let those guys take over.
