A year ago Mercury News columnistDan Gillmordecided to try and rid his life of Microsoft. He failed, as this very fair report one year on admits; he still uses MS Word (for Mac OS X) to write up his stuff, and prefers MS's superb Entourage for Mac for his email and scheduling over anything else. But, along the way, he has found a lot of interesting things about thenon-Microsoft world. Even if you can't be bothered with the rest of the piece, the final paragraphs on why Gillmor embarked on this mission are worth reading. "There are more reasons than ever to look for alternatives," he writes.
Annanova reports: Millions of households in eastern China will soon be offered wireless access to the internet. US firm Hughes Network Systems has signed a deal to supply Shandong province with receiving equipment. The satellite broadband technology will offer access seven times faster than the prevailing wire system. Householders will be invited to share the equipment with their immediate neighbours."
The Apple jackboot has been much in evidence over the past week. In this case, the company is"pushing IDG to block media passes"to MacWorld -- which opens in 10 days time -- to Web sites that publish items based on "rumours and speculation". In eWeek, a former MacWeek staffer reveals how Apple tried tosuppress stories, so this doesn't appear to be an isolated case. In The Register,Andrew Orlowski-- who also links to the eWeek story -- points out that, considering its tiny market share, Apple gets an amazing amount coverage in the major publications, where Mac users occupy senior postions. (Most serious publications use Macs, including the Guardian. Few seem to have much of a clue about Windows or GNU/Linux.) The result is that Apple generally gets a very easy ride, though the World's Leading Computer Journalist, The Wall Street Journal's Walter Mossberg, is unlikely to agree with Orlowski's "drooling Mossberg" aside.
Police are investigating a series of personalised teen websites amid fears that paedophiles could target children who put photographs of themselves on the internet in return for gifts.An Observer investigation can reveal that British girls as young as 14 are inviting strangers to send them presents through their websites, sometimes offering intimate pictures in return.The teen craze caught on after word spread among schoolfriends that men in their thirties and forties, often overseas, were willing to send expensive gifts to their favourite children - known as 'camgirls'.The development has alarmed the police and campaigners for child safety. Detective Chief Superintendant Len Hynds, head of Britain's National Hi-Tech Crime Unit - which last week smashed the 'Shadowz Brotherhood' child porn ring - said it was likely that paedophiles were already targeting some of these schoolgirls' sites.'It's a very worrying trend, and clearly something we should be getting a more accurate picture of,' he said last night. By linking their websites to 'wishlists' on   shopping sites such as Amazon.com and the Playboy Store, camgirls are receiving gifts ranging from underwear to DVDs. Some offer 'special pictures' as a reward.A number of schoolgirls contacted by the  Observer admitted to receiving hundreds of pounds worth of lingerie and CDs, and in some cases commission for advertising porn sites.Last week, Felicite.com, one of the sites offering wishlists, suspended 100 accounts linked to camgirl sites, including some from the UK. This followed the murder of a 13-year-old girl, Christina Long, in Greenwich, Connecticut, close to the 'real world' base of Felicite.com.
Kerry was sent £70 worth of underwear last week, bought at Playboy's online store by a man she had never met. The same day, she received a £45 cheque at her Lancashire home to pose at her webcam 'and do absolutely nothing'.In the 10 months since her personal website went live, its sultry photo galleries and provocative 'livecam' shots have brought Kerry so much attention - and gifts ranging from lingerie to CDs - that she now plans to build a premium 'members' area' that she hopes will earn her a full-time living.First, though, she has her GCSEs to worry about - for Kerry, one of Britain's growing number of internet 'camgirls', is a schoolgirl aged just 14. As technology becomes ever cheaper and internet companies vie to offer free web space, thousands of children are chronicling their lives on intimate personal websites.But some young girls are taking these most public of diaries a stage further, and posing in their bedrooms for prurient webcam photographs that they use to persuade strangers to buy them gifts. Although many children simply point visitors to their 'wish lists' on shopping sites such as Amazon,  The  Observer has discovered that a number are actively soliciting gifts with the promise of more revealing photographs in return.It is a disturbing trend that has become established among Britain's teenagers only in recent months. Senior police officers expressed dismay after an Observer investigation uncovered some of the wish list 'trades'.Most worryingly, the majority of young British camgirls we contacted said their parents were unaware of their online activities, and few seemed to understand the risks inherent in these dubious transactions.Although the girls do not give their addresses - and Amazon wish lists state only the area the gift is being sent to - databases of website owners and their addresses are in the public domain.Len Hynds, head of Britain's National Hi-Tech Crime Unit, said the force was unaware that such sites were now operating in the UK until The Observer detailed six which appear to be run by 14- to-18-year-old girls from counties including Durham, Essex and Dorset. 'It's a very worrying trend, and clearly something we should be getting a more accurate picture of,' Detective Chief Superintendent Hynds said. 'Paedophiles are very good at grooming children in chatrooms, and I'd be very surprised if paedophiles weren't aware of these sites.' By providing photographs and encouraging strangers to provide gifts, the girls were placing themselves at severe risk, he said.In the United States, where child murders and rapes have been linked to relationships struck online, the camgirl phenomenon has prompted renewed concern among law-enforcement agencies. Last week, a month after a 13-year-old Connecticut girl was strangled by a man she allegedly met online, the popular Felicite.com gift registry - based nearby - shut down 100 wish lists that it found were linked to teenage camgirls' websites.Some of those sites, The Observer has discovered, belong to schoolgirls in Britain, including one - apparently owned by an A-level student from Surrey - that promises 'special pictures' in return for gifts. Hynds fears that some salacious sites may be fronts for organised crime, although our research offered no reason to make such a link with the Surrey schoolgirl's site, which carries adverts for hardcore adult sites.Fourteen-year-old Kerry, one of a number of British camgirls who agreed to discuss their experiences via email interviews, sees her site as a 'bit of fun' that happens to attract gifts in the mail. 'It's   shocking what people buy you for nothing, it really is,' she reflects. Her website includes 56 photographs of her striking model poses in various skimpy tops, revealing nothing more than a pierced navel or a flirtatious kiss.But what sets Kerry's site apart from the typical schoolgirl's are the links she trails from her front page to adult sites that pay her for referring new subscribers. And not only does she trail other sites but last week, she says, she received a cheque for $80 from Cam Girls Gone Wild, where paying visitors can see her 'bikini photographs'.Through her Amazon.com wish list, men she has never met send Kerry pop CDs and books, most recently  Jon Benet: Inside the Murder Investigation, about the dead six-year-old American beauty queen. The list includes CDs, a television and a Hello Kitty lamp that 'would look so cute in my new pink room'. 'I can't really tell you much about the people who buy me things, because I don't know who any of them are,' Kerry says. 'I guess they're just people who enjoy the livecam, writing or whatever.'She now hopes to capitalise on the attention her site has brought her. 'I actually plan on making a members' section with my livecam on there,' she says. 'I need some money and would really like to do this for a living. I'm always offered money to go on cam &#91;she declines&#93;, so I might as well take advantage.' Kerry sees her site as her space, beyond parental interference.'I've had lectures from my parents about what's written, but I've just simply told them not to read it if they don't like it.'Other teenage camgirls contacted by  The  Observer chose not to let their parents even see their sites. Not surprisingly, none was prepared to put us in touch with her parents. 'I refuse to provide them with the &#91;website&#93; link, as it serves its purpose as a place for me to share my thoughts and feelings,' explains Alexa, a 15-year-old from Northamptonshire.'Knowing they were reading them would only make me hold back. My parents don't often ask too many questions about my site.' But she pays the bills by linking prominently to adult sites. 'It does bother me that some sites I have to link to in order to fund my site are so upfront about making money from young girls, but I have no other way of paying for my domain.'And her Amazon wish list?   'The main people who'd buy things from there would in my experience be middle-aged men with too much time on their hands. I'm not going to lie and say I wouldn't like people to buy me something - doesn't everyone want something for nothing?'But what about the risks she is running by exposing her personal details through her site? 'The whole stalker thing does worry me,' she admits, 'especially one guy who took pleasure in relaying to me my home address, and saying the last time he was here it had snowed. But the one or two perverts or weirdos are by far outnumbered by the genuine, kind, caring visitors.'Still, in a recent diary entry Alexa announced that she was taking down her webcam for being 'more trouble than it's worth'. Instantly her message-board sprang to its defence. 'If you did,' wrote one regular, 'I would not be able to get a glimpse of pure beauty every day.'Kate, the A-level student in Surrey, offers 'personal rewards' in exchange for gifts. 'I do offer to send people "special pictures" if they buy me something,' she admits. 'They don't show anything more than you'd see me in at the beach, but I suppose they like the idea that they have their own personal pictures. I also chat to quite a lot of men online who have seen my pictures - I usually do steer them in the direction of my wish list, but only because within the first two minutes they always ask to see me naked. I'm 18 but I've told men that I'm as young as 15, and they still buy me stockings and garter belts and ask to see me in them. The guys are looking for a fantasy girl, I play up to it. They get their fantasy, I get profit.''Profit' for Kate has included &#163;100 commission from porn sites she advertises, as well as a lace G-string and garter belt from her wish lists. 'I am going to see if it's possible to actually make a living from it,' she says. 'I've tried having just a normal teen site before, but the only way to make any profit is to cater to the people who are looking for porn. Showing more skin on your webcam gets more people to visit.'She learnt this after adding her site to various 'portals', which allow visitors to vote for their favourite camgirls. 'When you go to the sites and there are so many other girls putting up naked shots, you become a bit immune to it. So then I started putting up more and more provocative shots. The more provocative,   the more men would contact me, and one day somebody bought me something from my wish list.'Kate has not told her family about her site. 'I don't count it as "me",' she explains. 'I'm a normal girl offline, nobody would ever guess that I do this. My boyfriend does know - I always run my pictures past him. He knows that I'm just trying to earn money. Of course I've thought about stalkers, but ultimately I'm in charge of what people know about me. I don't show full shots of my face, and I don't give out too many details about myself, like what school I go to.'Last week, however, Kate's lingerie wish list was one of those shut down by Felicite.com. 'It's DIY pornography, basically,' explains Hans Xu, in charge of the company's marketing. 'For &#163;50 they can set up their own porno site and publish to an instant global market. It's frightening.'In May, Xu's point was proved when police in nearby Greenwich, Connecticut, discovered the body of 13-year-old Christina Long, who police allege was killed by a 25-year-old man she met online.'What kind of parents let their daughters get involved with this?' Xu says. 'It starts out very innocently: the girl sets up a site, the guy emails   in saying you're beautiful, and then he starts sending them gifts. It's really sick to see guys taking advantage of underaged girls like this.'Xu passed to The Observer an email from a purportedly 16-year-old Canadian girl to a man who had bought her a gift. 'Here is one pic because that's all $10 and under buys,' she said. 'If you sign up for &#91;an X-rated site&#93;, I'll be sure to send you more!''It was a real eye-opener for us, since it was the first hard evidence we saw that girls were exchanging pictures for gifts,' Xu says.When contacted by The Observer, Amazon.co.uk also expressed concern that some of its wish lists were being   used 'in an inappropriate manner'. 'We do not condone it,' company spokeswoman Christina Smedley said. 'If we are made aware of specific instances of inappropriate use we will take down those wish lists.''Inviting strangers to buy you gifts, and posting pictures of yourself, is very risky behaviour,' agrees John Carr, internet adviser at the children's charity NCH.'Paedophiles and child molesters are always interested in finding new people they can make contact with, and that can start with a simple email. A good parent ought to make sure they know what their children get up to online.'
Fortune magazine has a very long, and very sympathetic, article onBill Gatescoming out on Monday. Think of it as the first big salvo in the long-term marketing of Longhorn, the next version of Windows XP.
The much-discussed Linux-basedSimputerhandheld computer -- billed as bringing computing to India's masses -- is almost ready to roll, according to Reuters.
A new report from Webmergers.com shows that shutdowns and bankruptcies by dot-com companies fell 73 percent in the first half of this year from the same period last year,AP reports.
Hopes were growing yesterday that the French government will bail out France T&#233;l&#233;com, the heavily indebted communications group which owns British internet service provider Freeserve and a majority stake in mobile phone group Orange.Shares in the company have risen by 50% this week on the Paris bourse as analysts predict that the government, which owns just over 55% of France T&#233;l&#233;com, will have to prop up the business.France T&#233;l&#233;com, chaired by pillar of the French business establishment Michel Bon, is tottering under &euro;61bn (&#163;41bn) of debt built up during a huge   acquisition spree. Its plans to cut its debts by selling non-core assets have been queried by analysts who are unsure whether buyers will emerge in the current volatile market.France T&#233;l&#233;com's shares have lost more than 70% of their value over the past six months, wiping out any hope that the company will be able to raise money by issuing more stock. The credit rating agencies have also downgraded the company's bonds to just above junk status, effectively closing the capital markets to any further fundraising without the government's backing.Ratings agency Fitch yesterday sliced its long-term rating on the company to just one notch above junk, following a   similar move by Moody's and Standard &amp; Poor's last week.Fitch said the only reason that France T&#233;l&#233;com had retained its investment-grade rating was the "strong likelihood" that the French government would help the company out of its financial hole."These current ratings therefore explicitly assume French government support," the agency said.This week there was intense speculation that the French government would go the whole way and renationalise the company.On Tuesday industry minister Nicole Fontaine denied that the government planned to buy back the business, but gave her wholehearted sup port to the France T&#233;l&#233;com board.Analysts in Paris believe that the government might decide to guarantee a new France T&#233;l&#233;com bond issue, effectively bankrolling the business. Any such move is likely to be heavily scrutinised by the European Union under its rules against state aid.&#183;WorldCom, the US telecom group subject to investigation by the US authorities over a $3.8bn fraud, is understood to be considering asking its bondholders and banks to swap their $33bn debt for shares in the company. This week the company's senior management admitted that it was considering a range of refinancing proposals.
The European online journalism awards (whichI helped judge) were handed out last night at a ceremony in London last night, all on a much-reduced scale from last year. One thing didn't change from previous years: the BBC cleaned up, with eight prizes from the 17 on offer (see the full listhere). That's fair enough: even if the BBC's massively resourced online operation is funded from the licence fee, thus sparing them of the realities of a commercial operation, they still deserve kudos for what they're trying to do with online media.But I was sorry my colleagues at Guardian Unlimited didn't win anything: there's always an element of the bizarre about any awards ceremony, but for GU to draw a blank after an amazing year for them (and a bucketload of prizes last year) was particularly odd. Hopefully their luck will return next year.Of the rest of the awards, it was a very mixed bag. I thought the Scotsman's coverage of theLockerbie trial verdictwas very good - one of the best things I marked, but after making the shortlist it didn't win either. That was a shame - it was one of the few entries I saw (I didn't mark any GU or BBC stories) which attempted to use new media methods to tell the story, rather than simply cutting and pasting newspaper-style copy into a template. Going a step further is not rocket science - a link to audio here, a link to video there, a PDF of the verdict - but this kind of thoughtful net journalism cropped up very rarely indeed.Seems to me there are dozens of weblogs, being run part-time out of bedrooms, which could teach a few large media organisations a thing or two about interactive storytelling.
With revenues expected to be down by another 10%, Apple has parted with some of its manufacturing staff, according to local TV stationsChannel 10andKCRA.
TheXbox Linuxproject is now under way, and an anonymous donor has put up a $200,000 prize (see the reporthere) for someone who can find a simple and legal way to do it.
From the deal makers who negotiated the frenzy of takeovers and mergers to the fund managers who hoovered up new technology stocks, all parts of the City cashed in on the dotcom boom.The analysts who kept predicting the stock market would go ever higher, and the bosses of long-established and fledgling companies, all made multi-million pound gains. Some of the sums are public knowledge, such as the &#163;80m made by Jan Leschly, chief executive of SmithKline Beecham when the pharmaceutical company merged with Glaxo. Others are rumoured, such as the &#163;5m paid to each of the bankers involved in clinching Royal Bank of Scotland's takeover of NatWest.Even before the stock market started tumbling, the gains made by financiers and corporate chieftains looked extraordinarily large. Now, with the market below its pre-boom levels - at five year lows - the gap between the City professionals who cashed in on the dotcom boom and the small investors who are left at the mercy at the markets is even greater.The corporate financierAlong a single-track road in Hambleden Valley in the Chilterns, the reverberations of the City's boom are still being felt. A City financier who clinched the largest deal in corporate history is trying to build a lavish home in this idyllic retreat.Robert Gillespie, one of the City's best-known deal doers, spent &#163;2m on land earmarked for his 39-room home complete with swimming pool and croquet lawn. His plans, so ambitious that they have just been turned down by the local authorities, follow the wave of deal-making that characterised the late 1990s. Arguably, Mr Gillespie's mansion, or at least part of it, was paid for by the shareholders of Vodafone.Mr Gillespie and his team at City investment bank UBS Warburg were among the key advisers to Chris Gent, the chief executive of Vodafone, who clinched the biggest takeover the City has ever seen in 2000. They are among the winners from the race to merge that gripped corporate Britain until two years ago.Mr Gillespie was already wealthy before the boom that is now going bust. But he and other financiers like him did even better during the merger mania years.While few of them know precisely how much of their 2000 bonuses was linked to their months of hard slog in getting Vodafone and Mannesmann together, that record-breaking deal will undoubtedly have pumped up annual payouts.Many of the City's deal doers are far flasher, though, than Mr Gillespie and may be even better rewarded, though the details are not disclosed publicly. According to City folklore, the deal makers at rival banks Credit Suisse First Boston and Goldman Sachs do even better.While the total fees for bid battles are   disclosed, it is a guessing game to work out who got what, be they the bankers, the lawyers or the PR advisers. But the pot of money is large.The tussle over NatWest between Royal Bank of Scotland and Bank of Scotland produced a bill of &#163;300m. Bank of Scotland shelled out again when it was taken over by Halifax and its outgoing chief executive, Peter Burt, has never hidden his disdain at the fees demanded by his small army of financial advisers at Cazenove, Gleacher, CSFB and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.And, while he might not have said it directly, the City knew precisely what Sir   George Mathewson, the former chief executive of the Royal Bank, meant when he declared the &#163;2.5m payout he was sharing with boardroom colleagues would not give him "bragging power in a Soho wine bar". His advisers are rumoured to have received bonuses of &#163;5m each.The bankers argue that they do not get bonuses if they fail to clinch deals, regardless of how many weeks' hard sweat they have put in. And when there are no deals to be done, as is the case now, they face even slimmer paypackets and the prospect of redundancy.For Mr Gillespie, there will always be   the 60 acres in one of the most beautiful parts of the country.The analystMary Meeker, dubbed the "Queen of the net", was the first Wall Street analyst to become a household name. She was one of the first to proclaim that the internet was a once-in-a-lifetime investment opportunity and millions of small investors in America tuned in to CNBC to hear her say it.At the height of the bubble, in 1999, she was profiled in New Yorker magazine and appeared on the cover of Fortune, which lauded her as the third most powerful woman in business.Before Ms Meeker's rise, corporate financiers, the "rainmakers" who brought in the big deals and the big fees, viewed financial analysts as a necessary, but hardly welcome, form of overhead. Ms Meeker overturned that prejudice: the analyst suddenly had the power to move the share prices of large companies.For her employer, Morgan Stanley, she was a precious asset. She established the firm's name as a bank that was savvy enough to understand the technological revolution. That reputation, it guessed, would ensure its involvement in the mergers and acquisitions that would power the new economy. Morgan Stanley was willing to pay dearly for her services: in 1999, Ms Meeker received $15m (&#163;10m) for her year's work.The stock that made her name was America Online (AOL). As early as 1993, she recognised its potential as a provider of internet services to the world's largest economy. She was so closely associated with AOL that by January 2000 she addressed the board of Time Warner on the advisability of its merger with AOL. The deal happened soon afterwards.When the dotcom bubble burst, Ms Meeker was accused of staying bullish for far too long. Some of the picks at the top of the market, such as Priceline, drugstore.com and AskJeeves, fell to earth with a crash. Ms Meeker could claim to have sounded warning bells before some of her rivals, but she missed the top.Nor did it prevent a lawsuit from disgruntled shareholders in Amazon, the online retailer, and ebay, the online auction house, claiming that Ms Meeker's views were influenced by her desire to win clients for Morgan Stanley. The lawsuit was dismissed last year - the judge called it an abuse of process and in "grossly bad taste" - but Ms Meeker's star had fallen well before then. But, at 42, she can reflect that you do not need to earn $15m for many years to maintain the San Fransciso lifestyle to which she had become accustomed.The fund managerBrian Ashford-Russell received a &#163;6m bonus in 2000 - six months after the hi-tech companies he had backed began the wobble that became a nosedive.Mr Ashford-Russell invested &#163;1.5bn of cash for millions of ordinary investors in the technology funds and investment   trust he ran for City firm Henderson. Often described as the firm's most successful fund manager, Mr Ashford-Russell quit shortly after receiving his payout. He ploughed his earnings into starting his own firm, Polar Capital.When Henderson set up its technology investment trust in 1996, Mr Ashford-Russell was already a veteran technology investor by the City's standards. By the height of the dotcom boom, he was running one of the most sought-after investment vehicles and was regarded as one of the City's soundest technology investors.Money poured in to his highly successful funds: between October 1999 and April 2000 more cash was being thrown at his funds each month than he had managed for the previous 15 years.As ordinary investors caught on to the new economy, they picked funds like those run by Henderson and rival firms such as Aberdeen Asset Management, to safeguard their savings - and with a view to making money fast. For a time, the sheer weight of money kept the new technology stocks rising. It was simply down to supply and demand. Many small investors caught on to the new technology phase when it was already running out of steam.Mr Ashford-Russell warned his investors in December 1999 that the prices of technology stocks were getting high. But still they kept investing and Mr Ashford-Russell kept buying up the shares. He got his bumper bonus for a year's work in which his fund rose by 139% and earned his employer fees of &#163;43m.Mr Ashford-Russell, who is still managing money for Henderson at his new firm, admits it is upsetting to lose investors' money. "It really hurts when your investors lose," he said.The dotcom entrepreneurMike Lynch, the son of a fireman, was briefly Britain's only dotcom billionaire. Much of his fortune consisted of shares in the company he founded, Autonomy, but he was still able to turn &#163;75m of shares into cash.Mr Lynch's big idea was one of the quirkiest of the internet era. He developed software based on a complex mathematical formula sketched out in the 18th century by the Reverend Thomas Baynes, a Presbyterian minister-turned-statistician. It is designed to bring automated order to all sorts of "unstructured information", which can be everything from emails to web pages.For a time, it looked as if Autonomy's product would be used by most of the world's largest companies. That was certainly what the City believed when it placed a valuation of almost &#163;5bn on the business soon after it floated on the stockmarket in 2000. Mr Lynch kept a 19% stake but his decision to sell a smaller fraction as he entered the public arena was astute: Autonomy is now worth just &#163;300m.Not that it's about the money, Mr Lynch would say. He has always argued that his real mission is to take British technology to the world and has bitten back at those who have doubted the quality of Autonomy's product. He had a memorable run-in with Merrill Lynch, the investment bank, when it claimed Autonomy software developers were quitting to join Microsoft. Mr Lynch demanded a correction and reported the bank to the London Stock Exchange and the US Securities &amp; Exchange Commission.Such a combative style played into the hands of his critics when Autonomy failed to live up to the hype. Profits warnings last year sent the shares tumbling and they have never recovered.Mr Lynch, with his developers, continues to work away on new software and he can console himself that the &#163;75m, and his 1965 Aston Martin, are more permanent than the inflated share price. Other dotcom entrepreneurs saw their paper fortunes evaporate; some managed to turn fractions of it into cash but few can match the returns made by Mr Lynch on the &#163;2,000 he spent on launching Autonomy.The blue chip bossJan Leschly left the top rung of British business two years ago and, as befits a man who reached the Wimbledon quarter-finals in his tennis-playing days, his timing was perfect. He retired as chief executive of SmithKline Beecham as the company merged with Glaxo Wellcome, a deal that now looks like one of the last hurrahs of the mega-merger years. The promises of the merger - more and more investment in the development of new drugs - have failed to materialise.For Mr Leschly, though, the merger meant personal wealth that few chief executives of British companies had seen before. His share options were worth &#163;80m and he was free to turn them into cash whenever he chose.Mr Leschly, a Dane, undoubtedly did a good job at SmithKline, having inherited the top job at a time when sales and profits had been undermined by the loss of a patent on a crucial drug.His share option package, however, startled everybody: when its value hit $100m for the first time, in 1998, it was the first time that such a figure had been seen in Britain.It is hard to attribute the inflation in salaries and options at British public companies to one individual, but Mr Leschly's &#163;80m was a landmark. The investors did not compain because they, too, had benefited from the increase in value of the shares but it raised the barriers of what was regarded as acceptable.Mr Leschly's post-retirement fling, an investment in a Nasdaq-listed company called Ventro, was less happy. It was a typical internet story: lots of hype, a soaring share price followed by a big crash. In Mr Leschly's case, though, he could afford to lose a couple of million.
Pubchalking!(viaHaddock)
I used to quite enjoy Yahoo! Internet Life, the magazine spin-off of the web directory and portal. But now it's been closed, reports the Poynter Institute'se-media tidbits blog. Amazingly, even with a circulation of over a million, it couldn't make a profit because of the advertising slowdown. The last edition comes out in August.
The Mac community has been busily working out what "the end of summer" means in Applespeak. For this is when the Mac maker had promised the eagerly anticipated 10.2 version of OSX, an upgrade that should deliver a bunch of goodies including improved display on LCD displays, better performance, an integrated instant messaging program, and other stuff. Most had taken it to be sometime in September, even October (this is, after all, a software release, and these are always subject to slippage). But nowCNET News.comsuggests we're looking at August, to catch the "back to school" market, in a possible attempt to kick-start a slow year. The announcement - whatever the timing - will likely be made in just under two weeks, during Steve Jobs' keynote atMacExpo New York.
(selflinking) I've been writing about a new UK survey of internet use onGuardian Unlimited, which shows a widening digital divide. The internet might be more popular than ever before, and may be growing at a healthy rate, but it's still the well-off who are most likely to be hooked up. (/selflinking)
It's Thursday, of course, so Online isonline. Jack Schofield covers the end of free on the web, Ashley Norris rounds up the coolest summer gadgets, Ben Hammersley explains warchalking, and someone else writes about the net's reaction to Microsoft's Palladium plans.
The strange popping noise you heard this time last week was the sound of an idea taking off. A week after Online discussed community wireless networks, Matt Jones, a London-based information architect, came up with an elegant solution to one of the biggest problems facing the open wireless user: how to find a wireless access point if you can't get online initially.Inspired by the signs hobos left each other in the depression-era United States, Jones has developed a set of marks to be chalked on to walls and pavements by the owners or users of wireless networks. Passers-by can then see that the area is covered by an access point, and get online.It's a simple solution to a difficult problem, and one that has grabbed the attention of the geek world with a frenzy. A day after releasing his first draft, Jones's site had been linked to by everyone from Slashdot to the New York Times, a speedy fame brought by the old-school elegance of the idea, and its cool name - "warchalking".Warchalking's rise to infamy has even been given an air of governmental legitimacy, at least in the US: the state of Utah is planning on    using the warchalking symbols on 250 government buildings.As Phillip Windley, the state's chief information officer, wrote on his weblog, just two days into the idea: "My organization networks over 250 buildings for 22,000 employees. We're also in the planning phase of deploying Wi-Fi access points at places where cops hang out so they can connect to the net during their shift (they use CDPD for low bandwidth ops, but need a high bandwidth option sometimes).In this kind of environment, warchalking has some important uses beyond finding a free net. I'm hoping to use warchalking icons to alert employees to the existence of wireless nets in conference rooms and other places."Warchalking derives from the old cracker term, wardialling. A wardialler sets his computer up to sequentially dial every telephone number within a range, listening for the tell-tale whistling of    another computer. In the pre-internet days, when companies had banks of modems to allow remote workers to log in, this provided many opportunities for crackers to try their hand. So, from wardialling, we have wardriving and warwalking, where wireless laptop-equipped crackers wander the city looking for open corporate networks.Warchalking could, it seems, have a dark side, and some are worried it will be used as a tool for crackers, alerting the criminally minded to networks with less than perfect security.  This is a danger: at worst, an unprotected wireless network could give access to confidential internal files, something companies and governmental organisations could do without.  The unwary could also have their bandwidth used for unscrupulous activities.Drive-by spamming is one. For spammers, or the senders of unsoliticited commercial email in bulk, retaining one's internet service provider is a hard task. No one wants his ISP to be the cause of email evil, and an ISP that permits spam may find itself blacklisted, with none of its email getting through to anyone.   But a spammer loading a car with a laptop running a mail server can drive around looking for open wireless networks and use the bandwidth they find to fire off a million emails before driving away. The end result? More spam for you and me, and law-abiding companies being blacklisted from their ISP.Clever system administrators know these threats, and configure against them. If you're in charge of a large network, such things should be second nature. But if you are running a home wireless network and do not want to have it used by the public, consult the manual and turn on the security settings.They're not perfect, but they will stop the warchalkers from finding you. Meanwhile, of course, many of us want people to use our networks, and have warchalked our neighbourhoods to this effect.You might like to do it yourself. Head to warchalking.org (see hyperlink below), print out the symbols, grab a piece of chalk, and draw one on your wall.  If the idea of chalk-based, "it'll wash off in the rain" graffiti bothers you, there is a printout generator, too. Spread the word about your generosity, allow people online and connect with them. The internet will love you, even if the neighbours won't.
What comes next for the desktop PC?The next key element in driving the evolution of the desktop PC is connectivity. As broadband becomes more widely used, it will dramatically increase home desktop PC usage by opening up the true potential of the internet. Also, home networking will become increasingly important as more households acquire a second PC.Will we ever be a truly broadband Britain?It's unlikely. Significant penetration of broadband will depend on the development of the charging structure. There seems to be a large part of the population with a huge resistance to that kind of subscription service.Is convergence still the 'grail'?It is inevitable. Today's PCs display all the capabilities one expects from convergence - sound, recording and interactivity. The areas that need to be developed are location, interaction and choice of "quality". The PC hasn't fully made the transition into the living room. Interface is still predominantly via the keyboard and mouse and we don't expect to pay for a set of features in the same way we would for a TV or stereo.Will the personal digital assistant ever replace the desktop?I strongly believe the PDA will become a more common addition to the desktop. However, I don't see it as a stand-alone device but as one of the drivers in the development and future of the PC.Are PC-buyers demanding more aesthetically pleasing machines?Absolutely. You can see that by the machines in stores. However, this is balanced by the common perception of a PC as an angular white box. You can't move too far from the common perception, or you end up with a lovely looking product that doesn't sell!Brief history of your computer use?I started with an 80286 (http://lowendpc.com/tech/286.shtml), 10 MHz zero wait state machine with 5.25in floppy disk. It was extremely small and slow by today's standards. My usage has mirrored the development of the market, and I am currently using a state-of-the-art Easy One Silver laptop (www.packardbell.co.uk/products/node696.asp).How is Packard Bell approaching 3G/wireless?It is initially embracing wireless communications via GPRS (www.webopedia.com/TERM/G/GPRS.html) options on the PDA products. When the time is right, this will migrate to 3G technology and will be integrated in PDAs and notebooks.Is there a saturation point for PCs similar to the one reached in the mobile phone market?In theory, there's a saturation point in every market but the PC market is a long way from that point. A key factor is that the PC is far more multi-functional, and we are a long way from tapping its full potential.Favourite sites?Most are work related. I like www.amazon.co.uk, www.chateauonline.com and www.bridgetheworld.com.Visit: www.packardbell.co.uk
Nosy parkersRe Second Sight (Privacy debacle set to be repeated, June 27): this message may contain information that is confidential, privileged and thus remains copyright of the sender. If you are not the intended recipient, you may not peruse or disseminate this message. This is despite the Government's intention to let every bureaucrat pry into our intimate communications. If you have received this message, notify the sender immediately and/or destroy the message. In other words, don't be a nosy parker, otherwise I will invoke the Human Rights Act, the Data Protection Act and will dig deep within the common law for rights that protect our liberty as sacrosanct. Failing that, I'll stop using the internet. You'll be held responsible for the failure of the e-commerce boom and the deployment of carrier pigeons that, hopefully, will crap on your car.John Thompsonjohnthompson@fromhome.fsnet.co.ukOur servantsThe government should take necessary powers to protect citizens from probable threats to their safety, even if those powers infringe privacy. Such powers must be proportionate, and likely to reduce the threat significantly. The government's proposals to allow a wide range of public bodies to access citizens' electronic communications were neither proportionate nor likely to reduce such a threat. But there is a wider issue. The government is the servant of its electorate. It has a duty to protect us - not only from terrorists, but from oppression and interference by those who are given special powers in the name of security. Every power introduced because of a threat must expire if not renewed in each parliament following an assessment of the scale of the threat. Every power to oppress must be balanced by an effective right of citizens to challenge the use of such powers before an impartial court. The use of special powers must be monitored by an independent agency reporting to parliament.Martyn Thomasmartyn@thomas-associates. co.ukStarless officeRe: the alternatives to Microsoft Office (Online, Business Solutions June 27). I bought StarOffice 5.2 to run    on the Windows XP operating system. It appears to be a good product, but when you try to shut it down, it generates an error message that you can't get rid of unless you switch off the PC. I reported the problem but if a corporation could shrug its shoulders, then that what's they did. At least Gates's product allows me to keep my PC running.Ian McGheeian.mcghee@ntlworld.comEject itBrian Seavers has made a brave attempt to combat the hysteria surrounding copy-protected "CDs" in Macs (Online, June 27) but has reiterated a few common misconceptions. The CD drives used in Macs are not always the same as standard PC drives. They often have custom Mac firmware installed that alters their behaviour. This is particularly true of the Pioneer 104 Superdrive fitted to the top-of-the-line new iMac. The method of ejecting removable media by holding down the mouse button while booting will not always work with a problematic protected CD. Most importantly, new iMacs do have the emergency paperclip eject hole in their drives. My webpage http://uk.geocities.com/mssres/ superdrive.html demonstrates the location and use of said hole.Matthew Sylvestermssres@yahoo.co.ukDon't accept itMike Healan is right: you sign your life away when you accept the lengthy user agreements incorporated in nearly all software. What is the alternative? If you click the "I do not accept" box, the installation or download is terminated.Mervyn Mugfordbodley@eurobell.co.ukDown timeHas anyone else noticed the amount of downtime on BT's broadband servers? Before ADSL, we had not lost mail service for more than two hours in two years, using a free ISP over an ISDN connection. When service was interrupted, undelivered mail would always be forwarded upon resumption. Since climbing on to the broadband wagon six months ago, we have not had a week without interruption and, more ominously, mail has been undelivered without the sender receiving an undelivered message.John Russelljr@realnorth.co.ukStill waitingRead your article on the O2 XDA and was so impressed I bought one. Four days later I am still waiting for the GPRS connection to be setup. The XDA is a lovely device but BT does not have the infrastructure to sell and administer the    connectivity side of it, which is its selling point. How might I connect my XDA into an 802.11b wireless network. Is there a "driver" for the internal radio transmitter (or would this require a soldering iron) or maybe a wireless card for the SD/MMC slot?Adrian Bleachadrian@dataline.co.uk
Advances in technology will inevitably mean that, just as people now edit pictures at home on their PCs to make fakes for fun, they will soon be able to do the same with video. In the relatively near future, it will be impossible to trust any picture, movie or soundbite. If this doesn't frighten you, it's because you haven't really thought about it.Who hasn't had fun playing with photos on their PC at home? Who hasn't used Photoshop or whatever to   touch up an old photograph to get rid of scratches and creases? Who hasn't scanned a photograph and edited it to remove an ex-spouse from a happy scene_ Well, you get the point. It's fun and easy to play around with digitised photographs and the power of a typical home PC is already sufficient to let anyone do this. How much more fun would it be if you could do the same thing with video?Even an amateur like me has no trouble plugging my video camera into my Macintosh and firing up iMovie, editing some clips and producing mini-movies for friends and relatives. Hence, when I discovered that researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology have managed to generate realistic videos of people saying things they never said, I began to look forward to next generation home video editing software with a mixture of fascination and sheer horror.In one demonstration, the researchers taped a woman speaking into a camera, and then reprocessed the footage into a new video that showed her speaking entirely new sentences, and even mouthing words to a song in Japanese (a language she does not speak) sufficiently well to consistently fool view ers. Now, while the technique is currently crude and only works on "talking heads" video, the software, which uses AI to figure out what the person should look like while saying something, is bound to get better, faster and cheaper.This is a far cry from the problem that George Monbiot recently highlighted in this paper of fake newsgroup postings masquerading as real ones: it's one thing to have corporations trying to manipulate the masses while hiding behind bogus individual identities, but quite another to release bogus news clips into the wild. Even news organisations have trouble in determining what is actually news or not: look at the recent and much-reported error by the Beijing Evening News (circulation 1.25 million), which carried a story from the American satirical website the Onion under the impression that its spoof story on the transfer of Congress from Washington was true.If someone could create, on their home computer, utterly convincing video footage of Osama bin Laden doing something un-Islamic, then how would either his friends or his foes know whether it was real or not?In fact, as I have noted before, how will anyone know whether anything is real or not? Will they look to some "higher authority" to verify material for them and pronounce on its veracity, will they use education and critical faculties to assess the probability of a story being true, or will they look to their tribe for feedback and validation? I suspect the latter.Reinforcing the theory that people buy newspapers that contain the news they want to read, technology will ensure that every tribe in the world will find their own world view reinforced. They will believe the video, photos and news stories that support their own prejudices and they will ignore video, photos and news stories that do not, dismissing them as fakes.The plausibility or otherwise of the material is irrelevant. There are people who will believe anything and it doesn't matter whether it's that Nasa never went to the moon, that thousands of Jews stayed away from the World   Trade Center on September 11 or that 120-million-year-old maps have been discovered in Siberia. If I can cobble together video to support David Icke's theory that the royal family includes extraterrestrial lizards, then would this convince you that his theory is true or not? This impending "truth" levelling certainly confirms the suspicions of those who rejected the early utopian projections of freedom and democracy online.The glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel may well come from the democratisation of the technology. Since anyone will be able to manufacture any "news" they want to, and since the internet will provide an instantaneous and free means to disseminate it, then the concept of news itself will be devalued. Rather than believe everything, people will believe nothing. They will then begin to look more for analysis of the news to help them make sense of it and some merging of traditional mass media and (heavily branded) blogging will provide a framework for this to take place: blogging may be an unusually important part of mass media's future.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
'On the internet, everything wants to be free. Send $9.95 for more information." That used to be a joke against the commercialisation of what had been an academic network; now it is coming true. With the drying up of funds from investors and a slump in the online advertising market, thousands of websites are either closing down   or trying desperately to find new sources of income. Someone has to pay, so every week, more sites change from free to fee.Want to listen to music? Free file-swapping services, under attack from copyright lawsuits, are on the way out; paid subscription services from Real Networks and BT Openworld are on the way in. Want to watch Big Brother or CNN news videos or Wisden's international cricket   online? You have to pay. Want to read last month's Financial Times? Pay again. Gone are the best days of free internet service providers such as Freeserve, free storage and free web space with unlimited free bandwidth.Surfers can still get lots of free software and services, but companies like Another.com and Bigfoot have started charging for email. Yahoo wants money for mail forwarding, which used to be free. Hotmail wants money for extra mail storage. Many of the "free" shareware programs have become "nagware" - they use popups to annoy you into paying - or increasingly come with parasite programs that serve up advertising.It is not hard to understand why. Writing on the Kuro5hin website late last month, Kennon Ballou, who used to be a programmer at Audiogalaxy, put it like this: "Towards the end of my time there, online advertising budgets fell through the floor and we were forced to find other methods of income. Sometime around then we began bundling so-called spyware into the satellite installer, simply because they paid good money and nobody else was."During the internet's reprise of tulipmania, the main idea seemed to be to attract the biggest audience in the shortest possible time, even if "customer acquisition" cost a fortune. Later, someone would surely find a way to convert all these "eyeballs" into profits. Today, those same users are expensive to maintain in terms of server use, disk space, bandwidth (communications costs), content and support, but the profits have failed to materialise. As Judy Gibbons, European vice-president of Microsoft's MSN, says: "It's very challenging to generate revenue from free services. Free and subscription have to work together in one business model."And as Steve Bowbrick, Another.com's chief executive, points out, "The problem with being free is that you've got no leeway at all. You've got no way to promote or do discounts because you have an ARPU (average revenue per user - we've borrowed that from the mobile people) of zero."The good news is that people will pay, and Gibbons claims MSN Extra Storage has been "enormously successful". The bad news is that most people won't. Bowbrick reckons Another.com has just about made the transition from free to 20,000 paying customers: "One advantage was that we were a little, private firm, and we're a lot littler than we were before."People will also pay for unique content, as the Wall   Street Journal has shown. The online version started charging soon after its launch in 1996, and its US-based founder and publisher, Neil Budde, says the Journal would have gone online even if the internet had not taken off. WSJ.com has its own news staff of 60, and 640,000 subscribers paying $29 or $59. (The lower rate is for people who also get the paper version.) In 2001, its income was $37m.Budde is the first to admit that the Journal had advantages in terms of its existing brand name and its business readership. "We felt from the beginning that the audience we were targeting would be willing to pay, so in a way it was easy for us to do that from the start. I don't know that everyone could or would charge. In fact, we operate half a dozen sites that are free, or supported by advertising." The free sites cater to more specialised audiences - careers, real estate, small businesses and so on.But one thing WSJ.com does not do is mix free and paid-for. This kind of tiered service is becoming common on the web: some things are free for everyone but subscribers have access to a premier level of content. "We debated making more of the Journal available, but a   mixture of free and paid-for content can be very confusing to people," says Budde. "Some links work, some don't..."There is nothing in Budde's voice to suggest he could possibly be thinking of any other company, but the Financial Times has just introduced a three-tiered service. Everyone gets the past week's content for nothing, as before. Level 1 subscribers who pay &#163;75 a year get access to all FT content, including Lex items not published in the paper. Level 2 subscribers, who pay &#163;200 a year, also get access to a database of more than a thousand newspapers and magazines. It sounds a lot, but a decade ago, FT Profile/World Reporter cost about &#163;1.50 a minute.Zach Leonard, director and chief operating officer of FT.com, is keen to stress that the FT hasn't gone from free to fee. "We have a very diverse revenue model," he says, "which includes advertising, which we still believe in, and e-commerce. Finally we've just added subscriptions, but there's quite a bit that's free, and that's deliberate." The free content is helping to establish the FT's name outside the UK. "It's a good means to sell newspapers, which we are doing as well," he says.It's one thing to charge for new services, but much harder to charge for something that has been free for years. As Gibbons says, "that upsets your customers". But Leonard says there hasn't been a significant backlash. "It's something we're going to continue to monitor, but generally, people can't believe it's taken us this long to charge for information."The bad news is that the vast majority of websites won't be able to follow WSJ.com and FT.com, according to Forrester Research senior analyst Rebecca Ulph. "It only works for people who have content you can't get anywhere else. There's very little of that, and mostly it's generated from the business market. Everyone likes to think their content is unique, but it usually isn't."Ulph expects to see "a lot of consolidation - a lot of sites won't survive" - and a lot more syndication. She thinks companies that have good content could be better off   supplying it to other sites, much like Reuters and AP provide hundreds of sites with news, rather than seeing themselves as destinations. The big sites will do well, by reaching a mass market, and the little sites will do well in their specialised niches. "But if you are in the middle ground," she says, "you've got a problem."None the less, content can gain in value through being delivered over the internet, and this is the message that comes most strongly from Mark Hall, RealNetworks' vice president of RealOne subscription services in Europe. I'd suggested music, video and games as key content areas: RealOne already delivers music, and Real announced a similar games service in the US on Monday. "But we've built our success out of news and sport, which you didn't even mention," exclaims Hall.RealOne's American successes have included commentaries on Major League Baseball and Nascar racing, video streams of the Big Brother television series, and TV news channels. "Partly it is to do with time-shifting," says Hall. "If a baseball game is being played during the day while people are at work, it may be that the only way to follow the game is   online. The other thing is the 'displaced fan' - the New York Yankees supporter who moves to Los Angeles and finds there is no local coverage of his favourite team."Hall hopes RealOne will have a similar success in Europe by carrying live commentaries of Uefa Champions League football games. And where the US service has CNN and ABC News, he will have a live feed of BBC World News. "It's a very strong offering."The RealOne subscription service also acts as an aggregator or consolidator, like a satellite TV company. "We don't have a direct pipe or a settop box, but we offer a similar sort of service," says Hall. "Putting 10 or 12 channels into one package increases the chances that someone will subscribe - there's a network effect - so each one gets more users than they would otherwise."But like Leonard at FT.com, Hall stresses that RealNetworks has not suddenly switched from free to paid-for. "We continue to be in the business of making things free, but free was just not tenable in the long term," he says. "We've added some balance to what was a relatively unbalanced &#91;business&#93; model before."But if you are not the FT,   and not big enough to do deals with the likes of RealNetworks, MSN or the BBC, there is little you can do, except throw yourself at your users' mercy. Sometimes it works.Last month, it worked for Rusty Foster, the man behind Kuro5hin (a mangling of corrosion, as in rusty). "We're broke," he announced. "I come to you, Kuro5hin community, in an hour of need." Income from text advertising had fallen from $4,182 in March to a projected $1,241 in June. There was no way he could make his $70,000 budget, but if the site's 381,000 monthly visitors just chipped in a buck each, he'd be rich.In this case, there was a happy ending: Kuro5hin raised $35,000 in less than a week. But I wouldn't bank on that happening another 50,000 to 500,000 times, depending on how many small sites hit the wall. The web makes it easy to click to almost anywhere, but it is just as easy to click away.
Ambitious plans unveiled by Microsoft and major chip manufacturers to improve computer security have prompted an angry backlash from internet commentators this week. The plans, code-named Palladium, aim to tackle the long-standing problems of computer security, online privacy and theft of copyright material by radically changing the way computers work.Palladium has gone public just six months after Bill Gates's demand that Microsoft make "trustworthy computing" a top priority, after years of security lapses in the company's software. Microsoft, along with partners Intel and AMD, wants to install chips and software in every new PC, which would prevent the machine from being hacked, or its contents altered, by "untrusted" parties.This means that PCs would be less vulnerable to viruses and hackers, while ensuring that software and digital content such as music and movies were protected from piracy. But software developers and internet activists say the proposals have far-reaching implications for computer users and for the way the internet operates."This is diabolical," wrote online columnist Robert Cringely, after the plans were announced. "If Microsoft is successful, Palladium will give Bill Gates a piece of every transaction of any type while at the same time marginalising the work of any competitor who doesn't choose to be Palladium-compliant."The influential independent software developer Dave Winer also lambasted the proposals, warning they could reinforce Microsoft's operating system monopoly. "Welcome to the Gestapo of the Future - the World Wide Thought Control Center, brought to you by Disney, Ashcroft and Gates," he wrote. What are the online activists so angry about? At the heart of Palladium - and at the heart of their concerns - are security chips that would be built into every new Palladium-compliant machine. The leading processor manufacturers, Intel and AMD, have signed up to produce the chips.The computer's owner, as well as third parties, would not be given access to the security chip, and if they attempted to interfere with it, it would cease to function. The chip would run the "nub" - a part of the Windows operating system cordoned off from the rest of the computer that would maintain the security of the computer and its contents.According to the Newsweek article where Microsoft explained its plans, the system would constantly monitor everything the computer does to make sure it is trustworthy. In some situations, it would be Microsoft's software - rather than the computer user - that determines what could be trusted, and what could not.That means users could be prevented from running certain "untrusted" applications, opening certain files or passing them on. Users' data would be encrypted inside the system so that even the most comprehensive rifling of the computer system would fail to yield protected information. If the roll-out of Palladium    goes to plan, every piece of data, on a computer or sent across the internet, would have Palladium information attached to it.That would mean record labels and film studios could, in time, protect their copyright material by preventing "their" bits of information being sent from, or to, Palladium-equipped computers.This would take time to establish. Microsoft acknowledges it would have to ship 100m Palladium-compliant computers before they made a difference. And the company is quick to point out that individual users, not just large corporations, could find uses for Palladium. They could, for instance, specify that an email they sent out could not be forwarded, or that a word processing file would delete itself after a week.For business - not just music and film businesses, but those in financial services or government - many of these new features are likely to be welcomed. The research firm Gartner, in a note published shortly after Microsoft's plans were announced, called Palladium "innovative" and predicted that most computer software, from applications to drivers, would come to depend on it."Gartner believes that, based on technical disclosure of the architecture, it could be secure against almost all software attacks _ and most hardware attacks," wrote researchers Martin Reynolds and David Smith. But they added a note of caution about the impact of Palladium on consumers, especially those used to today's comparative freedom to copy and swap digital   media files."Although DRM &#91;digital rights management&#93; has yet to penetrate consumer-oriented technology, Gartner believes that it could provoke negative public reaction. In the short term, the greatest challenge for Microsoft could be fending off the DRM backlash."There also remains a question mark over the public's trust in Microsoft. The company's software has been at the centre of a succession of security-related scares in recent years, from security problems in its Windows operating system to holes in its Internet Explorer software. Ironically, the company's dominant position in many software fields, especially its desktop operating system monopoly, makes matters worse: hackers and virus writers specifically target the Redmond company. Cringely comments: "We are being sold a bill of goods by the very outfit responsible for making possible most current internet security problems_ Yet Palladium has a very real chance of succeeding."&#183;Send comments to online. feedback@guardian.co.ukLinks:Microsoft unveils Palladium in Newsweek:www.msnbc.com/news/770511.aspDave Winer on Palladium:http://scriptingnews.userland.com/backissues/2002/06/29Robert Cringely:www.pbs.org/cringely/pulpit/pulpit20020627.html&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Most days, Frank Watson drives into the city. At the car park, he calls a number on his mobile. He is connected to an automated voice recognition system which asks him for his PIN. He then answers two short questions: which car park he's in and how long he wants to stay. He parks the car and he's on his way. No hunting for change, no returning to the car with a ticket.You would be forgiven for thinking Watson is a businessman in a hi-tech country of early adopters in Scandinavia. But he is a pensioner and lives in Hull, which, believe it or not, is the UK's   most mobile-enabled city. The council, in its drive to make Hull a top 10 digital city, is pushing ahead with schemes to make so-called m-payment transactions an everyday occurrence for everyone.The programme is being tested this summer, targeting 200 regular users of the city's 10 above-ground car parks. More than 100 have signed up and are using their phones to pay for parking. The system is relatively simple. Users go through an initial registration process providing name, mobile number, a payment method (in the test this is restricted to credit and debit cards) and vehicle registration number. Registration   should ultimately be conducted online or via an automated voice recognition system, but for the test it is done via a live operator over the phone. Upon registration, users receive a special parking permit to identify their car as part of the scheme.If Frank decides to stay longer in town, he receives an automated SMS message saying his parking time is about to expire. He can top it up from his mobile. No need to dash back to the car park and placate traffic wardens.   Wardens recognise his car is in the scheme from the permit on the windscreen. They check he is paid by punching his vehicle registration details into a handheld device. They can also use the device to send him an SMS message if he has forgotten to turn off his lights or has a flat tyre.The scheme's benefits for the customer are clear: a convenient service that anyone can use, even those who may feel less comfortable with new technologies. Hull city council also derives advantage. Avoid ing the hunt for change and not queueing for tickets means fewer people are likely to park without paying. Cash management is expensive - monitoring ticket machines, emptying and repairing them. All these costs should be significantly reduced.So it is a reality in Hull, but why has the m-payment future taken so long? Although the user experience is simple, the processes that support it are complex, involving collaboration between Ericsson, Vodafone, the Israeli m-payment specialist Cellenium (www.cellenium.com) and the voice recognition supplier Vox Generation (www.voxgeneration.com). Now that the system is in place, further services should soon follow.Hull is one of only two or three m-payment schemes in the UK so far. The German Paybox system recently introduced to several London restaurants has yet to acquire many users. But it is a proven technology. In its home market, more than 600,000 people use their mobiles to pay for all sorts of goods and services both on and offline.You can even make mobile-to-mobile payments. If your friend lends you a fiver for lunch, you can send payment to his bank account direct from your mobile. Denmark, Spain, Sweden and Austria all have working m-payment schemes in place - not to mention Latvia and Israel.Cellenium's Daniel Alon believes the key to success is simplicity and breadth of service. "You have to come to market with a broad suite of simple services so it's worth the consumer going to the trouble to sign up. Something the consumer only uses a few times a month doesn't make much sense for them. If there is a range of services that are day-to-day things that a consumer will do a few of every week, then it becomes much more valuable."Fully fledged m-payment may be restricted to Hull for now, but experience elsewhere suggests it really is on the way. Alon believes we'll see mass-market m-payment in the UK within a year, with parking and taxis as the front runners.
BroadbandFlagrantly ignoring tradition, BT has opened a website that has a simple address, downloads quickly, is easy to navigate, and might even be useful, though I wouldn't get too excited about the last bit. The site provides a Broadband Availability Checker, where you type in your phone number to find out you can't have it. Now it also lets you register an interest in the ADSL service you can't have. When registrations for a particular exchange reach the "trigger level", BT will install it.   www.bt.com/broadbandTrailer parkAny list of bookmarks is incomplete without the wonderful Internet Movie Database (IMDb), now owned by Amazon. Sky Movies is unlikely to match that, but says its aim is to become "the best movie website in the UK". (I suppose we now think IMDb is American, though it first hit the web from Cardiff University). Sky Movies' main attraction seems to be the huge collection of trailers, including three for Minority Report. Then again, I think I'd rather read Movie Poop Shoot.Home siteShelter has launched a site to educate school-aged children about the risks of becoming homeless. It includes information on leaving home, finding somewhere to live, housing rights, and what to do if you have nowhere to stay. There is a schools pack for teachers. The IT world also helps homeless children by raising funds for the NCH through an annual sleep-out.FinderWould you like to know where up to five friends are or, at least, where their mobile phones are? AT&amp;T Wireless is the first company to launch such a service in the US. Don't have five friends? Would you like to see where the planes are around LAX airport in Los Angeles? (Note to would-be terrorists: there is a 10-minute delay before the map is updated.)ShortiesWith web addresses getting overlong, Makeashorterlink provided one way to make them shorter. Now there are lots of similar sites including Quickones, TinyURL, and Shorl.com, which, as ResearchBuzz points out, also lets you access statistics about the link's use.Play!The Game On video games exhibition at the Barbican Art Gallery is now being promoted using a Shockwave game you can play online. It does not actually start with a 1960s game, but it does take you through video gaming history. The game was developed by Philip O'Dwyer of State Design, and featured on the BBC programme Go Digital.
To the man with a hammer, every problem looks like a nail. For years, computer firms have been lobbying the government with the message that the way to save the UK's creaky criminal justice system is to buy more IT.Their wish is about to be granted. A forthcoming white paper on criminal justice will propose creating new electronic networks to join up police forces, courts, prison and probationary services.At a recent conference sponsored by Schlumberger-Sema, the IT services firm, Tony Blair promised "a major investment in IT" to replace systems "still in the dark ages".The Audit Commission reported last month that every year, the system wastes &#163;80m when trials are adjourned, delayed or collapse unnecessarily, usually because of failures in communication between different agencies.The commission says that information sharing "is severely hampered by out of date and non-integrated information technology".It also points to cultural barriers to adopting modern IT by lawyers and other professionals. While some use email and electronic case-  files, "others appear unconvinced about the reliability and accessibility of electronic communication". Even where systems are integrated, case papers are still faxed.If police officers, probation workers and lawyers are "unconvinced" about IT, they have some excuse. The 1990s were littered with fiascos.* Fingerprint recognition. The first attempt to set up a national fingerprint recognition system, due to be in place by 1995, collapsed. Its replacement reached all   police forces only last year.* Probation case-management. In the 1990s, the National Probation Service's Information Systems Strategy had seven project managers in seven years and was never completely rolled out. By last year, its cost had risen to &#163;118m, 70% above the original forecast.* Police National Computer. The Audit Commission found widespread dissatisfaction with the system, which relies on updating by messenger or fax, as well as computer.* Libra, a system developed for the lord chancellor's department to automate magistrates courts, is running behind schedule, ministers admitted this year. The cost of the contract has increased from &#163;183m to &#163;319m.One of the speakers at last month's conference, David Tait, SchlumbergerSema's managing director, public sector, says there are two reasons for cautious optimism.First is the XML mark-up language, which allows previously incompatible systems to   share information via a web-browser. "Ten years ago, we'd have had to throw all the existing systems away and design one mega system," he said. Second, Tait says that breakthroughs in security technology should remove some of the worries about linking information systems.Today, the criminal justice "system" consists of seven main agencies, overseen by three departments - the home office, the lord chancellor's department and the attorney general's office.Senior police officers are calling for a continental-style ministry of justice to run the whole system. The white paper will not go that far, instead proposing the creation of local criminal justice "communities" working together. IT will provide the glue, joining up systems and providing management that will identify bottlenecks.Tait warns that such links may not happen unless agencies are compelled to put them in place. He is probably pushing at an open door. In November, the home office appointed a new director general for criminal justice IT. Jo   Wright, previously a director at IBM, is drawing up an IT strategy that is likely to be more in tune with what industry believes is possible rather than with maintaining professional and organisational traditions.One idea from Tait is a national court-scheduling service. This would connect courts, police forces, the prison services and witness support agencies to synchronise court hearings. It would probably be run by an IT services contractor under a public-private partnership.How much will it all cost? Tait says that, for all the technical and organisational challenges, the investment will not be huge compared with that needed for a similar scheme in the NHS. "I would be surprised if it reached a billion pounds."However, earlier this month, Lord Justice Brooke, chairman of the judges' standing committee on IT, said that modernising courts' computers might need an investment of &#163;500m.Recession-hit IT companies are drooling at the prospect.&#183;Route to Justice. Audit Commission www.audit-commission.gov.uk
Smash Court Tennis ProPlayStation 2 	&#163;34.99 Namco/Sony	***Next Generation TennisPlayStation 2 	&#163;34.99 Wanadoo 	**Considering that Pong was the first proper videogame - Space War doesn't really count - there have been few decent tennis games released since the 1970s. Sega's Virtua Tennis series was the best in recent times but there are some new contenders this year, out just in time for the annual Wimbledon rush.Smash Court Tennis Pro is the better of the two, and builds on its previous incarnation on the PS1. There are now eight players from which to choose, including Agassi, Sampras and Kournikova, and each has a distinct style of play. Despite the arcade game look, this is a challenge. The   controls appear simple but don't be fooled.Hitting the ball badly involves good timing: hitting a winner requires a perfect connection. Lazily prodding at the button will have you flailing embarrassingly on the court. Perseverance is generally rewarded, though, and the multiplayer modes are appealing. Only the average graphics and question marks over longevity count against it.Unfortunately, Next Generation Tennis can't compete. Yes, a career mode that allows you to compete around the globe is welcome. And Henmaniacs will be pleased to see Tim included. But a ball that regularly defies the laws of physics and an erratic detection system that often sees you returning when missing your shot, are major flaws. The graphics are shabby, too, although the players look realistic. Despite this, a short game of Next-Gen can be compelling, as even the most amateurish player can return the ball. Nevertheless, Smash Court Tennis Pro is the current PlayStation 2 champion. (GH)Neverwinter NightsPC £39.99 Bioware/ Infogrames *****The words Advanced Dungeons and Dragons (AD&amp;D)     probably conjure up images of sweaty, lanky-haired youths fiddling about in their bedrooms with multi-sided dice.A     group of young Canadians was once like that, but they grew up, formed a company (Bioware) and burst on to the     role-playing game scene in 1998 with Baldur's Gate.Although it wasn't the first game to use AD&amp;D rules, Baldur's     Gate was the first to achieve mass popularity, giving AD&amp;D a kind of geeky coolness. Four years later and Bioware     has now released Neverwinter Nights, the game they wanted to make all along, and the latest game to rewrite the     RPG rulebook.Although it is set in the same universe as the Baldur's Gate games, the gameplay of Neverwinter     Nights is completely different, as the world is in gorgeous 3D and you play a solo hero rather than leading a party of     characters.Fans will be pleased to hear that the unparalleled atmosphere and great storyline that characterised     the Baldur's Gate titles are still very much a part of the game. But Neverwinter Nights isn't just about having a     great single player or multiplayer experience; it's also about creating your own world.The game comes with an     easy-to-use toolset, allowing players to create their own levels, plus a dungeon master client, which gives them the     opportunity to create perpetually changing adventures, akin to the original pen and paper AD&amp;D. Neverwinter Nights     isn't merely a game, it's a beautifully presented role-playing package. (RP)Delta Force Urban WarfarePlayStation £19.99 NovaLogic ***One would imagine that a high percentage of the     millions of PlayStations in the UK have been condemned to the cupboard, but so many were sold that there must still     be a significant number in use. The flow of new games for the original PlayStation has all but dried up, but     NovaLogic addresses that gap in the market with Delta Force Urban Warfare, a first-person shoot-'em-up developed     by Oxford outfit Rebellion, of Aliens vs Predator fame.As is the vogue, it combines full-on shooting action and     stealth, with the emphasis skewed more towards shooting than, say, Metal Gear Solid. Delta Force Urban Warfare is     not as good as the original Metal Gear Solid, but it comes close, and would no doubt have been a huge hit during the     PlayStation's main lifecycle.It is a departure, too, for NovaLogic's Delta Force franchise, as the action takes place     indoors, in urban environments. The plot involves terrorist attempts to create a bomb, and is marginally less cliched     than usual. Like Metal Gear Solid, you work alone and must employ gadgetry; bosses are eschewed in favour of     firefights, though.Sadly, the game has no multi-player mode, and playing it will remind you of how basic PlayStation     graphics used to be, although the artificial intelligence is better than expected. If you still have a PlayStation, Delta     Force Urban Warfare is a must: not only by dint of being the only option, as it is a decent enough game. (SB)
Thinking about escaping from work for a few weeks in summer? Well forget it. The only places left on Earth without phone transmitters and internet access won't be in your travel agent's brochures. Unless you go cold turkey and leave your mobile at home, the chances of you remaining incommunicado during your vacation are minimal.Perhaps it's best to adopt the "if you can't beat 'em, join them" approach and impress your boss with efficiency that goes beyond the call of duty. Here are some gadgets that will help you maintain high levels of productivity even in the most trying of environments, such as the pool or beach. There are even a few that might prove handy during your leisure time - if you can squeeze some in.WorkPossibly the last thing you will want to do is visit an internet cafe, where you'll be fighting for the last ultra-slow PC with hygienically challenged backpackers.If Spain, Ireland or Germany is your destination, then O2's &#163;500 XDA-connected personal digital assistant is a must-have companion. It uses those countries' GPRS networks, which means it is quicker and cheaper for accessing emails and downloading websites than standard GSM phones. Expect to pay at least &#163;2 a day for the privilege of using it.Bizarrely, the XDA doesn't work over standard GSM, so if it is tiramisu rather than tapas on the menu, you might be better off with a &#163;200 Handspring Treo or a separate phone and PDA.All that downloading of emails is sure to leave your mobile thirsty for power, so use the local environment to your advantage.    The iSun portable charger soaks up those rays and converts them into power for your mobile, PDA and MP3 player. Its makers claim you'll get a couple of days extra standby time from your Nokia mobile. The recharger usually sells for around &#163;50 (see the links below).Suppose you want to bob up    and down in the pool on your Lilo while rustling up a PowerPoint presentation. Most laptops aren't too fond of the odd splash, to say nothing of total immersion. However, the &#163;3,500 Itronix Go Book Max portable PC, built to be virtually indestructible, will shrug off the occasional dip and still allow you to get on with your work.A cheaper option might be to invest in waterproof housing for your PDA. Aquapac has a range of products to suit PDAs and mobile phones. Its latest version, the &#163;19.99 PDA Classic Plus, is large enough to house both your Compaq iPaq and any expansion modules (GPS etc). Aquapac also has a range of inexpensive waterproof casings for digital cameras and camcorders.MusicThanks to MP3 and hard disk-based mini jukeboxes, it is now possible to take your CD collection on holiday. Current top models include the latest incarnation of the    Creative Labs Jukebox - the &#163;349.99 Nomad 3. It features 20 GB of storage - enough for more than 150 CDs. If you want a radio too, then the &#163;350 SonicBlue Rio Riot has 20 GB storage and an FM tunerFor musical accompaniment to barbecues on your balcony, you'll also need a pair of speakers. Trouble is, most travel speakers either sound awful or are so large they take up too much room in your baggage. Ellula Sound has come up with the wonderful idea of inflatable speakers. They compress nicely while in your case and then on arrival, you simply blow them up. They include an amplifier and power adapter so you just connect them to your MP3 player/CD player. There are three designs all costing &#163;29.99, though you'll probably want to pass on the Budweiser    beer can version.Even tinier is the Soundbug (&#163;34.95 from, a PC mouse-sized gadget that turns any hard surface into a speaker. The battery-powered device even works with windows and walls. Sound quality is not bad.CamerasThe killer application for photo messaging, as recently introduced in the UK by T-Mobile, has to be the "wish you were here" shot of you lazing by the beach sent to the mobile of someone whose view is of the office car park. Sadly, according to T-Mobile, mobile-to-mobile   Photo Messaging only works in the UK. You can't send an image from the Sony Ericsson T38i phone/camera to an email address while roaming, but T-Mobile promises that next year it will be up and running. So you are better off taking a conventional digital camera for this year, anyway.If you want something really small you can take everywhere, Logitech's new &#163;120 pocket digital camera is a must. It is small enough to almost hide behind a credit card, yet is capable of taking 1.3 megapixel images that are just about worth printing as well as being used in emails.Fuji's &#163;80 Axia SlimShot and SiPix's &#163;50 Blink take good VGA standard images and are a few pounds cheaper.For more serious snappers, Olympus has unveiled the &#163;450 C-4000Zoom - its first 4 megapixel camera to retail for under &#163;500, while Fuji is touting its stylish 3 megapixel model - the FinePix F601 - for around the same price.Other stuffStill not mugged up on your European languages? To spare embarrassment at restaurants and shops, you need to whip out the Ectaco &#163;179.95 UT-103 Universal Translator. It uses a voice recognition system, so you simply say the word you want translated and then it barks it back at you in the other language.
You might not have read about it in today's newspapers, but a significant new internet use study was published yesterday by the UK office for national statistics. The muted reception for its findings is in stark contrast to that afforded its predecessors.Granted, through the tech mania of the late 1990s, internet surveys made amazing reading. The rapid rate of internet adoption was outstripping any technology that had gone before - even television and radio - sending shockwaves through the media industry and helping create the crazy valuations and predictions that were a signature of the times.Now the bubble has burst, those valuations have been spectacularly deflated and the predictions are of doom, rather than glory. Last autumn one newspaper reported the popularity of the internet was "crashing", while others suggested millions of users were logging off.Neither was correct. The new study shows "newbies" are still arriving in cyberspace - and, indeed, there has been a modest spike in uptake in recent months.Between April 2001 and March 2002, 40% of UK households were connected. But the first three months of this year found 42% of households connected, a 6% increase year on year, suggesting that a steady rate of increase will continue for a while at least.One high street giant is certainly banking on it. Last week Dixons announced it was looking to recruit 1000 new staff to accommodate what it predicts will be a boom in consumer electronics. New products like wireless home networks and a new generation of personal digital assistants will lead the way, but the company even sees new life in the moribund personal computer market too.Meanwhile sales of fast broadband internet connections are warming up, in part thanks to lower prices and more aggressive marketing from British Telecom. Take-up so far suggests broadband will take longer to establish itself as a widespread means of connecting to the internet - we're talking millions signing up over years, rather than months - but the situation has improved dramatically from only a year ago.So is all rosy in the internet garden? Not quite. Read deeper into the figures and they suggest that, while there may be continued short-term growth in household internet use, it is likely to hit a plateau soon.Dixons might be getting ready for a rush, but step inside one of its shops and you quickly discover that even the cheapest means of hooking up to the net are pretty expensive. Even a comparatively cheap £600 PC is beyond the means of many - a further £300 a year minimum for broadband, plus charges for installation and equipment, equally out of reach.There is clear evidence of a widening digital divide: adoption remains far higher among the young and the well off. Almost half of households in London and the southeast of England have net access, against 31% in Wales and Northern Ireland, 34% in the West Midlands and 35% in the southwest.80% of the richest bracket of households have internet access, against 11% of the poorest.Among non-internet users, there remains a hardcore of people who say they are unlikely to use the internet any time soon. In the latest survey, 72% of non-users say they are very unlikely to access the internet in the next year. This group represents nearly a third of all adults.It would be easy to brand these refusniks as luddites. 44% of them say they haven't got an interest in using the internet. But 25% say they lack a computer, or access to one, and 20% say they lack confidence or the skills to try it out.While those who have never used the internet might be surprised by the breadth of its content they are not going to get a chance to find out if access is denied to them in the first place.Technology will catch up with some. Digital TV will offer more and more a form of internet access that will feel more like teletext than the web. Today's mobile phones, which enjoy near-saturation levels of ownership in the UK, will be replaced by devices with net-style information services and email fitted as standard in the years to come.But, despite government initiatives to bring internet access and, more recently, broadband, to less densely populated parts of the country, it remains clear a gulf in skills, opportunity and interest remains. Britain's first 40% of internet penetration has been the easy bit: the next 25% could be a far tougher nut to crack.
More than four in 10 UK households accessed the internet from home in the first quarter of the year, according to government figures released today.An estimated 10.7 million homes were able to access the internet between January and March - a threefold increase from three years ago and a 6% increase on the same period last year, according to national statistics' expenditure and food survey.Levels of access vary widely according to region, however. London and the south east were the best connected, with 48% of homes having internet access, while Wales and Northern Ireland were lowest at 31%.The statistics showed little sign of a closing of the 'digital divide' between rich and poor. Just 11% of the lowest of 10 income groups had net access, compared to 80% among the highest earners.Meanwhile computers remain by far the most popular method of looking at the net. Just 5% of respondents reported using digital television, while 8% of adults who had ever accessed the internet by April this year had done so using a mobile phone.Shopping online does not seem to have caught the imaginations of all internet users. Around one in three ordered tickets, goods or services online while three quarters said they went online to find information about goods or services, or to use email.The continuing spread of the internet in the UK may eventually be brought to a halt by a lack of interest. Of the 45% of people questioned who had never used the internet, almost half - 44% - said that was because they were not interested in it.
Interesting piece from theSan Francisco Chronicleon what the record labels are up to online. Could there be signs they are finally getting their act(s) together?
A Harley Street doctor who advocates testosterone treatments to combat the "male menopause" has been found guilty of serious professional misconduct through his "irresponsible" use of a website aimed at patients interested in the condition.Malcolm Carruthers advised a woman seeking medical advice on her husband's clinical condition and treatment through an online questionnaire, advising that her hus band should have weekly injections of testosterone without inviting the patient for an examination, knowing his full medical history, or involving the man's GP.The professional conduct committee of the General Medical Council said there was no clinical evidence to support the prescribing of testosterone for dementia and the dosage mentioned had exceeded any recommended levels.Dr Carruthers must not conduct any medical practice directly or indirectly through a website for 18 months, restrict   any prescribing of drugs to licensed uses and recommend-ed doses, and attend 12 months' medical training on the assessment, investigation and management of patients.Dr Carruthers is chairman of the Andropause Society, a group campaigning for wider recognition of a male menopause, and that argues that testosterone treatment can help middle-aged men regain their energy and libido. He set up an e-medicine internet site atwww.androscreen.comto advise patients.He said last night he was considering an appeal against the findings of misconduct "which I feel were totally unjustified and show the lack of information among general practitioners and endocrinologists on this subject."I am going to resist this ruling to the best of my ability and strongly reject these findings. The fight goes on."But, he said, he had ordered the removal of the online questionnaire and any attempt at diagnosis from the site, which would now simply provide information about the condition.
Amid the various fears about the economy,thisfrom ZDNet UK comes as a surprise: Dixons is taking on 1,000 extra staff to cope with an expected boom in consumer electronics. The company sees plenty of potential in things like flat screen TVs, recordable DVD machines, wireless home networks and personal digital assistants (PDAs). They even think there's hope for PC sales.
With the surge in popularity of digital photography, software to organise and publish your pictures is going to become pretty important. TheWashington Postcompares the built-in picture editing utilities on Windows PCs and Apple Macs.
Microsoft's Palladium plan, first raised here by Jacka week ago, is worth studying, in case you've written it off as another slightly obscure Microsoft/Intel strategy. It's bigger than that.Newsweek'ssoapsud soft"exclusive" gives you the jist on the plan to build a "trustworthy computing" platform where the system, not the user, decides on what is safe to run on your computer. Newsweek didn't delve too deep into what that meant, but others online have quickly given it some thought. "Say what you like about Bill Gates," writes John Naughton intoday's Observer, "but you've got to give him full marks for persistence." Naughton (his blog ishere) calls the plan World Domination, release 4.0 (after Windows, Internet Explorer and the .Net strategy). More trenchant isRobert Cringely, a popular internet columnist in the US (his views supported, and linked to, by bloggerDave Winertoo).I've tended to think of Cringely as something of a hopeless conspiracy theorist in the past. But here he seems to be making some sense - plans like Palladium, with their drastic repercussions for the way we use computers and the internet, could make conspiracy theorists of us all.
ReportsAnnanova: "Moby has come up with a novel way of hitting back at abusive emailers.... Now everyone who emails his old address receives a message telling then they've been automatically enrolled in his fan club."
SpamNetcould help users contribute to the spam-blocking effort, but so far the Windows version is only available for Outlook, not Outlook Express.
Marilyn Monroeapparently singing a Dido song could be one of the attractions of the Siggraph computer graphics show. The clip has been ceated by Tony Ezzat, a graduate student at MIT in Boston, and has been talked about for a while. Unfortunately the AP story doesn't provide a link to any sort of clip, nor doesEzzat's home page. An earlier take on the story, published by MIT's local paper,The Boston Globe, mentions a clip, but it may not be in the archive -- and now the archive is chargeable, I'm not going to pay $2.50 to find out. TheMIT press releaseis actually a more interesting read and does include an illustration of a "synthetic mouth", but again, no video. I'll post a link if one turns up.... Of course, most UK inhabitants have already seen mouth movements faked very very unconvincingly in a series of TV ads for financial services.
IBM has decided to retire theNetVista X Series PCdistinguished by having a flat LCD screen on a movable arm. The ZDNet article raises doubts about the future of all-in-one personal computer designs. In fact, in spite of dozens of attempts, these haven't been successful since the Commodore Pet and Sharp MZ-80B made a splash in the 1970s, when most computer buyers were a lot more naive than they are now.
After finally reading thoseCNetarticles about Microsoft's nefarious approach to video, I thought I'd have a look at my PCs. Now I run Windows Media Player, and it seems to support the following codecs: Cinepak codec ClearVideo Decoder Driver; Fraunhofer IIS MPEG Layer-3 Codec; Fraunhofer IIS MPEG Layer-3 Codec for MSACM; Intel Audio Codec; Intel I.263 Video Driver; Intel Indeo 3.0 Video Codec; Intel Indeo 5.0 Video Codec; Intel Indeo(R) Video Interactive 32-bit Driver; Intel RAW YVU9 Video Driver; Lernout And Hauspie Codecs; Microsoft MPEG-4 Standard Video Codec; Microsoft MPEG-4 Video Codec v1; Microsoft MPEG-4 Video Codec v2; Microsoft MPEG-4 Video Codec v3; Microsoft Network Audio Codec; Microsoft Screen Video Decompressor; Microsoft Windows Media Video v7; Microsoft Windows Media Video v8; Sharp G.726 Audio Codec; Sipro Lab Audio Telecom Codec (Acelp); Streaming Animation Support; Vivo H.263 Video Codec; Vivo Siren Audio Codec; VivoActive Audio Codec; Voxware MetaSound; Voxware MetaVoice; Windows Media Audio Codec. Somewhere along the way, I've also picked up DivX 4 and 5,XviDand a few others that don't install automatically. The only major problems I have are with Real's RealVideo -- where Real prevents me from having a codec, to force me to download a Real Player that I don't want -- and Apple's QuickTime, where again I'm prompted to download a player I don't want and should not need.In principle, I believe I should be able to load any video into any player, ideally on any operating system, and as far as possible, I avoid formats that prevent that. So if anyone can point me toVDub-and/or WMP 6.4-compatible codecs for the Real and Apple formats (or a QuickTime player like PixLite, that isn't as horribly bloated as Apple's) I would be much obliged.... (I already haveTINRA.)
"WHICH companies would be doing a lot worse without creative accounting?" wonders that bastion of financial reporting, The New York Post.Apple and Yahooare among the five companies picked out by Standard &amp; Poor's, because of the IT company habit of "incentivizing" staff with share options. The staff have to sell their stock to cash in, and that raises more questions. AP has a story aboutsenior Apple executives selling sharesbefore profit warnings lower the price. Weaker companies are bound to come under closer financial scrutiny follwoing events at Enron, WorldCom and Xerox. But as S&amp;P's David Blitzer sagely told the Post: "If the numbers are wrong it doesn't matter how you add them up."
Hurrah!News.comannounces that the UK "got its first public Wi-Fi hot spots [on] Monday". Tremendous news, I'm sure all readers will agree - and it's always nice to be praised for catching up with the rest of the world. But whaddya mean us Brits havehad wireless hotspots for years? Hmm...
Scientific American: 15 Answers to Creationist Nonsense. Even if you're unlikely to argue with a creationist today, it's worth a read.
One of the UK's greatest internet boom and bust stories came to an end yesterday as BT bought out online directories business Scoot.com for just &#163;5m, a fraction of what the company was worth two years ago.The news is a blow to Yell, the owner of Yellow Pages, which BT sold a year ago and which   its venture capital owners are hoping to float next month.BT intends to use Scoot to re-enter the printed directories market and is also understood to be considering a bid for the Thomson directories business owned by Italy's Seat Pagine Gialle.Yesterday Pierre Danon, the head of BT's retail business, warned there might be "significant" job losses if BT did not take steps to support its position in the newly deregulated 192 directory inquiries market by branching out into other directories businesses."I have to use deregulation to my advantage. It allows other people to come into my market and also helps me to reach outside my market, and the biggest area outside my market is classified directories."Mr Danon intends to unveil his new directories strategy late next month. It will include telephone, internet and printed directory services.Yell, however, said it was unperturbed by the return of its former parent to the market. The company believes that it will take several years for BT to get a sizeable position in the market."BT used to describe us as the jewel in the crown. We do not necessarily welcome competition but we are prepared for it," said a spokesman.But the news comes at a bad time for Yell as the company tries to convince investors that it is worth the &#163;3.5bn price tag it is targeting.Ironically it was BT that gave Scoot its start in life by selling Freepages the 0800 192 192 number for next to nothing. Using the business built around that number, former chief executive Robert Bonnier reversed Freepages into a listed shell in 1996 and founded Scoot.The company went on to buy classified adverts paper Loot for almost &#163;190m from its entrepreneur owner, and at the height of the dotcom boom it was valued at over &#163;2bn.But a cash squeeze and the tremendous fall in the company's stock price forced out senior management - including Mr Bonnier - and in a desperate dash for cash, Loot was sold just under a year ago for only &#163;45m.Yesterday BT bought what remains of Scoot for &#163;5m in cash and picked up the firm's &#163;3.2m debts. Scoot said that if shareholders do not back the deal it will go bust.
Telecom experts yesterday warned that the collapse of WorldCom could have a dramatic effect on internet users everywhere.The company owns some of the pioneers of the internet such as MCI and UUNet. About 40% of the world's internet traffic travels over some part of its huge network.Experts said yesterday that if the WorldCom network ran into trouble it would be like closing a motorway: traffic   everywhere would grind to a halt."Their network is extremely important," said David Cleevely, chairman of Cambridge-based technology research house Analysys."It is the largest single carrier of internet traffic in the world. If you pressed the button and all their network switched off it would be a disaster - you would not be able to use the internet and a lot of other systems would fall over.""Will that actually ever happen? That is unlikely. Someone would buy it. But we are talking Doomsday scenarios here." If WorldCom's financial woes deepened, the company was likely to be taken over because of its commanding position in the internet market.The drive to cut costs and reduce inventory levels in manufacturing means that many plants and factories are operating on "just in time" production strategies, with essential parts shipped in at the last minute.Any problems with the world's communications system could play havoc with manufacturing across the globe.The financial scandal at WorldCom is just the latest setback to an industry that is already reeling from a series of bankruptcies. Large network operators Global Crossing, Carrier1 and KPNQwest have all run aground in recent months.But these collapses are a necessary step towards creating a more stable and mature communications market, according to Richard Elliott, chairman and co-founder of Band-X, the independent trading platform for buying and selling different types of telecom network capacity.He believes the real size of the market for communications capacity - especially in Europe - has been obscured by the hype that surrounded the internet.The ease with which companies could raise cash during the boom times led companies to buy and build too much network, then the crunch led to the fraudulent swapping of capacity to inflate revenues."With the ending of that irrational exuberance there has been a dramatic drop in activity," Mr Elliott said."Suddenly we are focusing on what is the real size of the market - and it is miles smaller than anyone might have guessed."
The al-Qaida terrorist network has been making preparations for potentially devastating attacks on America by hacking into computer networks to look for ways to disrupt electricity and telephone systems, dams and nuclear power stations, it was claimed yesterday.Government officials said the terrorist group appeared to be far more sophisticated than initially thought in its use of the internet as a weapon to disrupt America's web-based economy and cause potentially catastrophic physical damage by opening dam floodgates or blacking out air traffic control systems.US investigators tracing the footprints of al-Qaida members on the internet told yesterday's Washington Post that they have spent time on sites that not only provide hacking tips but offer software that helps users access supposedly secure networks and take over control of specialised digital switches used for remote control of public utilities.After September 11, US cyber-warfare experts also found that users on Saudi, Indonesian and Pakistani servers had been studying US computer systems governing emergency phone systems, power stations, dams, reservoirs, water pipelines, nuclear power plants and gas storage facilities."We were underestimating the amount of attention &#91;al-Qaida was&#93; paying to the internet," Roger Cressey, the chief of staff of the White House critical infrastructure protection board, told the Post."Al-Qaida spent more time mapping our vulnerabilities in cyberspace than we previously thought. The question is a question of when, not if."A computer found by American forces in one of al-Qaida's Kabul offices contained a virtual model of a dam, based on engineering software which allows the programmer to simulate a catastrophic breach.There was also software which could predict the course of floodwaters if a dam collapsed. Government officials did not say whether the al-Qaida programmers appeared to have a specific dam in mind.Dams have already been shown to be vulnerable to cyber attack. In 1998, a 12-year-old hacked into the computer system of the huge Roosevelt Dam on the Salt River in Arizona, apparently unaware that he could have opened the dam's floodgates. Any resulting flood would have swept through the cities of Mesa and Tempe, with a combined population of nearly a million, and threatened Phoenix.The defence of the country's civil internet networks is the task of the FBI's national infrastructure protection centre, set up in 1998. The Pentagon's cyber-defences are controlled by its space command, which established a computer network defence joint taskforce four years ago. The principal threats then were seen as China and Russia.But a CIA directorate of intelligence memorandum issued in February identified al-Qaida as a significant cyber-threat, saying that Osama bin Laden's organisation had shown "far more interest" in cyber-terrorism than previously thought.
Belatedly, a link to an Andrew Orlowski story in The Register, which points out thatBe has taken over Palmin much the same way that NeXT took over Apple. By the way, Steve Sakoman used to work for JLG at Apple Computer. It was Sakoman who spurned Go Corp, the real pioneers of handheld computing, and who chose the name Newton for what turned out to be one of the most disastrous projects at a company where disasters have been a way of life.
Spielberg's new movie,Minority Report, is set in 2054, where we have traded civil liberties for security.
Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones and Star XGame Boy Advance 	&#163;29.99 THQ/BAM! Entertainment 			 **	*For gamers, summertime means only one thing - Game Boy on the beach. However, think twice if you fancy packing some sci-fi   with your swimming trunks. Both Star Wars II and Star X may look great but both suffer from crippling control deficiencies. The handheld game of the film, Star Wars Episode II attempts to recreate some scenes from the movie.From the ridiculous controls, to the mind-numbing side-scrolling levels, complete with leaps of faith, this is terribly disappointing. Graphically it looks the part, with recognisable scenes and characters, and an impressive version of the soundtrack, but pack this at your peril.The other sci-fi release is Star X - a technically impres  sive, but ultimately unplayable, space blasting game. Borrowing liberally from the Nintendo classic StarFox, Star X is a programming masterpiece, with unprecedented amounts of 3D trickery used to create a convincing environment. If   only the developers had spent as much time on the game. The basic premise - fly around planet blasting aliens - is fine. The controls are not. The ship over compensates for moves, making targeting enemies stupidly difficult.Dubious collision detection - sometimes you get hit and don't suffer damage - is another flaw. It may be a small programming miracle but Star X, like Attack of the Clones, is a big gaming let-down. If you are looking for some sci-fi action on the beach this year, maybe you'd better take a book instead. (GH)Freedom ForcePC	&#163;29.99 EA/ Irrational Games 	*****Every kid remembers their first superhero experience: whether it was the first Superman film, or long summer days spent reading piles of comics. All kids and probably most adults have wished at some point that they could pluck a lamppost from the ground, or launch a car through the air without even breaking into a sweat. But the stuff of film and comic book fantasy has now come to the small screen with the release of Freedom Force, a game that taps into all those secret superhero longings.The world of Freedom Force is 100% comic book,   from the 1950s setting and the puffed-up, all-American heroes, right down the lurid spandex costumes. The game, which is a role-play and action strategy hybrid, revolves around building up a team of superheroes, with names like Manbot, and taking them on missions to foil the baddies.One of the best aspects of the game is the fully destructible environment. You really can pick up traffic lights, or passing cars and use them as weapons in the fight for truth, justice and the American dream. The whole feel of the game is more Adam West than Tim Burton, which won't be for everyone. Nor will the rather restrictive linear nature of the missions. But what Freedom Force does, it does very well, and throw in the fact that you can customise your own superheroes and you've got a recipe for unadulterated bubble gum fun. (RP)Industry Giant IIPC		&#163;29.99 JoWooD		****Teutonic gamers are famed for their propensity towards slow-paced, cerebral simulation and strategy games, and Industry Giant II does nothing to dispel that stereotype. This should not be taken as a   criticism, as it is a very tidy and rather well thought out example of its genre. You play a budding industrial tycoon, starting out with a certain amount of capital in the year 1900.Thus, you can build farms, mine iron ore, chop down trees and, as the game progresses, build factories that process those raw materials into ever more sophisticated products, sell them through   your shops and even build rail links between cities, expanding your industrial empire. This makes it perhaps the most ambitious sim game yet created.The typical sim game enthusiast will find Industry Giant II thoroughly absorbing - and God game enthusiasts will derive pleasure from the way in which it caters for incipient megalomania. At times, unusually for a sim   game, it is reminiscent of a less complex version of a God game like Civilisation.As one would expect of an Austrian game, it operates in a deeply logical manner - to build tools, for example, you will need a mine, a logging operation and a factory, plus a warehouse within the catchment area of those buildings (which would otherwise blight the nearest city) and a shop downtown with another warehouse nearby. With a mission-based mode - which builds smoothly in terms of difficulty - and an open-ended one, the game has all the longevity you could ask for, although it is too languid for its multiplayer mode to make much sense.If you enjoy games like Sim City - and instant gratification is not what you seek from a game - then Industry Giant II should prove an astute purchase. (SB)
