Sir Michael Lyons, the chairman of the BBC Trust, has hit out at government plans to use part of the BBC licence fee as a "slush fund" to pay for the delivery of regional news by independent consortia.Lyons, responding to the publication of Lord Carter's Digital Britain report today, reiterated that he opposes any move to "top-slice" the licence for purposes beyond the BBC."The licence fee must not become a slush fund to be dipped into at will, leading to spiralling demands on licence fee payers to help fund the political or commercial concerns of the day," said Lyons. "This would lead to the licence fee being seen as another form of general taxation. The Trust will not sit quietly by and watch this happen."Lord Carter's report today outlined a plan to use about £200m of the so-called digital switchover surplus to fund its plans to roll out universal broadband at 2Mbps to UK households by 2012.The remainder could be used to fund pilots of a new regional news service, to be delivered by independent commercial consortia, with an eye to replacing ITV after it pulls out in 2012.At the next licence fee settlement in 2012/2013 the entire £130m-a-year digital switchover fund could fund a new regional news network.Lyons has no issue with the government using the switchover surplus for Carter's broadband initiative, but firmly opposes using it for the regional news service."This is a distinct sum of money that has never been intended for core BBC content and services, and we make no claim for any digital switchover help scheme surplus to be applied to core BBC services for the future," he said."However, the BBC Trust is not convinced of the proposal in the Digital Britain report to apply any of the surplus to fund a second regional news operation."There has not yet been a full and open debate about the suggested costs of these services, and it appears that the current proposals have failed to take into account potential sources of commercial funding as well as alternative sources of public funding."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The government is appointing Martha Lane Fox, the internet entrepreneur and the founder of lastminute.com, as its digital inclusion champion.Lane Fox will be supported by a taskforce and her brief will be to represent the estimated 6 million adults who are not online.A National Plan for Digital Participation is to be launched, with the aim of getting everyone in Britain online and ending an increasing digital divide.Despite the controversial proposal to levy £6 a year on each household with a fixed line phone, the Digital Britain White Paper says the affordability of internet access is a critical issue for poorer families, preventing them going online.So, from December, it is going to roll out a national Home Access Programme, under which children in state education without online access at home will receive grants to get connected. This has been piloted in Suffolk and Oldham since March.The government is ditching the term media literacy, used to define a piecemeal system of help schemes, saying it is "a technocratic  and specialist term … not really part of everyday language".Another proposal is for a roadmap for digital switchover of public services starting in 2012, listing nine areas that could be switched primarily to online operation.They include student loans, school registration, debt advice, redundancy advice, Companies House registrations, tax returns for higher rate-payers, electoral roll registration.Digital Britain suggests each government department should identify at least two services suitable for such a digital switchover.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Fixed-line telephone users will pay £6 a year to fund the rollout of superfast broadband across the country, the government said today as it launched its Digital Britain report into the future of the media landscape.A 50p-a-month levy on every copper telephone line will help pay for next-generation broadband for 90% of the population, new culture secretary Ben Bradshaw told the House of Commons.Bradshaw, who replaced Andy Burnham in Gordon Brown's cabinet reshuffle earlier this month, confirmed that the government wanted to break the BBC's monopoly on the licence fee and use the £200m so-called "digital switchover surplus" from the licence fee to help provide universal access to broadband before the next generation service was built.The government wants everyone to be able to receive broadband of at least 2Mbps by 2012 as it puts more public services online. This prospect was first floated in the interim Digital Britain report in January.The £6-a-year levy will raise between £150m and £175m a year to extend next-generation broadband to the "final third" of the country that will not be reached by the market.Communications minister Lord Carter acknowledged that the levy would hit consumers in the pocket at a time when many households are feeling the pinch of the recession."How will the public react? We will find out," he said. "Our view as a government is that it's a good exercise of judgment."The government has confirmed that it will use part of the BBC licence fee to fund ITV regional news services.A "small part" of the licence fee digital switchover surplus would fund three ITV regional news pilots in Scotland, Wales and one English region between now and 2013.ITV has said it will pull out of providing regional news because it can no longer afford to fund it – but will continue to provide airtime for other media organisations to supply replacement programming.Bradshaw said that once the licence fee settlement is up for renewal after 2013, the government would consult on the option of sharing a "small part" of the annual £3.4bn.The BBC has been lobbying hard to protect the licence fee, but Bradshaw said: "There is nothing that says the BBC must have exclusive rights to it."Digital entrepreuneur Martha Lane Fox, one of the co-founders of discount website lastminute.com, will become the government's "digital inclusion champion".Bradshaw failed to provide any news on the government's proposed partnership between BBC Worldwide and Channel 4, subject to intense negotiations between both broadcasters. "We are ready to help in any way we can," he added.He also said that illegal filesharing was "tantamount to theft", adding that one of the punishments for repeat offenders could be to have the speed of their broadband connection reduced.The Conservative party today slammed the report as "digital dithering from a dated government".Jeremy Hunt, the shadow culture secretary, told the House of Commons that the long-awaited report was a "colossal disappointment".•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Landline owners will pay £6 a year to fund the rollout of superfast broadband across the country, communications minister Lord Carter said today as he launched the government's Digital Britain report.In his long-awaited blueprint for the future of the UK's communications infrastructure, Carter also said the surplus from the BBC's digital switchover help scheme would help to fund the £200m cost of providing universal access to broadband.The government wants everyone to be able to receive broadband of at least 2Mbps by 2012 as it puts more public services online.It is also anxious that remote or underserved parts of the country are not left behind when the "next generation" of superfast broadband is built."True superfast broadband will be concentrated in the first two-thirds of the market in the next decade, leaving the 'final third' served only with current generation broadband," today's report said. "This would be undesirable."The report proposed a charge of 50p a month on the UK's copper lines to help upgrade the country's fixed-line network, a project on which BT and Virgin Media have already embarked.This levy will raise between £150m and £175m a year to extend next-generation broadband to the "final third" of the country that will not be reached by the market.It will act as "seedcorn funding" – to attract commercial operators to roll out networks further – rather than attempts to cover the total costs of the project.Carter acknowledged that the levy would hit consumers in the pocket at a time when many households were feeling the pinch."How will the public react? We will find out," he said. "Our view as a government is that it's a good exercise of judgment."He said the decision should be seen in the context of a real-terms decline in telecoms prices over recent years.The move would require legislation, Carter said. "We are consulting on it, but it's a firm proposal," he added.The report gave more details about how the government aims to achieve its goal of providing universal access to a minimum 2Mb broadband connection, the so-called Universal Service Commitment.Part of it will come from money left over from the BBC's fund to help people switch to digital television by 2012, with contributions from private partners and public sector bodies also among the other sources of funding.An estimated 2.75m homes, around 11% of the UK's households, are unable to receive a connection of at least this speed at the moment.The report said that 1.5m households with little or no broadband connection might be able to get access to next-generation broadband as a result of the commitment.Carter said the 2Mb speed was like a "technological minimum wage". "We are not specifying a ceiling, we are specifying a floor," he added.The commitment is expected to be achieved through a combination of upgrades to BT's fixed-line network, mobile broadband and satellite broadband.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The government has confirmed that it will use part of the BBC licence fee to fund universal broadband access and for ITV regional news services, as part of its Digital Britain report published today.New culture secretary Ben Bradshaw, who replaced Andy Burnham in Gordon Brown's cabinet reshuffle earlier this month, confirmed to the House of Commons that the government planned to use the expected £200m so-called "digital switchover surplus" from the licence fee to help provide universal access to broadband. This prospect was first floated in the interim Digital Britain report in January.Bradshaw added that a "small levy" of 50p a month would also be placed on all fixed phone lines to help pay for next-generation broadband for 90% of the population.He added that a "small part" of the licence fee digital switchover surplus would fund three ITV regional news pilots in Scotland, Wales and one English region between now and 2013.ITV has said it will pull out of providing regional news because it can no longer afford to fund it – but will continue to provide airtime for other media organisations to supply replacement programming.Bradshaw said that once the licence fee settlement is up for renewal after 2013, the government would consult on the option of sharing a "small part" of the annual £3.4bn, but said the government was open to other options.The BBC has been lobbying hard to protect the licence fee, but Bradshaw said: "There is nothing that says the BBC must have exclusive rights to it."Bradshaw also announced that digital entrepreuneur Martha Lane Fox, one of the co-founders of website lastminute.com, would become the government's "digital inclusion champion".The minister said he had no further update on a proposed partnership between BBC Worldwide and Channel 4, saying negotiations were ongoing. "We are ready to help in any way we can," he added.He also said that illegal filesharing was "tantamount to theft", adding that one of the punishments for repeat offenders could be to have the speed of their broadband connection reduced.The report said that the government's universal service commitment to delivering 2Mbps broadband by 2012 would be funded by using the bulk of the BBC's switchover surplus.Digital Britain proposes that the remainder of the surplus, up until the end of the current licence fee deal in March 2013, could be used for funding pilots to deliver a replacement for ITV's regional news service.The report said that a consultation will be launched into creating a "contained contestable element" of the BBC's licence fee after 2013.This fund, about 3.5% of the licence fee, would effectively be made by carrying forward the approximate £130m-a-year sum that had been ringfenced for the digital switchover help scheme.Digital Britain proposes that an early priority for the fund, which would be managed by an "arm's-length body", would be to fund independently financed news consortia that would deliver a commercial sector regional and local TV news services after ITV's anticipated withdrawal by 2012.As well as being aimed at regional news provision, the £130m contestable funding pot – which will be controlled by an "independent and transparent body" – is also being aimed at boosting homegrown children's programming.Channel 4 is being seen as one of the main beneficiaries of the money for children's programmes after being told to broadcast more shows aimed at those aged over 10.There was scant comfort for Channel 4 generally in the report, with no detail given as to how it should plug its predicted annual £150m funding gap after 2012 aside from its planned partnerships with the BBC. The report even said it must become less reliant on television advertising, although it gave no indication as to how the broadcaster should do this.However, Bradshaw did reveal a new government target to switch off analogue radio by 2015.The government said that its broadband strategy had two components. The first is the universal service commitment. The second part of the strategy, dubbed the Next Generation Final Third project, aims to deliver connectivity to households not covered by the existing infrastructure.To fund the Next Generation Final Third project, the government today proposed a 50p levy per month on all fixed copper telephone lines."The fund will be available on a tender basis to any operator to deliver and will provide a part-subsidy for the deployment of next-generation broadband to the 'final third' of homes and small businesses, bringing the cost of the initial deployment to the same level that operators face in the commercially economic parts of the market," said the report.Delivering next-generation high-speed mobile and wireless broadband, the Digital Britain report proposes, should be achieved by switching the existing fixed 3G licences held by mobile operators to an indefinite term. The government said that this will "provide certainty for investment and an incentive towards greater roll-out towards universality".Digital Britain will also enhance media regulator Ofcom's powers in this area. Ofcom will encourage investment, alert the government of "any significant deficiencies" in coverage and deliver a report on progress every two years."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The Conservative party today slammed the Digital Britain report as "digital dithering from a dated government".Jeremy Hunt, the shadow culture secretary, told the House of Commons that the long-awaited report was a "colossal disappointment".Hunt questioned what real actions arose out of the report and said that it contained far too many consultations with precious little action.He called it "a report of the management consultants, by the management consultants".Hunt also attacked the proposed 50p a month fixed-line telephone tax to fund universal broadband access."This an attempt to prop up old business models using yet more taxpayers' cash" he said.The shadow culture secretary said that people wanted local TV news, not regional bulletins, and that he lived in Surrey but had to watch Southampton news.He asked why the city of Birmingham, Alabama in the US has six local TV channels, but Birmingham in Britain, which was three times the size, had none.Hunt said the report excelled in consultations. "The interim report published in January announced eight consultations. This one announces 12 - plus one new quango. This is surely government of the management consultants for the management consultants by the management consultants."He praised the report's decision to move forward on DAB digital radio and the moves to tackle piracy. He also supported the 2MG universal broadband rollout.However, he also asked of Bradshaw: "Why then is he using the public's money to prop up a failed system where people in his own Exeter constituency have to watch news from Plymouth, or people in my Surrey constituency have to watch news from Southampton?"In America even much smaller cities have not one but a whole clutch of local news channels, greatly enhancing both a sense of community and vibrant local democracy. None have access to a licence fee. So instead of putting yet more burden on taxpayers, why is the government not embracing a digital-era version of syndicated local TV, something that could also prove to be a lifeline for our local newspaper industry?"Regrettably, Mr Speaker, this report does not feel like an agenda for a new digital economy. It reads more like a top-down attempt to protect and prop up old business models using yet more public cash."The last Conservative government deregulated telecoms. It launched Channel Four and Five. It unleashed the cable and satellite revolution. Instead of digital dithering from a dated government we need new economy dynamism from a new Conservative government."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Plans to break the BBC monopoly on the licence fee for the first time could help pay in part for a new system of local and regional news on ITV, the government revealed in today's Digital Britain report.Publishing the report today, the government proposed that from 2013 about £130m a year from the licence fee would fund a series of independent consortia of local news providers in place of ITV's current regional news service.The government said it would launch a public consultation over its proposal to use a proportion of the licence fee, broadly equivalent to the amount currently ringfenced to aid digital switchover, to fund a new service that would to provide both TV news in place of exising regional news programmes and provide additional cross-media news services.It also proposed a series of pilot consortia in Scotland, Wales and an English region before 2012, subject to the outcome of the consultation.The government will enter talks with the BBC Trust over whether a portion of the projected digital switchover underspend could fund these pilot schemes.Each consortium is likely to be made up of existing TV news providers, regional newspaper groups and other media organisations, several of which – including Guardian Media Group, STV and the Press Association – have already expressed an interest in the scheme.The BBC had lobbied to protect the licence fee and, as an olive branch to the ailing commercial sector, offered to share some facilities and news-gathering services with ITV and parts of the regional press. Yesterdaythe BBC announced an agreement with Scottish broadcaster STV.While welcoming the BBC's offer, today's report said alone it would be "insufficient to meet the scale of the challenge facing public service provision".It said commercially funded local and regional news, along with news in the devolved nations, was facing "an acute challenge" across all media that if left unaided would result in a "substantial diminution in the range and quality of sources".The report endorsed the local consortia idea proposed by the broadcasting watchdog Ofcom to replace the current ITV local news after digital switchover.It added: "Consortia are likely to be able to produce news more cost effectively than existing channel three licensees using assets designed for a different era."The result could be a greater investment in journalism, newsgathering and multimedia distribution and syndication than today, enhancing the quality of news in the nations, regionally and locally."Today's proposal will welcomed by both ITV, which announced in the autumn that it planned to scale back its local news provision, and sections of the regional press looking to diversify their local news production.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
All the UK's national radio stations and many local services will stop broadcasting on analogue by the end of 2015, according to ambitious switch-off targets unveiled by the government today.The Digital Britain report, published today, said announced a "Digital Radio Upgrade" that would see services on national and local digital audio broadcasting (DAB) multiplexes stop broadcasting on analogue.Vacated FM spectrum will be filled by a new tier of ultra-local radio consisting of small local commercial and community stations. Radio stations currently broadcasting on medium wave will upgrade to DAB.The switchover will be announced two years in advance and not until digital accounts for 50% of all radio listening, said the report. The government is hopeful this target can be met by the end of 2013.Today the government has also required that DAB must be comparable to current FM coverage, and DAB must reach 90% of all the population and all major roads before the upgrade timetable can begin.The absence of in-car digital radio has hampered further takeup of the new technology, but the government has today recommended that all new car radios sold in the UK by the end of 2013 should be digital.Despite the popularity of DAB radio sets with consumers, the vast majority of radio listening continues to be to analogue.Digital accounted for 20.1% of radio listening in the first three months of 2009. DAB remains the most popular digital platform, accounting for 12.7% of digital listening.Achieving switchover will require a huge increase in the popularity of digital and DAB if the government is to hit its initial 50% reach target, and a position where it can realistically switch off the analogue signal for national radio stations without millions of listeners losing out.But an early switch-off date will be welcomed by the commercial radio sector. Stephen Miron, the chief executive of the commercial sector's biggest radio group, Classic FM and Capital Radio parent Global Radio, called on the government to set a date "the earlier, the better"."Only that certainty will give us the leverage to get the car-makers, the set manufacturers, the multiplexes – and many others – on board. Whatever the date, and we personally believe the earlier the better – a firm date needs to be set," Miron told a conference in April.Commercial radio operators including Global Radio, which owns Classic FM, and UTV-owned TalkSport and Absolute Radio will have their licences extended by media regulator Ofcom to compensate for the extra investment that they will be required to make in digital, the government said.The report said the cost of the rollout of the DAB transmitter network would require a "significant contribution" from commercial operators as well as the BBC, which it said may be able to use some of theestimated £200m underspendin the corporation's digital switchover fund.Today's final Digital Britain report also recommended the wholesale scaling back of the current system of local commercial radio regulation, largely backing thefindings of former GMG Radio chief executive John Myers' local radio analysis, commissioned after Carter's interim report earlier this year.Commercial stations will be able to reduce the number of locally produced hours they broadcast in exchange for an enhanced commitment to regular and updated local news. Stations will be given greater flexibility to co-locate and analogue services will be able to merge to form new DAB operations.The report said DAB was "at least for the foreseeable future ... the right technology for the UK", with more than 9m receivers now sold in the UK.But it said DAB would be only one among a range of platforms including internet, mobile broadband and digital TV, for the distribution of digital radio.Digital Britain also said broadcasters should be prepared to experiment with more advanced compression technologies and manufacturers must ensure DAB sets are futureproofed and able to receive DAB+ and DMB-A.The government called on radio operators to deliver new niche services on DAB, "such as a dedicated jazz station and gain better value from existing content, such as live coverage of Premiership football or uninterrupted coverage from music festivals".Commercial radio operators have so far been unable to make niche digital services pay. But with a prospective analogue switch-off date set for 2015, and backing from car manufacturers for in-car digital radio, the sums may start to add up.Andrew Harrison, the chief executive of commercial radio trade body, the RadioCentre, said: "For radio to flourish in the digital age we require a digital strategy and, on first inspection, we are encouraged that Digital Britain sets out a clear roadmap for our industry's future. Clearly, implementation of that roadmap is now a priority for RadioCentre alongside all the industry stakeholders."We think that Digital Britain is right to identify a target date of 2015 to upgrade our sector to digital radio while also recognising the importance of meeting key criteria to trigger switchover and the need for intervention to drive the behaviour of manufacturers, the motor industry and other stakeholders. This will enable our members to plan and invest for their future; we now have a firm consensus that digital is the route forward for radio's future."We agree that the BBC is a major stakeholder in achieving greater coverage for DAB and are delighted that the report identifies the digital switchover surplus as a further route to securing funding for this in addition to transmission cost savings from the Arqiva/NGW merger and the end of dual transmission."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Bradley Stoke feels like the sort of place that really ought to have a great broadband service. For a start, it's hardly remote - just a few miles north of Bristol and wedged between the M5 and M4 motorways.It's a new town, most of its homes only 20 years old or so, and is packed with young professional people who commute to Bristol, Cardiff, Swindon or into the Midlands. Just the type who need and demand good broadband access for both work and pleasure.But to the frustration and anger of many residents, Bradley Stoke is plagued by "not spots" where residents say they struggle to get a good, reliable broadband service."It's ridiculous," said Tim Smith, an engineering consultant who has just moved into the area and would like to work from home sometimes but finds he simply cannot trust the broadband service. "It's not like we're in a remote mountain range. We're two minutes from one of the biggest motorway junctions in the country and yet we can't watch the iPlayer half of the time."Does he balk at the idea of a levy being raised on fixed phone lines to make sure broadband coverage is up to scratch? "If we get a 21st century service, I don't think people will mind paying a bit more," he said.Businesspeople like Lee Rae-Moir, who runs a cleaning firm, Felina, from her home in Bradley Stoke, hopes that today's announcements by the government will make it easier for her to get the broadband service she needs - but is not convinced."I find it all confusing. It's horribly complicated. I used to be with Onetel and then that stopped. I was sold a Talk Talk package by a salesman on the phone and wished I hadn't done that. I'd like to think the government would sort it all out but I'm not sure I believe they will."The problem with Bradley Stoke has been that it was built between two telephone exchanges - one at Almondsbury, one at Filton. The quality of the service has depended on how close your house happens to be to one of the exchanges. Homes in the centre of the town are likely to have the worst landline service - as low as 0.5 megabytes per second.South Gloucestershire councillor Robert Jones is one of those who has led a campaign for better broadband access. "We know that Bradley Stoke is one of the biggest broadband not spots in the area and a classic example of Britain's digital divide," he said today."A lot of the town's problems are caused by our two local BT exchanges being too distant from homes, as well as the fact that many of the town's roads are uncabled and so do not have access to Virgin Media's high-speed network."Jones is one of those who has poor broadband speeds and seems sceptical about the report. "I would hope the Digital Britain report actually leads to some tangible improvements, and is not simply designed to be a headline grabbing initiative," he said.The issue has been one that the town's two community web-based papers have campaigned vigorously on. The Bradley Stoke Examiner has called on people to send in their experiences (by email, which could be a problem for some) to put pressure on BT to improve the service.Ahead of today's announcement, one reader, James, wrote to the site: "I am prevented from working from home because of the poor broadband provision. For a town with such a high proportion of professional people in residence, the awful broadband service available to the majority of residents is simply unacceptable."Tim said: "I just moved out of Rosemary Close due to it not having a fast enough connection."Wolf added: "Very slow broadband, not much point turning it on between 7pm and 9pm unless you're patient. The traffic at Aztec West at 9am is faster."AndyB wrote: "Bradley Stoke is twinned with Champs-Sur-Marne in France. I understand that in France, their broadband providers offer 100 Mbps as standard. What must they think when they come to visit Bradley Stoke?"Andrew Ferguson, of the website guide thinkbroadband, said there were communities across the UK like Bradley Stoke that suffered because new homes were so far from exchanges, or because "there can be physical features such as a motorway or a river that affect the service."In Bradley Stoke the likes of David Greenough just want a decent service, no matter whether there is a big road or river in the way. He is about to be made redundant and will need to search for a new job on the internet. He has just switched to Talk Talk. "They say it's going to be much faster. I don't know if they are spoofing me. I've just bought an iPod so I'm going to see if that works on it. I hope the government does get it all sorted now. It feels like we are being a little bit left behind here."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
British ISPs will be required to cut illegal filesharing on their networks by 70% within a year under new powers set to be given to the communications regulator Ofcom, the Digital Britain report, published today, says.The government will empower Ofcom to demand that ISPs collect data about alleged infringers of online rights – by downloading or uploading content without permission – and to notify them that their conduct is unlawful.Persistent infringers could see their details passed on to rights-holders – principally music and film companies, but also games and software companies – which could sue them in court. In extreme cases, such offenders could also see bans on access to certain sites, and throttling of their internet speed and capacity.However, it could take some time for the proposals to be implemented. There will first be a consultation before it becomes law, after which Ofcom will have responsibility for reducing piracy – working from a baseline that it will set at the moment the legislation becomes law.And ISPs have already begun to object to the proposals. In a statement, Orange said that it would be willing to maintain records of those "most frequently accused" of copyright infringement to help rights-holders take legal action – "but we would not agree to funding this process ourselves.  Whilst we will assist rights holders in taking direct legal action against those accused of copyright infringement, we do not believe that Orange and the vast majority of our law-abiding customers should be required to subsidise rights-holders' actions."And UK Music, which speaks for the commercial side of the music industry, including artists, musicians and record labels, said that it thinks the proposals will not succeed in achieving such a cut, and called for immediate action. "The UK music industry fully embraces the principle of universal broadband," said the UK Music chief executive, Feargal Sharkey. "However... our members cannot continue to innovate and invest in the shadow of an illegal peer-to-peer ecosystem. To tackle this issue, we need the cooperation of all internet service providers [ISPs]."Illicit filesharing of music, film, games and commercial software is estimated to cost content owners millions of pounds every year. The government has promised repeatedly to crack down on offenders –including a warning in February 2008that if ISPs and content creators could not come up with a code of practice by last April then it would legislate to force them. That threat was never carried out.The latest proposals are set out in chapter 4 of the 245-page report, titled "Creative Industries in the Digital World".If implemented, if Ofcom does not within a year see the 70% reduction in filesharing, the government will require it to use its "backstop" powers to introduce further measures, including the blocking of particular sites and "protocols" – methods of transferring data over the net – as well as capping the speed and capacity of offenders' connections. Ofcom is already the official regulator for ISPs."The government considers online piracy to be a serious offence. Unlawful downloading or uploading, whether via peer-to-peer sites or other means, is effectively a civil form of theft," the report notes in chapter 4. "This is not something that we can condone, or to which we can fail to respond."The powers will not come into effect straight away, though. The report says that "The government is therefore consulting on a proposal to legislate to give Ofcom a duty to take steps aimed at reducing copyright infringement." That could mean a delay of months or even a year before Ofcom acquires the necessary powers, because completing the consultation and then finding time to enact the legislation will require significant amounts of time, after which Ofcom will have to monitor progress in reducing illicit filesharing.It is that delay which has frustrated Sharkey and others in the "content creation" businesses, who think it could take up to three years before the 70% test is applied.The communications minister, Lord Carter, denied that it was a roundabout process. "I'm saying that we have an industry regulator, and we are going to give them the power and the duty, and if that doesn't reduce this problem, they will have secondary powers," he said.Robin Fry, a copyright expert at the law firm Beachcroft LLP, commented that the government was floundering for what to do in face of determined lobbying. "There are no votes and no financial incentive to rerun a Pirate Bay trial in Britain," he said."Users are technically savvy and, even if challenged, many will simply set up further user accounts or sign up to overseas ISPs. None of the proposals in the Digital Britain report, nor our current copyright laws, will change what users are doing," added Fry."Requiring ISPs to send out warning letters is a hopeless distraction. It's like asking bus companies to tell passengers not to be late for work, or making airlines responsible for all drug smuggling. It's difficult to see what Ofcom can achieve above what UK rights-owners could have done but failed to do."The final report does not contain any suggestion of a statutory "rights agency" that would try to reduce copyright infringement online, as was suggested in the interim report released earlier this year – to widespread criticism. Instead, the final report says "we hope that an industry body ... will come into being to draft these codes [of practice for identifying offenders] for Ofcom to approve and we would encourage all rights holders and ISPs to play a role in this."Carter said the reaction of the industry and commentators to the interim report was that the rights agency was "a sledgehammer to crack a nut" and that "the best way was for the industry to come together and agree a code of practice."
Something's rotten in the state of New York. Again. This time it's a virus that's turning the citizens into shambling zombies, as the army tries to control the spread.In other words, it's not a good time to be Alex Mercer, a mysterious hoodie-wearing antihero with an unexpected line in genetic mutation, who's searching the city and the military for details of his past. Like its shapeshifting hero, Prototype is a hybrid: think MGS stealth, Spider-Man free roaming and Wolverine gore.There's the basis of something impressive here: tough challenges, piles of upgrades and myriad side missions – and taking over passers-by to turn your nigh-unstoppable protagonist into a middle-aged fat bloke never gets boring. But the dull scenery, occasionally vertical learning curve, painful lack of save points and apparently endless roaming take off most of the gloss.
It's taken a while for someone to challenge the mighty Wii Fit, but it's been worth the wait.EA Sports Active comes complete with a legstrap device to plug your nunchuck into for tracking running motion and a resistance band that adds some semblance of muscle toning to upper body exercises.It also adopts a more formal fitness-regime approach, dividing the game's many exercises into 20-minute workouts as part of an overarching 30-day programme. Exercises range from tennis, running and boxing to full aerobic workouts and, while they may not be much to look at, there's plenty of them, making each day's regime refreshingly different. It's also compatible with Wii Fit's balance board, if you have it – giving some exercises an extra weight-watching dimension. All in all, it's an attractively priced and versatile fitness package.
Given Harrison Ford's age, it's difficult to envisage any more Indiana Jones movies, but in the Dorian Gray world of video­games, Indy is forever young. Staff of Kings, then, is supposed to play out like an all-new Indiana Jones film, and it has the requisite Nazi baddies, exotic locations (including Nepal, San Francisco and the Panamanian jungle) and quest for a priceless antiquity – in this case, the Staff of Moses.The Wii version makes the most sense: it supports an extensive range of gestures, giving Indy various punches plus whip attacks; he can also use his whip to swing across gaps and climb walls. The action sequences are very enjoyable, and there's a decent shooting engine. But, sadly, the puzzles are uniformly lame. The Wii version does make you feel as though you are Indy, so it will please fans of the films. But taken as a whole, Staff of Kings is distinctly patchy.
Nostalgia places a heavy burden on the shoulders of developer Terminal Reality, but thankfully it's been able to live up to the great expectations of fans. Ghostbusters is a highly enjoyable third-person shooter with a difference, in that you don a proton pack rather than equip with a shotgun.Written by Ackroyd and Ramis and with voiceovers from the original cast, this is in essence the third movie in the series. You're introduced as the new recruit, a test subject for some experimental equipment. A silent cast member, you can sit back and enjoy the comedic banter that ensues without the uncomfortable intrusion of a new character in the mix. A movie feel, however, means a highly linear game. Making up for this is immersion into a story that sees you squaring up to spirits old and new – including the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man and the ghostly Librarian. There's no HUD to block your view – your health and weapon's status are viewed on the side of your proton pack, and gameplay mostly consists of busting ghosts in a three-tier attack system – "Zap 'em, Cap' 'em and Trap 'em".Three difficulty settings offer challenges to all levels of gamer, with ghosts getting tougher and you less resilient. Casual gamers may find controls difficult to master; you'll regularly be flitting between trigger buttons almost simultaneously in a fight. Death is rare, however, as revival by teammates keeps the game flowing. Only a full-team wipe leads to failed missions.Equipment upgrades and environment variety sustains interest as the game progresses. A secondary function of the PKE Meter and Para-goggles enables you find collectible artefacts, plus over time you're given new abilities to use. These include the Slime Tether, which draws objects together, and the Stasis Stream that slows down overexcited ghouls.Aside from the career mode, you've also got multiplayer options that use the same gameplay mechanics. Earn money by trapping ghosts to rise through the ranks, and choose between six "job" types. These vary from protecting equipment and survival modes to simply seeing who can catch the most ghosts.Ghostbusters isn't without its faults. Occasionally the animation and voice-overs go out of sync, the main game is quite short, there's some tough difficulty spikes and you'll crave a sandbox environment to explore. However, using proton streams to cause wilful destruction at the expense of the city and drag flailing ghosts into traps is undeniably fun. Wrapped up in an original, enjoyable story, simply put: "Bustin' makes me feel good!"
Midway Newcastle is like a lot of development studios dotted around the UK and US. Situated in a large out-of-town business park, this British outpost of veteran American publisher,Midway Games, inhabits an anonymous modern office building, its monolithic glass entrance area resembling an imposing, but artless PC World superstore.Step inside, though, and this could only be a videogame studio. The vast open-plan area is a mass of desks loaded with computer equipment and games consoles; the walls are papered with concept artwork and sci-fi movie posters, and along the central aisle are a number of huge whiteboards sporting scrawled production lists and cartoon caricatures. Almost everyone is under forty. When I visited last year it was a hive of activity, with one project, the driving shooterWheelman, almost finished and others on the horizon. But like a lot of development studios dotted around the world, this team is in trouble. Midway might be about to disappear for good.On February 12, prompted by the departure of a major investor, the company filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy. It is a hammer blow to the very soul of the industry; Midway has been a part of videogame heritage from the very beginning. Formed as Midway Manufacturing in 1958, the company originally built mechanical amusement machines, before moving in to electronic gaming in the early seventies. It was Midway that brought Space Invaders to the West, later publishing smash hits like NBA Jam and the Mortal Kombat series.But over the last five years, Midway, by now the victim of several complex buy-outs, spin-outs and closures, has become mired in financial difficulties, losing $115m in 2003 and hemorrhaging money ever since. In May,a $33m takeover bidcame in from Warner Bros, but that didn't include the San Diego or Newcastle studios. Under the provisions of the Chapter 11 code, these teams now have until the end of June to secure buyers or at least new investors. Otherwise it is, quite literally, game over.Despite this pressing deadline, and with the threat of closure looming, the team at Midway Newcastle is hard at work on an as-yet unannounced project. Everyone knows the score, everyone knows they're facing unemployment. But out of 77 staff, only three have left since the situation with Midway went public. In the midst of it all Studio Head Craig Duncan must keep his team motivated, while understanding that many will be surreptitiously registering with employment agencies or eyeing up the recruitment ads. "The heartbreaking thing for me is having people come to me and tell me they are talking to another company about a job because of the situation, but they don't want to leave the studio, and if the studio goes forward they will stay…"The key to retaining this loyalty, reckons Duncan, is being straight with everyone; it's no use cowering behind management double-speak. "I think given the severity of the situation all you can be is honest with the staff about what is happening to the company," he says. "You have let them know how the situation is likely to play out, how it affects them and what we are trying to do as a management team to help. Good leadership is crucial in difficult times."But also, there's familiarity – many of the staff have been through this before. Back in 1996, the studio was originally set up as Pitbull Syndicate, by five ex-coders from Reflections, the vintage Newcastle studio behind the massively successful Driver series. For the next eight years the team worked on the successful Test Drive series of racing titles, but then its publisher, Accolade, was bought by Infogrames (later taking on the brand name Atari), which soon faced its own financial difficulties. At the time Pitbull was working on Test Drive Crosstown, an ambitious open-world racing sim. In the midst of the financial crisis, Pitbull switched publishers, hooked up with Midway and re-developed its project as LA Rush. This is, in short, a team experienced in parrying the slings and arrows of outrageous economic fortune.And ironically, they're facing the latest crisis point with another open-world project. The studio won't tell me anything about it, just that it's using Epic's widely licensed Unreal Engine 3 technology. Craig Duncan and producer Joe Neate are keen to point out, however, that they're employing a heavily upgraded and customised version of the 3D engine. They've also learned a hell of a lot from Wheelman, an at times thrilling and visually impressive title, marred by poor on-foot gameplay and a lack of multiplayer options."With Wheelman, we broke new ground creating an open-world driving game in (a heavily modified) Unreal Engine 3," asserts Neate. "In fact we were the first team in the world to create an open-world game using that engine. However during development we learnt a number of lessons that we have applied right at the start of the new project as to how to improve key things like streaming and lighting. We were very honest about what we could have done better. Additionally, we have spent some time getting deferred rendering functioning, which allows us to do some incredibly cool things with lighting and weather. All this – along with a ton of other improvements - means we can create a truly compelling open world. We have some incredibly new and unique features, and the art-style and general tone of the game are going to blow people away."Right now, Duncan's job is about sales, it's about hitting the publishers with a compelling demo and an enticing business plan. The annual videogame event, E3, frankly, couldn't have fallen at a better time for the studio. "I met with a number of interested parties," he says. "When we presented the new game everyone loved it and was really impressed with our proposition. What counts against us is the timeframe and the fact the market is tough currently for both investors and games companies… if I had £100k for every time someone said, 'a year ago we would have bought you', I could buy the studio personally."And there's the problem. Last year, analysts and industry news sites were toying with the question of whether the industry was recession proof. Now we know the answer – it isn't. According to market research company NPD Group console sales fell 30% in May, with game sales dropping by 17% compared with the same time last year. Publishers are reining in both costs and creative risks. There have been job cuts at most key companies, as well as axed games and reduced development budgets. "The problem with the industry is it has been in rapid growth since its creation," says Duncan. "To keep up with the scale of this growth, it has financed significant cash investments and taken some big bets. Now the market is starting to saturate with too much product, pre-owned games taking a big piece of retail and consumer expectations being rightly much higher with every great game release. This means it's harder now to succeed as a video games business as it ever has been."Investment cash is limited, then, and although 'hugely ambitious open-world adventure' sounds great to gamers, it may be a daunting prospect to potential buyers. Open-world titles aren't quick projects, and they're not cheap. But conversely, this may work in the studio's favor – if a publisher is looking to get into this genre, it's a high cost endeavour to start from scratch. Midway Newcastle's project is three months into pre-production, with an experienced team and a proven technology. Duncan has his sales pitch well rehearsed, "we're a seasoned team with a good track record and a clear vision and process on how to make great games – we are a safe, responsible pair of hands as a partner or acquisition prospect."But exactly how much will this game cost? What sort of outlay are potential investors looking at? Duncan won't provide a figure, but is happy to clarify the details of the offering. "The purchase expense depends on the number of bidders - but it is worth clarifying that buying the studio does not mean buying taking on any Midway debt… it is an asset purchase, our man month rate is competitive, helped by being in the Northeast region, and the fact we run a tight business keeps the overheads down."Seeing the project through to completion is a large variable and will depend on the publisher. We are looking at a two-year project; then it comes down to how large is the open world, how many community features are we building in, what is the post-release strategy, which authors are we getting to help write the story and character arcs, what music are we licensing, which voice actors are we hiring? We have a ballpark number based on our own assessment and that is certainly available for discussion with interested parties."Time is running out. Midway Newcastle has barely two weeks to get a firm commitment from one of those interested parties. I get the feeling they're close, but I'm not sure if it's close enough. They can take heart perhaps, in other eleventh-hour interventions. Last year, respected UK studio Free Radical Design went into administration and closure looked a distinct possibility until German publisher Crytek came in with a purchase plan. It can and does happen.Here in Newcastle, there are contingency plans; there is talk of Joe and Craig helping staff to move on if the worst comes to the worst (and certainly there are plenty of studios in the North East, with Ubisoft Reflections and the large independent developerEutechnyxnearby). But no-one quite believes that will happen. "100% of my efforts and focus are on finding a solution to keep the studio going forward, making it viable and securing jobs in the team," says Duncan. "it may sound like a football cliché but this studio is too good a team to have to shut down – it would be a travesty.""To a man, everyone has realised that sitting around moping is not going to help anyone," adds Neate. "People want to make this game. Every time a strike team in the studio has some cool stuff, we'll get it up on the big screen and everyone gets a boost. The fact we have had a fucking cool project to focus on has been the best motivating tool of all."Britain has a rich heritage in the videogame industry, but this kind of situation could become more common over the next few years as the recession bites and the costs of development rise. It is expensive to make games here – which is why industry representativeTIGAhas been lobbying the government for more assistance, including the sort of tax breaks currently being enjoyed by the movie industry. We're facing a future in which mainstream British development becomes an automated production line of well established franchises, while the best minds scoot abroad to work on the meagre few original projects.This is not a desirable proposition. And by the end of June, through the fate of Midway Newcastle and its brand new game IP, we'll know if we're a little bit closer to this sorry prospect, or – mercifully – just a little bit further away.
Gordon Brown has said that today's Digital Britain report will guarantee broadband access for all, while he added that it was important to "develop and sustain" public service content such as regional TV news.The prime minister,writing in today's Timesahead of this afternoon's publication of the report, said that a digital UK could not become a "two-tier Britain".However, expectations ahead of the report have been lowered, with no deal expected to be announced between BBC Worldwide and Channel 4, and no firm proposals on ITV's regional news provision.Millions of homes are also expected to be denied superfast internet access for at least a decade because of a failure to reach agreement on who should pay for the upgrade, according to the Times.In his newspaper piece, Brown said the government would help the private sector move "farther and faster" to provide the next generation of superfast broadband.But it is expected that Lord Carter, the outgoing communications minister, will promise that all households will get a minimum standard speed of only 2Mbps, to be part financed with £200m taken from licence fee funds previously allocated to supporting digital switchover.It is thought that Carter will unveil a package of tax breaks to help extend faster fibre-optic connections around the whole country."The digital revolution is changing all our lives beyond recognition and today we shall set out how Britain must change with it," Brown said. "Whether it is to work online, study, learn new skills, pay bills or simply stay in touch with friends and family, a fast internet connection is now seen by most of the public as an essential service, as indispensable as electricity, gas and water."Today the government will publish its Digital Britain report, which firmly places the digital economy centre stage as it is core to our future industrial capability."Brown said that technological advances would be accompanied by a "revolution in content"."We must develop and sustain public service content, such as commercial regional news, which we all value and rely on, ensuring that it can be delivered across multiple digital outlets by a range of providers accessible to all," he said.He conceded that these were "difficult times" for local newspapers, TV and radio and that a regionalised TV news network was "no longer financially viable".But he said that competition in news was "vital to provide consumers with the highest quality and we cannot allow a monopoly to take root" .He added that Channel 4 also needed help to "secure its future". "In its short history, the station has produced Oscar-winning films and some of the most popular and highest-quality programming," he said. "But it now requires long-term stability to develop as a truly global player."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
In addition to theastonishing news of the Iranian electionsand visceral,heart-wrenching storiescoming out of Tehran, the interweaving story of censorship is gathering pace thanks to the web.While the regime appears to haveblocked many communicationsin the country, activists have launched their ownretaliatory attacksto try and capsize the state information machine.Some campaigners have been encouraging web users to help launch denial of service attacks against pro-Ahmadinajad sites - an understandable reaction although, as web guru Clay Shirkywonders, such strikes do not necessarily become legitimate just because they are in the underdog's hands.Social media is alsoplaying its part here, particularly sinceIran has a vibrant online scene: people are sending information around the networks and forwarding on important data - though as events snowball, filtering out the noise is difficult.One bright spot has been Twitter, which is popular in Iran and - crucially - appears to have evaded many of the government's attempts to block online communication.According toJonathan Zittrain, Harvard Law School professor and expert on internet censorship,this is a function of the rather unique way that Twitter has been built. Unlike Facebook, or other systems, Twitter's "half-baked" approach is what makes it resilient in such situations:It'd be trivial for the Iranian government to block access to Twitter as it could to any particular Web site ... But Twitter isn't just any particular Web site.It's an atom designed to be built into other molecules.  More than most, Twitter allows multiple paths in and out for data ... with so many ways to get those tweets there and back without the user needing twitter.com, it's far more naturally censorship resistant than most other Web sites.Indeed, Twitter has become such an important channel for the spread of Iranian news that a brief pressure campaign got the site's owners todelay some planned downtimeto try and reduce the impact on Iranian users.According to co-founder Biz Stone, Twitter and its network host,NTT America, "recognize the role Twitter is currently playing as an important communication tool in Iran" and have pushed the maintenance back until the middle of tomorrow night in Tehran.
The YouTube footage ofpolice shooting a man with a Taser gun in Nottinghamhas already started caused reverberations online, in the community and among human rights campaigners. It's a scene that has led to an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission, who will no doubt be examining a number of factors - including the raw aggression of the arrest itself, and the clearly painful - andalways controversialuse of a stun gun (not once, but twice).Behind the headlines, however, there is a deeper story here about the increasing use of Tasers among British police forces.Last winter Jacqui Smith - still the home secretary - said that she wouldplace an order for 10,000 stun guns for officers across England and Wales. Not everybody was so keen to arm up - shortly afterwards, the Metropolitan Police Authoritysaid it had no intention of using Tasersbecause of "the potential to cause fear and damage public confidence if the use of Tasers is extended".But that didn't stop the order going ahead - an order so large, in fact, that itmerited a mention in Taser's latest financial report, which pointed out that a "significant shipment... to the UK government" had boosted the company's $10.5m profit for the first three months of 2009.Precisely how many of those 10,000 units have already made their way into UK police hands? Taser wouldn't say, merely stating that the shipment "included follow on orders" for guns and cartridges.However, I can tell you one thing: I've seentasers up closeand, despite the idea that they are a non-violent weapon, they can be fearsome.The gun itself - around the size of an electric shaver - shoots out a pair of fine metallic threads that stab into the body of the target before delivering a 50,000 volt jolt that - according to those I know who have taken the shock, is incredibly painful. There wouldn't be many people resisting arrest if they'd just been hit twice with one.In addition, new model Tasers even have a laser sight to allow accurate targeting up to 15 feet, and the user is able to drop the gun on the floor while it continues to shock the target - allowing the user to run away (there's no evidence that the Nottingham police used these extended shocks).It's hard to watch somebody get shocked with one of these gadgets - but unpleasant viewing of this sort is only likely to happen more frequently now there are many times more Tasers on the streets.
&bull; As if things weren't bad enough forMySpace- with theslumping trafficandthreat of office closureswe reported last week - the news just got a little worse.Techcrunchreports figures from ComScore suggesting that Facebook hasnow overtaken its competitor in the home US market, one of the few places that MySpace was still in the lead.&bull;Wiredis currently running a'Disruptive by Design' conference in New Yorkwith a few technology heavyweights in attendance: including Amazon founderJeff Bezos. Useful notes fromTim O'Reilly, quoting Bezos saying "People over-focus on errors of commission... the big cost that most companies incur are much harder to notice, and those are errors of omission".&bull; And finally, if all that's a bit heavy, then you might get a smile fromthis Improv Anywhere MP3 experiment. Goes on a bit long, but it's great for some of that warm fuzzy feeling.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Lord Carter's Digital Britain report is today expected to introduce measures to protect the UK's TV, film and music industries from internet piracy, with a crackdown on illegal downloads that could see repeat offenders punished by having their internet connections suspended.The wide-ranging report, to be published this afternoon, aims to provide a policy framework for the media, technology, telecoms, music and film industries. Proposals are expected to span issues from internet piracy to universal broadband access, solving Channel 4's funding problems and helping ensure the future of regional media, including a local ITV news service.Tackling internet piracy has been one of the main areas where the report is expected to deliver firm action. Digital Britain is expected to promise legislation to standardise a process in which internet service providers send warning letters to persistent illegal file sharers. The sticking point for the rights holders is how far Carter will go beyond this.The report is also expected to lay out the blueprint for the delivery, and funding, of a new universal broadband commitment to get high-speed internet access to every UK home by 2012.There is not expected to be large-scale public funding, although there has been talk of an industry levy to improve broadband access.The report will also seek to offer a viable funding solution for Channel 4, which is seeking support for its public service output such as Channel 4 News as advertising revenues decline.
Internet companies should be forced to filter the web in order to reduce the volume of indecent material being shared online, according to children's charities.In a new "digital manifesto" published today, a leading group of charities including the NSPCC, the Children's Society and the National Children's Bureau argue that the government should legally compel ISPs to screen out images of child abuse and underage sex.Compulsory filtering is just one of a number of recommendations made by the Children's Charities Coalition on Internet Safety (CCCIS), which believes that action must be taken now to prevent new technologies from being used to proliferate abusive images online."The problem of child abuse images is directly linked to the growth of the internet and new technologies," said Zoe Hilton, an NSPCC spokeswoman and co-author of the manifesto."A large number of people continue to seek out these images in any way possible. The UK government must be tenacious in its efforts to put in place measures to protect children online."According to government figures, more than 1,400 people were either prosecuted or cautioned in relation to images of child abuse in 2007, a figure which the NSPCC says could be reduced by blocking such material at source.The report suggests that ISPs should be forced to subscribe to a blacklist of websites compiled by the Internet Watch Foundation, an independent charity that has become Britain's de facto regulator of online content.The IWF, which was founded in 1996, scans the web and responds to reports from members of the public to block sites containing objectionable content. While the group largely focuses on operating a notice-and-take-down system for illegal content hosted in the UK, including obscene or racially offensive material, it also maintains a blacklist of URLs hosted outside the UK that contain images of child abuse and indecent pictures of anyone under 18, which it provides to ISPs.The service is used by many large internet providers to filter out illegal images and content - including BT and Virgin Media - but there is no legal compulsion for them to do so.However, the foundation's role has been called into question in the past, particularly over claims that its criteria are opaque and its decisions unaccountable.Last winter the groupbanned a Wikipedia page for the album Virgin Killersby German rock group The Scorpions, claiming that the cover image of a young girl was potentially illegal. That was despite the fact that the album had been on sale in high street shops for more than 30 years.In January an entry on the IWF blacklist led to at least one ISPblockingthe entire catalogue of theInternet Archive- an American group that maintains a library of old web pages - following what the foundation's chief executive, Peter Robbins, called a "technical hitch".The IWF blacklist is believed to cover around 95% of British web users, but smaller internet providers have argued that compulsory filtering is an expensive and ineffective way of censoring internet content.The other recommendations made by the CCCIS urge the government, hi-tech companies and regulators to take urgent action to make a number of other technologies less open to abuse. Among them:- peer-to-peer filesharing systems, which say are often used to distribute images of child abuse. Filesharers have been targeted in the past by the music and film industries, but the CCCIS suggests better enforcement is required to prevent private filesharing networks focused on child abuse.- anonymity and encryption services, which can be used to make online communications unreadable or untraceable.- pre-paid credit cards, which are often used to pay for illegal material since they make it easier for criminals to mask their real identities.The calls come more than a year after the government agreed to back the findings of Tanya Byron, whopublished a report last Marchdetailing the steps that should be taken to help protect children online.Among her suggestions were the increased use of parental control software, better education for families and the establishment of a new organisation to oversee the safety of children online.• This article was amended on Friday 26 June 2009. We should have made clear the distinction between the Internet Watch Foundation's maintenance of a blacklist of websites hosted outside the UK that contain indecent images of children, and its role as a notice-and-take-down service to ISPs in the UK. This has been corrected.
Nintendo legend Shigeru Miyamoto has been named game developers' game development hero. 9000 industry bigwigs were asked to take part in the poll, commissioned by the organisers of theDevelop Conference, which takes place next month in Brighton. A third of those questioned went for Miyamoto - known affectionately as 'Shigsy' by people who spend too much time on gamer forums. Responsible for some of the world's greatest games - and Wii Music - Miyamoto created Mario and Zelda as well as aiding in the development of the Pikmin, Star Fox, Metroid Prime and Nintendogs series'.But what of the other top development talents? Here's the top ten...1. Shigeru Miyamoto2. John Carmack3. Will Wright4. Dave Jones5. Sid Meier6. Peter Molyneux7. David Braben8. Masaya Matsuura (PaRappa The Rapper creator)9. Michael Morhaime (president and co-founder of Blizzard Entertainment)10. Jonathan Blow (Braid)I'd say that was a reasonably predictable list, although Jonathan Blow is a surprise. The wording of the poll is interesting - they've asked for 'development hero' not 'best developer ever', so these are, presumably, the chaps who've directly inspired this generation of game makers - which explains why there's no-one under 45 on the list; apart from Blow who, I suspect, is there for his single-minded determination to create and distribute Braid though non-traditional channels and for his championing of experimental and independent game design.But who, in your opinion, has been criminally overlooked?
Iran is engaged in a widespread clampdown on broadcast, mobile phone and internet communications in response to the country's contested election results.The BBC has called on those responsible in Iran to stop interfering with its broadcasts. The intensive jamming is disrupting not only BBC Persian TV but TV broadcasts to the Middle East and Europe,according to the BBC World Service director, Peter Horrocks.It is unclear who is interfering with the broadcasts, but Horrocks said satellite technicians had traced the source of interference to Iran. He said the interference fitted into "a pattern of behaviour by the Iranian authorities to limit the reporting of the aftermath of the disputed election". Horrocks wrote on theBBC Editors' blog: "Any attempt to block this channel is wrong and against international treaties on satellite communication."Jamming over-the-air transmissions such as radio and satellite is not difficult: simply generating interference on the frequencies the broadcast uses will suffice.&nbsp;Richard Sambrook, director of the BBC's global news division, said he was worriedsatellite operators might drop news channels if the interference affected other commercial communications operations too widely.The Iranian regime also appears to be selectivelyshutting down parts of the mobile phone network.The internet is slightly more difficult to block because it is designed to circumvent problems, even if that problem is government censorship. However, in countries such as Iran and China, the government controls much of the infrastructure and can cut down on the number of alternative pathways.Ina 2007 report, the OpenNet Initiativesaid: "The Islamic Republic of Iran has installed one of the most extensive technical filtering systems in the world". Iran requires all internet providers to go through state-controlled gateways, and providers must employ filtering software. Reformist party websites, the photo-sharing siteFlickr, foreign blog sites and social networks such asFacebookare often blocked in Iran.Sophisticated users are able to route through alternate pathways to bypass government-controlled gateways. Information on how to do this is being passed around onTwitterto allow Iranians free access to the internet, but this can be a cat-and-mouse game.
If you are the sort of person who likes smart home design magazines, and Ikea catalogues, then you'll probably loveApartment Therapy. It focuses on home improvements including furniture, decorations and gadgets, but it also provides "case studies" that show how people live. Last year, 40 of these were compiled into a book:Apartment Therapy Presents: Real Homes, Real People, Hundreds of Design Solutionsby Maxwell Gillingham-Ryan.Even more voyeuristic pleasures can be found through Apartment Therapy's annualSmallest Coolest Home Contest.  Readers send in photos to enter one of the five categories which range from Teeny-tiny all the way up to Small. (There's also anInternational Division.) You won't get your stately home into Apartment Therapy, but you can be a star if you only have16 x 10 feetto play with.Maxwell Gillingham-Ryan, the interior designer who co-founded and edits the site, has practiced what he preaches. In 2006,The New York Timesreported that he lived with his wife Sara Kate in "a 265-square-foot, one-bedroom rental on Bedford Street in the West Village [in New York], an apartment so preposterously miniature it could fit neatly inside the foyer of many apartments uptown." Readers helped remodel it to make room for their new baby.And there's more. Apartment Therapy is part of a Home Network that also includesKids@Home,Home Cooking,Home TechandGreen@Home. They all have the same style and the content overlaps, so you feel as though it's all one site, in spite of the different web addresses. However, if you're at the green site, for example, clicking House Tours will only bring up the eco-friendly homes.Apartment Therapy also has links for coverage from half-a-dozen large US cities, including New York and San Francisco. It's a great pity that there aren't more stories from Tokyo, Hong Kong and London in particular, as these cities are packed with people trying to maximise the use of small spaces. However, international product coverage is clearly a problem, apart perhaps from Ikea.Apartment Therapy was launched in April 2004, and has a staff of 10, plus freelance contributors. It now attracts "more than 3 million unique readers and 20m pageviews per month," it says. According toQuantcast, the site's US visitors are more likely to be female (58%) than male, and 69% don't have kids under 17. A large majority went to college (79%) and most are quite well off – 59% earn more than $60,000 a year.But money isn't essential. The site reckons that creating "a calm, healthy, beautiful home … doesn't require large amounts of money or space. It requires inspiration, connection to resources and motivation to do something about it." Those are what it tries to provide.In some respects, Maxwell Gillingham-Ryan sounds like a yuppie version of British television's belovedHouse Doctor, Ann Maurice, who is also American. But Apartment Therapy concentrates on making better use of what you've got, rather than dressing it up for sale and moving on. That's not a bad thing.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The big technology news this weekend has circled the mainstream headlines;Iran's controversial election. Communications in the country have beendisrupted or blockedsince the result was announced, but information is making it through to the web. Sifting through the endless echoes and noise to find actual news online is tough, but theBBC has pulled together lots of online sources.&bull; After astutterearlier this year, America's switch to digital TV took place over the weekend. There wereplenty of questionsfrom viewers, but overall things seemed to go smoothly. Will Britain's own analogue switch-off,due to take place in stages until 2012, be without hitches?&bull; Weekend catchup reading for a Monday morning: theNew Scientiston thestory behind the Conficker worm; theNew York Timeshas something onTwitter's suggested user list(which we'vetalkedaboutbefore); and mobile guruTomi Ahonengives a long-but-interesting breakdown of thepast, present and future of smartphones.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Lord Carter's Digital Britain review has been the most comprehensive examination of the media and telecoms landscape in the UK in recent memory. His final report, released tomorrow, will span everything from digital literacy and protecting children on the internet, to solving Channel 4's funding crisis and combating online piracy. Here are some of the main issues and what to expect.BroadbandCarter called for a new universal broadband commitment in his Digital Britain interim report: by 2012 he wants everyone in the UK to have internet access at the speed necessary for watching live TV.Likely resultCarter is expected to use the digital switchover surplus to bring about universal broadband access, with BT predicted to get the majority of the digital switchover money to push its fixed-line network into more remote areas. The universal broadband service, however, will only reach about 98% of the population - Carter is expected to say that satellite broadband can be used to reach 100% coverage with the government and regional development agencies working in partnership to try to reduce the cost of such services.There is not expected to be a massive injection of public funds into the creation of next generation networks but a range of technical changes are likely to be introduced to make it easier and cheaper to build them.Online piracyProtecting the UK's creative industries from piracy was a main aim of the interim report. Since January, Carter has been locked in talks with ISPs and the content industry, and a further document has set out the possible role of a "rights agency" to bring the two warring factions together.Likely resultCarter will not introduce a system that results in people being summarily disconnected - but is expected to codify last year's memorandum of understanding between several ISPs and the content industry, which resulted in warning letters being sent out to persistent illegal file-sharers. All ISPs will have to sign up to a new warning letter regime, which will be backed up by "technical measures" where the worst offenders will have their connection speeds reduced sharply.The government is also looking at changes to the tax regime in the UK to prevent the brain drain of developers leaving  the country.Media ownershipThe local and regional media industry is in turmoil. In January, Carter announced plans to discuss potential changes to the rules governing the merger of local and regional media companies to see whether the industry can be saved by a spate of mergers and consolidation.Likely resultThe digital economy bill, which will be set before parliament later this year in order to implement Carter's proposals, will include a relaxation of the rules governing local and regional newspaper ownership. Some newspaper owners, however, may be disappointed by the final Digital Britain report, as Carter will not look at the issue of online aggregators such as Google news, who do not always give newspapers the opportunity to monetise the traffic around their content.Channel 4/BBC WorldwideJanuary's interim report threw its weight behind a tie-up between C4 and BBC Worldwide and the creation of a "new entity" with public service broadcasting at its heart. C4 had argued that its long-term survival was in serious doubt and that it faced an annual funding gap of &pound;150m from 2012. The door was, however, left ajar for a potential Channel Five deal.Likely resultCarter and the former culture secretary, Andy Burnham, have already begun managing expectations around tomorrow's report. Burnham has said the industry should not expect a "tablet of stone" but "powerful seeds and ideas" from which the future of public service broadcasting might be shaped. It is understood that BBC Worldwide and C4 do not have a done deal on the structure of the new entity, and observers do not believe Carter will unveil a final blueprint. Carter is stuck between a rock and hard place, with any BBC asset-sharing that resembles state aid likely to lead to official complaints. This makes it likely that Carter will, again, give the go- ahead to a C4/BBC Worldwide tie-up with a potential focus on how governance and ownership issues will be tackled.Provision of regional newsITV intends to pull out of providing the programming for a regional news service from 2012. What happens next could depend on what Carter's report says about the use - or not - of the &pound;130m-a-year "digital switchover surplus" from the licence fee.Likely resultThe idea that regional news could be run by various independent news consortia - which could mean media companies such as STV, Reuters, ITN, PA or the Guardian Media Group delivering regional news - was proposed in Ofcom's public service broadcasting report. The consortia would be funded by between &pound;40m -&pound;60m annually from the licence-fee switchover surplus, which could potentially be &pound;250m plus  - but there are other groups, including the broadband lobby, who would also like to get their hands on the cash.Early indications suggested that the switchover funding could be split between the two plans, although more recent estimates of the cost of a regional news service have cast doubt over whether this would be possible.
Reading this having clicked through via Twitter? Then you've not suffered the problem that a lot of people did today when the number of Twitter updates that there have been ever passed 2,147,483,647.Many Twitter programs - though not the web interface, for reasons we'll explain - stopped working, giving the slightly mystical reaction "operation could not be completed", even though Twitter itself was working fine.You'll recognise at once why.Or maybe not, if computer science isn't your strongest. The significance: the number above (around the 2 billion mark) is the largest number that can be stored as a "signed integer" using a 32-bit integer system. (An unsigned 32-bit integer could go up to 2^32 -1, or 4,294,967,295.)And the problem: if your program can't handle a number large than that, then when it's presented with an update whose number is larger than that, it will simply refuse to believe it. The sky has fallen! Down is up! And so on.It led to the collapse of Twitterrific on the iPhone, and problems with searching for Tweetie on the iPhone, though there's not much news of other problems on third-party services (darn).AsMopoints out (on Twitter....) although Craig Hockenberry, of the Twitterrific developers IconFactory, figured out what was wrong (well, people have been expecting it), and though they did come up with a fix almost at once, the problem is that the iPhone app has to go through the iPhone App Store approval process.Which Mosums up thus: "Diary of an App Store Reviewer: "Saw urgent update to Twitteriffic. Moved it to my "review in a fortnight" queue." (That being a reference to John Gruber's "Excerpts From the Diary of an App Store Reviewer", which if you haven't read, you should: it's finely-pointed satire on the whole approval process.)There's even aTwitpocalypsepage which has a counter showing that.. the total has long passed. (Interesting to note that we're currently travelling at 161 tweets per second..)Clearly, Twitter itself has been rather wiser in its allocation of the database fields for the service. And as has already been pointed out, it only takes one SQL instruction to get the database to update to be large enough that everyone on the planet can be tweeting (plus various bits of your house) and itstillwon't run out of ids.CNet has athorough in-and-out of the back-and-forths- the people at Twitter had been thinking of forcing it past the "limit" earlier, but decided not to.You'll recall that there was asimilar concern about Facebooka while back, with a group called "If this group reaches 4,294,967,296 it might cause an integer overflow." Happily, it didn't.The Los Angeles Timessays it was more of a viral marketing stunt... and that the developer didn't think it would happen. We're probably safe for a day or two.So if your iPhone app isn't working and you're not reading this.. other people are.• This article was amended on Wednesday 17 June 2009. We said the number of Twitter updates had passed 2,147,483,6471, but that number included a stray 1: we meant 2,147,483,647. This has been corrected.
Have you got yourFacebook usernameyet? Probably not, unless you happen to be in the right time zone.About an hour ago the site opened up its "vanity" addresses - the ability to register for a short Facebook web address that links directly to your profile page (I could pick  facebook.com/bobbiejohnson, for example). Other social networking sitesoffer the same service, but Facebook is getting noticed because it has brought inafterit's amassed more than 200 million users worldwide, not before.Charles looked at some of the questions raised by the landgrab already.It's a strange exercise from a site that has always prided itself on getting people to use their real identities online, but perhaps the most confusing thing about the launch is its timing: 9pm Pacific time on a Friday night.That makes it midnight on America's eastern seaboard, 5am in Britain and 6am in central Europe: not great if you live in any of those places. And how many Facebook users does that include? Well, it turns out, most of them.The last reliable statistics I can see on Facebook's international makeup come from Ben Lorica at O'Reilly Radar,who suggested in Marchthat around 33% of the site's user base is in Europe, with 39% in North America (the majority of whom are likely to live on the east coast).That means, roughly, that just one third of Facebook's users live in a time zone where the username rush is happening during waking hours: and for the rest of us, only the most dedicated/insane Facebookers would consider getting up at the crack of dawn to ensure they registered their username.In fact, the timing struck me as so odd that I put the question I put to Facebook earlier:if you want people to register their names, why do it so late and at the weekend?Their response? That launching usernames at a low-traffic time was a way of managing demand, and to give users "as fair a shot as possible".Certainly it's going to be more manageable if fewer people are doing it, but I'm not sure where fairness comes into it (unless "fair" means "giving our mates in Silicon Valley a chance to get there first").It's also likely to encourage what a few internet wags are calling "facesquatting" - a brilliantly filthy double entendre coined by Anil Dash inhis tremendously funny poston how the whole thing was going to play out. At the time of writing there don't seem to bemany examples of facesquatting taking place(that link's NSFW), but surely it won't be long until somebody seriously gets taken for a ride.In truth, though, I think the odd timing shows us something else: that the real target of Facebook usernames aren't users at all, but the companies, brands and high-profile celebrities who can be convinced to pay for services somewhere down the line.And they'vealready had their usernames granted to them, regardless of the timing of the launch. Anyone else is just going along for the ride.Update:Facebooksays500,000 users grabbed their usernames within 15 minutes of the system going live, with no reports of major squabbles so far.CommentersSergio MontiniandLiam Dalysaid they were awake during the wee small hours to make sure they got their preferred usernames; I spotted a handful of European Twitter users who took the same approach.Wiredpoints out that the username "george bush"appears to have been squatted, while the rightwing American radio host Rush Limbaugh certainly wasn't fast enough to get the rights tofacebook.com/limbaugh.
Dell stirred up a little commotion earlier today when it said that sales made through itsDellOutlet Twitter accounthad earned the company around $2m. In fact, says Dell tweeter Stefanie N,it may be even more than that:We're also seeing that it's driving interest in new product as well. We're seeing people come from @DellOutlet on Twitter into the Dell.com/outlet site, and then ultimately decide to purchase a new system from elsewhere on Dell.com. If we factor those new system purchases that come from @DellOutlet, we're actually eclipsed $3 million in overall sales.This all sounds great for Dell and its public relations (it's goinggangbusters, says the Register ), and equally good news for Twitter, making some wonder whether this is thesort of thing the site should be charging for.However, I think it's worth looking sceptically at the numbers.$2m is not even a drop in the ocean compared to Dell's overall sales of $12bn in the last three months (stat fans: Twitter is the sales channel for 0.008% of Dell stock) and overallthe company's sales are taking a beating- down 23% for the most recent quarter.So it's worth considering whether this is actually about gaining customers, or just building a new relationship with customers Dell already has. Like the arguments over whethera music track downloaded illegally is a lost sale, we can ask whether every sale on Twitter is a sale gained, or just an existing customer who is using a different method to get what they're looking for (often with an extra discount).Ultimately, it's impossible to know without surveying Dell's customers.So, if you've bought through this method, let us know in the comments why: would you have bought Dell otherwise?It's worth trying to get to the bottom of these numbers to try and make some sense out of them before the marketing gurus start spinning the line that you can make millions from Twitter.
Welcome back to Mars and its regime of mining camps, death squads and near slave labour, enforced by imperious EDF troops who kill hero Alex Mason's brother in the opening scene, propelling him into collusion with resistance fighters the Red Faction. What follows is a free-roaming stroll through the game's six sectors as you wrest control from the villainous EDF, restoring power to the people by demolishing military emplacements. The ability to smash any building into its component fragments of concrete and steel is hugely satisfying, which, along with some of its more exotic weaponry, helps make up for the game's slightly clumsy aiming. Despite its rough edges, Guerrilla hangs together reasonably well, delivering a side order of political commentary as you play a freedom fighter trying to rid his planet of its "liberators that became an occupying force".
There is currently a tourism initiative casting London as the shopping capital of the world. True, perhaps, if you're from a country where the exchange rate makes Harvey Nichols seem as reasonable as Aldi. This website paints a far truer reflection of London's consumer amenities, through photo after photo of shops, cafes and bars, some of which have seen far better days and others that are charming in their decrepitude. Many appear to have been named ironically - does Kebabish sell a delicacy that is almost like a kebab? In a nation of shopkeepers, there is little sadder than a boarded-up shop, especially one that promised "wines of the world".
At this month's Electronics Entertainment Expo, the conference that sees most of the western world's biggest videogames announcements, Microsoft unveiled Project Natal, its bid to win back the PR high ground from Nintendo. Like the Wii, it not only dispenses with conventional joypads, but watches and responds to a player's movements without any plastic whatsoever. Apparently based on Israeli military technology, its radar-like detectors are accurate enough to see what you're holding and even your expression, opening the door to truly HAL-like emotional exchanges. While Microsoft's other announcement - that it will stocking full Xbox 360 games and 1080p films for instant download on Xbox Live - is likely to have more immediate impact on gamers, it's clear that, along with 3D, the next few years will be about chucking out that mainstay of videogame convention, the controller.
After a catastrophic explosion tears through fictitious Empire City, delivery boy Cole, who happened to be carrying the parcel that caused it, starts to develop his very own set of superpowers. Starting with the ability to electrocute enemies and soon upgrading to all sorts of other talents, Cole's trips around town are dramatically enhanced by his extreme agility, making it easy to hop from rooftop to suspended cable to railway tracks in your pursuit of the all-powerful Ray Sphere. Using your skills for good or evil is flagged as a series of "karma moments" so cheesily executed it's as though the extraordinary restraint and subtlety of Fable II never happened. With a pleasingly chaotic atmosphere and missions that open up in scope and variety, it's a shame your powers only start to feel particularly super towards the end, although this is still a highly diverting piece of entertainment.
According to Harvard Business School, the top 10% ofTwitterusers account for 90% of all Tweets. Among the prolific 10%, there are comedians, radio presenters, regular witty folk and quite possibly leading politicians, but the majority will probably be pompous egotists with little else to do. But what exactly are these vainglorious micro-diarists telling their followers? You'll find the answers here at this aggregating site of self-important tweets, a land where men admire their own "rock hard abs", women boast about their possessions ("Fucked up the Benz today! 2nd car in a month! Its ok tho sushi &amp; sake with my bestie") and geeks brag about their followers ("120 people care what I say, about 30 care what you say").
MySpace is considering closing down a number of offices around the world as it attempts to cut costs and recover from a slump that has left it trailing its rivals.Senior executives at the social networking site are currently discussing the possibility of shutting down operations in California, Italy, France and Spain, sources have told the Guardian.The closures - which could be announced as early as next week - could result in the loss of hundreds of jobs.One office under threat is the company's base in San Francisco, which only opened at the end of 2007 and is home to around 200 members of staff. It is not yet clear if those jobs would be cut as a result of such a shutdown, or whether some workers would be offered the option of relocating to MySpace's headquarters in Los Angeles.It is also expected to cut a number of jobs in its European offices as it struggles to meet revenue targets for advertising amid falling user numbers. Workers in Paris, Madrid and Rome could be affected, and 20 people are already believed to have been made redundant from MySpace UK in February, including the head of IT and head of facilities.Guardian Technology revealed on Thursday thatMySpace has seen falling user numbers and time spenton its properties in the UK and US, while rival sites including Facebook have continued to increase their audiences.As a result, pressure has built on the company to regain its momentum - leading the site to bring in a new chief executive and undergo a series of redesigns to help woo back users who have deserted it.Those changes have so far failed to halt the slump, however, and sources within the company say that Travis Katz - the London-based general manager of MySpace's international division - has made a series of short-notice trips to the US to talk to senior executives about possible cutbacks.He is believed to be returning again for further discussions on on Monday.It is understood that the closure of offices could be announced as early as next week, leaving European staff concentrated in two offices in the UK and Germany.MySpace UK declined to comment on Katz's movements or the prospect of job cuts and office closures. Asked whether it could offer staff confidence in their jobs for the coming fortnight, a spokesperson declined to comment.Rumours of job losses first began circulating earlier this week, when the Silicon Valley news blog TechCrunchreportedthat "massive layoffs" of up to 25% of the company's workers were on the cards.The cuts would come at a turbulent time for the website and its parent company, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, which bought MySpace in 2005 in a surprise deal worth $580m.In April the site's co-founders, Chris DeWolfe and Tom Anderson, weremoved out of their jobs at the top of the companyandreplaced by Owen Van Natta, a former Facebook executive.The moves, which took place suddenly, are thought to have been brought about by Jonathan Miller - the former head of AOL who is now Rupert Murdoch's lieutenant for digital business.The mood in the UK office now was described as "damp" by one source, who said that there was a realisation that Facebook had trumped it.Sales staff were also struggling to fulfil their revenue targets due to the advertising downturn, putting extra pressure on the company as the falling number of users and time spent means it cannot command as much for adverts compared to growing rivals such as Facebook and LinkedIn.The prospect of a $900m ad deal with Google running out next year will put extra pressure on the site.• This article was amended on Thursday 18 June 2009. We said 20 people are already believed to have been fired from MySpace UK in February; we should have said they are believed to have been made redundant. This has been corrected.
Stand by your computers, and likely your beds: at 5.01am on Saturday morning BST Facebook will let you choose - though "scramble for" might express it better - a user URL on its site.However the way it is being done - with "tens of thousands" of individals' and business names already reserved by the company - may see frustration for many who have stayed up specially - or thought that they had got in early enough to reserve a name.As the site says, "you'll be able to choose a username for your Facebook account to easily direct friends, family and colleagues to your Profile."The reason for the odd timing, at least in British eyes, is that it's midnight Eastern time, and 9pm Pacific time (where Facebook is located) so the scramble (let's be honest) can happen.. when almost everyone is asleep. No, it makes no sense.So what's the plan, Mr Zuckerberg?From the beginning of Facebook [on Feb 4 2004], people have used their real names to share and connect with the people they know. This authenticity helps to create a trusted environment because you know the identity of the people and things on Facebook. The one place, though, where your identity wasn't reflected was in the Web address for your profile or the Facebook Pages you administer. The URL was just a randomly assigned number like "id=592952074." That soon will change.Yes, we've set the alarm clock already.We're planning to offer Facebook usernames to make it easier for people to find and connect with you. When your friends, family members or co-workers visit your profile or Pages on Facebook, they will be able to enter your username as part of the URL in their browser. This way people will have an easy-to-remember way to find you. We expect to offer even more ways to use your Facebook username in the future.You'll be limited to being with to the Roman alphabet: "you can only choose a single username for your profile and for each of the Pages that you administer. Your username must be at least five characters in length and only include alphanumeric characters (A-Z, 0-9), or a period or full stop ("."). While usernames are currently available only for Romanized text, we're looking at how we might support non-Romanized characters in the future."And of course..Think carefully about the username you choose. Once it's been selected, you won't be able to change or transfer it. If you signed up for a Facebook Page after May 31 or a user profile after today at 3 p.m. EDT, you may not be able to sign up for a username immediately because of steps we've taken to prevent abuse or "squatting" on names.ButCNet points outthat "tens of thousands" of people and companies have had their names reserved for those special URLs. (I have no idea whether my name or The Guardian's is on it.)And as one sees with any digital landgrab, it is certain to lead to scrambles, fights, accusations of pinching, gouging and poking, and a lot of woe.In fact Douglas Rushkoffcalls it "Facebook's Fatal Mistake":Facebook's new page-naming scheme actually brings up other memories for me, ones that hold bigger stakes for the company itself. It reminds me of the moment that AOL, formerly a completely closed network with its own content, allowed its users onto the greater Internet for the first time. Internet USENET boards were filled with what we called "newbies" wandering around and asking anyone they could find how to download pornography. Formerly high-level conversations were quickly brought down to the lowest common denominator as a huge population of people uninitiated in basic Internet etiquette flooded the networks faster than we could educate them.The impact was far worse for AOL. By opening itself to the greater Internet, AOL revealed itself as something of a wading pool. A mini-Internet. Once people could use AOL as a portal to the true, unadulterated, global net, the company was reduced to an ISP. AOL became series of phone numbers you dial to get online, and little more. Steve Case knew his moment was over, and used his inflated stock price to purchase some real assets like Time Warner. We all know how that turned out.Getting in first is only half of it: if you have one of these "vanity" URLs, can you transfer it? Given Facebook's control over what you can do on its site - and the way that the URL is in effect your login - you might think not. But think again: if you were to (say) auction a URL, or sell it in a quiet sidestreet of the internet, then you could get the login details, take over the URL and make it your own - unfriending one set of people and refriending your chosen set. (A bit like being Prime Minister, really.)And wait for the trademark rows between companies, which will have the legal muscle *and* money to make Facebook's like a misery.So - are you going to stay up and reserve a name?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?That would be my Mac Pro laptop. And I use it for loads of things from film editing, listening to music, watching DVDs,  emailing, websurfing, talking on Skype for free, and even viewing iPlayer at home by pumping it through into my big TV.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Editing a section of my new film, Doghouse. I transcoded all the rushes down to a low-res working copy and ran Final Cut Pro on the system so I could edit on the road. I've been doing this on a few projects now. It's great to have the freedom to not always have to be locked in an editing room, as inspiration can strike at any time.What additional features would you add if you could?Well, it would be very cool if it had some sort of self-modifying nanotechnology that would evolve, upgrade and self repair so I'd never have to buy another one. No chance of that happening for a few decades.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Moore's law (that the number of transistors on integrated circuits has doubled roughly every two years).If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Try using it to what it is fully capable of doing. A lot of people have amazingly powerful machines and only use them for internet browsing and writing documents.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Either way you come off sounding bad … OK, I'm a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my high-definition camcorder.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. I've always used Macs and just prefer the ease of use that seems geared towards creativity.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?Brought the fantastic DVD Grindhouse Trailer Classics Volume 2 – an amazing collection of cult film trailers from the 70s and 80s that will really blow your mind!Robot butlers: a good idea or not?Good idea if we want to see some real life sci-fi horror when they go off program and run amok and start serving us for dinner.What piece of technology would you most like to own?An iPhone. And I will get one once my current contract finishes.•Jake Westis the director of British horror filmDoghouse, which is now showing across the UK
Twitter has always had lots of fake accounts, including fake celebrities, but only now is it introducing a system to verify them.The site has just announcedthat: "To prevent identity confusion, Twitter is experimenting (beta testing) with a 'Verified Account' feature. We're working to establish authenticity with people who deal with impersonation or identity confusion on a regular basis."The problem is that authenticating celebrities is hard work, and Twitter may not have the staff or, perhaps, the ambition to handle the thousands of celebrities already using the system. The announcement says: "because of the cost and time required, we're only testing this feature with a small set of folks for the time being."It could, of course, introduce a system where people pay for verification.Twitter may have been prompted to act bya lawsuit launched by Tony La Russa, manager of the St Louis Cardinals baseball team, over the unauthorized use of his name.Some people have got away with pretending to be celebrities for a long time, with Twitter seeming to wait for complaints to roll in before it discontinues them.At the moment, a few users are tackling the problem on a community basis. TheValebrity web site, for example, has been approaching celebrity users of Twitter accounts and asking them to verify themselves by various means. One simple way to do this is by putting a Twitter link on their official site.One problem is the number of "celebrities" from Britney Spears and Oprah (verified on her own TV show) down to the thousands of members of various sports teams, rock bands, parliaments, TV and radio stations, and so on. All of them could have their reputations damaged by impersonation.Twitter does not seem to have woken up to the fact that the problem is going to get worse and that it has no hope of coping on its own. It would make much more sense for Twitter to work with Facebook and other sites that have the same problem and come up with a joint solution for verifying not just celebrities but everybody.Note: I've changed "combine" to "work with" in the last para, since it's been misunderstood.Update: I talked to Valebrity's Steven Livingstone-Perez who says he'd already asked Twitter if they were interested in working with Valebrity, but they didn't get back to him. "For what they want to do, it's an awful lot of work. I think they've been forced into it, and I don't think they'll be able to cope," he says.Valebrity has already validated more than a thousand celebrities and reckons the site is becoming known: "People are now coming to us before they go to Twitter."
An Iraqi-American artist was treated unfairly after coming under attack for making a video game in which players had to assassinate George Bush, according to a court documents filed this week.Artist Wafaa Bilal created the game Virtual Jihadi last year, in what he claimed was an attempt to "bring attention to the vulnerability of Iraqi civilians". But the game, which involved an attempted strike on the former US president's life, caused a storm of protest, including accusations that Bilal was encouraging terrorism.The controversy reached fever pitch when a public display featuring the game in New York was closed down by local authorities amid claims that the organisers had committed a number of infractions.However, following accusations that the shutdown was an infringement of Bilal's rights, a campaign group has asked a federal court to rule that the closure was unconstitutional.The Media Alliance says that the reasons for the closure - code violations cited by local public works commissioner Robert Mirch - were in fact bogus."Mr Mirch abused his authority to suppress the free speech rights of people he disagrees with, an unconstitutional act that must be challenged," said Melanie Trimble, director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, which is suing on behalf of Bilal.The artist, who fled Iraq in 1992 after the first Gulf war, is an assistant professor at New York University's Tische School for the Arts and produced Virtual Jihadi after his brother was killed in an American bombing raid.He hacked and reworked a game called Quest for Saddam, in which players took the part of a soldier in the Iraq war, in an attempt to show that the civilians in the conflict were not merely stereotypes or characters in a virtual shoot-out, but real people.According to thegame's website, Virtual Jihadi was "meant to bring attention to the vulnerability of Iraqi civilians to the travesties of the current war and racist generalisations and stereotypes as exhibited in games such as Quest for Saddam".However the game caused outrage, and a show of Bilal's work at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute was suspended shortly after the institution was accused of becoming a "terrorist safe haven".
It's always a good idea to apply a bit of hindsight to E3 – things don't always pan out as you might have expected them to when the show kicked off. Particularly given the way in which it starts with the big press conferences before the show itself opens. This year, for example, Microsoft won the battle of the press conferences, but refused to let us see any of the games which made such a good impression, whereas Sony and Nintendo's wares grew in attractiveness after some close scrutiny.The dark corners of E3, beyond the glare of hype, are always well worth checking out, as they habitually yield some of the best games at the show – the sort of games which surprise people with their quality when they finally arrive. We spent as much time as we could poking around in just those areas at this year's E3, and have concluded that these three games were the pick of the show's hidden gems.BrinkBrink is a first-person shooter for Xbox 360 and PS3 developed by Bromley-basedSplash Damageand published byBethesda Softworks. An interesting combination: Splash Damage began as a bunch of mates modding PC shooters who, due to fearsome technical ingenuity, ended up making Quake Wars: Enemy Territory for the legendary id Software. Bethesda, meanwhile, vies with Bioware for the title of top RPG developer - thanks to games like The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and Fallout 3 - and has recently branched out into publishing.Brink, Splash Damage's first crack at a console game, bristles with both ideas and technology. It's set on The Ark, a floating city which is mankind's last refuge in 2035, with the rest of the world flooded. Perhaps its most radical idea is that, depending on which faction you play as and how you go about playing, your missions will be generated as you go along, in both single and multi-player modes. You will have overarching objectives, but how you achieve them depends on your role in your squad (which you can change mid-mission if, say, you want to be more involved in heavy shooting, or cause havoc behind enemy lines). This sounds complicated - and it is, but in practice, it's an easy concept to grasp due to a cleverly designed "mission wheel". This idea effectively does away with the necessity for different multiplayer modes, too.Brink also features perhaps the most elaborate environments ever seen in a game, along with a system that lets you point to where you want to go then gets you there more or less automatically. It feels like a shooter and an RPG at the same time, and if it lives up to its promise (it's still in pre-alpha although it already looks amazing), it could be a smash-hit.Split/SecondWithout a doubt the least promising game at E3, given its provenance, was Split/Second. Firstly, it's published byDisney Interactive, which generally busies itself churning out movie-merchandising dross aimed at kids who become obsessed with the parent company's movies. It's technically a game-of-a-film, which is usually the kiss of death. And it's an arcade-style racer, hardly an underpopulated genre. But it's certainly no Mickey Mouse effort.Behind the device of a Running Man-style gameshow in which drivers compete to take each other out, it boasts Ridge Racer-style drift handling, graphics which are absolutely at the cutting edge and insane power-ups which let you loose off rockets and destroy large swathes of the environment (thereby taking out rivals). Which wouldn't work if it didn't have incredibly clever track designs, which cleverly divert you when you're about to drive into an area that has been blown to smithereens. It's pretty much Burnout meets Ridge Racer with rocket-launchers. And if you don't fancy that, you're not a proper gamer. It will come out on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC.Mafia IITake Two Interactive's Mafia II also deserves an honourable mention. It's one of those games that looks set to turn out much better than anyone expected. It's pretty much what you'd expect from the name – a mafia game set in the 1940s, in an American city called Empire Bay. Structurally, it's along similar lines to GTA and the Godfather games – you're given a sandbox city and can take on story missions at your leisure. But what impresses is its attention to detail – Empire Bay is vibrant and evocative – its storyline, which is deliciously hard-boiled with dialogue that at least bears comparison with that of the Grand Theft Auto series, and, most of all, its shooting system, which is more like a custom-built shooter than an action-adventure game (you can drop from third-person to first-person view).The version we saw did have slight (and very occasional) frame-rate issues, but given its ambition and atmosphere, we could forgive it that. Hopefully, that will be polished out before it launches, anyway. Mafia II will arrive on the next-gen consoles and, if you fancy yourself as a Goodfella, you should find it very satisfying indeed.
I am in the throes of the finishing-my-PhD push, which I hope explains why I've been utterly absent on this blog. However, that doesn't mean we're not tuned in to the gaming news from around the web. For that, here's a nice newsbucket to keep you entertained over the weekend.• What Are The Rewards Of 'Free-To-Play' MMOs? (for business, for players, for everyone) &gt;&gt;gamasutra.com• Out of Bounds: Eight Videogame Places You're Not Supposed to Go &gt;&gt;crispygamer.com• Rockstar founders aim for internet: all about 4mm games &gt;&gt;variety.com• Video-Game Makers Keep Focus On Core Market &gt;&gt;online.wsj.com• The iPhone 3GS promises to deliver better game experience &gt;&gt;venturebeat.com• In-Game Advertising: Market assessment and forecasts to 2014 &gt;&gt;screendigest.com• A brief history of downloadable console games - CNET News &gt;&gt;news.cnet.com• Nvidia on the perils of the graphics chip biz - NYTimes.com &gt;&gt;bits.blogs.nytimes.com• Apps Boom - sell apps, sell company, get rich! &gt;&gt;nytimes.com
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
European versions of Microsoft's new Windows 7 operating will not include a copy of the company's Internet Explorer browser, as a result of the software company's long-running tangle with officials in Brussels.After a series of run-ins with European regulators that have cost the companyhundreds of millions of dollars in fines in recent years, Microsoft announced yesterday that it would be removing copies of Internet Explorer from copies of Windows 7 available in the EU when the system goes on sale in October.According to Dave Heiner, Microsoft's deputy general counsel, the company will not be including Internet Explorer in versions of Windows 7 that it supplies to computer manufacturers or retailers."We're committed to making Windows 7 available in Europe at the same time that it launches in the rest of the world, but we also must comply with European competition law as we launch the product,"he said."Given the pending legal proceeding, we've decided that instead of including Internet Explorer in Windows 7 in Europe, we will offer it separately and on an easy-to-install basis to both computer manufacturers and users."Regulators and rivals have long contended that the Seattle company's inclusion of the Internet Explorer browser with Windows has unfairly distorted the market and made it more difficult for competitors to get a foothold. Even today rivals like Mozilla's Firefox or Apple's Safari browser, for example, command just 22.5% and 8.5% of the market - compared to Internet Explorer's 65% share.The inclusion of Internet Explorer within Windows has been a constant source of conflict for the American software company - first through amuch-publicised spat with the US Department of Justice in the 1990s, but more recently after aninvestigation was launchedby the European Commission.That case, brought over claims by the Norwegian browser company Opera, has found backing with Microsoft's rivals -including Google, which said earlier this year that the web browser market is "still largely uncompetitive… because Internet Explorer is tied to Microsoft's dominant computer operating system".But Microsoft's decision will also have taken into account two huge fines levied by the European commission for anti-competitive behaviour. In 2004 the company was fined €497m over antitrust concerns, with a further €280m added when the company failed to take the required action.That was followed in 2008 by the imposition of afurther €899m in fines- a record at the time - for overcharging rivals to access to the company's software.However, Microsoft said that even if it did not ship a copy of Internet Explorer with the versions of Windows 7 that it supplied its partners with, there would be no guarantees that those partners would not install the program themselves."Computer manufacturers will be able to add any browser they want to their Windows 7 machines, including Internet Explorer, so European consumers who purchase new PCs will be able to access the Internet without any problem," said Heiner.
According to Microsoft exec Shane Kimit will be. The motion control system, first shown at last week's E3 show, could potentiallychange everything. Or it could be an EyeToy style novelty. As you would expect Kim goes for the former.Conceptually, the launch of Natal will be like the launch of Xbox 360. It's going to be that big. We're not just going to ship it when the hardware and software are ready. We have to make sure that there are enough content experiences that are really good. That's similar to how you would think of the launch of a new console. It's got to have a great launch line-up. That's the same thing here.Is this the first step to Microsoft having a two-pronged console strategy? The Xbox 720 - or whatever - for the traditional gamer, complete with Live Arcade for the ever-growing casual gaming market. And the Natal for everyone else? Given the cost implications this is unlikely but Kim definately feels Natal can break the mould.We're not focused on this generation's casual gamers or even PS2 people who haven't upgraded. This is about the 60% of households were a video game console doesn't exist… the problem is that the controller is a barrier for some people and now with Project Natal we completely eliminate that.The Wii, and especially Wii Fit,  has mopped up a lot of this traditionally non-gaming audience. Will Natal really grab even more market share? Is the Xbox brand really going to appeal to a household that is so uninterested in gaming it doesn't even have a Wii? The games will be crucial here of course. The equivalent of Wii Sports for the Natal is a must.  And yes, a fitness game or two wouldn't go amiss. But something uniquely Natal will be the key to breaking through. Anyway, what do you think?
&bull; It seems the extended struggle between Microsoft and Europe has finally come to a conclusion: when Windows 7 comes to us later this year, it will besans browser. There will be no Internet Explorer. You'll have to download it separately. What will the impact be?&bull; The arguments over whether the games industry is seriously feeling the recession continue: according to thelatest figures from NPD group, sales in the US were down 23% on last May. What does it mean? No GTA IV, for starters, but coming on top ofsimilar recent figuresthat suggested sales were down, the evidence is gathering.&bull; It's almost the weekend, and what better way to with a quickfire game that's fun for all the family: a gorgeous little point-and-click from Fastgames.com calledLittle Wheel. Enjoy your weekend and see you on the other side.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
"Microsoft Corp is getting ready to unveil a long-anticipated free anti-virus service for personal computers that will compete with products sold by Symantec Corp and McAfee Inc," reportsReuters.Unfortunately, it doesn't give a date. It just says it's "testing an early version of the product with its own employees," and that "Microsoft would 'soon' make a trial version, or product beta, available via its website".We've been waiting for Morro, code-named after Morro de Sao Paolo beach in Brazil, for some time: I wrote about it inSecurity 'hippos' dismiss Microsoft Morro launchon Thursday 27 November 2008, andbefore. (The Morro bit came from Microsoft's Amy Barzdukas, and the bit about "two security hippopotamuses" -- Symantec and McAfee -- from Graham Cluley at Sophos.)This is an awkward area because of the political involvement of the European Commission. Symantec Corp and McAfee have already shown their willingness to exploitanti-trust tourism* and their ability to be somewhat economical with the truth. They do, after all, make money out of the virus business (and getfinedfor it,below).It's not clear whether Morro will have any impact on the security market: that's not something Microsoft has ever managed before. However, it will be interesting if it is, as suspected, a cloud-based service.PC Worldsays:Morro will work by routing all of a users Internet traffic to a Microsoft datacenter, where the Morro application will process the traffic and identify and block malware in real-time, by examining all of the rerouted traffic.This raises serious questions about performance, off-line security problems and privacy, for starters. Sure, Google probably tracks your every move, via its toolbar and advertising network, but that's no reason to route everything via Microsoft.This is one reason why Microsoft loves the cloud: it can probably get away with a cloud-based service, whereas it couldn't add anti-virus protection to the operating system, even if it was the right thing to do. (Which it is.) AsAVG boss JR Smithtold me recently, when I asked him about Morro: "At this point, we're watching in Brussels to ensure they don't bundle it with Windows and trigger about a trillion lawsuits."And, of course, in Brussels,Neelie Kroes's sole concern is competition. On previous form, this will mean preventing Microsoft from defending its operating system so as to protect the ability of Symantec, McAfee, AVG and others to make money out of consumers. If consumers are harmed in the process, that's someone else's problem.* Anti-trust tourism:Worst of all, the EC has become the forum of choice for disgruntled American firms to complain about their American rivals. In a global economy, you can use the most congenial government body to hamstring your competition, expanding exponentially the opportunity for rent-seeking from government. Regulatory arbitrage today threatens to replace financial arbitrage as the game for executives more savvy about process than products.-- Ronald Cass, chairman of the Center for the Rule of Law, former vice chairman of the US International Trade Commission, and dean emeritus of Boston University School of Law, in The Wall Street Journal
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 15 June 2009The standfirst to this interview with Steve Robertson referred to BT's Outreach division. As the article said correctly, it is called Openreach.When Steve Robertson hit 50 last year, he had something of a mid-life crisis. The plain-speaking Scot, already something of a petrol-head, took up rallying, not as driver but as a navigator. But while he took to the passenger seat for some relief from the pressures of business, his ability to judge twists and turns is coming in handy as he plots a route for BT through the biggest change to the UK's communications landscape since the telecoms behemoth was privatised in the 1980s.Next Tuesday Lord Carter will set out the government's vision for Digital Britain. The communications minister's plans include clamping down on web piracy and securing the future of Channel 4, but to many the most important result of his eight months of work will be the promise that everyone will have access to broadband, at the sort of speed needed to watch live TV, in time for the London Olympics in 2012.That's where Robertson comes in. An estimated 1.5 million Brits – about 15% of homes – are currently unable to get internet access at anything like the 2 megabits a second envisaged by Carter. Until recently, plugging that gap has been seen as the job of the mobile phone networks, even if it would be very expensive.Robertson, however, has been trying to persuade Carter that his business, Openreach, the BT division formed three-and-a-half years ago to look after the nation's millions of phone lines, has some, if not all, of the answers to the problem of turning that 85% coverage into a universal broadband service. To do it, he argues, will take some government money, but nothing like the billions being suggested by the supposed experts who have appeared in recent months."From a fixed-line point of view, I think the opportunity is there," he says, sat in his unassuming chief executive's office in one of BT's less salubrious buildings near London's St Pancras station. "The last percent or so becomes very expensive, but up to 99%, it is not going to break the bank. We are talking about hundreds of millions, not billions. There is probably a very, very small rump where it becomes very, very difficult, but I do not think it is particularly easy for the mobile guys to reach them either."PassionThis pragmatic attitude was born of his roots on an Edinburgh council estate, where he developed his passion for Hearts FC; many of the players grew up in the area. The history and politics graduate lucked into his initial job at BT, installing the UK's first digital international telephone exchange, when someone assumed that his previous role in the city council's architects office meant he knew about fitting out offices. He was actually working in the street-naming and numbering department.And it's the attitude that got him into the passenger seat of a rally car racing through the streets of Newfoundland for the Targa rally last September. "As I was heading to my 50th birthday, I thought, here I am doing all this business stuff and I'm in danger of getting really boring. I'm dead passionate about the business and it is sort of all-consuming, but the good thing about rallying is you have to pay attention. If you call things wrong or your driver doesn't listen to you, you end up in a ditch."Carter does have some public money to play with – the "digital switchover surplus", the cash used by the BBC from the licence fee to help people migrate to digital television. From 2012, when the analogue signal is switched off, that will no longer be needed and, with a bit of financial engineering, it can be allocated now to realise the government's universal broadband ambition. Robertson's proposals will require some public money – but why should any be injected into broadband just so everyone gets to watch the BBC iPlayer or play on social networking sites whenever they want?"People really, really hate not having broadband, it is regarded almost as a social outrage if you cannot have access to broadband," he argues. "It is a social need, and we need to recognise that when something becomes seen as a social need we need to make arrangements for it to be available to everyone."And using mobile broadband will not cut it, he argues, because as more services are created speeds will need to climb and the mobile networks cannot handle enough traffic. But does everyone want internet access? Roughly 70% of UK homes are online, but research by Ofcom showed that two-fifths of the people who are not would not surf the web, even if they were given a computer and web access for free. Robertson argues that seeing the internet merely as something you access through a computer is to misread the great change taking place as technology starts to connect other devices, especially TVs, to the web."The high-water mark of the broadband market has been defined around the levels of PC ownership. I think that is going to change completely in the next couple of years … the high-water mark will not be who has got a computer, it will be who has a TV."For many households, getting a faster broadband connection involves little more than installing an inexpensive gadget that filters out electrical interference created by home wiring, or a visit from one of Openreach's 21,000 field engineers. For homes a long way from their local tele­phone exchange, BT is testing expensive, technology that doubles a line's capacity. For that difficult final 1%, broadband access is likely to involve satellite technology and the industry has been lobbying hard for the government to underwrite the funding needed to launch a new satellite in 2011.Openreach is BT's biggest division, with 32,000 employees dealing with 140m kilometres of copper and fibre optic phone line stretching from 5,600 telephone exchanges to 88,000 green roadside cabinets and then into millions of homes and businesses, hanging from  3.5m telegraph poles along the way. The network carries 300m calls and 350m internet connections every day.ChallengeSince Openreach started in January 2006, a host of players have entered the broadband market, from Carphone Warehouse's TalkTalk to Sky and mobile phone company O2, which rent local phone lines from Openreach under a process known as local loop unbundling. From a few hundred thousand unbund­led lines when it launched, almost 6m have been passed on to BT's rivals.The challenge for Openreach is to replicate that success with the next generation of broadband. While Carter talks about speeds of 2Mb a second for everyone, BT has pledged to spend £1.5bn over the next three years connecting 10m homes to a next generation fibre optic network capable of 20 times that speed as it races to keep up with Virgin Media, which already offers 50Mb services.Next month, BT's internet service provider customers, including TalkTalk, will start testing what this new network can do in the north London suburb of Muswell Hill. The trials cannot come too soon for Robertson: "One of the things I've been saying all through this debate is can we start doing something; stop these endless debates. The current generation of broadband did not end up where it is now because of people having an academic debate – we got out there."• This article was amended on Friday 12 June 2009. The standfirst referred to BT's Outreach division. As the article said, it is Openreach. This has been corrected.
I love videogame marketing departments. None of them seem to have functioning super egos. In other areas of the media, publicity campaigns are bound by outdated concepts such as civic responsibility, taste and the fear of moral backlash. For game marketers, these are just things that happen tootherpeople.A case in point. Yesterday THQ bundled 100 copies of its new Red Faction: Guerrilla game into a parked car and left it on a London street, chaining a sledge hammer nearby. PR manager Simon Watts explained the ruse: "Because Red Faction Guerrilla features the world's most realistic destruction engine, we thought that it would make for an interesting experiment to find out how many people, going about their everyday business, would stop in a busy city street to work out some stress by smashing their way into a car to earn a copy of the brand new game."First of all, I want to know how they came up with this very specific concept. It can only have been concocted at the very end of a boozy Friday in some sort of exotic Soho mojito bar. But then somehow, it carried through to Monday, it carried through long enough for someone to say 'yeah, let's do it', and it still carried on, well into buying a second-hand car and a sledge hammer and physically facilitating the escapade. This shows immense grit.I'm also interested in the moral proclivities of these passers-by apparently going about 'their everyday business'. Admittedly, I live in a small market town in Somerset, but if I passed a car filled with videogames and parked next to a convenient sledge hammer, my first instinct - and I'm really rather confident about this - would not be to smash its windows in and make off with the contents. I'm hoping there was some sort of signage involved. I'm hoping the good people of London aren't continuously scoping out parked vehicles for easily accessible consumer goods.Whatever. The marketing people at THQ were obviously not put off by the possibility that encouraging random urban destruction might, in some small way, be misconceived as a irresponsible. Just as the marketing people at EA did not think twice about re-designing a petrol forecourt in North London to look like a South American fuel silo for Mercenaries 2. Just like Capcom wasn't at all concerned about hiding fake (but realistic looking) body parts around central London and getting people to look for them to publicise Resi 5.The Chinese philosopher Mencius once wrote, "great is he who has not lost the heart of a child." He was right. They keep trying to turn the videogame business into a sensible paragon of consumer entertainment, but underneath it all is the giggling schoolboy cottage industry of yore. They'll never take that away. Not entirely.I also love the fact they chained the sledge hammer up. I mean, amid all this lunacy, someone had the foresight to think, 'hang on, if we just leave the hammer there some idiot will nick it'.
