So now we know what the iPad - not the iSlate, the iTablet or Canvas -is, andwhat it does. It's got plenty of interesting features, including some that haven't been talked about much (including accessibility options and projector support). But in many ways, the more interesting questions are what itdoesn'tdo.Let's build a list. Here's a few things for starters:Still no support for FlashApple appears to be continuing its dogmatic stanceagainst Adobe's de facto web video standard. Yes, it's not an open standard, which means Apple can say it's not just making a power play, but it's also ubiquitous - and that means that when Steve Jobs says "the iPad is great for surfing the web", what he really means is all the bits of the web that don't use Flash. This is not just an issue for video - after all, services like YouTube and iPlayer can stream videos straight from the source using H264 - but also for web advertisers. All those Flash ads on websites (like the Guardian's) aren't getting seen.Update:Former Appler Chuq von Rospach (whowrote this piece for us on the build-up to Apple keynotesgives some great context on why there's no Flash:it's essentially a war of attrition with Adobe that goes back a long timeNo multitaskingThis, to me, is one of the most disappointing aspects of the iPad: you can still only operate one application at a time. This is a well-known and artificial limitation brought in by Apple - hacked iPhones are able to multitask, and Google'sNexus One, which has a similar 1GHz processor, manages multitasking fine. Apple has previously said it's because it's a drain on battery life - which is true, but it also cripples a whole category of applications such as music service Pandora.No USBThe iPad basically sports an iPod connector, and not a lot else. This limits the things you can plug into the device, so no 3G dongles, no thumb drives full of files, no non-iPod accessories. And one of the obvious benefits of a living room tablet (to my mind, at least) is as an easy way to download and store photographs. This is the sort of thing that infrequent computer users love - none of that awkward fiddling about by the PC, just do it with your family there and then. Yes, you can buy a camera connector - but it's an extra step.No SD card slotAlong the same lines as USB. Including an SD card reader is pretty normal for lots of the netbooks that the iPad will go up against (largely for photography), and it also comes as standard in recent Mac laptops.In fact, no camera at allLots of people had thought that the iPad might include a camera or two to help turn it into a handy videoconferencing platform - just imagine toting one around to speak to the office, or all those grandparents able to tune in for a chat with their families with a simple press of the finger. No joy on that front.If you can think of more things that you think should have been included - or at least that you were surprisedweren'tin the iPad, then let me know in the comments.Ultimately, all of these omissions are the reasons why it's easy to dismiss it as a big iPhone (something our design critic Jonathan Glancey says is no bad thing).Some of them can be fixed in the software (Flash, multitasking) but some will require a hardware update - if they ever arrive at all. But I wonder whether leaving some of these things out will be a dealbreaker for some potential purchasers.Update:After reading through all your comments, here are a few more things that the iPad doesn't have or are of concern to you.Screen limitationsThe screen is not OLED (too expensive, I'd imagine) and there's no e-ink, meaning that long form reading is not as easy as electronic paper. Having said that, the screen is plenty for people who want to read it for short periods or scan it from their sofa or whatever. I think it's less of an issue than it may seem.Video outI'm still not clear on how the iPad is going to have projector support (which Phil Schiller mentioned in the keynote when talking about giving presentations). But there's no straightforward video out option, and may have to rely on workarounds or other hardware to do the job of getting videooffthe iPad to your TV. It's an interstitial device - not the place you keep most of your media.NetworkingThere's no obvious networking options - how do you print a document you get emailed? How do you print the photos? I'm not convinced that the lack of Firewire or an Ethernet port are major problems, butStorage spaceIt's not got a massive drive, and certainly could benefit from more. But given the way you're expected to use the iPad - and the fairly aggressive pricing - I don't think the storage space is going to be a major issue.No CD/DVD driveThis is a problem for some new users, but would have clearly turned the iPad into a very different machine - and taken away from the company's strategy, which appears to be making iTunes the heart of most people's connection with Apple. Why should it include an optical drive when it can sell you everything you need from the iTunes store?
&bull; Finally - after all those years of speculation, rumour and guessing - it's over, theApple iPadisnow public. Love it? Hate it? There's no consensus right now.I got my hands on it after the event... and I think we'll be talking about this one for a little while yet.&bull; Elsewhere in the world (and yes, therewasstuff going elsewhere on Wednesday), the latest version ofGoogle's book settlement is up for debate. It'snot pleased Amazon(which says it "continues to give Google exclusive rights likely to lead to a monopoly") or those acting for the estates ofauthors like Richard Wright(who say it is "grievously flawed").  Worth reading Larry Lessig'selegant essay on the subject in the New Republic.&bull; Also on Wednesday,Oracleheld a press conference in which it outlined its future now that it is closing in on taking over Sun Microsystems. In it, Larry Ellison said he planned to hire around2,000 more sales people to boost the bottom line- but would be laying offaround 1,000 workers form the newly-acquired company.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The ipad looks completely pointless, its looks like a dom joly (trigger happy tv) sized iphoneChrisButterwortThe iPad is not compelling for Macbook Pro + iPhone owners.cdevroeI know I shouldn't, I have an iPod, a laptop and a smartphone … but iPad … Yes please!King_of_SwingPretty, but not something I want to carry around. Too big for my pockets, and looks to big for a purse. Not impressed.kpenroseAs with flying cars, the first generation is gonna suck (big time)chamacodelmaliPad kind of sounds like a lady product, but it's so cool that i don't care what it's called.CdgrunewaldI want an Apple iPad … I want an Apple iPad … I want an apple iPadPatrick_Gradysounds like a "sofa surfer", something for reading the news over a coffeeDCapTwitI was hoping for a mini-book for media CREATION, not media CONSUMPTION. Whatevs, Steve. I can wait.VonBombecan we stop going on about the #iPad please. I won't be buying one anyway.AllotmentMate
Earlier this month, psychiatry researchers at Oxford Universitypublished a studyshowing that  playing a computer game such asTetriscan help to reduce the flashbacks  common in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The researchers theorised that "visuo-spatial cognitive tasks" – such as rotating and fitting together coloured blocks – reduce the "resources required [by the brain] to generate mental images" of trauma. Put simplistically, playing a game, like watching TV or reading, can take your mind off what's bothering you.It is no surprise that this research has not made huge headlines. It does not fit the still-prevailing media story that games encourage violence, or at least indolence. But Tetris isn't the only game with the potential to soothe.TakeObechiandBoomshine, two games from creator Danny Miller. Over a calming soundtrack, the player tries to catch dots, or set off cascades of  colour across the screen. These games are relaxing in the same way as any other intricate, absorbing task such as knitting or tuning an engine.Or tryCloud, an award-winning downloadable game in which the player guides clouds across the sky to solve puzzles. The creator, Jenova Chen, has also made Flower, a larger game with a similar aesthetic, for the PS3.  Then there are the quirky JapaneseEyezmaze Grow games, where the player chooses in what order to add different elements to a scene – maybe decorations to a Christmas tree or buildings to an island. Different orders give different results, and while there is a winning combination, there is no penalty for failure and no ticking clock.Each of these games is free to play online. All are enriching, enjoyable, and the kind of game you could play with a five-year-old or suggest to a technophobic relative. I'm not saying they'll cure PTSD, but they might just be more therapeutic than channel-surfing.
The veil was finally lifted on one of the most hotly anticipated gadgets in technology history tonight as Apple's Steve Jobs held aloft the iPad, a tablet-shaped computer which he hopes will win Apple domination of the ebook market.Looking like an oversized iPhone, and sporting a 9.7in colour screen – the same size as Amazon's black-and-white Kindle ereader – the iPad would "open the floodgates" for the sales of ebooks, said Jobs, Apple's chief executive.In front of an excited crowd, he showed off web surfing, email, games, presentation software and various other tricks. But it was clear ebooks are, at least initially, Apple's highest priority for the touchscreen iPad, as Jobs unveiled a program called iBooks to let people "discover and purchase and download" ebooks directly on to the device from iTunes.The company has signed deals with five major publishers – HarperCollins, Penguin, Simon &amp; Schuster, Macmillan and Hachette – to sell ebooks on the iPad.Reaction online was mixed, but the publishing industry – keen for a digital salvation in a form that does not obliterate its profits – was generally effusive, as were voices from the education sector.The iPad would help "attract millions of new readers to the world's best books", said John Makinson, chairman of the Penguin Group.If the iPad ousts the Kindle, currently dominant in ereading, it would mark the third business that Apple has set its sights on conquering. It first took on digital music with the iPod, and more recently has been overhauling larger incumbents such as Microsoft in the smartphone sector with its three-year-old iPhone.Speaking at the launch in San Francisco, Jobs suggested it would be "far better" at tasks such as web browsing, email and reading ebooks than either smartphones or laptops, creating a "third segment" of computing between handheld phones and laptop computers. Success will rest on whether Apple can convince customers they need such a device – and a key factor could be price.The first versions, without mobile connectivity, will go on sale worldwide at the end of March, priced from $499 in the US; UK prices are not yet set. Versions with 3G will arrive at least month later.The view from some industry analysts tonight was that sales of iPad-like devices are poised to explode, after years when tablet computers have barely sold. "These 'Goldilocks' devices – not too big, not too small – are expected to have a break out year in 2010," said Jim Sloane, lead technology partner at the consultancy Deloitte. "By offering a more appealing balance of form and function, net tablets will be purchased by tens of millions of people in the year ahead."But they mark a move from active creation of content to passive consumption, noted Ian Fogg, principal analyst at Forrester Research. "With the iPad running an iPhone-style user interface, it's optimised for media consumption rather than creation."Jobs came on stage and praised Amazon's Kindle, but in effect vowed to bury it. "Amazon's done a great job of pioneering this [ebook] functionality with the Kindle, and we're going to stand on their shoulders," he said.Apple is understood to be offering electronic content publishers a 70% share of any revenues from sales through iBook – and is allowing book publishers to set higher prices than Amazon has. That will be attractive to publishers worried that ebooks will undercut them.Newspaper and magazine publishers will also be watching how well the iPad does.Jobs warned Apple's rivals: "Because we've already sold 75m iPhones and iPod Touches, we already have 75m people who know how to use an iPad."Apple will sell publications for the iPad through its online App Store, which already has 140,000 applications for sale. Scott Forstall, in charge of iPhone software at Apple, said that all those programs could run unchanged on the iPad. That gives it a potentially valuable lead over Amazon, which has only began to court developers in the past month.(TheApp Store site, however, stopped short of Scott Forstall's claim, instead saying "amost all" these applications could run on the iPad.)The announcement crowns a decade in which Apple has remodelled the music, mobile phone and now – possibly – publishing industries. Earlier this week it recorded record quarterly revenues of $15.7bn, and profits of $3.4bn, a far cry from December 2000 when itwarned investorsit would make a loss of $250m on quarterly revenues of about $1bn.The iPad is 0.5in thick, weighs 1.5lb (0.7kg) and can store 16 to 64 gigabytes of data. Apple claims that it is capable of 10 hours' battery life, though real-world tests hardly ever confirm manufacturers' claims.The announcement brings to an end one of the most intense build-ups for any product – even from a company like Apple, which is notorious for generating excitement and hype among its legion of fans. The iPad project has been in the works at Apple for several years, but was repeatedly knocked back by Jobs. The latest tablet computer to hit the market, it still has some way to go before it convinces the public that it is worth buying. Previous tablets have proved merely niche devices – despite support from luminaries such as Bill Gates, who famously announced in 2001 that he believed they would be the most popular form of computer within five years.But Apple, which helped kickstart the Silicon Valley computer revolution in the 1970s, has good form. Its Apple II and Macintosh personal computers helped popularise home computing more than 25 years ago, while the iPod – which was first launched in 2001 – went on to change not only the way we listen to music.Meanwhile tThe iPhone, the iPad's closest sibling, has sent tremors through the mobile industry since its launch in 2007. While it has not dominated the enormous mobile phone market in terms of sales – Apple has sold 41m handsets in three years, the same number Nokia sells in a month – it has won much of the more lucrative smartphone market, and drove its competitors to develop their own touchscreen handsets.• This article was amended on 1 February 2010. In the original, an Apple executive was quoted as saying all iPhone applications could run unchanged on the iPad. A further Apple reference has been added qualifying this assertion.
Like everything Apple designs, the iPad is intended to satisfy our cravings for simplicity and clarity. Steve Jobs had already sneered at the idea of ­netbooks, labelling the cheap, low-powered ­laptops that have proved phenomenally popular with consumers slow and clunky – but it's clear that this is the ­market the iPad is aiming for.On the surface it appears to be little more than an oversized iPhone, a flat, black screen with a single button but underneath it wants to be a laptop.As one of a small group of people given a sneak, hands-on preview of the iPad, my first impressions were good: it's hefty but not heavy, feeling solid and responsive in the hand. The screen is about the size of a large paperback, but it's just half an inch deep. That big, glassy screen does leave it vulnerable to breakages, but could also prove ­liberating for people who are used to toting a laptop around with them.Using it will be familiar to anybody who has tried an iPhone: it uses the same combination of swipes, pokes, jabs and sweeps of the finger of its smaller cousin. Sweep your hand across its reactive 9.7-inch screen, though, and everything feels more satisfying and natural.The big problem I had was in trying to understand what the iPad was for: the answer, it seems, is everything.It attempts to do almost everything that your laptop can, while also offering almost everything your smartphone can do as well. Surfing the web was a breeze, while it plays video smoothly and ­handles a variety of games pretty well. You can use any of the existing iPhone applications straight away, though it is disappointing when you realise that they become blocky and almost childlike when expanded to fill the larger screen.Switched into ebook mode, the way the iPad emulates the printed page feels fairly natural, if not entirely on a par with rival ebook readers such as Amazon's Kindle. The backlit screen doesn't come anywhere near the clarity of electronic ink, which means it's going to prove a lot harder on the eyes of bookworms(it's great for reading in bed, one Apple flunky told me, keen to stress the positive side). But what it loses here, it makes up for with the addition of ­colour and even video. When you get down to business, the iPad might not be enough for heavy users. The on-screen keyboard will take a little getting used to: unlike the thumb-driven flash of text messaging, typing on the iPad requires either a single finger stab or putting it down on a flat surface. But for casual entertainment, it manages to do plenty very well: the sort of thing likely to tempt customers who want a ­lightweight laptop but doesn't really need it to do any heavy lifting.For anyone who loves new technology, getting the first touch of a new Apple device is a little like laying hands on the Shroud of Turin, or seeing a unicorn: the first experience of a mythical object imbued with miraculous properties.Jobs trumpeted it as exactly that, a magical device that will change the way we use computers in our everyday lives. And while playing with the iPad was not exactly a religious experience, it's not hard to see that the gadget, or at least the ideas it contains, will be with us for a long time to come.
Plans for Virgin Media to monitor customers' internet use for possible copyright infringement have come under fire by a human rights watchdog. The group Privacy International has expressed concern over Virgin Media's use of Cview, a software programme that would allow the internet service provider to analyse the online activity of customers. This would potentially include those who are sharing music online through unauthorised peer-to-peer sites.This latest move comes less than a year afterVirgin Media announcedthat it was in talks with Universal Music to create a subscription service that offered unlimited downloads for a monthly fee. It is thought that the implementation of software which would allow Virgin Media to scrutinise what customers are doing online is a result of their ongoing discussions with the record industry.Alexander Hanff, head of ethical networks at Privacy International, told the BBC: "Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa) intercepting communications is a criminal offence regardless of what you do with the data." Privacy International has asked the European Commission to investigate the use of Cview.However, Virgin Media claims use of the software will not violate the privacy of its customers and will not be used to identify individuals. "CView works at a core-network level, and simply analyses, entirely anonymously, the percentage of data that flows across the network that is copyrighted and being shared unlawfully," said Virgin Media spokeswoman Emma Hutchinson. She said that "at no point will we collect or share customer data as part of this trial".The proposal for the use of Cview software suggests that 40% of the activity on Virgin Media's network would be analysed in a trial study. Hutchinson confirmed that it would initially concentrate on traffic to three major P2P websites with links to unauthorised filesharing: Gnutella, eDonkey and BitTorrent. However, the trial is still in the planning stages and it is not clear exactly when Cview will be up and running.
You may have heard about this one. Yes, it's another post about Apple's new "tablet".The device will be unveiled later today, but that hasn't stopped games execs gettingslightly overexcited about this potential new platform. Bart Decrem, of iPhone game maker Tapulous, is particularly keen:The center of gravity in gaming is moving away from the console to these other devices. We're going to wake up a year from now and see that this is a very important part of gamingThe big publishers are interested too – EA Sports' Peter Moore, for one:If it's got a great screen, some buttons, you can turn it on and it connects to the Internet, it's got the ability to be a games machine.Former Sega boss Simon Jeffrey strikes a note of caution though, at least to those developers expecting to easily port over their iPhone titles. He argues the games made for the device will need to be deeper and more engaging than a typical iPhone/iPod Touch game.Anyway,all will be revealed laterand then you can decide yourself if your traditional games console has been superceded. My guess? Don't throw out your 360/PS3/Wii just yet…
Block 1Block 2Block 3Block 4Block 5Block 6Block 7Block 8Block 9Block 101.00pm:Remember the old days, when the FA Cup final simply began on the TV screen when the referee's whistle blew? Not any longer - these days you follow the teams pretty much from the moment they awake (or pour out of last night's bars). And so it is with technology: Apple's expected announcement today of its iSlate/iPad/iBook/iTablet/Canvas/Palette is the sort of event which generates more news than can be consumed locally.So, let's get underway. First, there's the oopsie moment by Terry McGraw, chief executive of McGraw-Hill, wholet slip on CNBC that the iX will be like the iPhone. That's interesting - to me that says NO FLASH SUPPORT. How, then, is it going to support the rest of the web?If you want to explore the reasons why Apple doesn't like Flash, look no further thanJohn Gruber's analysis at Daring Fireball:"Apple isn't trying to replace Flash with its own proprietary thing. They're replacing it with H.264 and HTML5. This is good for everyone but Adobe."Next, we have (apparently separately) Sarah Lacy, freelance and Techcruncher, whoclaimedon Twitter to have "a free advance tablet", and entrepreneurJason Calacanis, who in a stream of tweets claimed to have had an advance one because he'll subsequently be doing publicity for it, and that the "apple tablet is OLED [organic light emitting diode], has two cameras, Wi-Fi, thumbpads for mouse gestures and a fingerprint reader. Which one can take with as large a pinch of salt as you like. One detail rings true, though: heclaims a battery life of "2-3hrs". Hmm, that latter bit sounds realistic, anyway. Intriguingly, he also claimed it's running the iPhone OS - but able to run multiple tasks at once.Two possibilities: he's tweaking the noses of his 92,000-odd followers (in which case he'll have many thousands fewer tomorrow) or he really has it, in which case Apple will Hate him. You choose...Block 111.30pm:The Wall Street Journalhas claimedthat book publishers are in 11th-hour negotiations about the business model for books - that it's pushing prices up, rather than down, and that there will be a 30-70 Apple-publisher split.That could mess things up for Amazon - it's been pushing prices on ebooks down, but publishers haven't liked that at all. Is the Kindle going to become theDiamond Rioof ebook readers?Block 122.08pm:Now, the publisher Condé Nast is going to have some ebook/magazine content on the iGadget (our holding name for this half hour - we'll work through others later). Among its publications is Wired. And hey, whaddyaknow, Wired.com hassome interesting angleson what's coming up - which is presented as stuff they know, rather than "comment", which is itself very unusual for an American publication:"HTML5 and iTunes will form the centerpieces of Apple's new content strategy. The new iTunes content will not be packaged as apps sold through the App Store, though Apple will likely provide a tablet app for displaying new content created with this new platform, and developers will still be free to create apps. Instead, HTML content will be presented similar to the way iTunes currently presents enhanced music and video content.""The focus is going to be on content creation and participation," a technologist with close ties to Apple told Wired.com. "If the tablet is going to be an answer to things like the Kindle, which are purely about consumption, what you're going to see is Apple is going to be full-blown about creation."Then again, that might mean it's just the introduction of iLife '10.Shudder.Block 133.09pm:Bets! Paddypower isoffering you odds on various names. It's almost painful. Here we go: iTablet 1/2; iPad 3/1; iSlate 3/1; iBook 12/1; iPage 33/1; iPaper 33/1; iCan 33/1; tons of other daft ones including EtchaSketch 40/1 or worse.Now, remember the rule: bookies make money. So what's the chance that any of those is the name? Pretty much close to zero. (Mine isn't there, though it is in ourcrowdsourcing contest for the iGadget's details- which is still open for another 50 minutes. Pile in!)Block 143.26pm:Just to reiterate, once Bobbie Johnson gets to the fabulous Yerba Buena centre in San Francisco he'll begin liveblogging all the colour. In the meantime, there'sthis picture by John Gruberof its exterior yesterday.Block 153.38pm:Our very own Jemima Kiss, presently occupied mothering,adds: "Anticipating that 'magazines &amp; newspapers' tab being added to the iTunes Store..." Score 5: insightful.Block 163.48pm:ZOMG APPLE HAS A PATENT. Something like that: according to Patently Apple, the fruitily-named company hasa new patent on a tablet. Which comes with a helpful illustration that looks like this:What do we think? Is that a tablet or what?Block 173.51pm:Bobbie writes (again):Morning all, or I suppose I should say good afternoon to those reading in the UK. Whatever time zoneyou'rein, the one thing I do know is that it's early here in San Francisco, and I've just had my cornflakes.If Apple launches are among the most hyped in the world, then this is the zenith of the company's hype curve:years in the making, it has built up an insane head of steam in the last couple of months. Various reports suggest it's going torevolutionise the newspaper and publishing industries,become a major gaming platformand evensport a 3D display. By this point, frankly, even if Steve Jobs gets on stage and announces that the tablet is able to communicate with alien life forms, I'm not sure it will be enough.Block 183.58pm:OK, it can't sensibly be called the iPad - that'salready been taken and it's on Apple's site. Don't all rush to look.(CA)Block 194.20pm:OK, even The Onion - America's finest, and in some senses most accurate - news source has had to bow to the will of tablet frenzy. (Once Doonesbury had gone, it was inevitable.)Frantic Steve Jobs Stays Up All Night Designing Tabletit reports that"Claiming that he completely forgot about the much-hyped electronic device until the last minute, a frantic Steve Jobs reportedly stayed up all night Tuesday in a desperate effort to design Apple's new tablet computer. ....Middle-of-the-night sources reported that Jobs then began work on double-spacing his Keynote presentation and increasing the font size to make it appear longer."Reliable enough for me - at least as good as Jason Calacanis. Who is still insisting onhis Twitter feedthat he really is a beta tester, with all sorts of "new" details - wireless charging, facial recognition, Farmville where you shake the tablet to plant seeds. Oh, Jason. You're either so right, in which case nobody with a secret will ever trust you again, or so lying, in which case nobody hearing you will ever trust you again.Block 204.41pm:Time's up! OK, thosecrowdsourcing predictionsare in.The iGadget will, according to the 10,488 people who voted on it-weigh 0.9-1.1kg;-be available only in a single model;-have a screen of up to 10.3" (diagonally)-include GSM/GPRS/3G connectivity-only be on AT&amp;T in the US-be on O2... or all of O2, Orange and Vodafone in the UK-use OLED technology for the screen-be black, like a black iPhone or MacBook-have USB, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and headphones (others, such as Ethernet, don't get above 10% of votes)-support Flash playback[I think you're wrong on this, folks]-introduce a new DRM format for ebooks/newspapers/magazines-cost £701-£800 in the UK-be called the iPad, or iSlate[think you're wrong again - my vote is Canvas]Thanks to everyone who voted. How did it work? We'll see! Not long to go now...Block 215.15pm:Bobbie writes:Right, I've arrived at the Yerba Buena Center in San Francisco, where today's event is being held. It's a stone's throw from the city's Moscone convention centre - the usual venue for Apple's January launches. But this is the same place that Steve Jobs made his first public appearance in a yearback in September, and a more intimate venue that can hold a few hundred industry insiders, analysts and members of the press.Not that we're being let in right now, of course: the gaggle is waiting outside as the company carefully controls what's happening.Block 225.31pm:Bobbie writes:So we've seen what you think Apple are about to unveil. But what am I anticipating? Well, I've been loathe to speculate (as I said in the latest episode of Tech Weekly) but with the event in just a few minutes (we're still outside), I suppose I should throw my hat in the ring.These are just inferences and hunches, but I'm keeping my expectations low: a tablet computer that's well-built and uses an interface very similar to the iPhone's. I think it will be promoted as a way to download and watch movies, read books and magazines and surf the web. I reckon it will cost at least $600 (probably £450 in Britain) and go on sale in a couple of months. Steve Jobs will claim this is a more important step forward for the way we use computers than the Mac or the iPhone - anf if that pans out, it could end up being because of the content deals Apple has forged.Block 235.48pm:Annnnd, we're in. I've taken up a seat near the front as a way of scanning the audience to see who's here - always a good indication of precisely what might be announced. The usual Apple crowd are in the room - senior executives including Phil Schiller and Greg Joswiak are gladhanding it at the front, but it's hard to see who else is here as the crowd filters in.Oh, there's Al Gore (he's an Apple board member), but my eye keeps being drawn to an Antipodean TV presenter in an extremely bright Hawaiian shirt who is standing a few seats away from me talking to an unseen camera.Block 245.58pm:The place is buzzing in a way that I haven't seen at an Apple event for some time: they've really managed to catch the imagination of the crowd without even announcing anything. Often these things have the air of a religious event, but this is slightly different in tone - more of a party than a Moonie ceremony. It's astonishing, really, the way everybody groups behind an idea that's basically speculative.Anyway, the build-up continues. Apple's chief operating officer, Tim Cook - the man widely tipped to take over the company if and when Steve Jobs steps down - is talking to a sequence of high flying Silicon Valley veterans.Now the Apple executives are starting to take their seats, but there's still no sign of Jobs himself - though there's a place reserved for him just in front of me.Block 256.03pm:Here he is, just in time for my internet connection to start playing up. The audience stands to welcome him into the room. He starts off by teasing what's coming up - "We want to begin 2010 by introducing a revolutionary and magical new product, but first..." - but then delves into some stats to prove that Apple is the "biggest mobile devices company in the world".Block 266.08pm:He cracks a joke by showing a slide of Moses, avec tablet, on the big screen. Pacing backwards and forwards on stage - and yes, he's wearing a black turtle neck, blue jeans and trainers - he begins a quick history lesson of some of Apple's mobile systems... laptops, smartphones."Everybody uses a laptop and/or a smartphone. And the question has arisen, lately, is there room for a device in the middle? We've questioned this for years ourselves, but the bar is pretty high."Block 276.10pm:I'm cranking up my BOOM-O-METER (TM) to measure the exclamations coming from the stage, but right now he's talking about the things that a tablet has to doreallywell to .work Browsing, email, phoptos, video, music, ebooks, games."The problem is, netbooks aren't better at anything," he quips, drawing a chuckle from the cloud. "They're slow, they're clunky. They're just cheap laptops."Here it is: the iPad.Block 286.11pm:OK, he's got one out from behind a chair - it's smaller and more square than most of the mockups, but otherwise pretty much what we expected: a big iPhone.The web browser, he says, is "way better than a laptop, way better than a smartphone".Block 296.13pm: There are plenty of other apps; photos, calendar, Google maps, music and the iTunes store. You can watch YouTube, TV shows and movies. In sideways orientation, he says, the on-screen keyboard is almost life-size."But there's nothing like seeing it," he says, sitting down on the chair to give an idea of what it's like. "It's so much more intimate than a laptop."Block 306.17pm:Here's the pic:... oh, it was from Twitpic which seems to have blocked us. Damn.Block 316.25pm:There's a constant snapping of cameras around me, as we're talked through the way you can play music, movies and TV shows on the iPad - though interestingly, he hasn't demonstrate any of the video. All of this is extremely familiar to anyone who has used an iPhone, just imagine that you'd need pockets the size of Big Daddy to carry this puppy around with you.Ah, now comes the video bit - first with YouTube, then with TV shows (he picks Modern Family, produced by ABC, which is owned by Disney, in which he is the major shareholder... that's cross-promotion for you).Block 326.27pm:Looks like I lost a couple of updates in there somewhere. Apologies!Block 336.29pm:Now the stats:- 0.5 inches thick- weighs 1.5 pounds (0.7kilos)- 9.7 inch multitouch display- 1GHz Apple A4 chip (built in house)- between 16GB and 64GB of flash memoryBlock 346.30pm:And battery life? "We've been able to achieve 10 hours of battery life - I could fly from San Francisco to Tokyo and what video the whole way on one charge." He also says it will last a month on standby.How well with the battery perform over time, I wonder? As somebody who went and bought a new battery for my Mac yesterday because battery performance had plummeted, I'm interested in the longevity of this little number.Block 356.33pm:Steve Jobs comes off stage and is replaced by Scott Forstall, who runs Apple's iPhone apps division, to talk through the stuff you can put on your iPad. This looks familiar: in fact, you are actually running iPhone apps, but you can scale them up to fit the 9.7 inch screen. That feels a little undercooked to me... isn't all that screen effectively wasted?Some things - like games - might work better than the cramped environs of the iPhone, however. You're not breaking your fingers and thumbs just to poke at the screen.Block 366.36pm:When you buy your new iPad, you can synchronise your existing iPhone apps."If a developer spends some time modifying their application, they can take advantage of the large touchscreen display," he says. That means programmers will want to produce two version of their apps - but an enhanced version of the development kit (SDK) is being made available today."We think it's going to be a whole other gold rush for developers."Block 376.38pm:While Forstall gives his talk - which has now moved on to running through some of the early apps developed for the iPad - Jobs has taken his seat down in front of me. He's watching intensely, not a word to Schiller, who is sitting next to him.Block 386.43pm:Martin Nisenholtz from the New York Times is on stage now, talking about an application developed over the last three weeks (!) that he thinks might be the future of news delivery. This will be interesting to see, since a lot of print media types hope that the iPad can really help move the ebook concept on a stage and help them start making money.The NYT app is a rough facsimile of the paper itself, navigable in ways more familiar from a website. Video can play inline (that means video ads, too - no word yet on whether these are being delivered in Flash or not).Block 39Apple CEO Steve Jobs launches the new iPad tablet computer Photograph: KIMBERLY WHITE/REUTERS6.44pm:Want pictures? Here are pictures!Block 406.45pm:Just reading through your comments and thoughts - thanks everyone. I'm also following Twitter messages sent to@bobbiejohnson, so ping me if you've got any questions.Block 416.49pm:We've heard from the guy behind painting application Brushes, and now Electronic Arts is explaining how you can play games on it. The graphics are reminiscent of the last generation of consoles (PlayStation 2, for example)."It's a little bit like holding a high definition TV screen inches from your face," he says. Ooh, I'm not sure I'd be up for that.Block 426.52pm:Forstall's wrapping up now, and Steve Jobs is ready to get back on the stage. They're talking about baseball (snooze) so I'll try and answer a couple of questions from Twitter.davidwaddingtonSeeing it in action, who is going to use this? Is it for the casual surfer infront of the TV or existing iMac/iPhoners?Answer? Not sure. I think it's certainly more of an entertainment/organiser device than a full-powered laptop replacement (note they haven't really talked about productivity applications like word processors etc). It's definitely an easier sell to people who already have bought into the Mac family.Block 436.55pm:This one answers a question fromJaynormouson Twitter: it's also being positioned as an ebook reader."Amazon's done a great job of pioneering this functionality with the Kindle, and we're going to stand on their shoulders," says Jobs, introducing something called iBooks - no revolutions in naming strategy, it seems - that basically offers you the chance to buy books and read them on your device.It's not e-ink, but they are trying to go for the reading market that Amazon has tapped - already made deals with Harper Collins, Penguin, Simon &amp; Schuster and others.Block 446.59pm:Plenty of questions still flooding in, as he talks through the ebook functions. What's the connectivity? No mention yet of 3G access, just Wi-Fi and Bluetooth (though they may be saving that up for later). No mention of price. No mention of a camera or videoconferencing.Hopefully these will all be answered in short order.Block 457.02pm:Scratch my previous comments about productivity apps - they're showing off a version of iWork that is built specifically for the iPad, which uses a new user interface to let you create documents, presentations and spreadsheets. Whether this succeeds or not will really be about using it - I don't think any demo will convince anybody (even if Phil Schiller, who's Apple's warmest presenter is showing us how to use it).Block 467.05pm:We're adding pictures toour iPad gallery as we get them, so just click there if you want even more imagey goodness.Block 477.10pm:We're an hour in, and I remain to be convinced that this is a revolution that I need to join in. The iPad is basically Apple's entry into the netbook market, using the stuff it's learned from the iPhone.But I haven't heard yet a really strong reason for why it makes concrete the gap that Steve Jobs talked about earlier. It's a lot of things, but I'm not sure any of them are problems that need to be solved.The real question is price, and we haven't heard that yet. If it's cheap enough to be competitive with netbooks, then there might be something here.I enjoyed this comment fromChrisButterworthon Twitter, who invoked Dom Joly when he said "the ipad looks completely pointless, its looks like a dom joly (trigger happy tv) sized iphone. utterly disappointed".Block 487.15pm:The iWork apps, which look competent enough, cost $9.99 each.The iPad has WiFi, but "we're also going to have models of iPad with 3G". How much will those plans cost?Bear in mind that these are American only, but you can get a pre-pay - no contract - deal for 250MB of data per month for $14.99, and an unlimited plan for $29.99, on AT&amp;T (the network that is still America's exclusive iPhone provider). What that will be like in the UK is unclear.Block 497.16pm:"What about international? We hope to have our deals in place by June, July. So we're going to start on that tomorrow. However, all the iPad 3G models are unlocked, and they use new GSM micro SIMs, so there's a very high likelihood that they'll just work - and then we'll be back in the summer with some very good deals for our customers internationally."Meh.Block 507.20pm:Now one of the other big questions: price.He starts by pointing out that lots of pundits have said it would be in the $1000 price range. He's working expectations, so that he can say it comes it lower.The iPad pricing starts at just $499.That's for a 16GB, non-3G model.32GB $599 for and 64GB for $699 - and if you want a 3G model, it will cost an extra $130 - $629, $729, $829.Block 517.22pm:Availability?The WiFi only models will go on sale in 60 days, the 3G models around 90 days because they require approval from carriers.Block 527.22pm:My Boom-o-meter remains firmly stuck on zero. But what's your verdict? The overwhelming sentiment is that people still can't understand why they should want one.They're currently playing a video featuring designer Jonathan Ive explaining how UTTERLY AWESOME it is. Given that he's the head of design for Apple, I'm taking that with a pinch of salt.Block 537.26pm:We've been told there should be some time to get our hands on the device after this is finished (which should be in a couple of minutes). I'll be interested to see whetherusingit, rather than seeing it or hearing about it, makes it more exciting.In the comments,FabiusMaximusis leading the pro-iPad charge by suggesting that "This is astounding to those who get it. You old people can stick with windows mobile."Block 547.30pm:Mixed reception via Twitter.DCapTwit:"sounds like a 'sofa surfer' something for Reading the news over a coffee, something to kill time with at the airport"benmorse:"Apple have made a horse with wheels. Just because you CAN, doesn't mean you SHOULD."maximbarrault:"so the iPad is actually cheaper than an off-contract iPhone and still @bobbiejohnson is being an ass. It's all about the software Bobbie."Nice! I'm trying to do the sums while listening to Steve Jobs, but is it actually cheaper than an iPhone?Block 557.34pm:Jobs signs off with a rallying cry:"Do we have what it takes to establish a third category of product, between a laptop and a smartphone? There's a pretty high bar... but we think we've got the goods. We think we've done it.""We've always been at the intersection of technology and the liberal arts - to make products that are intuitive, fun to use, easy to use. And it's the combination of these two things that has let us make the kind of creative products like the iPad."I'm a Mac user, and I've got an iPhone. Right now, I'm not sure where this fits into my life. Still, the real test is using it: does it live up to the hype when you've got one in your hand?Block 567.39pm:Right, that's it. Everybody's filing out now. Thanks for your comments, time and attention - it's been fun.Have they done it? Can the iPad live up to the hype? The best way to find out is to give it a try: let's see what it's like when I get my hands on it.We'll be updating the website and gallery as we get more. Cheers!9.22pm:And now having had a play with it, you canread my first impressions here. It's pretty delightful to use, in the same way the iPhone made you smile the first time you used it.It's still a closed system, but I think I understand what's really going on here: despite Steve Jobs's comments, the iPad is not trying to insert itself in a gapbetweenthe laptop and the phone - it's trying to be the long-term replacement for the laptop. For most consumers - who buy laptops that are vastly overpowered for their needs, or netbooks that are simply not up to the job they're required to do - somethinglikethe iPad could be just enough home computer to get by.Anyway, read the hands-on review.
Despite yesterday's news that the UK isofficially no longer in recession– by a whopping 0.1% – there are still a lot of people looking for work.However, with human resource departments using social media, tracking down vacancies has been made easier – even more so with the launch ofan application tracking jobs advertised on Twitter.The London-based companyTweetDeckrecently teamed up with the job search engineTwitJobSearch. Together they've created JobDeck, a version of TweetDeck that tracks recruitment news, and is indexing tweets containing job adverts.More than 360,000 jobs have been listed on Twitter in the past 30 days. "Recruitment is quickly evolving and better tools to manage this shift are an essential part of any career management suite," says Howard Lee, the CEO of WorkDigital, the company behind TwitJobSearch.JobDeck is a custom-branded version of Tweetdeck. It is rolled out with pre-installed columns, for example listing 25 Twitter accounts of experts, or all the tweets from @TwitJobSearch.The search engine TwitJobSearchscans Twitter for job postings, and tags them according to job categories or location. Their knowledge is now integrated in the popular desktop application Tweetdeck that hands you a neat organisation of your Twitter feed, and integrates at the same time Facebook, MySpace and LinkedIn into one central application.TweetMYJOBSis another service that brings recruiters, hiring managers and jobseekers together. It is free for jobseekers, while recruiters get a 15 day trial.However, before you get involved check your Twitter account – background and all. 41% of UK's HR Managers have rejected a candidate as a result of their online profile, according toa study commissioned by Microsoft. Might be a good idea to make sure there's nothing there you wouldn't want potential employers to see ...
PlayStation killed Britsoft. We didn't realise it at the time, but it took a cold, technological scythe to the British development community. And Lara Croft, that gloating figurehead of the PlayStation Generation, once viewed as a symbol of this region's success and creativity, should now been read as a harbinger of doom. Because, nothing was ever the same again.Of course, PlayStation didn't destroy the whole business of developing major videogames in the UK – that's still happening, though largely for foreign paymasters. But the era of expensive team-based 3D game production ushered in by Sony's original machine effectively ended the peculiarly British scene of the eighties. This was the halcyon period in which lone coders like Jeff Minter, Mike Singleton and Matthew Smith plied their trade, unfettered by neurotic marketing departments. It was the era of hobbyist fanatics like the Oliver Twins, and multimedia revolutionaries like Mel Croucher, whose prescient masterpiece of adult-orientated audiovisual entertainment,Deus Ex Machina, was probably bought by less people than now make up a current-gen development team.Later came the dominant bad boys of the Amiga era - Sensible Software and the Bitmap Brothers - with their hyper-polished, subtly anarchic 2D masterpieces. These emergent cult superstars fought for economic life in a bizarre, haphazard marketplace rife with cottage-sized publishing houses nefarious independent distributors and vibrant fanboy magazines. Those days are gone.Except, they're not. Britsoft, it seems, didn't die; it was just sleeping...Fuelled by vibrant online development communities, indie gaming festivals, and new distribution channels, it is waking up. The likes of Ubisoft, EA and Activision will hardly be quaking in their boots, but it was never about them. It's about us.Robert Fearon got into games when his parent bought him a Spectrum in 1984. He could have started coding them back then, joining the ranks of Minter, Tony Crowther and co, but he didn't. "I thought, do I stay in my room or do I go out there, chase bands about the country in the back of a van and do all those wonderful things that you look back on now going, 'man, I can't believe I coated the entire room in my own sick and ended up in hospital'" But then he hit his mid-twenties, got into a relationship, settled down and became quietly disillusioned with mainstream media. "I stumbled upon the lovely community of folks who remade old games for the PC. So I entered a competition with an awful version of the old Speccy game Kokotoni Wilf, and met some good people who encouraged me no end. I did a few more remakes before embarking on my own path. I'm 35 this year, only just getting started and still loving what those guys are doing…"Squid or Let Die: another Britsoft shooter with bags of visual appeal.Fearon is now part of a growing UK indie development scene, creating brilliant, idiosyncratic shooters likeWar TwatandSquid and Let Dieand distributing them largely through his own website,Bag Full of Wrong. As the titles suggest, his games have the irreverent, impertinent feel of the early eighties Britsoft classics, the likes of Jet Set Willy and Skool Daze, which came loaded with prurient humour and wacky tangential concepts. Similarly, there'sCharlie Knight, whose frantic blast'-em-ups Space Phallus and Scoregasm, mock the mindless machismo of the shooter genre, while betraying an admiration - and indepth working knowledge - of genre classics like Bangai-O.For his part, Fearon accepts the comparison with 8bit trailblazers, but doesn't want this to be entirely about nostalgia. "It'd be easy for me to trot out the obligatory 'well, there's Minter, he's brilliant. Jarvis, he's brilliant, Croucher, he's brilliant.' But really, it's not that simple."I take my inspiration and influence from pretty much every game I've ever set eyes on, even the shit ones, and I try and weave that into what I write. I'm also incredibly reactionary. I wrote War Twat after getting fed up of the frustrations of Everyday Shooter. SYNSO came after a forum comment on my second web home,Way Of The Rodent, SYNSO2 came about partly for Indiecade and partly influenced by what Matt James and Bizarre Creations are doing with the neo-retro thing. And er, the next game I'm writing has parts written by Kevin Toms of Football Manager fame, which is an honour. I wasted so much life with that and Software Star as a kid it's great to be able to say a very public thank you."Matt James, name-checked by Fearon, is another rising star of the neo-Britsoft scene. His beautiful, weirdly poignant shooterLeave Homeis available on Xbox 360 thanks toXbox Live Indie Games, a section of the console's online service where coders can upload their projects, then get a decent percentage of the download revenues. Leave Home looks like a retro-tinged 2D shoot-'em-up, an eye-scorching audio visual assault, requiring the twitch reflexes of a caffeine-wired meerkat, but it's also a metaphorical tale about, yes, leaving home – or as James puts it, "a coming of age story told as an algorithmic fixed length horizontal shmup." In this game, the end-of-level bosses represent your parents, while your struggle to save the universe is effectively a struggle for personal freedom. Activision games don't really tend to do this, do they?Like Fearon, James has a gaming history going back to those early eighties glory days. "I started when I was about eight on the ZX spectrum 128k coding cacky adventure games in Basic. I then moved on to an Amiga and AMOS and then C which is when I really started enjoying programming, staying up all night to do it, etc. I was really into making electronic music when I was a teenager, though, and just did the games programming every now and again. It wasn't until I was at uni that I realised I was a pretty crap musician but had become not too bad at making games. So then I started working seriously on the Net Yaroze and turning out some games that were decent-ish."Ah yes, Net Yaroze – this is where Sony redeemed itself. Released in 1997, the programmable PlayStation was available with a cut-down software development kit and a range of graphics libraries. Suddenly, home programmers had a chance to fiddle with a modern 3D games console, and the competitions and community elements Sony oversaw represented an important attempt to engage with the bedroom coding scene. It was surely also an influence on the whole Xbox Live Indie Games endeavour. That's why Sony isn't really the bad guy of this piece.But in some ways, the provision of restricted development toys by the major players isn't the point. The point is, in the modern era of cheap powerful computers, freely available open source software and various online distribution channels, 'The Man' needn't be involved at all. Indie game development is currently going though its own punk era; talent – or lack of it – needn't be a restraining factor. The important thing is to just start playing. "We're in a sort of golden age where anyone who wants to make a game can, and if anyone's reading this and thinking 'I'd like to make a game' now's the time to get started," says Fearon. "You don't need thousands of pounds. You don't need a computer that goes like shit off a shovel. You just need a bit of free time and an idea. It doesn't even have to be a good idea. Better out than in, right?"Fearon is a defiant example of the fact that you don't need to be a programmer anymore, you don't even have tounderstandthe coding process. This isn't about tech geeks programming machine code for weeks on end. It's about raw and dirty creativity. "I've got a reasonably top-end PC, but I'm more reliant on software that enables me to get stuff down as fast as possible," admits Fearon. "So, I usePro Motionfor banging together pixels,GroBotofor 3d stuff, Photoshop because it may be cumbersome and has the worlds worst installer, etc, but for sheer brain-to-page it can't be topped. And I write my games inGame Makerbecause I can't code for love nor money. Best 15 quid I ever spent, that."Game Maker is to the current indie gaming generation what the "here are three chords, now form a band" ethos was to punk music. Originally developed by Dutch computer scientist and games academic Dr Mark Overmars, it's now distributed and regularly updated by UK-based indie siteYoYo Games, co-founded by Sandy Duncan, who once headed up the Xbox's European business. The software works around drag-and-drop principles allowing users to easily draw and place game elements. The basic edition is free, but a Pro version, available for $25, adds dozens of more advanced features. The software has apparently been downloaded over three million times since YoYo began operations in 2007, and the 'games created' counter on the home page is showing 77432. Quite a community.Clouds of Melancholy: a strange interactive novel about, well, melancholy...The interesting thing about Game Maker, though, is the way in which it facilitates people who may be more interested in making artistic or literary statements, rather than bashing out a quick platform game. Polish developer Kaworu Nagisa used to organise manga festivals and write plays before moving to Scotland two years ago – he now has his own game site,Sadmoons, and releases weird, experimental projects, like interactive short story Clouds of Melancholy and the uncategorisable World of Black and White, a strange analysis of Taoism – both of which were written using Game Maker. To him, games are like songs or stories, a means of emotional expression – when I point out to him how sanguine these titles are, he replies, "That's how I feel. The things that inspire me most are music and animation. These media have already found their ways to be emotional. That's what I want to be doing with everything I try now. Games are everything that other media can doplusinteractivity…"There's a danger perhaps – as there always is when writing about 'scenes' – of aligning these developers and their games too closely. Nagisa took a couple of weeks to create World of Black and White, but it took Matt James over a year to code the more technically orthodox Leave Home, using Microsoft's XNA Game Studio. These are very different projects.Charlie Knight, meanwhile, is perhaps the closest in approach to an old school games coder, mixing and matching his programming applications and varying techniques for different projects. "I'm programming inBlitzmaxat the moment, which is a sort of Object Orientated BASIC/C++ hybrid. It's fast, concise and allows me to compile on Windows, Mac OS X and Linux with the bare minimum of extra work. Hardware-wise, I use an old Pentium 4 PC, an even older iMac G5 and a monstrously slow laptop."In terms of how long it takes to make a game, it really depends. It took me about a year and a half to make Bullet Candy; Space Phallus took about two months; Scoregasm has taken 9 months so far. The high concept of Irukandji was Deep Blue (the David Attenborough documentary) vs lasers. Not dreadfully complex, and as such the game didn't take long to make."What unites these developers though is a sort of creative integrity, a determination to explore and satisfy their own visions. Matt James is happy to admit that he effectively codes his games for himself: "I was pretty crap at making games to begin with; I was mostly trying to go down that Nintendo route of 'fun' games that pander to the player in every regard - you focus test the game constantly and then revise everything to suit the average player. I've definitely moved away from that. I like the nobly bits, the small mistakes, and if I want to totally piss the player off I will. Now when I'm making a game, the player is always me…"Of course, not everything works as well as Leave Home, and this solipsistic approach can lead to self-indulgent unplayable tosh – let's be honest, there's plenty of that out there. But this is also the only way to force a pure unsullied vision into streams of game code. Even now, some of the most amazing mainstream games are coming from studios dominated by one or two creative masterminds: Keita Takahashi, Peter Molyneux at Lionhead, Hideki Kamiya and Atsushi Inaba at PlatinumGames, Fumito Ueda at Team Ico for example.But for lone indie coders, there are no development meetings, no team idea pitches – just explosions of development that intersect messily with everyday life. "I tend to go weeks, sometimes months unable to do anything but tinker and sketch down different concepts, game ideas, whatever," says Fearon. "Then when inspiration hits, I'll become the house tramp whilst I get most of the work done in a flurry of late nights and fluffy dressing gowns, trying to ignore what everyone else is doing around me.""I can wake up in the middle of the night with an idea and just go into the next room and sit in my pants coding it up immediately," agrees James. "This happened with the idea for the final boss stage in Leave Home. The bosses, who can be interpreted as the players' parents, have behaviours that mean something as well as working as a gameplay mechanic. The idea took a long time to solidify in my brain into something that worked. Eventually I had something at about 2am one night and I got up and had it coded by the morning."Another vital aspect, however, is the growing sense that something is really happening here – and not just in the UK. There's a massive global community of talented, unorthodox developers who are presenting an alternative idea about what games can achieve in the 21st century, far way from the polished, franchised and so often sanitised entertainment on offer in your local Game shop. Almost all of the developers I spoke to citedBraidas a huge influence – this complex and gripping platform/puzzle game, developed by US indie coder Jonathan Blow, became a crossover hit when it was released on Xbox Live in 2008. It is the Sex, Lies and Videotape of indie gaming, a potent symbol for the saleable potential of non-mainstream productions.Publishers are starting to take notice. Just as the big movie studios began sending agents to Sundance in the hope of snagging the next Soderbergh or Tarantino, the likes of EA, Activision and Sony are now scoping the indie festivals for promising developers and projects. And there are plenty around. TheIndependent Games Festivaltakes place annually as part of the enormously importantGame Developers Conference, offering a major development competition for indie talent. I'm on the judging panel this year and there have been some staggeringly good titles, including Joe Danger from British start-up,Hello Gamesand Tyler Glaiel's awesome,Closure.There's also the inspiring international roadshow event,Indiecade, as well as dozens of 'rapid game prototyping' – or Game Jam – get-togethers throughout the world, where coders meet for a weekend of intensive development. Right here in the UK we have the brilliantDare to be Digitalcompetition, a student game development challenge organised by the University of Abertay. Similarly, this spring will see theMicrosoft XNA student GameCamphitting Birmingham City University (19-20 February) and University of Huddersfield (19-20 March) – students will be challenged to create working games in just 48 hours based on a theme disclosed moments before they start. We also have Nottingham'sGameCityfestival andEurogamer's Expoboth of which have strong indie elements.This is it. Just like punk, just like independent moviemaking, there is a scene that inspires and supports. There is community. "Rolling up to the Indie Arcade at the Eurogamer Expo last year and getting to meet some of the people who put this stuff together was fab and it's amazing the talent we have," enthuses Fearon. "When you've got folks like Dan and Ben ofZombie Cowtaking on Lucasarts at their own game and shaming Telltale in the new adventure game department, Hello Games out-exciting Excite Bike, Rudolf Kremers and Alex May makingthe strategy equivalent of a Brian Eno wet dream, the crazed claymation Metal-Slug-a-tron ofCletus Claybeing developed in Sheffield…. Plus, Matt James is absolutely way ahead of the game on his shooters. And that's without taking into accountIntroversionorMinterstill throwing stuff out there, or less media-dahling folks like Charlie Knight plugging away at ace stuff."There's a terrible tendency to do down what we have over here but in so many ways we're so out there and brilliant it's hard not to think 'yeah, actually, we're doing bloody good stuff' when you take stock, and so much of it is distinctly Anglo-centric that it couldn't come from anywhere else in the world. We should be proud of that rather than getting bogged down in pathetic arguments over tax relief or whatever shock tactics Rockstar are employing this week…"Fortunately, indie game development is becoming easier to follow. While the eighties stars figured regularly in passionate games magazines of the time – the likes of Crash, Computer &amp; Videogames and later, Amiga Power – now we have equally committed indie game news sources likeJay Is Games,The Independent Gaming SourceandThe Indie Games Weblog.Bullet Candy by Charlie Knight, one of the British indie scene's emerging talents...And through crossover smashes like Braid, World of Goo, and N, Charlie Knight reckons the message is getting out there to the wider gaming population. "I think people are starting to notice that games are capable of something more than headshots and prostitutes, and that they don't necessarily need to be fun or addictive in order to be good. With indie games there's scope for hugely personal, emotionally provocative interactive stories and experiences that aren't necessarily games in the traditional sense, and I think this recent trend is a sign of something truly interesting and unique to the medium just over the horizon…"Britsoft is back, and like all the best scenes it is happening without anyone's permission, and it is linking arms with development communities the world over. This isn't about nostalgia for a bygone age anymore – it is about the future. And with original mainstream development becoming increasingly scarce in Britain, it might be the only real future we have.Next Monday: how to become an indie developer in eight easy steps!
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Just two weeks after Google said it was thevictim of an organised hacking attack, details of a similar sting that targeted three of the world's biggest oil companies have emerged.Documents obtained byUS newspaper the Christian Science Monitorshow that the computer systems of three major energy companies – ExxonMobil, Marathon and ConocoPhillips – were hit by a string of attacks in 2008 aimed at stealing valuable information.The strikes, which used precision phishing attacks to fool executives into bypassing security procedures, focused on "bid data", the valuable information collected by the companies on new oil deposits and potential sites for future operations.According to the Monitor's investigation, the three companies – which are all based in Texas – were only made aware of the extent of the attacks following an FBI investigation.None of the companies involved in have made a public comment, but security experts have warned in the past about the growing importance of cybersecurity.A report late last year by US defence company Northrop Grumman suggested that American systems were being targeted by the Chinese government –which has invested heavily in its 'informationised' army."First, the values of information systems and networks have never been greater," said Northrop Grumman's chief technology officer Robert Brammer in December. "Second, cybersecurity threats have never been greater."Though precise details of the Texan attacks remain unclear, they bear similar hallmarks to those used in the strike on Google andmore than 30 other American companies, which is now being dubbed Operation Aurora by internet security experts.Auroraused a vulnerability in Microsoft's Internet Explorer web browserto access some confidential information, while theFinancial Times reportedearlier this week that the hackers responsible had also used instant messaging programs to pose as the friends of Google employees in order to obtain protected data such as passwords.As a result of the attacks, which are said to have originated in China, Google has threatened to protest by uncensoring its search engine in the country - a move that has threatened to escalate relations between Beijing and Washington towards a diplomatic standoff.The origins of the oil company hackers are not known, but the newspaper said that at least some of the information was sent to computers in China.It is far from the first time that major companies or systems have been the victim of hacking attacks. According to reports that emerged last year, hackers have targeted a number of major computer networks belonging to governments, private companies or other important schemes.The $300bn Joint Strike Fighter project - a collaboration between countries including the United States, Britain, the Netherlands and Israel - issaid to have been compromised, while the US electrical grid was also anapparent target.News of the attacks on ExxonMobil and others also throws into relief comments made last week by Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer.In a speech to oil industry executives in Houston, Ballmer scoffed at Google's stance over the hacking attacks andsuggested that information warfare was incredibly common."People are always trying to break into other people's data," he said. "There's always somebody trying to break into Microsoft."Such attempted break-ins are part of the reason Barack Obamarecently suggestedthat defending from internet attacks was "one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face".That realisation led to the White House to appoint a new head of cybersecurity last month, while the British government is alsoplanning to institute its own national cyber security centreto combat the growing threat of online warfare and criminal activity.
&bull; Not long to go now until theGreat Applegasm of 2010takes place - with the anticipation level so high that whatever is revealed will now prove a disappointment unless it saves the media industry/revolutionises our lives/heals the sick. Still, though, there were fun and games on Tuesday whena publishing executive let slip some details of the device. A controlled leak? Possibly, but to do so in this way is very untypical of Apple. Whatever the case, we'll be liveblogging the event from around 5pm - I'll be at the launch venue, the Yerba Buena Center in San Francisco, while Charles will be following the news from London.&bull; Further torumours of Jonathan Schwartz's impending departurefromSun Microsystems, the company's co-founder and chairman Scott McNealy said his own farewellin a memo to staff yesterday. There's plenty of gooey farewell to the employees, but also a fair level of candour: "To be honest, this is not a note this founder wants to write," he says, adding that "we did not monetize our inventions as well as we could have" and praising Oracle founder Larry Ellison (Sun's acquirer) as "one of the greatest capitalists I've ever met".&bull; And when is open source not open source? When you live in a repressive country, apparently. Online code repositorySourceForge, which is based in California, hasstarted blocking users in countries such as Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Sudan and Syriabecause they live in places subject to US government sanctions. Unsurprisingly given the underlying tenets of the free software movement, it's caused consternation - but while the site itself says"restrictions on the free flow of information rub us the wrong way"it also says it has little choice, given US law.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The government has unveiled a sweeping strategy to create its own internal "cloud computing" system – such as that used by Google, Microsoft and Amazon – as part of a radical plan that it claims could save up to £3.2bn a year from an annual bill of at least £16bn.The key part of the new strategy, outlined by the Cabinet Office minister Angela Smith, will be the concentration of government computing power into a series of about a dozen highly secure data centres, each costing up to £250m to build, which will replace more than 500 presently used by central government, police forces and local authorities.The government will also push for "open source" software to be used more widely among central and local government's 4m desktop computers. That poses an immediate threat to Microsoft, whose Windows operating system and Office applications suite is at present firmly embedded as the standard on PCs in government, such as the NHS, which is one of the largest users in Europe.But John Suffolk, the government's chief information officer, pointed out that cost savings of just £100 per machine would total £400m across government. Unlike Windows, open source operating systems such as Linux have no licensing costs and can be used on as many machines as required.By 2015, the strategy suggests, 80% of central government desktops could be supplied through a "shared utility service" – essentially a cloud service resembling Google Docs, which lets people create documents online for free.The move to a "government cloud" mirrors the system used by Google and other large companies, which put cheap "server" computers into huge data centres to provide computing power on demand which is delivered where it is needed via the internet. That would be provided to government departments and local government, replacing the ageing and inefficient systems used in many of the hundreds of data centres presently used – and frequently run at far below their capacity because they are dedicated to one department.Suffolk said that "as a rule", UK citizens' personal data will not be transported overseas – although he could not rule it out. But security of data, and the data centres, would be a high priority, he said. He did not rule out using Google's or Microsoft's new cloud services: "We will see if they fit our business requirements and personal data requirements," he said.Similarly the new "cloud" system will not include the security services such as MI5 or MI6, which have their own, separate systems.Estimates prepared for the government suggest the "cloud" system could save £900m in their first five years, and £300m annually after that compared to the present structure.The government also wants to build its own "app store" of software to solve frequently-seen problems, by re-using programs that have been written elsewhere and can be re-applied. "In government I've seen innovations where we have cracked hideously tough problems, but other parts of government are looking for the same solution and don't know it's there," said Suffolk.Moving to a cloud-based infrastructure could cut costs of government computing significantly and also satisfy its drive for a "green" agenda by reducing power usage. The Inland Revenue, for example, is presently seeing huge demand for its online tax return system – but that peaks every January, and then drops substantially. A cloud-based system shared among departments could deal with such sudden loads while using less power, said Kate Craig-Wood, managing director of the hosting company Memset, who has been working with the government on the strategy."The good thing here is that the government has tried hard to involve small businesses," Craig-Wood said. She said that the new open source approach will benefit small businesses that want to bid for government contracts, and that it should lessen the number of big IT projects that are at risk of cost overruns: "The ability to take advantage of the cloud means you can build those projects up iteratively, which is how industry does it."Smith admitted that the government had not always been quick to embrace new technology. "Back in 1885, the civil service bought its first-ever typewriter, despite stiff resistance from in-house calligraphers. About 20 years later the government took another leap into the unknown when it invested in its first telephone, a mere three decades after the technology was first demonstrated."But telephones too could be revolutionised. The new scheme aims to replace many of the government's physical phone lines with internet-connected "voice over internet" (VoIP) systems by 2017.
Apple is notorious for thelevels of secrecyit keeps around new products - and never more so than with theimpending launch of its tablet computer, which has seen the company clamp down and let only a select few pieces of information leak out.Why? Because Steve Jobs is (in his words)"a big bang guy": building anticipation and appetite is part of the marketing game.So what will Jobs -whose temper has been likened to a flamethrower- make of the latest leak, which came courtesy of the boss of US publishing company McGraw-Hill?In an interview on American business news network CNBC, Terry McGraw - the chairman, president and chief executive of the company - let slip a few choice pieces of data that were previously unknown."Yeah, very exciting," he told the programme, when asked about hiscompany's link to the Apple product. "They'll make their announcement tomorrow on this one."All well and good - but then McGraw went on to offer some new details."We have worked with Apple for quite a while - the tablet is going to be based on the iPhone operating system, and so it will be transferrable. So what you're going to be able to do now... we have a consortium of ebooks - we have 95% of all our materials that are in ebook format on that one - so with the tabloid you're going to open up the higher education market, the professional market. The tabloid, the tablet is going to be just really terrific."McGraw calls it both the "tablet" and "tabloid", so it's not clear whether either is the actual product name (somethingyou bet on being called the iPad). And the involvement of various publishers was already widely reported, too. But the fact that it runs on the same system as the iPhone? That's new, and letting it out early is not something that Jobs is likely to take lying down.
A technology entrepreneur and advisor to the US Intelligence Community. Matthew Burton was formerly an intelligence analyst for the US Department of Defense, where he researched foreign censorship and propaganda. His technology writing has appeared in the CIA's journal (Studies In Intelligence) and O'Reilly Media's forthcoming "Open Government". His work to transform the intelligence community has beenfeaturedin the New York Times.On Wednesday, Apple is expected to unveil a product that will be, among other things, a competitor to Amazon's Kindle. That will be a crucial test for Apple, and for society. If the company lives up to its reputation for revolutionizing media, this new product and its successors will one day replace physical books. The test for Apple is in whether they try to control what we read. The test for society is whether we let them.We all know that this device will be strikingly beautiful, will feel good in our hands, and will have some special touch that, like the iPod's white earbuds, endows its users with an aura of cool. It will do so much more than display books (reading will be sexy again!) that this simple feature may be lost among the device's more advanced trappings.But after fawning over it, we should ask how much freedom the device gives us, and what it means for the future of reading: will the iSlate (as it's rumored to be named) let us put our own ebooks onto it, or will it only show documents in Apple's own proprietary format? Will we have to buy everything through Apple, allowing them an eye into our reading preferences? And when we buy those books, will Apple have the technical ability to remotely revoke our access to them? A restrictive iSlate would allow Apple--or someone else--to abscond with your entire library in the middle of the night, all without ever knocking on your door. If the act of reading isn't safe, who cares if it's cool?This ability to take away our books is a current reality, not a future prospect. Kindle users discovered this last year when Amazonremotely deleted their copies of Animal Farm and 1984. Even though customers were storing the books on their own devices, those devices automatically deleted the books when Amazon removed the titles from the Kindle store, like an army of drones taking orders from their master. From day one, Apple has usedsimilar technologyto make sure that a song or movie bought on iTunes can only be played on authorized devices. They do this to protect the rights of artists and production companies.But that was music. This is books. The stakes are higher. And the Kindle goes further. Unlike the iPod, which allows you to play your own, non-revokable songs and movies on your iPod in addition to the ones you bought through iTunes, the Kindle is designed to only display books that Amazon can control. The same technology that is ostensibly protecting books also jeopardizes our right to read them. If the iSlate is similarly restrictive but as successful as its music predecessor, we'll have surrendered final say over our bookshelves to companies and governments.Would Apple and Amazon really intentionally censor our books? This all seems very far-fetched. Sure, Amazon did it already, but it actually had good reason to: the publisher who originally provided those titles to Amazon did so illicitly. The irony of the affected titles made the affair sound more scandalous than it was. Amazon acknowledged that it was "stupid" of them and later changed its system to keep such automatic deletions from happening again. So it was all just a mistake. Book censorship happens in fictional dystopias, or in real-life dictatorships. But here?Don't discount it. For one, the Amazon fix only applies to cases similar to the Orwell books; it simply prevents Amazon's system from acting on its own in such cases. Amazon still has the power to seize books you've supposedly purchased.Second, you're right to feel that our society wouldn't tolerate a government seizure of books. But that's precisely because books are physical objects: to seize them, someone must kick in our doors, and to destroy them, they must be burned. Seizing books would be a lot easier for governments were it not accompanied by such graphic displays of tyranny.But what happens when technology allows books to be disposed of quietly, cleanly, and without force? As a parallel, consider how outraged we'd be by having our home phones removed, and being forced to place phone calls only from approved "monitoring centers." We would violently resist such demands. But the same government's use of warrantless wiretaps just years ago was met with public ambivalence. Burning books? No way. But deleting books, or "filtering" them? That's  much more palatable.What are the odds that we will reject a no-doubt beautiful iSlate just because it won't read our own PDFs or Word documents? Our past record isn't good. We seldom reject convenience in return for freedom: we tell FreshDirect what we like to eat so we don't have to go shopping, let credit cards report our spending habits so we don't have to carry cash, and use trackable subway cards instead of fumbling with tokens.Why do we give up so much for more convenience? Maybe it's because technology's affordances are much more tangible than its pitfalls. We enjoy the convenience of email and credit cards many times a day, and even though we assume the IT staff is reading our messages and a consumer data firm is tracking our purchases, we never actually see it happen.Another reason could be that the digital world has muddied the concept of ownership, introducing ambiguities and restrictions that we don't have the time or the legal expertise to decipher. When you buy a book, there's no question that the bound collection of paper, ink and glue is yours, and that nobody can take it back from you. But the Kindle's Terms of Use is over 2,000 words of legalese that most users will ignore. "I never imagined that Amazon actually had the right, the authority or even the ability to delete something that I had already purchased," said a customer who had his $.99 copy of 1984 yanked.The fiasco hasn't fazed Kindle users, who are proving that the convenience of carrying hundreds of books is what really matters to them. Christmas Day marked a turning point for the Kindle: for the first time ever, Amazon sold more ebooks than actual books. Clearly, we aren't going to be the ones who stand up for the security of books.So it's up to Apple, which could be a better steward of information freedom than we have been. The companystopped selling restricted music files last January; customers now have complete control over every song in their music library, even those bought through iTunes. And again, they've never barred us from putting our own files on the iPod, making those songs completely safe from any intrusion. Will Apple do the same when it comes to books? Or will it follow Amazon's lead? Apple's decision matters a lot more than Microsoft's, Sony's or Lenovo's, all of whom revealed similar new products earlier this month. When Apple makes a decision about digital media, entire industries--and the public at large--follow their lead. As the iSlate goes, so will thought. Let's keep this in mind during the hysteria of Wednesday's unveiling.More atMatthewBurton.org
With hours to go until Apple unveils its latest creation – believed to be a keyboardless "tablet" computer with a 10-inch touch-sensitive screen – the internet is abuzz with last-minute rumours and speculation about what it will be like, and more importantly, who will benefit most from it.The machine – dubbed the iSlate by fans building on the Californian company's previous attachment to the i prefix, and slate for touch-screen computers without a keyboard – will be launched by Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, in San Francisco tomorrow.Last night Apple's tight cone of secrecy was seemingly pierced when Harold McGraw III, the chief executive of the publishing company McGraw-Hill told CNBC that its textbooks would be available on the forthcoming tablet – which will work like the iPhone."The Tablet is going to be based on the iPhone operating system," McGraw told CNBC. "So what you are going to be able to do now is we have a consortium of e-books. We have 95% of all our materials that are in e-book format on that one."So with the tablet you're going to open up the higher education market, the professional market. The tablet is going to be just terrific."The excitement has risen to levels not seen since Apple launched the iPhone in January 2007. Fan sites have vied to produce composite images and ask: "Is this Apple's new tablet?" But the key question is about which partners, particularly in games, music and publishing, will join Jobs on stage to show off content specially adapted for the large-scale format, which is expected to have a screen area four times larger than the iPhone's.The Guardian has learned that a number of print publishers have been developing applications to be showcased today – including Condé Nast, the publisher of Vogue and Wired magazine, and other European and American print groups.Other reportssuggest developers from the New York Times have been camped for several weeks near Apple's Silicon Valley headquarters. Today, the organisation announced it had created aReader Applications Division, giving "an operational and financial home to the products that offer a digital reading experience similar to the print platform".Many publishers are believed to be looking to the machine to start an explosion in ebook and electronic magazine and newspaper sales – just as the iPod did for downloaded music with iTunes Music Store in 2003, and the iPhone for apps (software applications) in 2008."Like the music industry, publishers are now deeply threatened by free content sharing on the internet and Apple are uniquely placed to solve this problem with iTunes, a digital shopfront that's trusted by publishers and consumers alike," said Ben Trewhella, chief technology officer of Mubaloo, which writes iPhone apps for businesses.Apple is the largest music retailer in the US, and has 99.4% of the world market for apps, say analysts. Record labels and authors of apps have struggled with Apple's grip on their respective markets, complaining of its restrictions to sales.The new machine is expected to add ereader capabilities, as well as play music, browse the web and play games.The Apple launch invitation offers few clues and simply invites journalists to "Come see our latest creation" against a background of paint-like splotches – and despite months of rumours with growing credence, the invitation itself was only sent out a week ago.Since then the only other recognition came in a brief statement from Jobs on Monday in a press release about Apple's financial results, in which he mentioned "a major new product that we're really excited about".While some of the rumours verge on the incredible, others have been trying to base their guesses on a scant number of clues and trace evidence. Website analytics company Flurry says it has studied what around 50 mysterious devices are being used for in and around Apple's campus in Cupertino, California, and that they are largely being used to test games and other entertainment software.Meanwhile, Apple is understood to be talking to a number of mobile phone operators to provide connectivity for the new gadget, suggesting that – like the iPhone – it will have built-in 3G.
The latest episode of Tech Weekly welcomes Sir Tim Berners-Lee, whohelped launchthe government's new open data project,data.gov.uk. Charles Arthur, Bobbie Johnson and Aleks Krotoski discuss the implications and the future of this important and exciting new initiative.Then Charles and Bobbie mutiny, turning the spotlight on Aleks, who presentsVirtual Revolution, a major new BBC2 documentary series about the social history of the web  starting this Saturday. Charles digs deeper into the making of the show, asking the series' multiplatform producer Dan Gluckman why the BBC was so keen to make the development of the four films open and collaborative.There's wild speculation about the big announcement from Apple taking place this week, and more analysis of the escalating China-US internet freedom conflict.All this, plus your views from the blogs and the rest of this week's news.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Is it "safe" to install Sun's Java on my brand new Windows 7 (64-bit) PC? A number of web sites, particularly broadband speed testers, seem to require it.Dave SimpkinI'd gladly do without Java myself, but it would mean missing out on the sites that need it, and that's a personal decision. Java also represents an added security risk, like all software. However, fromSecunia's logs, it looks as though the main risk is to users who install it and then don't keep it up to date.You can get the latest version of Java from Sun's download page athttp://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jspGo for the minimum download andcheck for correct installation.The added complication with Windows 7 is that there are separate versions of Java for 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Internet Explorer. Windows 7 ships with both, though 32-bit is the default, possibly because there is no 64-bit version of Adobe Flash. Sun has a page:Which version of Java should I download for my 64-bit Windows operating system?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull;Bill Gatesmanaged to make plenty of headlineswith his comment that Chinese censorship was "very limited"- but he wasn't finished there.Dropping by the offices of the New York Times yesterday, Gates said that Google had "done nothing and gotten a lot of credit for it" (pretty much true) and said he didn't understand the point that Google was trying to make in its wrangle with Beijing (surely disingenuous).&bull; Given hisrecent email to the troops at Sun Microsystemsahead of the company's takeover by Oracle (a message which urged them to "emotionally resign from Sun"), it's no surprise that speculation is building thatJonathan Schwartz is getting ready to step down from his post. The news could come by Wednesday, when Larry Ellison is hosting an event at Oracle HQ to outline future strategy.&bull; You may know the name ofRobin Dunbarfrom his famous number describing the number of relationships that a primate can viably maintain (it's 150, if you didn't know). But despite suggestions that websites like Facebook could help us broaden our ability to talk with each other, it turns outthat the internet doesn't make Dunbar's number bigger. His latest preliminary study shows that while we can maintain many more weak ties thanks to social networks, the number ofmeaningfulrelationships doesn't change.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Apple was celebrating the best quarter in its 34-year history tonight, as ­anticipation grew around the launch of the ­company's tablet computerlater this week .Announcing its latest set of financial results, the California technology ­company said strong demand for the iPhone and its computers had pushed sales for the last three months – which included Christmas – to new heights.Despite the continued impact of the recession, revenues for the  three months to December rose to $15.68bn (£9.7bn), an increase of 32% on the same time last year. Profits, meanwhile, rose to $3.38bn – a 49% increase on the last three months of 2008.The results were bolstered by the ­success of the iPhone, with the company selling 8.7m of the handsets around the world over the course of the last quarter. That marked a doubling in sales from the same time last year, with figures boosted by the company's decision to open up iPhone sales in Britain late last year.The company also sold a record number of computers, shifting 3.36m units – largely laptops – as purchases increased by a third.Meanwhile the iPod, the cornerstone of the company's revival over the past decade, continued its slow decline with  21m units sold in the run-up to Christmas – down 8% year-on-year.Steve Jobs, the company's co-founder and chief executive, said: "The new products we are planning to release this year are very strong, starting this week with a major new product that we're really excited about."That could be an understatement. Industry observers are waiting with bated breath in advance of the launch due ­tomorrow in San Francisco, of what is expected to be a touchscreen computer that fills a gap between the iPhone and a laptop.Apple's notorious dedication to secrecy mean that little is known about the device. Even the name is still wrapped in mystery, though rumours have suggested, at various times, that it would be called the iPad, iBook, iSlate or Canvas.The Guardian understands that a number of publishing groups have ­developed products for use with the device, and a series of deals to produce magazines and newspapers specifically for the machine could be announced at the launch.Apple shares, which had closed up 2.69% to $203.08, continued to rise in after hours trading.
After pouring billions of dollars into the global fight against malaria and rebranding Microsoft in a more cuddly, human way, Bill Gates had just about shaken off accusations that he represented all that was unappealing about aggressive ­American capitalism.But today his reinvention suffered something of a setback when he played down China's attempts to stifle dissent on the internet as "very limited".Less than two weeks after Google said it planned to uncensor its Chinese search engine in protest at attempts to break into the email accounts of human rights activists, Gates criticised his rival's decision and insisted that agreeing to Beijing's demands was just part of doing business in the country. "You've got to decide: do you want to obey the laws of the countries you're in or not? If not, you may not end up doing business there," he told ABC's Good Morning America programme.He also brushed aside accusations that Microsoft has been complicit in helping filter the web by saying that it was not an issue because any censorship could be circumvented with technical knowledge. "Chinese efforts to censor the internet have been very limited," he said. "It's easy to go around it, so I think keeping the internet thriving there is very important."Gates's comments echo those last week by Microsoft chief executive, Steve Ballmer, who took a swipe at Google bysuggesting that the company had over-reacted in China. "People are always trying to break into other people's data," he said on Friday. "There's always somebody trying to break into Microsoft."Ballmer also likened Microsoft's complicity in actively filtering internet content to the oil industry's decision to import oil from Saudi Arabia, despite the censorship that takes place there. "If the Chinese government gives us proper legal notice, we'll take that piece of information out of the Bing search engine," adding that even countries with "extreme" free speech laws, such as the US, exercised some censorship.The comments of both men come despite the fact that efforts to censor the internet in China – a project known as the Golden Shield – are among the most extensive in the world. The country's estimated 300 million internet users are almost all affected by the various blocks and filters, which include direct censorship of anti-government protesters, members of the Falun Gong religious group, Tibetan independence campaigners and the Taiwanese media. At various points, Beijing has also blocked access to international news websites including the BBC and the Guardian, and around 50 Chinese bloggers are in prison as a result of their postings.Google's stancehas drawn widespread support from the human rights community and freedom of speech campaigners, but the Chinese authorities have repeatedly denied any link to the hacking.Today the government made its most direct response to the issue yet – rejecting suggestions that it turned a blind eye to the activities of some hackers, and defending its right to punish those who challenge its rule."Any accusation that the Chinese government participated in cyber attacks, either in an explicit or indirect way, is groundless and aims to denigrate China. We are firmly opposed to that," a government spokesman told the state news agency, Xinhua, adding that China was itself the victim of numerous internet-based attacks.
The world's richest man shouldn't need free advice on "search engine optimisation" (SEO) that would lifthis new blogin Google's search results, and Bing's. But since he could benefit from some, Danny Sullivan of Search Engine Land has provided it inSome SEO Advice For Bill Gates, thereby giving the rest of us a free tutorial, too.Danny takes us step by step through the process, with screen grabs. He points out, for example, that if you happen to have the world's only official Bill Gates blog then it's a good idea to exploit it. A title that says "The Gates Notes" doesn't do that.It gets worse:"Every page on your web site has the same title, even though each page is about a different topic. This is the same as publishing a bunch of different books, on different topics, but giving them all the same title. It hurts your potential to be found for what those pages are about. It hurts the chances for people trying to find the good information you're putting out to locate it."Another obvious point is that a new blog will depend on incoming links, and Gates has access to some powerful sites including theBill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundationhome page. These sites should have links pointing to his blog, and they don't.However, it seems unlikely that Bill Gates is doing his blog all by himself, so it's a bit surprising that his staff are not more clued up about SEO. Danny says: "Can I suggest sending some of them to our SMX West search marketing conference this March 2-4? We've got an entire boot camp day designed to get them up to speed."This could be good advice, because the Search Engine Land post is now only one spot below Bill Gates's blog if you search Google for [Bill Gates blog]. If will be even funnier if it outranks it.If Bill feels suitably chastened, he can at least take comfort from the fact that Google also needed some SEO advice."Little story here," says Danny. "In 2005, the official Google Blog had been out for about a year. It had a title of 'Google Blog' and ranked sixth in the results for a search on those words. In number one was an unofficial 'Google Weblog' site run by Aaron Schwartz." He was so annoyed at having to hunt for it that he sent Google a note "suggesting it might be wise if they followed the same SEO advice that they offer to site owners." Today, the Official Google Blog is the top hit if you search for [google blog] on either Google or Bing.Not everyone can get the top spot in Google, and that might not be Bill Gates's aim in life. However, he should be able to get the top spot when someone searches for [Bill Gates blog], which will make his blog easier to find when people look for it. For Bill and millions of other bloggers, that's worth a bit of SEO.
I updated Spybot Search &amp; Destroy, and after that, booting my PC took an age, with Task Manager showing both Spybot and Avast grinding away. Disabling Spybot seems to have solved the problem. Is there a known conflict with Avast? Would an alternative spyware program be preferable, or would you recommend changing to Microsoft Security Essentials?Ken JoyPS: We do miss the technology section and your regular columns.There's always some risk that programs that work at a low level in the operating system will clash, and some people have complained about slowness withAvastandSpybot. Also, at the end of last year, an Avast update led to it suggesting that Spybot (and other programs) were infected with the Win32:Delf-MZG Trojan. I'm sure many people use the two programs without problems, but there is a vast amount of variation among the billion-plus Windows PCs in the world, so it's hard to pin down the reasons.These conflicts could get worse because there is no longer such a clear line between anti-virus and anti-spyware software. Nowadays, anti-virus software increasingly covers spyware as well. For one example,AVGbought and incorporated the Ewido anti-spyware program. And Avast has just commented* that "the simplest [approach] would be to use only one antispyware solution. The Avast antivirus scanning engine scans for spyware as well."Either way, it seems to me thatSuperAntiSpywareis now more capable than Spybot, so I'd try switching to that.When it comes to choosing an anti-virus program, there are many considerations including power, speed, use of system resources, and ease of use.Microsoft Security Essentialsis a good basic solution for many users: it's very easy to use, and it won't alarm you with too many "false positives". But if you don't have any other problems with Avast, then I think MSE would be a slight downgrade.If you really feel the need to change your anti-virus, thenAvira AntiVirseems more powerful and includes a useful Active Guard, though it would perhaps suit geekier users. There are, of course, many others.Good anti-virus programs can be hard to uninstall completely, and Avast provides anUninstall Utility.* Avast comment added.
David Drummond has had a major part to play in the latest stand-off between Google and China. And at the DLD conference in Munich Drummond, the company's vice-president and chief legal officer, explained what happened."We were always uncomfortable with China having censored our search results," he said. "We thought by being there we could be a force of openness. In fact, that has not happened. Things have gotten tighter."Google China was launched in January 2006. For Google.cn the search engine agreed to deliver a Chinese version of Google.com complying with internet censorship laws in the country.Critics often portrayed that as a capitulation to the "Golden Shield Project" or the "Great Firewall of China". At that time, the company believed that the benefits of increased access to information for people in China and a more open internet outweighed their unease at agreeing to censor some results.That changed. On January 12, Googleannounced that it was "no longer willing to continue censoring" resultson Google.cn after Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists were hacked."There were direct attacks on human rights acitivists. Using phishing attacks they tried to access their accounts by third parties," said Drummond. "We discovered that the activist had been under surveillance. And this just became something that we were not willing to do any more."According to Drummond, the China approach was always an issue at Google. The management team not only had an intense debate when they decided to pull out, but before they decided to go into China. Have they learnt their lesson?Drummond said: "We want to stay in the Chinese market, we just don't want to filter our search results any more."Today, the search giant takes internet censorship more seriously. "The thing that is important to recognise is that internet censorship is a real problem, and not just China. It is time for governments to get involved."
The original Mass Effect was a near-classic. The narrative and gripping combat of this sci-fi role-playing game (RPG) only let down by technical glitches. Mass Effect 2 fixes this and is a title that will appeal to a wide range of gamers, especially those who enjoy in-game conversation as much as combat.Continuing where the original left off, Mass Effect 2 sees you guiding your Commander through a twisting plot and some great set pieces. This is very much an RPG though, with plenty of stats and text. But action is key, with combat crucial to the game. The combat has been made more transparent and more reliant on skill than stats. Gears of War fans should feel right at home with the cover mechanics and controls. Thankfully, there is still a huge emphasis on tactics and RPG stats – Modern Warfare 3 this is most definitely not.The narrative and characters are what really drive Mass Effect 2. Idle chit-chat with the numerous crew members and bystanders soon draws out motives, feelings and possibly romance. The excellent facial animations and acting help too, giving a surprising emotional pull to proceedings. One of the nice touches is the ability to import your character from the first game. Players that do so are rewarded with money and other goodies. But the real benefit is the continuation of the story with decisions you made in the first game – which characters were killed off, for example – having implications in the sequel.Mass Effect 2 is a looker, too. The influences are pure retro sci-fi. So think the minimalist look of Star Wars and Space Odyssey. Blade Runner and X-Files are hinted at as well. The soundtrack mirrors this with swooping Vangelis-style pads providing a suitably synthetic mood. The universe feels more alive this time round. Planetary exploration is vastly improved from the original game. Now going off piste is truly rewarding with numerous side-missions to beef up the coffers and the characters.Downsides? The loading times are still noticeably intrusive albeit improved on the original game. The graphics are occasionally glitchy, but more importantly the font is tiny, even on an HD screen. For a game that involves more reading than most this a major issue. Playing on a non-HD screen is very uncomfortable indeed. Nevertheless, the gripping and engaging action overcomes these issues. It may only be January, but Mass Effect 2 is already a serious contender for game of the year.
This is a strange one – a straight port of a game that's nearly eight years old and originally released on the GameCube.That in itself shouldn't put you off, although it's disappointing that no effort has been made to customise it for the Wii, so no new content at all and no swinging wildly with the Wiimote. Instead you have a choice of classic controls or a combination of Wiimote and Nunchuck. By and large, this means painfully slow turning angles (using the joystick) and an inventory system that can only cope with carrying only six items at once, leading to much to-ing and fro-ing between locations. It's also a return to hilarious and frustrating anomalies like needing to find a typewriter ribbon to save your progress. Given that Zero was supposed to be prequel to the original Resident Evil game, such limitations you simply have to live with.However, this was also the first of the RE games to involve co-op play, with your two characters (STARS medic Rebecca Chambers and escaped convict Billy Coen) boasting different abilities which makes for some half decent puzzles that require swapping characters with a single button press or taking on different fighting roles as the need dictates. Otherwise, it's your bog standard zombie-basher that takes your heroes through the usual gamut of shambling zombies, dogs, spiders and monkeys. Graphically, the static background are primitive but still superbly atmospheric, although wrestling with the control system merely emphasises how much the genre has moved on since then the 20th centuryFor all these reasons, it would be easy to slag off Zero to hell and back, but there's still something endearing about its dogged old-school clunkiness. Just as the shuffle zombie/running zombie debate has divided zom-com fans, so there remains a hard core who simply prefer the slower pace that Resident Evil has always espoused. Yes, it's archaic (particularly the ponderous animations every time a door opens or window breaks) but somehow it adds to the nightmare quality of never being able to run or fight as fast as you know you need to.So, for completists who either dumped or missed the GameCube original, there's still fun to be had and it is cheaper than most RE games. For the rest of you, RE: Darkside Chronicles should be popping up in bargain bins right about now, having done the full-price business at Christmas. RE: Zero may be an acquired taste, but there's enough there to remind you just how influential the franchise used to be and arguably could be again.
YouTube has recently announced an experimentalHTML5 playerthat uses the H.264 codec for video instead of a format based on Adobe Flash. You might think that would be applauded as a move towards open standards, but as I noted brieflylast week, the new system works with Google Chrome and Apple Safari browsers, but not Mozilla's Firefox. It doesn't support H.264.This is a critical issue for Mozilla, because it risks losing market share. If users find they can play YouTube videos using Chrome or Safari but they won't play in Firefox, some users are going to switch browsers.Mozilla's problem is that H.264 is encumbered by patents: it's not a royalty-free format. And according to Robert O'Callahan in a Saturday blog post onVideo, Freedom And Mozilla(with the rider that it's "nothing but my own opinion as a developer of video-related Mozilla code!"), licensing the patents "would violate principles of free software that we strongly believe in." He says:"Users just want video to work. You Mozilla people are such idealists!Yes, that is the reason for Mozilla to exist. Anyway, in the short term, our users probably won't be affected much since Flash fallback will still work. In the long term, I think freedom will ultimately benefit users (not just Firefox users, but all users)."The same day, Mike Shaver, Mozilla's vice president of engineering, explained why Mozilla doesn't license the H.264 codec, andhis postincluded the following:"Mozilla has decided differently, in part because there is no apparent means for us to license H.264 under terms that would cover other users of our technology, such as Linux distributors, or people in affiliated projects like Wikimedia or the Participatory Culture Foundation. Even if we were to pay the $5,000,000 annual licensing cost for H.264, and we were to not care about the spectre of license fees for internet distribution of encoded content, or about content and tool creators, downstream projects would be no better off."As Shaver points out, that kind of fee would have made the success of the web impossible. Mozilla would never have got going if it had had to pay $5m or so to use HTML, CSS, JavaScript and similar technologies.The web has had to cope with patented technologies before. The main examples are the GIF image file format and the MP3 music file format, both of which became ubiquitous. These were discussed by Christopher Blizzard, Mozilla's Open Source Evangelist, in a long post:HTML5 video and H.264 – what history tells us and why we're standing with the web.After GIF became popular, Blizzard says "Unisys was asking some web site owners $5,000-$7,500 to able to use GIFs on their sites." He says: "We're looking at the same situation with H.264, except at a far larger scale."MP3 was also liberally licensed in its early days (indeed, many people thought it was unlicensed), but again, there was an effort to monetise it as it became ubiquitous. Today, says Blizzard:"If you look at the public published rates for a couple of the MP3 licensors (and there are more than just two) someone who wanted to use it would be looking at a royalty rate of about $1/downloaded unit. So if you were doing, say, two million downloads a day you would be looking at about $2,000,000 per day just to have permission from those companies to include an MP3 decoder. Could you negotiate a lower rate? Probably. But that gives you a sense of the scale if you're a small provider in a world where getting started on the web is hard and you don't have much negotiating power."It looks as though H.264 is developing in a similar way. And the more widespread it becomes, the more power the patent-owners will have to extract money from suppliers who use it.Free software and open source supporters will, of course, say that all this is unnecessary: YouTube should simply use the Ogg/Theora codec that offers comparable quality to H.264 (it might be worse, but not a lot worse). And as user Underhill comments on O'Callahan's post: "there is a pretty huge practical difference between 'Someone might have patents on Theora that we don't know about, and might sue' and 'MPEG-LA has patents on H.264 and *will* sue'."There's a petition to get YouTube to support Ogg/Theora athttp://www.petitionspot.com/petitions/oggandyoutube/Because Google dominates the web, and YouTube dominates web video, it looks as though the decision to use H.264 will mean we all end up using it whether we like it or not. That might not be the case. Blizzard says:"I, like many others, have reason to believe that H.264 will not be Google's final choice. There's good reason to believe this: they are purchasing On2. On2 has technologies that are supposed to be better than H.264. If Google owns the rights to those technologies they are very likely to use them on their properties to promote them and are also likely to license them in a web-friendly (ie royalty-free) fashion. Google actually has a decent history of doing this."Web video has never really been open, unencumbered and free. We've had Real Networks RM format, Apple's QuickTime, Microsoft's Windows Media Video (now standardised as VC-1), the DivX and XviD codecs, and Adobe Flash among others. There might never be one open standard, simply because some content owners will want to include DRM (Digital Rights Management) copy restrictions.However, the web would benefit from having an open, unencumbered and free video format that enabled HTML programmers to include a video as easily as they now include a headline or a photo, wouldn't it? How do we get to that?
The front of the pack isn't always the best place to be. In a panel of search engine representatives at the Munich DLD conference, Google's Ben Gomes was the most reluctant to give anything away. Alsio on the panel were Conrad Wolfram, of WolframAlpha, Blaise Aguera y Arcas, the architect of Microsoft Visual Earth, and Ilya Segalovich, of Yandex – Russia's largest search engine.Questions from the panel host, Jochen Wegner, the editor of Focus Online, kept on coming. Is it possible to compete with Google in non-English-speaking markets – as the successful Yandex does? "We have done very respectably in almost all markets we are in," was Gomes's answer. Is Google failing in giving the right answers, especially when a topic becomes very popular? "We have recently launched 500 changes. Overall, search gets better day after day after day." Are you reacting to Bing? "I don't believe we are reacting to Bing in any way. We are really focused on the user."There is no doubting that Google is still top dog among search engines. However, the spontaneous applause of an impressed audience here at DLD wasn't for Google, but for WolframAlpha and Bing.WolframAlpha's approach to making the world's knowledge computable clearly found fans, and showed that the search engine market is less and less about search, but more and more about giving answers and providing decisions, as Wegner put it.WolframAlpha can tell you the weather on the day David Cameron was born. "Everything I show you with Wolfram Alpha is done in the cloud and sent back live," explained Wolfram. Yes, WolframAlpha is not a search engine anymore. It is a knowledge engine which provides you with possible answers.If you type in "Microsoft v Google", you will get the latest trading information as well as the fundamental statistics and finances. If you type in "egg and bacon" you will be told how much running you have to do today to get rid of the calories you just ate."WolframAlpha is about high power computation and knowledge that meet at an exciting time when computation gets democratised," explains Wolfram.Bing also has a new search approach, trying to organise the search results in a different way – and Bing continues to grow its market share. In fact, it is becoming an incredible user-oriented search engine – which made a deal with Wolfram Alpha last year to provide search results in select areas across nutrition, health and advanced mathematics.Microsoft's search engines results rely more and more on structural data – a term that Aguera y Arcas is fond of using.In addition, there is the new map project which Aguera y Arcas presented to a stunned audience. Its three-dimensional view of New York shows clearly that Bing Maps will provide stern competition for Google maps. It is built in Microsoft Silverlight, and provides an amazing real view of the streets."We envision space as a canvas;" says Aguera y Arcas. His team is building different features for the map. Recently for example, they came up with a geolocation of the front pages of all the world newspapers.The new beta mapping sitewas just launched.The clash of the search engines has definitely started.
Yes, it's your daily roundup of all the Apple tablet insane coverage that's fit to browse!First and definitely most interesting isFlurry, a web analytics company, which on its blog says that"Using Flurry Analytics, the company identified approximately 50 devices that match the characteristics of Apple's rumored tablet device. Because Flurry could reliably "place" these devices geographically on Apple's Cupertino campus, we have a fair level of confidence that we are observing a group of pre-release tablets in testing. Testing of this device increased dramatically in January, with observed signs of life as early as October of last year. Apple appears to be going through its cycle of testing and polish, which is expected from any hardware or software company as it nears launch."However you may want to pause at that first sentence - the bit where it says "that match the characteristics of Apple's rumoured tablet device". How does it know the things it found match that? Because they're running iPhone OS 3.2? (We thought the best rumours were that it would run on iPhone OS4. Don't palm us off with this 3.2 stuff.)Flurry's vice-president of marketing, the wonderfully-named Peter Farago, says that they think it's a sighting of the iMoby - sorry, iTablet - because"1) If this were an iPhone we were looking at, the hardware would tell us when we ask it (via the software). So we can rule out that this is an iPhone. Also, we already see verified iPhone devices testing OS 4.0 and these leave (Apple's Cupertino, CA) campus, whereas this device does not. This makes sense given the secrecy around the new tablet device as the launch event nears.""2) The apps being tested match up to what the devices is supposed to feature (e.g., news, books, etc.). We cannot share further detail here due to Terms of Service agreements we have with customers that use our service, but feel that if you were able to see the data we see, at the level of granularity, it would be clear to you as well. "So let's not dally, let's speed on:"On these devices, Flurry observed approximately 200 different applications in use by testers. Studying category trends provides insight into the kind of user Apple is targeting and how it expects the device to be used. Below is a chart that shows the number of applications in use by category across test devices."There is has games way ahead, followed by entertainment, news &amp; books, followed "lifestyle" (what is that, please?), utilities and music, followed by ...other stuff.More statements of the slightly obvious follow:"The device is positioned to appeal to the users who are out-and-about rather than compete directly against the TV, stereo and game console in the living room. With supply chain reports from Asia that light-weight 10.1" LCD and OLED screen components are in short supply due to large purchases presumably by Apple, we can surmise that the device will be thin and light, designed for portability."Right - as opposed to fat and heavy and designed to lurk in your basement.The New York Times says itcould be a "playland" for games apps, particularly for multi-player games:"Ge Wang, co-founder ofSmule, the company behind applications like Ocarina and I Am T-Pain that turn the iPhone into a music machine, said he expected the tablet to be better than the iPhone at detecting the touch of many fingers. "On the iPhone, there are five touch points max," Mr. Wang said. "You don't need much more than that because that's about all you can fit on that screen.""TechCrunch isinsisting that Apple has gone for the name iPad(I now think that's not going to be the name).Fox News issaying that Verizon and AT&amp;T will carry it. Might well be the case.iLounge issayingit will have twin dock connectors, a big antenna panel, and might cost down to $600 [assuming a $1000 starting price] if it is on a network subsidy.On the dock connectors it says:"Double Dock Connectors. We're hearing that the tablet is going to have one on the vertical bottom edge and one on the horizontal bottom edge, enabling this device for the first time to be both mounted and charged either in portrait or landscape mode. iPhone and iPod touch users have long had to deal with the unusual sight of a cable or hard-mounted connector sticking out of the side of their devices when it's being used as a widescreen video or game player, and accessory companies have struggled for the past three years to figure out ways to accommodate Cover Flow and the like in their speakers and docks. Two Dock Connectors fixes this, and depending on how Apple handles multiple accessory connections, could have some other nice benefits, as well."Sounds fugly to me...As for the antenna panel:"The various reports of the tablet's iPhone-ish-ness continue with the antenna compartment, which like the original iPhone has a long rear stripe for wireless radio broadcasting. This is necessary due to the metal used in the rest of the shell, which would inhibit radio performance, and the size of the stripe—not an iPod touch-sized pill—suggests room for nice-sized antennas, and 802.11n compatibility."Hmm, metal in the shell would really kill Wi-Fi. That doesn't sound like a good idea either.Next, a video imagining how 3D use of the iTablet might work. We're not very convinced, but the people at Software Advice thought that if anyone needs a bit of CAD/CAM work done and has an iMac or iTablet to hand, this is how it would look:Now, if you need a bit of nostalgia, here's the Guardian archive - which today islooking back to the launch of the Mac, with the piece from 25 January 1984:"With all the showbiz of a car launch, including the lights, dry ice, and a revolving stage, Macintosh ("the biggest advance in the office since the telephone and the calculator") was launched in both New York and London as the first stage in Apple's bid to revitalise the company after the comparative failure of its Lisa computer and in the face of burgeoning sales for the IBM personal computer. Based on the advanced 32-bit architecture developed for Lisa, Macintosh is built round a powerful Motorola 68000 microprocessor with 128K of RAM and a 512K version due later this year. It has a built-in nine-inch screen, weighs only 171b (77kg) and will fit into a canvas bag the size of an average ruck-sack, with a price in the region of $3,100."No prizes for spotting the numerical mistake in that paragraph."Apart from its power, the secret of the Macintosh's potential is its ease of use, based on the Xerox concept of the "mouse". The mouse, a device centred on a ball bearing which fits neatly in the palm of the hand, is wheeled round the desktop acting as a cursor between labels or "icons" displayed on the screen which do away with complicated instructions to the machine. It makes the Macintosh very easy to use, particularly in its graphics program."It'll never catch on, obviously.Don't forget our two pieces about this - theexperts' viewand thelonger investigation of what it might do.
Beijing has denied involvement in cyber attacks and defended its right to punish people who challenge party rule online as it continues a fight-back against criticism of its internet policies."Any accusation that the Chinese government participated in cyber attacks, either in an explicit or indirect way, is groundless and aims to denigrate China. We are firmly opposed to that," an unidentified spokesman from the ministry of industry and information technology told the state news agency, Xinhua.The spokesman did not refer directly to Google's announcement,in which the firm said it was no longer willing to censor its Chinese service.Google had cited an intrusion targeting human rights activists' email accounts and tougher online censorship as reasons behind its decision.The remarks are the most direct official response on the issue, although the government has previously said that it "resolutely opposes" hacking and criticised "baseless" claims. The spokesman added that China was the biggest victim of such attacks, with hackers targeting more than 42,000 websites last year. Using figures from the Internet Society of China, he said cyber attacks from overseas increased 148% from 2007 to 2008, affecting "sectors of finance, transportation and energy, which posed severe harm to economic development and people's lives".Separately, a Chinese internet security official told Xinhua that Google had yet to report its complaints to them."We have been hoping that Google will contact us so that we could have details on this issue and provide them help if necessary," said Zhou Yonglin, deputy chief of operations at the China national computer network emergency response technical team.Google reported a massive and sophisticated attack which originated in China, but has chosen not to say "one way or the other" whether it believes hackers were sponsored or approved by Beijing.Zhou also said most hacking of Chinese computers originated from the US.The Chinese government has toughened its stance since Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, challenged it on the issue last week. She criticised internet censorship, named China as one of several countries where there had been "a spike in threats to the free flow of information" recently,and urged Beijing to investigate the Google attacks fully and openly.The foreign ministry warned that bilateral relations were being harmed and state media have run several articles attacking US internet policy. Yesterday a commentary in the People's Daily, the Communist party newspaper,accused the US of using social media, such as Twitter and YouTube, to stir up unrest in Iran.In separate comments, carried on a government website today, a spokesperson for the state council information office said China "bans using the internet to subvert state power and wreck national unity, to incite ethnic hatred and division, to promote cults and to distribute content that is pornographic, salacious, violent or terrorist".The spokesperson added: "China has an ample legal basis for punishing such harmful content, and there is no room for doubting this. This is completely different from so-called restriction of internet freedom."The state council information office is the cabinet arm of China's propaganda apparatus and one of several agencies that control the internet.China has prosecuted dissidents and advocates of self-rule in Tibet who have challenged Communist party policies online.
Not even the distraction of the Saints V Pompey draw in the FA Cup could distract me from the highlight of the weekend - yes, Mass Effect 2 has arrived. I've been putting the hours in on the 360 version and it has been a fantastic ride. All the pre-release talk about making the game more of a shooter and beefing up the combat had me worried that Mass Effect 2 would forget that it was the characters and story that really made the original work so well. I needn't have worried - Mass Effect 2 is still a game where conversation is as important as combat. I won't reveal any spoilers but so far the plot has not disappointed.ME2 is full of nice touches such as the import facility that allows you to bring over your character from the original Mass Effect. My lev 47 character allowed me to start ME2 with 120k in cash, all my saved paragon and renegade settings (which affect the conversation options) and stack of raw materials. Perhaps more importantly the decisions I made in the fist game have had an impact in the sequel - although maybe not *quite* as much as I expected.There are couple of issues though. Loading times are quicker than before but still noticeably intrusive. And then there is the tiny font used in the game. It is hard enough to read on an HD screen - on a CRT I imagine it would be unplayable.  This is a game, remember, with plenty to read. There has also been the very occasional graphical glitch.Despite this Mass Effect 2 comes highly recommended. My review should be going up today or tomorrow but in the meantime 360 and PC owners can start looking forward to the year's first must-play game.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Sometimes it seems that there's nothing going on in the world this week except forApple's announcement on Wednesday, whatever it ends up looking like. is driving a frenzy of activity. AppleInsider tracks thedevelopment of multitouch, while this story aboutthe trademark filings for 'iPad'shows how this whole thing is addling people's minds in the quest for a scoop (Apple didn't sue, it objected, and that doesn't mean that the new device will be called the iPad). On a more interesting note, Ars Technica posits thatAmazon's game as a hardware maker is effectively up, while TechCrunch isreporting third hand that Steve Jobs has been sayingit "will be the most important thing I've ever done".&bull; Elsewhere, The music industry is gathering together forMidem, its annual shindig in Cannes - where new schemes are launched and deals thrashed out. This year's pick? So farHewlett Packardhasannounced it is pushing a new music service(does the world really need another?) while some of the brains behind the MP3 haveannounced a successor format called MusicDNA.Our friends at PaidContent will be bringing more from the rivieraall week.&bull; And the arguments over Chinese hackers striking at Google still rumble on - with Beijing now saying that itwas 'troubled' by US suggestions that the state was involved: an unnamed spokesman saying that "the accusation... is groundless and aims to denigrate China". Microsoft bossSteve Ballmer, meanwhile, made his own strange little foray into the subject on Friday, giving a speech to oil industry executives in whichhe  defended his company's stance on internet censorshipand implying that commitment to free speech is "extreme". MeanwhileBruce Scheiermakes the point thatthe hacking attack was only made possible through the actions of surveillance-happy western governments. Food for thought.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
A new way of experiencing music – billed as the most significant development in digital music since the invention of the MP3 – was unveiled at the biggest ­conference in the music industry calendar today.MusicDNA, a digital music file, could help the embattled industry by encouraging music lovers to pay for the latest hits, according to developers.The team that first worked on the MP3,  which turned the music industry on its head, today revealed what they hope will become its successor at the Midem industry conference in Cannes. MusicDNA files will not only contain music but bring together a range of artist information, from artwork and song lyrics to tour dates and Twitter feeds.A fan buying a MusicDNA file of Florence and the Machine's Lungs, for example, could watch – on their computer screen or music player – videos of recent performances, pore over artwork and sleeve notes, find out about concerts and buy a tour T-shirt, while following any blogs or tweets the musician might write."Out of a rusted old VW Beetle we are making a Ferrari," said Stefan Kohlmeyer, the chief executive of Bach Technology, which has developed the file."We are taking an existing idea, giving the end user a lot more and making that file much more valuable – like transforming a tiny house into a huge villa."The file is one of a range of ideas being proposed by technology companies as they clamber to meet the needs of the rapidly developing digital music market. Technology giant Apple released iTunes LP last September, a format which includes interactive album artwork and bundles multimedia elements alongside the music. A similar format, known as CMX, is being developed by the four major record labels. Meanwhile MXP4, another music tech company, has created a file that provides multimedia content as well as interactive music applications.Which of the formats will come out on top remains to be seen, but they are a step in the right direction, according to Paul Brindley, of digital music specialists Music Ally. "It is difficult to recreate the value of a physical product digitally but we are going to see a lot more artists offering a premium product to real fans that are special and higher value," he said.The MusicDNA technology could prove key in the fight against piracy, said Kohlmeyer. The information given with the legally downloaded files will update automatically with tour dates or releases, but pirated files will remain static. "At the moment there is no real incentive to buy a legal file. If we concentrate on making the legal file, we can help the entire music industry," he said.It is not known how much the technology will cost. Bach says the price will be set by record labels and retailers, but hopes it will be in a similar range to current digital files. It will be launched this spring.The company has joined forces with independent labels including UK-based Beggars Group – home of Arctic Monkeys and Radiohead – as well as Tommy Boy Entertainment and Delta records in the US, though no major labels are yet on board.Tom Silverman, the founder and CEO of Tommy Boy, said MusicDNA would provide a much-needed boost to artists and fans because it would connect the two long after the initial sale."It is a boon for fans as it can offer multiple levels of artist stuff based on the fan's passion level. It's a boon for labels because this high-value consumer experience is not clonable, yet highly viral, and gives them full content and pricing flexibility. Their imagination is their only limit … If MP3s were the cassette, MusicDNA will be the CD."
Computer scientists in the US have discovered ways to "re-identify" the names of people included in supposedly anonymous datasets.In one example, a movie rental company released an anonymous list of film-ratings taken from its 500,000 subscribers. Using a statistical "de-anonymisation" technique, the academics were able to identify individuals and their film preferences.The discovery raises concerns about how safe it is to release personal information – such as medical records or mobile phone data – even if details such as names or national insurance numbers have been removed. There are fears the information could be accessed by criminals.The discovery has led British researchers to raise the issue in a report they are writing for the European commission. Dr Ian Brown, of the Oxford Internet Institute and a co-author, said the example of the film list was relatively trivial. "But this raises concerns for more sensitive data such as medical records. Epidemiologists say they could do interesting research if they had access to more anonymous data. This shows it is difficult to do that in a way that can't be reversed."One concern is that criminals could identify individuals through mobile phone data and use the information to track people's movements and find out when they are away from home. "That is one worry. Other people who you might worry about accessing that information include employers, insurers or the government. There are a whole range of potential users," Brown said.Experts say the discovery that lists can be "de-anonymised" needs to be included in the debate about how information is released and where to draw the line. But they also highlight the benefits of letting researchers and others access large datasets.Last week Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the world wide web, launched a new website – data.gov.uk – on which members of the public will be able to access information on crime rates, exam results, house prices and more."They are talking about non-personal data," said Brown. "But another thing they are looking at releasing is crime reports down to street level. You have to think about how people might be able to link that back to individuals."William Heath, founder of Ctrl-Shift, which specialises in how personal data are used, said: "If you take it in the light of Friday's news about data.gov.uk, the government has clearly done something really good to make public data available. Now they need a more enlightened approach to personal data, but you can't simply say anonymised data can be safely made public because it is clear how hard it is truly to anonymise data."
On Thursday, the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, gave a speech oninternet freedomat a journalism museum in Washington, arguing that the architecture of the web must be free from censorship and manipulation. It is a position that stands in stark contrast with the approach of countries, including China, Egypt and Iran, that seek to curb access – and while there was a whiff of economic self-protectionism in Clinton's words, she opened up the floor to a global discussion about the potential revolutionary power of this invention.Less than two decades after it came into being, the web is now a pawn in an international public policy debate that could create rifts between nations so deep that they lay the foundation for future wars.For the past year, I have been working onVirtual Revolution, a four-part documentary series for BBC2, co-produced by the Open University. It aims to identify the true political, economic, social and psychological implications of this new technology. I spoke to an extraordinary cast of characters including the web pioneers, the e-entrepreneurs, and the sceptics who have seen it all before.We identified the new power brokers in our society, whose non-traditional ascents through the web have challenged hundreds of years of hierarchy. We found the kids who took down the economic, communication and political pillars of an entire country with the press of a button. We looked at the tactics extremists use to radicalise new recruits, and compared them to the methods that have proved so successful in getting a generation that had been dismissed as dispassionate involved in politics.We also looked at how the trails of information that we leave across the web are not only redefining privacy, but are creating feedback loops that may be narrowing our horizons, rather than opening our eyes to the new. And we discovered how the web is changing how we think and who we are.I started the journey travelling through Ghana with Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the unassuming Englishman who put the first website in history online on  6 August 1991. He was on a tour with theWorld Wide Web Foundation, carrying out field research to understand how the web was affecting rural communities who were only now getting connected. He was modest about his role in the development of this technology, making sure to name-check the others who were toying with the same ideas at the same time. His aim had not been to catalyse a worldwide revolution, but to create a framework that would connect lots of information that would not require one person to look after it. But his idealism and belief in the power of web has driven him to take the web to the world."Tim Berners-Lee created a new mode of human communication," Stephen Fry told me. "He created a new way of allowing communication to work in extraordinarily connected ways."Fry, well-known for his enthusiasm for technology, reflected on what the web had meant to him when he discovered it in the early 1990s. "It seemed like a great new world," he enthused. "It seemed like a new democracy. It seemed like a new way of people coming together and spreading news, of educating, of giving yourself information and access to people and cultures and history. It seemed the most fantastic, radical and extraordinary development since Gutenberg produced his Bible."His thoughts were echoed by Al Gore, the former US vice-president. "It represents the emergence of a new information ecosystem that will have a more profound impact on human civilisation than did the printing press," he said.The web has brought about an enormous transformation in what information we have at our fingertips. It is extremely empowering: every­one has the freedom to participate in the library of knowledge collected online, by accessing it or creating it. Anyone who has historically held control over the distribution of information – governments, media, agents – is having to reposition in the face of this information tsunami."Individuals without great wealth or bases of power and the industrial world economy can exert influence on others who find their ideas resonating with them," Gore said. "It is inherently democratising and egalitarian and promotes a greater role for the rule of reason."It is always dangerous, however, to be blinded by idealism. The web is undoubtedly a transformative technology on a par with the printing press, but it's difficult to believe that it will bring the end of inequality or will eradicate international conflict. In fact, some have learned to manipulate the web's power for their own ends.When this sits well with our personal politics, we celebrate. A 25-year-old from San Francisco can create a piece of software that opens up a channel of communication on the violent streets of post-election Iran, giving protesters the ability to transmit what is happening to the rest of the world. Teenagers in London can organise mass protests on climate change, rallying people from around the country to march on a coal-fired power station in Nottinghamshire. But when the same techniques and tools are used to radicalise new recruits to fundamentalist causes, to attack a country's banks and newspapers, or to promote propaganda within authoritarian states, the web becomes something to condemn.The debate becomes even more personal when you consider how our use of this overwhelmingly commercial space is transforming what privacy means in the 21st century. As we traipse across the web, our trails of personal information are captured and manipulated. We get services for free, but our actions are analysed to produce precisely targeted advertising that funds the companies behind the websites.The greatest shock to most people is that we willingly create this commercial pact when we think we're alone. A Google search, for example, transcends the barrier between what we view as public and what we view as private. When we do a search on our computers at home, in the office or on the road, we have a misplaced sense we are transacting only with our machine. In fact, when we type a query in Google's search box, we are divulging our intentions to a technology located across the planet, with hundreds of potential eyeballs sifting through our search terms for the perfect advertising match. Yet we still treat it like an oracle, asking it deeply personal questions and looking for answers in its computer brain.The surveillance implications for this are clear, but there are wider cultural implications when the money people behind the scenes get their rewards for feeding us exactly what we want. Amazon's recommendation engine, Last.fm's social music service, even news sites such as the Huffington Post, reduce the possibility for serendipity by serving up what they think we want, channelling us into a loop of confirmation. As author Douglas Rushkoff says: "The more like one of my kind of person I become, the less me I am, and the more I am a demographic type."Socially, this is as potentially damaging as what the extremists peddle; we are coagulating into tight-knit groups who reinforce our own beliefs. It's a far cry from the global group hug that web proponents such as Fry or Gore had hoped it would be.In addition, the web may be fundamentally changing how we think. There is evidence that there is a generational difference between how children and adults consume information online. A team of researchers led by Professor David Nicholas, of theindependent research group Ciber, at University College London, has begun a series of experiments to test whether the architecture of the web put into place by Berners-Lee is transforming the connections in our brains. A lifetime of use seems to be having a cognitive effect.Under-18s who have grown up with the web are better at multi-tasking. They also spend less time searching for information before deciding on what they view as the best answer to a question. Most intriguingly, the youngest users, born after 1993, "crowdsource" their knowledge: they look for the wisdom of their friends, networking what they know, rather than holding on to the information for themselves.My PhD researchlooked at the social psychological implications of our interactions online. What I have come to conclude is that who we are on the web is simply a reflection of who we already are offline. We project hierarchical systems into the virtual world. We extend our interests and make them happen using the tools the web provides. We seek out things that make us feel good about ourselves. The web is a mirror, and we have to face it in confidence, warts and all.Our relationship with the web is a synergy: as it matures, so will we. And as it draws us into its networks and its hyperlinks, we will shape them in our global image. It is the most revolutionary evolution that we as a planet have ever participated in. "The sorts of things which the internet brings by connecting people," Berners-Lee said to me while we were travelling to a community centre in Abiriw, outside Accra, "is openness and understanding of other people's ideas."On a good day," he added. "I hope we have a lot of good days."
VW POLOFROM £9,435MILES PER GALLON: 51.4CO2PER KM: 128 GRAMSGOOD FOR: RUCKS &amp; MAULSBAD FOR: SHOPPING MALLSThe charismatic coach of my young son's rugby team – a front-row veteran of many campaigns and a fearsome master of the dark arts of scrummaging – is a great believer in the inspirational sporting slogan. He bellows these from the touchline, and loves to print them up on the team's kit. We've had "Pain is just weakness leaving the body"; "Pain is temporary, trophies last forever" and "Mini rugby: half the size, twice as mean". And "Small but tough!" – the advertising tag line for the latest Polo, VW's most feisty and endlessly durable veteran – could easily be one of his.So omnipresent is VW's second-bestselling car, that 34 years after it first went on sale,  the Polo is now inseparable from its moniker. Mention the word "polo" and there are few among us who still have a mental image of a snaggletoothed hooray in tight white trousers staring down from his horse. Most of us will think of our first car… (Incidentally, after the Golf and the Polo, I've always felt the motoring public would welcome a VW Rugby.)This latest edition of the Polo is the fifth generation to have gone on sale. With each iteration it has become longer, wider, taller – and cleverer. I owned a Mark II Polo back in the early 90s and for me its most pleasing aspect was the fact that it was simple and sturdy… Still, we can't reverse to those heady low-tech days. Modern cars have to be larger to accommodate all the extra technology and safety features they now come packed with, and possibly also the fact that we are all getting larger, too (though not necessarily cleverer). This "biggest-ever" Polo is actually 7.5% lighter than the outgoing model, which contributes to its higher fuel economy and lower emissions. It is, reassuringly, 20% cleaner than the Mark IV.The appearance of the car comes from the pen of VW's head of design, Walter de Silva, so it's no surprise that it looks like a slightly shrunken version of the Golf. While most things (photos, stews, waistlines) improve as they are reduced, the diminutive Polo now looks a bit overwhelmed by its large lower lip and wide grille. It may share the same "face" as many other cars in the VW line-up, but as we all know the same features can look dramatically different across a family. (The bulbous "Love nose" my brother and I have both inherited doesn't look half as bad on our father.) The car comes with five engine choices and four trim levels, so there's something for everyone, from teens to pensioners. And all variants have airbags, ABS and ESP fitted as standard. This year alone, VW expects to sell just under 40,000 of these Polos in the UK – to add to the 1m previously sold in Britain and the 10m-plus worldwide.Despite the fact that the year has only just begun and the car has just gone on sale, the Polo has already been named Car of the Year 2010 – narrowly pipping Toyota's brilliant IQ into second, with the new Astra taking bronze.So, small but tough and now it seems unbeatable, too. If only I could say the same about my son's rugby team…★martin.love@observer.co.uk
ONE USEFUL spin-off from the developing story of Google's difficulties with the Chinese communist regime is that it may finally spur the west to discard the rose-tinted spectacles through which it has chosen to view China in the past decade – and not before time.The west's response to China's rapid industrialisation was determined by a recipe blending three parts greed with one part naivety. The greed was understandable: the stupendous rate of Chinese economic growth triggered a desperate desire for a slice of the action. Everywhere, whether in companies or universities, one found a palpable determination to "get into China". In the political world, we saw western governments scramble to out-do one another in fawning upon visiting Chinese potentates.Still, greed is part of human nature; we have to make a living, and often behave reprehensibly while doing so. What was less forgivable about the west's approach was the implicit naivety. It was a product of wishful thinking brought about by market triumphalism, the belief that, in the end, it is impossible to have a capitalist economy without also having liberal political institutions.Google's engagement with China was driven by both greed and naivety. The latter was graphically illustrated by the deal on filtering search results the company accepted. The Google folk persuaded themselves it was better to let internet users know their searches had been filtered, on the grounds that this might alert Chinese citizens to the imperfections in their political arrangements. It was unpalatable, but better than nothing. And it might lead to change.It was all hooey, of course. The regime is irredeemably authoritarian and never had any intention of ceding freedom of information to its people. Neither has it ever bought into the idea of market triumphalism. The whole Chinese economic "miracle" is a refutation of the link between capitalism and liberalism: Hu Jintao &amp; Co believe it is perfectly possible to build a dynamic, prosperous economy without bothering with all that democracy nonsense.Recent developments confirm the indifference of the regime to western sensibilities. Though nobody has yet conclusively proved the hacking attack that triggered Google's decision to quit China was officially sanctioned, I can't find anyone in the security world who doubts it. And already some specialists have uncovered interesting similarities between it and the "Ghostnet" operation of 2008/9 mounted against Tibetan activists – which was traced back to a Chinese intelligence network.James Fallows, the distinguished US journalist who has recently returned from a long posting in China, thinks it is entering its own "Bush-Cheney era" – a period of aggressive dismissal of the world. "A difficult and unpleasant stage of China-US and China-world relations lies ahead," he writes. "This is so on the economic front [and] may prove so on the environmental front… It is increasingly so on the political-liberties front, as witness Vaclav Havel's denunciation of the recent 11-year prison sentence for the man who is in many ways his Chinese counterpart, Liu Xiaobo."Which provides the context for the most remarkable development of the week – Hillary Clinton'sspeech on internet freedomat the Newseum in Washington last Thursday. Internet users, she declared, must be "assured certain basic freedoms" – freedom of expression and of worship, freedom from want and from fear and, most intriguingly, "freedom to connect".She then turned tol'affaireGoogle. "We look to Chinese authorities to conduct a thorough investigation of the cyber intrusions that led Google to make this announcement. We also look for that investigation and its results to be transparent. The internet has already been a source of tremendous progress in China, and it's great that so many people there are now online. But countries that restrict free access to information or violate the basic rights of internet users risk walling themselves off from the progress of the next century."The regime was so enraged it issued an unprecedentedly speedy critique. Which shows how quickly the Google drama is evolving into a high-level crisis. Cyberspace was the next frontier; it's becoming the next battleground.
PS22 ChorusThere is something incredibly life-affirming about hearing choirs, especially children's choirs – even if they are singing Kum Ba Yah. As we've seen from Glee, American school choruses enjoy singing the odd contemporary tune, too. The kids of the 50-strong PS22 Chorus from Staten Island, New York are closer to junior school age, but, led by music teacher Gregg Breinberg, they've sung brilliant rearrangements of Lady Gaga, Jay Z, Björk, Chas &amp; Dave and, most recently, Fireflies by Owl City. Their enthusiasm is infectious – Rihanna is among their celebrity fans – and an instant cure for January blues.The Museum Of Animal PerspectivesThe Museum of Animal PerspectivesEver wondered what the world looks like from the viewpoint of an armadillo? Well now's your chance. Curated by "video naturalist" Sam Easterson, the Museum of Animal Perspectives collects films taken from miniature cameras attached to animals' heads to give you some idea of what life is like for turtles, pigs, scorpions, spiders and dozens of other animals across the world. The films – mainly YouTube clips – are geo-tagged so you can pick a location (Britain's contribution is a rather sad film of some sheep on a bleak hillside). Elsewhere is footage taken from motion-triggered hidden camera traps – seek out that of a black bear having a good old rub against a tree.BLOG ROLL: CRIME WRITERSShamus TownRaymond ChandlerA stunning repository of all things Raymond Chandler, including amazing ephemera, photos and maps.Crime SquadDead good online mag focusing on interviews, reviews and new authors.Elmore LeonardOpening chapters and thoughts on his Hollywood adaptations, including new US TV series Justified.Mark BillinghamSite of the stand-up turned crime writer includes the essay: So This Serial Killer Walks Into A Bar.Cathi UnsworthThe queen of London Noir serves up soundtracks to novel Bad Penny Blues.Stieg LarssonThe man responsible for translating Larsson's bestsellers on the books' inspiration and locations.WHAT WE LEARNED ON THE WEB THIS WEEKThe Time Outcover schedule for 2010History isbetter when it rhymesTen placesyou will probably never get to enterLady Gagais a dollWhat itwould sound like if Elvis sang TV theme tunesWhat the nerdiesttank top ever knitted looks likePeeping Tomshave been caught wearing hoods the colour of the sunWhat the worldwould be like 28 drinks laterAugustus Gloopbecame an accountantA chartof body parts to musical genre
The mobile gaming revolution, as predicted a decade ago, failed to turn up, instead spawning half-hearted renditions of 80s arcade games and the odd over-engineered first person shooter. The arrival of iPhone changed all that, with its touchscreen interface and App Store, which lets you easily browse and rate software. These recent additions are well worth a look.Mystery ManiaTap the screen to direct a little robot towards various items of interest. Activate them in the right order to unlock the next room. Simple, offbeat and increasingly satisfying to solve its charmingly lightweight mysteries, each contained in a single screen. Mystery Mania is one of a kind.Electronic Arts Nederland BV, £1.19Talking CarlTalking CarlIf you've got children or just visit any regularly, Talking Carl is likely to become your new best friend. Tickle, poke or squeeze him on the touchscreen and he'll respond; talk to him and he'll squawk your words back at you. Endless, entirely innocent entertainment ensues.Awyse,59pAngry BirdsAngry BirdsA group of smiling green blobs steals the birds' eggs. You exact revenge by catapulting angry birds at the blobs, destroying the structures they inhabit as they plummet to the ground. The birds' irritable clucking sound effects are worth the price of admission alone.Clickgamer.com, 59pRunwayRunwayPlanes fly along the top of the screen; drag them to land, unload, then, if they need it, for repairs, food or fuel. Three perfectly judged difficulty levels, functional graphics and "cognitive panic" gameplay that's more addictive than nicotine.Red Watermelon, 59pDoodle Bomb: Physics Puzzle With A BangDoodle BombLob explosives at artfully arranged control panels, sentries and bomb-transporting wheels and tubes to secure escape from each level. Playful grenade-tossing soon gives way to wonderfully inventive and lengthy sequences that test timing, accuracy and eventually grey matter.Bottle Rocket, £1.19PolyhedraPolyhedraTouching the screen gradually blows up a bubble. Cover a certain percentage of the screen to win while avoiding bouncing enemies, which burst partially-inflated polyhedra. Try it with various different shapes to discover that they're equally limited in entertainment value.Binary Hammer, 59pThe Treasures of Montezuma 2Treasures of MontezumaMatch rows or columns of three coloured blocks to make them disappear. Match the same colour set twice to trigger a power-up, earn gold to buy more elaborate power-ups, and that's how Treasures 2 gently reels you into its Aztec-themed garden of delights.Alawar Entertainment, Inc, £1.19Collapse! – NewCollapseAnother game where you have to match three or more coloured blocks to make them vanish, only this time you can't move anything, you just have to spot and poke them. It's less paltry than it sounds and rich in its diversity of modes, from timer-free puzzle to frantic strategy levels. Highly competent, but never likely to supplant Bejewelled 2.RealArcade, 59p
For some time now,Twitter has been maintaining what's known as the Suggested Users List or SUL, a master list of several hundred accounts rated highly by Twitter staff. Any new user signing in to the site was presented a selection of these accounts as a way of introducing them to the idea of Twitter: that you follow the updates of other people.The reason for this was straightforward: people new to Twitter often find it difficult to get the point of the service, because they don't know who to follow.For those unfamiliar with the rapid fire updates, the site's premise is often confounding - and without a gentle introduction to the system, it can feel puzzling, overwhelming or simply empty. It can feel as if you bought a telephone but then discovered there was nobody to call.But the SUL was criticised (often with merit) as being variously opaque, simplistic and evencorruptbecause it brought some users hundreds of thousands (or even millions) of followers. Our@guardiantechaccount was one beneficiary, but beyond the headline figures the benefits of being on the list have never been clear cut (asAnil Dash eloquently noted recently).What was clear, however, was that how to recommended users was still a problem that Twitter hadn't been able to solve.Now the site thinks it's made progress by instituting a new version of the Suggested Users List that aims to be more democratic and focused on what new users are interested in.The new idea? To divide up into areas of interest (like "books", "entertainment" and "science") while providing a list of users in each area determined by their popularity and levels of engagement.Twitter staff member Josh Elman outlined the changesin a blog post yesterday:"We've created a number of algorithms to identify users across a variety of clusters who tweet actively and are engaged with their audiences," he wrote. "These new algorithms help us group these active users into lists of users by interests. Rather than suggesting a random set of 20 users for a new user to follow, now we let users browse into the areas they are interested in and choose who they want to follow from these lists."Is it an improvement? It's certainly more granular than the previous one-size-fits-all-policy, but it's still relatively limited by a small number of subjects.And it's not really any more clear how the list is put together. That's not necessarily a bad thing (as I've written before,being too transparent makes the system open to gaming) but it's certainly not pleased everyone. Although the system most likely draws fromTwitter's "lists" feature, there also appears to be a certain hand-picked element (and any measurement of popularity is skewed by previous appearances on the list).But it's a step forward: giving new users a proper lead-in to the service has always been a tricky problem for the site.So how do you solve that problem? What's Twitter still missing?For a start, I can think of three things I'd like to see built in to the main engine.&bull;Search functionality that lets you find people like youWho tweets a lot about the selection of things I am interested in? Who are the people who are connected to them? What's my larger circle of contacts? I'd love to have an easy way to find out who the other Chelsea fans in San Francisco, for example.&bull;Easy ways to search messages from your streamI've lost count of the number of times that I have wanted to find that message from somebody that I follow but couldn't remember the details. Who was it that tweeted about that new mobile phone they recommended? Who linked to that story I enjoyed? Twitter knows who I am, but it doesn't let me search my friends' messages. Google canindex the messages, but it doesn't know who I am.&bull;Personalised trendsWhat are the things the people I like are talking about? I don't care about some pseudo-racist meme that is spreading around, or the fact that everybody and their dog is tweeting about watching Avatar. I want to know what the hot topics are within a degree or two of me. This is even more important given that you don't see all the messages that your friends send to other people.
Sony said today that3 million PS3's have been sold in the UK. A decent milestone reached then even if it lags behind the Xbox 360 (around 4 million in UK) and Wii (around 6).  Of course, both the 360 and Wii have been on the market longer than PS3. Anyway, it's late on Friday so let's keep things nice and simple for the weekend. 3 million hardware sales then, but what have been your favourite PS3 games so far. For me Uncharted 2 and LittleBigPlanet are the clear winners. But what about you?
Web developers have cried foul after the government appeared to rule out the possibility of a free copy of the Postcode Address File (PAF) – which contains geographical data about the locations of every Royal Mail delivery address in the UK – being made available to non-profit and community websites.Coming the day after thelaunch of data.gov.uk, a website which brings together more than 2,500 datasets from across central government for unrestricted reuse – including commercial exploitation – disappointed developers have said that the rejection looks like  "it's back to government business as normal".Although Gordon Brown has pushed through ascheme which will make some Ordnance Survey mapping data free from April, postcode data has been harder to come by. The release of that would have to be approved by the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills, headed by Lord Mandelson.For now that seems to have been turned down. In a response to a petition lodged with the No.10 website – which said that "We the undersigned petition the Prime Minister to encourage the Royal Mail to offer a free postcode database to non-profit and community websites" – the government haspassed the buck,, saying that deciding whether a copy of the PAF is provided under such terms is down to the Royal Mail and the postal regulator Postcomm."As access to the PAF is governed under a condition of licence, Postcomm monitors its practice.  Royal Mail's licence obliges the company to make access to the PAF available on reasonable terms," says No.10. "Postcomm allows the company to make a reasonable specified profit margin and monitors its accounts."In 2005-06, the latest year for which figures have been made available, sales of PAF generated about £18m and a profit of less than £2m.The PAF – or its simpler version, PostZon, which has geographical details for the UK's 18m – are frequently used by web services to provide location-based information about users' surroundings.Last September the PostZon file was leaked on Wikileaks– but developers shunned it on the basis that they could be prosecuted for using it without a licence.Harry Metcalfe, a web developer who attended the launch of data.gov.uk and who has also previously built applications that used data derived from PAF – and received a lawyers' letter from the company telling his company to cease and desist – said the government's approach to PAF and postcode data was outdated.On the blog for the ernestmarples site – which wassued by RM- he wrote:"The problem is that the licence was formed to suit industry. To suit people who resell PAF data, and who use it to save money and do business. And that's fine – I have no problem with industry, commercialism or using public data to make a profit.""But this approach belongs to a different age. One where the only people who needed postcode data were insurance and fulfilment companies. Where postcode data was abstruse and obscure. We're not in that age any more."But there are signs that the PAF's elusive paywall will not last for long. Nigel Shadbolt, professor of computer science at Southampton University who together with Sir Tim Berners-Lee was instrumental in opening up government data for the new data.gov.uk website,tweetedthat there is "Still much to do" upon seeing the failure of the petition.Shadbolt and Berners-Lee have beenmaking the case inside government since June last yearthat data collected by government-owned bodies has in effect been paid for already by the public - and that releasing it to them enhances the economic benefits and opportunities far more than any monetising by government itself.The No.10 response to the petition notes that the government is the only shareholder in RM, and notes that it maintains an "arms-length" relationship. But it then recognises the potential usefulness of the PAF:"The Postcode Address File (PAF) dataset was designed and engineered by Royal Mail and is owned and managed by the company as a commercial asset of the business (containing around 29 million addresses in the UK).  Royal Mail developed the PAF with the primary purpose to aid the efficient delivery of mail, though over the years the PAF has come to be used for a number of purposes other than the postal purpose for which it is designed and was established.  Indeed, many organisations, including new postal operators, banks, insurance companies and others offering to deliver goods to your door, use the information held on the database.  The PAF is also used in other business processes, including mailing list "cleaning", anti-fraud activities and various customer services. "It adds that"Royal Mail invests significantly in collating and maintaining the Postcode Address File (PAF) and this cost is recovered through an independently regulated licensing arrangement.  It would of course be very time-consuming and costly for anyone to try to replicate the list, so Royal Mail licenses PAF data, for a fee, allowing others to use it. "However figures for the precise amount of investment made by RM in the maintenance of PAF are notoriously difficult to find.There is understood to be some resistance within government to Berners-Lee and Shadbolt's manifesto - which mirrors that of the Free Our Data campaign run by Guardian Technology since March 2006, arguing that government-collected datasets including those of government-owned organisations like Royal Mail and Ordnance Survey should be made available for free to all users.Even with Royal Mail it seems that the PAF's licensing is a problem. As a commenter called Chloe points out in acomment to one of Tom Watson MP's posts about RMand PAF, "I work for royal mail and i know my managers use google to lookup incomplete addresses and not the royal mails own software because it is more accurate and up to date and does not have to be licensed to each computer in their office."
