Air combat titles are a relatively rare gaming treat, especially on the consoles.  So the release of Tom Clancy's Hawx should appeal to anyone who likes the idea of fast jets and Top Gun-style camaraderie.And while they won't take your breath away, the graphics are worth a look too – especially from up high. The story is superfluous to the action, with each mission offering a tempting batch of ground and air targets. Things can get&nbsp;a little tricky at times, but Hawx is a long way from a serious flight sim. The ERS guidance system is invaluable to novices, helping them find targets and avoid incoming missiles. But given the usual tactical detail associated with Clancy games, Hawx feels a little  shallow.Yes, you need to persevere to unlock all the planes, but Hawx requires far more shooting than strategy. Online co-op play – with your friends as wingmen – is predictably enjoyable, but Hawx is still highly entertaining when flying alone.
With echoes of the equally impressive Blitzkrieg, Men of War is a WW2 RTS split into three main campaigns. Each of the 19 attractive levels gives you a terrain crammed with destructible scenery and a small number of units and AI controlled allies. This leads to tense, frantic battles, mixing stealthier missions with all-out tank, infantry and artillery assaults that can quickly reduce entire towns to rubble.Although the stealth missions are less successful, units can switch to direct control for more precise command, including the ability to hide bodies. As for quibbles: sometimes it's hard to pinpoint your objectives, but Men of War comfortably puts many bigger RTSs to shame.
Ofcom boss Ed Richards last night set out the full scale of the challenge of realising the government's ambition of getting broadband to everyone in the UK by 2012, with over 1.5m homes currently unable to receive the download speed promised by communications minister Lord Carter in his Digital Britain plan.Speaking on "The Future of Telecoms", a public lecture at the London School of Economics, Richards unveiled research to be published by the regulator later this week. Over 40% of the UK's estimated 25m households do not have broadband and, of those, Richards said that about 55% "have decided they do not want it at all, even though they can afford it – we call these the 'self excluded'".He added that  about 30% "are restrained by financial resources but would like to be online – we call these the 'financially excluded'," while "15% don't want it and don't have the resources anyway – we call these the 'dual excluded'."But he indicated that 1% of UK households do want broadband but cannot get it where they live – the so-called "geographically excluded".However, the 1% figure is only for broadband at a minimum speed of 0.5Mb per second. Carter, in his interim Digital Britain report published in January, said that by 2012 he wanted universal broadband access at speeds of 2Mb per second and above. At those speeds, Richards said, "the 1% grows substantially to an estimated 15% who simply can't access a service of this speed at present". That is equivalent to roughly 1.5m homes.He said it was "time to ensure that anyone who wants a decent basic broadband service can get one".Carter has made it plain that he believes that "3G" data services on UK mobile phone networks have a major role to play in plugging the gaps in broadband coverage, while Richards added that in some cases "simple and cheap improvements to in-house wiring can deliver the desired speed improvements".
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
MIT ProfessorHenry Jenkinshas long been an advocate of computer games. His support for the medium has been witnessed at the top of the political pile; Jenkins frequently testifies in front of the US Congress against game regulation and in support of digital openness. This morning at SxSWi, he joined game developer Warren Spector and learning academic James Gee on a panel celebrating the role of games in learning.I spoke with Jenkins after the panel and asked why games are such good tools for learning. He also assured me he was staying in the policy space after he moves to his new position at USC.Check out the clip here. Many thanks to David Dunkley Gyimah for handling the camera.
Veteran game designer Warren Spector was one of a trio of luminaries on the main stage at South by Southwest Interactive this morning discussing what consumers can learn from games.Games, he argued, are unique: they offer something that no other medium allows users to do - the opportunity to walk in someone else's shoes. I met him after the panel to explore what this means in the contexts of learning, of social responsibility and interactivity.Check out the videohere.
If you are thinking about buying one of the more serious digital cameras, take a look atDigital Photography Review. It provides thorough reviews of digital SLRs, and while it may not cover all the compacts, it does track models from leading brands.DP Review's Buying Guide section has a database of cameras so you can search for the features you want. If you're trying to decide between different models you've heard about, you can pick the ones you want and see their specifications side by side for comparison. You can also go beyond the site's reviews and click to read opinions from people who own them. There are 11 reader reviews of the Canon PowerShot A550, for example, 36 of the G10, and 168 of the EOS 450D (Digital Rebel XSi).An even quicker way to see what's hot is a table of the "Top digital cameras of the last five days" as measured by reader interest. (Today, Nikon D90 information is attracting the most clicks.) There's also a timeline that shows when various cameras were launched, going back to 1995. Along with the reviews, it provides a terrific overview of the rapid development of the digital camera business from the days of 0.3 megapixel images.The site didn't actually start until 1998, when Phil Askey wrote a review of a camera he'd bought and "dropped it onto the now defunct photo.askey.net."He says on his blog: "But then a funny thing happened, I began getting emails, lots of them, all asking about my article and what I thought of other cameras." People were looking for a site that provided "honest, detailed reviews", so he started one.LikeIMDb, DP Review was one of the few UK sites to attract a global (mainly American) following, and like IMDb, Amazon bought it. Although it doesn't seem to have changed much since then, it's now run on a professional basis. It has new offices, a greatly expanded staff, and the use of Amazon's server infrastructure.Amazon's ownership isn't mentioned in the site's credits, and there are no banners or logos. There are, of course, lots of links that take you to Amazon to buy stuff, but the site still provides links and prices for alternative site.As you would expect, DP Review has become a home from home for hardware buffs, who comment on reviews and help each other in the forums. Recently, however, it has started expanding its coverage of what cameras are used for: taking pictures. The site now runsChallenges, where users are invited to submit photos on specific topics, then vote on the results.At the moment, people are voting on six challenges, two are open for submission, and another three have been announced. Topics include: It's hip to be square (407 entries, 3,137 votes), View from my window, and – starting next Monday – The Lone Tree.People still go to DP Review for the specs, but many stick around for the creativity and the community.
Who cares if the control system is a bizarre idiosyncrasy in this age of spoiled gamers expecting to be able to run and shootat the same time? What matter is it that this is really Resident Evil 4.5 in terms of narrative, enemies and inventory interface? Resident Evil 5 is superb fun and it's doing the business in terms of retail performance - four million shipped in the first week on sale and four million downloads for the PSN and Xbox Live 360 demo. I wonder if that's the same four million people?The success is despite some reserved reviews and the controversy surrounding Capcom's decision to release a competitive multiplayer mode aspaid-fordownloadable content. Online functionality is now generally considered a staple feature of modern console titles, not something to tack on later and charge for.Capcom has defended its decision, claiming that multiplayer is, "above and beyond the initial scope of Resident Evil 5". However, the company should perhaps have learned from the whole Battlefield: Bad Company 'weapons for cash' debacle. Last year, Electronic Arts planned to provide dedicated players of its FPS with extra downloadable weapons - the catch was, you'd have to pay for them. Cue vociferous criticism on the games forums, and a quick back-track from EA.Gamers are clearly attempting to draw a line in the sand for publishers who - quite naturally - want to squeeze as much revenue as possible from their Triple A fare. It will be interesting to see what happens when the DLC is released: do internet forums speak for the majority of purchasers, or will consumers happily shell out a fiver for the ability to blast other Chris Redfields online?
Haven't done anything on mobile for a couple of weeks, so here's a quick blast through some of what's available at the moment...First up is Rolling With Katamari, the mobile version of Namco's colourful object-collecting masterpiece - out now and available for most current handsets. As soon as it loads you know that the conversion of this much-loved gem has been taken seriously. The title screen is a quaint animated rural scene, with little cows eating grass, balloons floating by, and the prince zooming past on a paper plane – all accompanied by a wilting piano soundtrack. It's a world away from the usual bashed together mobile game menu: a hideous pavement pizza of system fonts and distorted techno muzak.As in the original game, the King of the Cosmos has accidentally destroyed all the stars on a heavy night out and you are going to have to replace them – with rolled up junk. The action takes place on a series of themed isometric locations (a kitchen table, a home interior, Paris…), and as usual involves rolling your Katamari ball around, collecting items of increasing size, from bread crumbs and flowers, to televisions, animals and buildings. On each level there's a time limit and the King will give you a katamari size to aim for, or he'll request that you grab certain types or colours of objects – then you're off, rolling over as much stuff as possible.The essence of the game is perfectly captured then, even down to the surreal, belittling humour of the King's mission briefings. Although the environments are teeny, they retain the pastel-coloured charm of the console games, and there's plenty of detail, including several little secrets to discover. The controls are immediately accessible, and though navigating becomes more troublesome as your katamari grows - thereby obscuring smaller obstacles as well as the prince himself - the presence of both strafe and quick turn options get you out of most fixes pretty quickly. It is, in short, a wonderful mobile game, lovingly re-modelled and beautifully presented.Mystery ManiaI've also been hearing really good things about Mystery Mania, the latest release from Danish developerProgressive Media, previously responsible for one of my favourite mobile games of all time, SolaRola. It's a highly stylised point-and-click adventure, in which you control an amnesiac robot who finds himself in a mysterious mansion and must solve logic puzzles in each room to escape. Naturally, objects can be picked up and combined, and – harking back to the glory days of the LucasArts adventures – there's a knockabout cartoon humour to everything. Pocket Gamer havejust given it 9/10, but the game's publisher, EA Mobile is yet to send me the code. Humph.Meanwhile,Connect2Mediahas announced that it'll be distributing the mobile version of iPhone hit,Edge, an award-winning isometric maze game from Mobigame. It's essentially a square version of eighties titles like Marble Madness and Spin Dizzy – you control a cube, navigating a multi-level monochrome landscape, avoiding moving barriers. As with the iPhone original, the mobile title supports accelerometer controls so you can move simply by tilting the screen.KenKenDue out on mobile phones in April is Capcom's KENKEN: Train Your Brain, based on the newspaper puzzle phenomenon, which adds simple maths to the basic sudoku recipe. If you've not encountered these, the press release provides a brief introduction: "The brainchild of Japanese Math teacher Tetsuya Miyamoto, KENKEN requires simple arithmetic calculations and logic to decipher the ingenious puzzles. Translated as 'wisdom squared' in Japanese, KENKEN involves addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. With difficulty levels from beginner to advanced, KENKEN puzzles improve logical thinking, concentration and perseverance."They're good fun, and Capcom has crammed 250 of the things into its mobile conversion.Over to iPhone and I'm currently playing BubbleBoom, from veteran casual game specialist,Zed. It's a presentable Zuma clone with a cartoon-ish undersea setting, the key selling point being the decent implementation of the accelerometer: instead of firing coloured balls at the passing line, you tilt your phone to direct a bubble around the screen, attempting to line-up it up with other bubbles of the same colour.There's the usual collection of power-ups (some slow the line down, some pause it completely) and the 42 levels consist of different challenges, requiring you to, say, clear bubbles of a certain colour or challenging you to keep going for a certain amount of time. It's derivative stuff, but reasonably compelling, and worth the £1.19 asking price for the decent movement controls alone.One-Dot EnemiesIf you're looking for something a little more offbeat, you should try One-Dot Enemies fromStudio-Kuraand cult Japanese game designer, Kenji Eno. Previously founder of development studio, WARP (responsible for the bizarre D series of cinematic adventure titles), he's now got two iPhone apps under his belt, following the offbeat shooter,Newtonica. The idea behind One-Dot Enemies is all in the title – you're beset by invaders measuring just one pixel in size and you must tap the screen to destroy them. It's frantic stuff, made all the more challenging if your screen isn't entirely pristine (you may find yourself tapping frantically at a piece of dust) – or if you have dead pixels. It's also free so you've no excuse not to try it.You've also got to see Rasta Monkey fromNitako, a scrolling platformer in which you control a Rastafarian primate as it leaps, swings and cartwheels through a minimalist jungle environment collecting fruit. Great visuals, lovely controls and it has a monkey in it. Take a look at the demo below…
Could this be the gaming surprise of the year? Ok, I only managed to play an early level and yes, there is some polish needed, but theGhostbustersgame looked remarkably good. As did 55 year-oldRay "Who Ya Gonna Call?" Parker Jr, who was in London promoting the game.To say hopes were low would be an understatement. Ghostbusters had beendroppedby Activision after the Vivendi takeover and then picked up by Atari. Yes, the same Atari responsible for Alone in the Dark and numerous other turkeys over the last few years. Plus, let's face it, the original film is 25 years old now - does anyone still care? And could it ever better the classic originalC64 title? So I didn't expect much when the game was recently shown in London. I should have had more faith..It looks great for a start, capturing the atmosphere of the movies. Well, the 360 version did anyway. The Wii has gone for a stylised cartoon design which purists may baulk at but actually appears to work. But the 360/PS3 version felt like the real deal and a playtest confirmed this.As you would expect the bulk of the action involves finding ghosts – usually by scouting them out via the some nifty night vision goggles – and then actually catching them. This is done, of course, by aiming your proton beam to weaken them before snagging them into your trap. The latter is surprisingly satisfying as you battle with your ghoul fishing-game style to reel it in.How this enjoyable, but relatively simple, mechanic pans out throughout the game remains to be seen. The ghost catching action could get repetitive although with the game clocking in at a relatively relaxed 8-9 hours long it may not be an issue.There were some issues. The camera was unhelpful in places, especially when surrounded in the corner by hordes of ghostly hounds. And it was fiddly to interact with items. But with most of the original cast reprising their roles – including Bill Murray - and Dan Aykroyd providing the script, the game feels and looks the part. Early days and all that but Ghostbusters looks like one to watch this summer (it's out in June).
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Ron Carmel is one-half of the indie game phenomenon 2D Boy, the company that developed the refreshingWorld of Goo. Its runaway success has propelled the former EA developer into game stardom, and at this year's SxSWi, I grabbed him to get a few tips for hopefuls.
One of the features ofApple's new Shuffleis that it's controlled from the earphones supplied. This is also one of its major drawbacks, because Apple earphones are not particularly good, but now you can't use the superior headphones or earphones that you already own. (Well, you can, but they don't have to controls needed to change the volume, skip tracks etc.)What makes it worse, according toiLounge, is that "third-party headphone makers will have to use yet another Apple 'authentication chip' if they want to interoperate with the new Shuffle". And unless someone makes an adaptor, you'll have the same problem using the new Shuffle with a car stereo or home hi-fi. The site says:This is, in short, a nightmare scenario for long-time iPod fans: are we entering a world in which Apple controls and taxes literally every piece of the iPod purchase from headphones to chargers, jacking up their prices, forcing customers to re-purchase things they already own, while making only marginal improvements in their functionality? It's a shame, and one that consumers should feel empowered to fight.BoingBoing took up the challengeand located the chip:You'd never guess it was there — a tiny chip, barely a millimeter square, hidden inside the headphone module on the third-gen iPod shuffle. If you dismantle the module itself, you still won't see it: it's underneath a board containing a few simple copper traces, itself minuscule, and glued to the plastic. Even the traditional iFixit teardown gallery missed it.BoingBoing says: "Even if someone invented headphones that worked without a licensed chip, that could amount to circumvention of a digital lock: Apple could shut them down using the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, provided the signal sent from the headphone buttons to the iPod itself is encrypted."Well, I don't know whether it's encrypted or not, but it may not be worth worrying, because the Shuffle wasn't exactly designed for sound quality. And with better earphones, the signals might even be audible. iLounge says:doing early tests with the shuffle using ultra-high-end Ultimate Ears UE-11 Pro earphones, it turns out that the shuffle still has a little background hiss — not as much as before — and that there are also situations in which you can occasionally trigger a series of high-pitched signaling beeps that appear to be the shuffle body attempting to communicate with the chip in the remote control. We heard the beeps when we tried the UE-11s in a quiet room: they lack the remote control and make the beeps a bit more obvious. Most users won't notice or care about these sorts of things, but they're worth mentioning.Meanwhile, at the Electronic Frontier Foundation,Fred von Lohmann has other complaints. He says:why have so many of the reviews of iPods failed to notice the proliferation of these Apple "authentication chips"? If it were Microsoft demanding that computer peripherals all include Microsoft "authentication chips" in order to work with Windows (or Toyota or Ford doing the same for replacement parts), I'd think reviewers would be screaming about it.The EFF recently publisheda list of cases where Apple is using DRM, which, it says, "is almost always about eliminating legitimate competition, hobbling interoperability, and creating de facto technology monopolies":* Apple uses DRM to lock iPhones to AT&amp;T and Apple's iTunes App Store;* Apple uses DRM to prevent recent iPods from syncing with software other than iTunes (Apple claims it violates the DMCA to reverse engineer the hashing mechanism);* Apple claims that it uses DRM to prevent OS X from loading on generic Intel machines;* Apple's new Macbooks feature DRM-laden video ports that only output certain content to "approved" displays;.* Apple requires iPod accessory vendors to use a licensed "authentication chip" in order to make accessories to access certain features on newer iPods and iPhones;* The iTunes Store will still lock down movies and TV programs with FairPlay DRM;* Audiobook files purchased through the iTunes Store will still be crippled by Audible's DRM restrictions.Whether all of these are actually DRM is a bit beside the point, which is that Apple is manipulating interfaces to control or exclude competition in the market -- and in the case of portable MP3 players, it may have some market power.But whether buyers care is another matter. How many people think iPod users will defect to better-featured products such as the Sansa Clip, or whatever?
TheBeing Indie and Successful in the Video Game Industrypanel at SxSWi 2009 was a who's who of, well, successful indie developers. The big games were all represented: World of Goo, Alien Hominid, fl0w, Flower; the only person missing, Braid developer Jonathan Blow, was sadly absent because of a last-minute conflict.After the panel, I spoke with Kellee Santiago, one of the creative minds atThat Game Company, the folks behind the PlayStation Network's indie hits fl0w and Flower, about her thoughts on the academic track, being indie and working for the man. Apologies in advance for the cinematography.
Simon Johnson and Simon Evans from Bristol's Simon Games have brought a bit of Britain to this year's SxSWi. Funded by the Arts Council, the pair have inspired a wild chase through the streets of Austin in search of a GPS-enabled bowler hat.The Hat Game is a simple concept: find the hat, grab it from its current owner and make off with it. If over the next few days you've clocked up the most hat time, you win prizes. But how to track it down? On Google Maps, of course.Already garnering substantial press from around the web, I caught up with a couple of players and Hat Game mastermindSimon Johnson. The bowler hat in question, however, was nowhere to be seen.
Sergey Brin started to change the world for the first time in 1995, when he was 21 years old. Fourteen years later, he looks about to do it all over again. When the Stamford researcher working on his doctorate got together with fellow student Larry Page, Google was born. The internet search engine is now so powerful that it is a household name on every continent and, arguably, the most powerful media organisation in the world. Last week, Brin, who now lives in a big house on the southern peninsula of San Francisco, announced he is investing unspecified millions of the profits in a research programme into Parkinson's disease. This has been welcomed by the scientific community as having the potential to revolutionise medical research.It is not just money that Brin is bringing to the Parkinson's research project - it's a way of thinking about the world which has been pioneered by Google. Rather than being controlled by doctors in laboratories, and therefore limited by numbers and reliant on the time and input of a few researchers, it is being conducted through the internet. Current plans are to analyse the DNA of 10,000 Parkinson's sufferers, who will then fill out web-based questionnaires about their lives and symptoms, becoming an internet community of their own.The aim is to discover which lifestyle and genetic factors contribute to the disease. Eric Lander, director of the Broad Institute, a Massachusetts-based research centre, describes the approach as "a Googley thing to do". Catherine Paddock, a doctor writing for the American website Medical News Today, considers the approach may bring about "a social revolution in how research is done and who owns it".Just a few of days after the plan was announced, it is inspiring fierce debate. Scepticism has been provoked by the fact that the company carrying out the Parkinson's research, 23andMe (named after the 23 chromosome pairs every human has), is co-owned and co-managed by Sergey Brin's wife, Anne Wojcicki. Although Brin is largely financing the research, there is the potential for the company to make a profit by selling the results to drugs companies.Writing on her blog, Wojcicki explains their aim: "Our approach is new because it leverages the web to bring people together from all over the globe who are willing to share infrmation about their own health experiences [phenotype], which is then combined with their genetic profile [genotype]." Rival genetic research firms claim the approach can result in poor-quality data because it is reliant on amateurs reporting on themselves.But 23andMe is not his only family connection to the enterprise. Last year, the Google founder discovered that the make up of his DNA - he has a genetic mutation - means he has a 50/50 chance of developing Parkinson's.His mother also had the mutation, and developed Parkinson's, and he has already announced that he plans to have his four-month-old son tested to see whether he has inherited the trait. Brin is facing the discovery with the confidence of a self-made billionaire, but tempered by the down-to-earth attitude reported by colleagues throughout his career. "I give it a 50/50 shot of medicine catching up to be able to deal with it," he said last week. Is Brin effectively going to be defeat Parkinson's with hard cash?Turning medical research on its head is just one of Brin's current projects. At the same time as being involved, as part of a triumvirate with co-founders Larry Page and CEO Eric Schmidt, with the day-to-day running of Google, his expansion plans stretch from literature - Google has hopes of digitising every book ever published - into outer space.He is one of the founder members of the Orbital Mission Explorers Circle, set up by the space tourism company Space Adventures, which has cost him $5m in deposit, while Google has sponsored a competition to land an unmanned spacecraft on the Moon. "I am a big believer in the exploration and commercial development of the space frontier and am looking forward to the possibility of going into space," he said last summer.This is no doubt something he has inherited from his mother Eugenia, a scientist at Nasa's Goddard Space Flight Centre near Washington DC, and his father Michael, who only became a professor of mathematics because plans to study astronomy were thwarted by the university admissions policies in the USSR of the early 1970s, which discriminated against Jewish people.A senior manager who has recently left Google tells me that Brin is also passionate about the environment. "Energy is going to be a big deal for him," he says. "He looks at how traditional business is done and it frustrates the hell out of him."This has led not just to his decision to upgrade his Toyota Prius to the more eco-friendly Tesla Roadster, an electric vehicle with a range of 220 miles, but also to him making an investment of at least $10m in the company that is being hailed as the future of the motor industry.Brin was born in Moscow in August 1973. His first five years were spent in a 350 sq ft flat in Moscow shared with his grandmother, although his parents recall that he spent at least four hours a day outside, no matter what the weather. In 1977, Michael Brin travelled to Warsaw for a mathematics conference, which brought together academics from both sides of the Iron Curtain, and came back convinced of the opportunities for his family in the West.The following year, he applied for exit visas from the Soviet Union for the family and after several tense months, during which Michael was fired from his job and Eugenia asked to leave hers, they were granted permission to leave.Their route to New York took the family first to Vienna and then to Paris, but by the end of 1979, they had settled in Maryland, bought a Ford and Sergey had started at the local Montessori school. "I really enjoyed the Montessori method," he says. "I could grow at my own pace." From there, he moved to the local high school and then to the University of Maryland.All this time, Brin was considered to be a bright boy by his teachers, but contemporaries do not remember him as particularly outstanding. On graduating, however, he won a place to study for a PhD in mathematics at Stanford, a private research university in California with a fearsome reputation, and in 1995, he was assigned to show around a new student named Larry Page.A Google executive, who has asked not to be named because he regards Brin as "a very private person", says that over the next days, the two students argued and talked and debated and they haven't  stopped since. The idea for Google, which grew from these discussions, was based on the concept in academia that the number of times a research paper was cited by other academics provided a good guide to its importance.By applying this reasoning to web pages, so that those most often linked to other websites should come highest in the search rankings, they came up with the plan for Google.What followed is well known to fans of technology and entrepreneurship. From the $100,000 cheque written by the Sun Systems co-founder Andy Bechtolsheim, payable to Google Inc, a company which did not yet exist; to the garage they rented as their first office, from Susan Wojcicki (now Brin's sister-in-law), at 232 Santa Margarita, Menlo Park; to the mass of awards that followed; to the partnership with internet service provider America Online; to the flotation on Wall Street in August 2004.Today, Brin sits in 26th place on the Forbes list of the world's richest people, with a fortune of $12bn. Eric Schmidt, who was brought in as CEO of the company in 2001, says 98% of their revenue comes from advertising. The search engine, email service and other innovations, such as Google Maps, are, in commercial terms, just methods of attracting people to the site.Brin is, of course, no more a simple advertising man than he is a simple technical pioneer. Through his external investments and by the ever-adaptable nature of Google, Brin turns private passions into projects with real momentum. But, medical research, the private jet and space exploration aside, does he enjoy his money?"From my parents I certainly learnt to be frugal," Brin has said. "I still look at prices. I try to force myself to do this less, not to be so frugal." He shops at Costco, a wholesale shop, and enjoys cooking. A friend said last week that, unlike other Silicon Valley tycoons, the decidedly un-nerdy Brin spends a lot of his downtime outside, as did the five-year-old in Moscow. Only these days, it's "kitesurfing, windsurfing, diving, rollerblading, bike riding and skiing - he's a very keen skier". Brin's attitude to these athletic pursuits is described as "competitive in a friendly way".It would be tempting to say that the Earth is Brin's playground, but he has already told us that he intends to fly far higher than that.The Brin lowdownBorn:21 August 1973 in Moscow, eldest son of Michael, a mathematician, and Eugenia, a scientist. Emigrated to America in 1979.Best of times:On Google's first day of stock market trading in 2004, six years after Brin and partner Larry Page had started the company in a rented garage, shares went from $85 to $100.Worst of times:His early years in Soviet Moscow living under a cloud of unspoken antisemitism while at times both his parents were out of work.He says:"Don't be evil."Google's operating philosophy."I was told your school recently got seven out of the top 10 places in a math competition throughout all Israel. What I have to say is in the words of my father: 'What about the other three?'"On a visit to a school in Tel AvivThey say:"Every time I think of it, I'm amazed at every level. They're absolutely in the business of revolutionising the nature of knowledge; search has become integral in the way we think and act."Andrew Keen, author of Cult of the Amateur: How Today's Internet Is Killing Our Culture and Assaulting Our Economy"What we share is a belief in changing the world from the bottom up."Barack Obama, visiting the Google offices in November 2007
Jaguar XF&pound;33,150Miles per gallon:37.6CO2 per km:199 gramsGood for:high flyersBad for:nose diversNicolas, my 12-year-old neighbour, wants to be a car designer when he grows up. He spends his time drawing wedge-shaped cars. Their oval wheels spinning like Road Runner's puny legs; pencil lines streaking from every corner. I imagine this is how Ian Callum might have started out. A likeable Scot, Callum submitted his first design to Jaguar in 1968, at the age of 13, in the hope of landing a job. Forty years later, by way of a few other postings, he's the great marque's design director and his blurred pen lines have given shape to some of the most beautiful cars of recent years: Aston Martin's DB7, Nissan's R390, Jaguar's XK and now the XF.I once asked Callum what it felt like to create something that would become the treasured possession of thousands of chamoix-wielding men around the world. Ian made the expected noises and then said that one night he'd driven into a petrol station in a brand-new XK and pulled up alongside an immaculate DB7. "I asked the driver how he liked the Aston," Ian recalls, "and then, unusually for me, mentioned that I happened to be the car's designer and that, in fact, I'd also designed the car I was driving. The guy just looked at me incredulously, shook his head wearily and walked off..."Callum will be struggling to keep his modesty under wraps with his new XF. It's the sort of car that makes an immediate impression. Big, bold and lavish, it's a sports saloon that has the unmistakable aura of self-importance about it. Its hand-stitched leather seats expecting nothing more than the soft crush of cashmere from you. However it's this or the XF's award-winning diesel or sure-footed handling that'll have you signing on the salesman's dotted line, it's the fact that it is crammed full of what the industry likes to call "surprise and delight" features.First up there's the stop/start button which pulses with a tempting red light. When you push it, the 2.7-litre engine burbles into life and the lacquered covers of the dashboard's air vents all roll slowly open. Touch the button again and they close, like the opening and closing of a shark's gills. You can entertain yourself without going anywhere. After a while the excitement wears off - it's time to move on. But there's nothing so boring as a gear stick here, instead there's a self-levitating rotary "drive selector" which you twist to choose the correct gear. Release the hand brake, another button on the polished console, and the show gets on the road. And the delights continue: the glove box has a touch-sensitive opener; the overhead lights are dimmed by waving your hand in front of them; the door handles and footwells are all illuminated with a pale mauve glow; there's an automatic rear blind; flashing blind-spot indicators; a satnav, aircon and stereo system all controlled by a touch screen. And everything has a classy, rubberised feel to it. It's calm and minimal, a refreshing departure from the cluttered, claustrophobic feel of so many of today's upmarket motors. So no more false modesty please, Mr Callum.martin.love@observer.co.uk
There are over 27 thousand applications for the iPhone, a platform that has revolutionised the handheld gaming industry. For one Mac developer, it's the platform that made his company $1.5 million.Brian Greenstone, creator of the phenomenon Enigmo - a game that's sold 810,000 units in six months - speaks with the gamesblog at the annual South by Southwest Interactive festival, about what it takes to be a successful developer for the new platform.
From the ashes of a defunct trade magazine comes this daily update of the latest and most interesting British music videos (Martin De Thurah's work for Fever Ray). Those who direct them go on to do other stuff so there's the occasional advert and movie trailer too. If you've got the slightest interest in film or music, you'll quickly get hooked, and although you'll find some of the films on YouTube already, this is a handy guide to the pick of the latest crop and with links to the directors' own sites often at a far better quality than you'll find elsewhere. Despite big steps in technology and imagination, music videos don't get the respect they deserve any more - a situation partially rectified here with background information, full credits and interviews with major players.
To bewareof seagulls while eating a CornettoTo enjoyan office break with 1980s drum soundsWhat aWoody Allen-directed Watchmen would have been likeSpandex doesn'tsuit everyoneThe returnof Jesus and sound nutritional advice goes hand and handCan theypaint? No they can't badpaintingsofBalloon modellingis easier than we thoughtSadly, GrandTheft Horse Carriage is not a real computer gameHow BenjaminButton got his face
Resident Evil 5PS3, Xbox 360The original survival horror is back, this time set in Africa with new partner Sheva in tow. As well as a now near-obligatory co-op mode, the other major difference between this and past outings is its emergence as a full-on action game. Continually on the edge of the ammunition precipice with plenty of bullets to be found, but the most awesome, terrifying, unstoppable horde of "infected" to dispose of, you're never far from being backed into a corner with only your knife and an expression of grim desperation with which to defend yourself. The result is a state of almost constant panic. While the scary crowd control of earlier levels eventually gives way to more traditional Resident Evil fare culminating in a succession of boss fights, the drip feed of upgrades and high scores compels you to play levels multiple times to hone your grade. Mechanically though, it's just as heinously clumsy as its predecessors with full-fat cheesy dialogue to match.• Capcom, &pound;44.99Resident Evil 5: The Complete Official GuideBookFor all its action leanings and lack of taxing puzzles, Resident Evil 5 is a staggeringly complex game that won't reveal too many of its secrets on a single play through. And while much of the game's near-perfectly balanced difficulty derives from the clunkiness of its controls, surviving contact with the relentless twitching, staggering horde takes more than just good aim. The official guide supplies tactics for every area in the game, with careful explanations as to how each member of its sizeable menagerie of manufactured freaks can best be dispatched. It also shows you where all the treasure, ammo and guns are hidden, as well as helping decide what upgrades to buy and how to equip for each of the game's major encounters. As is customary for a Piggyback product, this is a spectacularly well researched and beautifully made companion to the game.• Piggyback, &pound;12.99 (soft cover), &pound;19.99 (hardback)A Life In Video Games: Q&amp;A With Nolan BushnellLondonNolan Bushnell is seen by many as the father of videogames. As well as inventing Pong, the original bat and ball game (or to be more exact, straight line and square game) that proved to the world that you don't need rackets and a general level of fitness to enjoy playing "tennis", Bushnell also founded Atari, which made the world's most prolific line of games consoles until Nintendo broke through in the mid-80s. You could argue that almost single-handedly he created both arcades and home consoles. Recent recipient of Bafta's Video Game Fellowship, Bushnell's more than 30 years in the industry make him someone who is likely to have pretty interesting answers to any game or social networking-related questions you may have. There's also a champagne reception, in case that doesn't quite deliver enough joy for one evening.• BAFTA, 195 Piccadilly, W1, Thu, 6pm-8pm, &pound;7.50, visitbafta.org
For about four days the little Colt sat outside my house, buried beneath a thick blanket of snow. As the street became a whiteout, the other cars remained recognisably cars in outline, but the Colt just morphed into a small crystalline mound. If someone had stuck a carrot in its covering, it would have passed as a snowman.The thought of actually getting in and driving the frozen mound seemed more bizarre, and less appealing, with each passing day. What if I got lost in a snowball fight? It could be days before I was dug out. To put it bluntly, the Mitsubishi Colt CZ2 is not the sort of car in which you'd want to be trapped in adverse weather conditions.Indeed, being trapped in a traffic jam would severely test the limits of its charms. This is a no-frills, practical machine, which has not been designed with stationary appeal in mind. Everything is in its proper place, but there isn't much of it. This three-door midget is refreshingly rudimentary, both in comfort and layout. It has no pretensions and it doesn't pretend otherwise. If you want something in addition to functional transportation, the Colt is not for you. All of which means that every moment not spent moving forward in the Colt is a lost moment.However, with the snow finally thawed, the time to move forward had arrived and I resolved to drive my wife and daughter to the airport, where they were bound for warmer climes. Then, on opening the boot, I had second thoughts. I knew I could fit the family and I knew I could fit the luggage; I just wasn't confident I could do both together.It turned out that all those years of manfully maximising the dishwasher load were not wasted. All it took was some keen spatial awareness and inspired geometric improvisation, and we were away.For its limited power, the car has plenty of punch. Like a lot of superminis, the Colt is almost impossible to drive passively. There's something about the lively proximity to the engine and the fact that everything on the road is so much larger that creates a sense of "who you lookin' at, pal?" embattlement.Within minutes, I'd become the automotive equivalent of the combative little Glaswegian, unwilling to be pushed around by lardy-arsed SUVs. Once we hit the M4, however, this refusal to back down began to look demented, especially against some of the more high-powered executive saloons. There can be few more pathetic or disturbing sights on the highway than a middle-aged man in a crammed three-door Colt trying to outgun a Lexus.Beware the abominable snowman: it won't let you chill.Mitsubishi Colt 1.3 cz2Price£8,249top speed110mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11 secsAverage consumption48.7mpgCO2 emissions138g/kmEco rating8.5/10At the wheelRaymond BriggsBound forSnowdoniaIn a wordPlucky
ScanwichesDispatches from someone who scans his deli-made sarnies for our education and delight.Kathryn Parker AlmanasThis photographer's latest project is dissecting pastries so they look like gaping flesh wounds. Bon appetit.Get In My BellyExotic pies, 15 delicacies that just might kill you and terrible ideas for leftover turkey.Fail FoodsFrom Anal Fantasy cat food to a semen-based recipe book, a world of food horror awaits.The World's Worst FoodRecipe leaflets from the 1950s and 60s, including the fabulous Cooking With Crisps. Something there's far too little of these days.I Was Really HungryMcFlurries from around the world, plus the very sad delights on offer at a kosher supermarket.
Plenty of celebrities have their own websites or Twitter accounts, but few would dare to have a blog as open and amusing as actor Jorge Garcia. Better known as Hurley from Lost, Jorge offers lots of behind the scenes nuggets about the series, but the best part is what he reveals about himself and the mundane incidents of his home life in Hawaii, like toilet trouble and his DIY efforts - complete with photographs. He's debated his experience with "hippy deodorant", shared his love of cake, blogged on the embarrassment of buying toilet paper with some money-off coupons when you're in one of America's most popular TV shows and documented the discovery of a giant hair appearing from his nose. In brief he is the most unaffected famous person possible and afine example to us all.
Speculation has started buzzing about the new iPhone features that Apple could potentially unveil at a special event it is holding next week.(Update:read the story now it's been announced.)The company sent out invitations to a showcase at its headquarters in Cupertino, California, which it says will give people an "advance preview of what we're building".Despite some suggestions that the company is working on an entirely new handset, the invitation – which explicitly mentions the iPhone's operating system – appears to indicate that next Tuesday's event will largely focus on upgrades to the software that run the device.As usual, the rumour mill is going into overdrive trying to predict what tweaks Apple executives could be preparing.John Gruber, who blogs about Apple at DaringFireball.net, suggested that the company might be preparing a raft of new features – not least as a reaction to Palm's forthcoming Pre handset, which received plaudits when it was previewed in January.This latest update,he suggested, could include "iPhone widgets that were slated for iPhone 1.0, but yanked for performance reasons".Elsewhere, people are focusing on a number of problems and missing features that have been well-documented in the past. Users have lobbied for the ability to use picture messaging, film videos using the iPhone's camera and connect it more easily to their computers.Gene Munster an analyst with Piper Jaffray, said in a note that he thinks the changes will be significant."In the past two weeks Apple has introduced new Mac hardware and a new iPod shuffle, for which the company simply issued a press release," he said. "The fact that Apple is hosting an event for the iPhone OS 3.0 shows that it will likely involve meaningful changes to the iPhone feature set."Other analysts have said that news could pave the way for an entirely new version of the phone later this year – perhaps timed to the planned return of chief executive Steve Jobs from medical leave."Certainly makes sense," Gartner analyst Van Bakertold Computer World. "You want the [new] SDK out there to give developers time to come up with something."In any case, whatever next week's news happens to be, it will mark just the latest significant change to the iPhone since it was first announced more than two years ago.The first version of the iPhone was released in June 2007, and the handset went on sale in the UK in November that year. It was quickly followed up last summer by a new model featuring GPS and larger memory.If the company does not change the iPhone's hardware, it will be the first time that a full new version of the handset's software has been released on its own.Last year the company did unveil its software developer's kit - which enabled people to create applications for the handset - but that was tied to the release of the iPhone 3G.
Inflation-adjusted US oil price, 1946-2008. Click for larger version. Source: inflationdata.com.The other evening I spent in the company of various guests of Wired UK, which is going to launch – you may say bravely, you may say wisely – its new print magazine next month. Part of the idea was to pick our brains and find out what we thought would be the important changes in communication in the next 10 years. With just the teeniest hint that they might write a piece about it in the future.So let me get ahead of that very quickly here, and point to what I think are going to be the key changes we'll see over the next 10 years. And it all comes from one change: the price of oil.Above you'll see a graph that I've created of the inflation-adjusted oil price (with grateful thanks toInflationdata.com). The data show the inflation-adjusted average price of oil by year, adjusted to November 2008 dollars, using the Consumer Price Index (CPI-U) as presented by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. I've also added a trend line plotted from the data. Notice where it's going? Up. Constantly up.Now, the price of oil at the moment isn't anything to cry about, havingfallen precipitately from its $147 high last year– when everyone's economy (especially China's) seemed to be in overdrive, before being thrown into a shuddering reverse as the freezing over of the wholesale money markets finally took effect.But you can be sure that in ten years the economies of the world will be motoring again, and that will have the inevitable effect of pushing up demand for – and hence the price of – oil.What then follows from that? As oil becomes more expensive, we will consider more carefully what we do with it. And that's going to mean that travel will become less of an automatic reflex, and more a carefully considered action. How much will it cost to travel to see someone?By contrast, we can expect that digital systems will offer faster and faster speeds. Despite theEeyore-ishness of the interim Digital Britain report, with its rather backward expectation that 2Mb per second will be considered good enough as the most basic connection, I think that commercial pressures and rivalry will drive BT to offer more high-speed fibre-optic links. That will let us make digital "journeys" using videoconferencing or similar systems rather than actually travelling. If at some stage in the future oil costs $500 per barrel (in today's dollars, not the inflation-bumped future ones), and it costs the equivalent in today's money of £5 per litre for fuel rather than the £1 it does today, you might not do five times less travel, but you'll certainly at least halve the amount of travel you do.Is your journey really necessary? It'll become a key question. By contrast, getting that one-off upgrade to your home digital connection, taking you up to a 100Mbps system, will seem like a really good idea. Certainly a better one than an expensive car that will only burn up money anyway.If you need a shorthand for thinking about the future, then, it's this: analogue will be increasingly expensive; digital will be increasingly cheap. Getting in a car or on a train or a plane? Analogue. Expensive. Non-renewable. By contrast, downloading an album, watching a webcast concert, watching TV: digital. Endlessly replicable, virtually instantly transmitted, cheap.What, in turn, does that mean for our society? Apart from fewer cars on the roads (though possibly with more people sharing rides in them), it means more time working at or near to home, if your work involves things that can be done digitally. For all those jobs that need to be near to physical things – that is, where you make things like cars or food or whatever – you'll have to be based nearer the place you work.Living in remote villages will be for people who work on the land, or for those with information-based jobs. Towns will cluster around factories again.I'm not the only one who thinks this. One of the guests that night, Simon Waterfall of thecreative company Poketook much the same view. He's telling his elderly relatives to take as many plane trips as they can: "Because I can't wait to tell the kids in the future and hear them say 'Granny used to fly to places???'"Analogue expensive, digital cheap. It's like a mantra. How do you think it'll affect your life?
Of all the Blitz Arcade projects I saw during my visit to the company last week, my favourite was Invincible Tiger: the Legend of Han Tao, an XBLA and PSN title, published by Namco and due to launch in the summer.Heavily influenced by seventies martial arts movies as well as early beat-'em-up titles like Bruce Lee and Yie Ar Kung Fu, this is an unapologetically retro fighting game, using 2D combat and multi-directional 2D scrolling in a series of beautifully detailed 3D locations.You play the eponymous Han Tao, fighting to reclaim an artifact known as the Star of Destiny from an evil overlord and his many, many minions. In each of the five main areas, you leap about the screen, scaling platforms, sliding down poles and of course, attacking incoming enemies with a range of cool moves.It's a simple fighting system – there are kick and punch buttons, which can be used to build and link combos. New combinations and finishing moves are introduced as you progress through the game and it's also possible to combine fighting moves with the roll maneuver, accessible with the right analogue stick, to create longer range attacks.The combat is lightening fast, and as the action takes place on a 2D plane with baddies running at you from either side, it's all brilliantly reminiscent of Irem's 1984 arcade gem, Kung Fu Master. Similarly, although the characters are 3D models, they have the look of digitised 2D sprites – indeed, according to the game's producer Ollie Clarke, the character animations were inspired by games like Mortal Kombat and Flashback, which used rotoscoping techniques to produce ultra-smooth, comparatively realistic movement.Settings, meanwhile, are kung fu movie staples – among them, a busy dock, a gigantic castle and, forming the core of the game's narrative, the first emperor of China's tomb. Each is filled with objects that can be lobbed at enemies, including barrels, throwing stars and fish. Yes, fish. Also, if you've got a bunch of cronies climbing up a ladder to get you, you can kick it away and watch them plunge to their deaths.Complete with a two-player co-op mode, this is perfect XBLA fodder, nostalgic in design, but also visually impressive (it runs at a smooth 60FPS) and packed with cool contemporary features. If you've been enjoying a return to ultra-responsive controls via Street Fighter II HD and SFIV, this is unmissable stuff.Away from internal development, Blitz is also reaping the rewards of its1&gt;Upprogramme, a sort of publishing/mentoring scheme aimed at small studios looking to get their games into the global marketplace. "It started out as an opportunistic process when we metStickman Studios(creators of Buccaneer, whichI wrote about a while ago) and Regolith Games, almost by accident," explains business development director, Chris Swan. "Both companies had ties with Blitz Games Studios in some form, and both also had games they needed help getting to the finish line. Since these projects showed such strong production values we agreed to see what we could do to help – which turned out to be quite a lot!"We then formalised the process in November 2008 and listed in more detail the kinds of resources we were able to offer. This includes art, design, QA, legal advice, funding, PR support, tech licensing and networking. It's the latter element that that I think is proving to be particularly useful – Blitz Games Studios is a large independent studio and we therefore get to meet and present games to clients who simply don't have the time available for meeting lots of small developers."KrissX was a 'slick demo' when Regolith showed it to Blitz last year. It's since been polished, targeted at a more casual demographic and is due for release soon on WiiWare and as a PC download. Other formats are likely later – it would work brilliantly on iPhone. Designed by lone coder, Andrew Docking, it's a highly intuitive puzzler where players solve anagrams to complete a series of Scrabble-like word grids. Onscreen clues hint at the words you need to create, then you re-arrange the letters as quickly as possible. The presentation is great, with elysian countryside backgrounds and requisite twinkling light effects accompanying combos and bonuses. Blitz also added an owl character to act as a narrator/advisor; you can never under estimate the importance of anthropomorphic creatures in the casual gaming sector.Another 1&gt;Up addition isProject Aftermatha highly polished action RTS, created by British start-up, GamesFaction. Based around a galactic battle between human survivors and an alien invasion force known as The New Order it's a tight, fast-paced sci-fi romp, based around outgunning the enemy rather than endlessly mining resources and micro-managing bases. Aftermath is already available on services like Steam and Direct2Drive, but GamesFaction founders Lee Hickey and Malcolm Reed (veteran developers, and ex-Gremlin Interactive staff) weren't sure how to attract more distributors. Which is, of course, where Blitz came in - Swan says they're now chasing a range of new deals on GamesFaction's behalf.With all of these titles due for release over the coming months, the next set of in-house projects is underway. Plus, Blitz are receiving a steady flow of 1&gt;Up applications: "So far we've had more than 30 approaches and are moving forwards with a handful of companies," says Swan. "I can't say much about these new partnerships at this stage, but it's a mixture of promising early prototypes and near-finished titles".For those of us who've enjoyed agenda-setting titles like Castle Crashers, Braid and World of Goo, it's great to see another UK developer beside Bizarre Creations (responsible for the Geometry Wars series) taking the whole concept of downloadable games seriously. With most publishers currently cutting back on original retail releases in favour of 'safe' brands, it could that digital distribution will be the only place where developers are really able to experiment with original content this year. If a fraction of this content is as fun and frenetic as, say, Invincible Tiger, it won't be so bad. It'll be okay.
TheInformaresearch company has predicted that smart phones using Google's Android (Linux-based) software will overtake Apple iPhone sales by 2012, according toreports. One reason will be familiar to anyone who knows the history of the computer industry. Android phones will probably be available on hundreds of handsets from dozens of manufacturers on most or all of the world's mobile phone networks, whereas iPhones will probably be available from one manufacturer, and possibly on only one network in each country.It's this kind of widespread availability at a variety of prices on a range of networks that has so far kept sales of smart phones based on Microsoft Windows Mobile ahead of iPhone sales, though you'd never believe it from the press coverage. (And, I might add, it's going to change very soon.)Gartner released somesmart phone market figuresthis week. The company puts Symbian-based phones well ahead in 08Q4, selling 17.9m handsets for a market share of 47.1%. It's followed by Research In Motion (7.4m, 19.5%), Microsoft Windows Mobile (4.7m, 12.4%), Apple OS X (4.1m, 10.7%) and Linux (3.2m, 8.4%)."Gartner estimated that Android smartphones accounted for 20% of total Linux sales in the fourth quarter of 2008." It's a start....The basic story is that, compared with the same quarter in 2007, Nokia is losing market share (-21.6%), while Apple (111.6% growth) and RIM (84.9%) are catching up fast.Over the full year, Gartner reckons Nokia sold 61m smart phones, followed by RIM (23m), Apple (11m), HTC, (6m) and Sharp (5m). Total sales of smart phones came to 139.3m, out of total mobile phone sales of 1.22 billion. On this basis, the iPhone managed to take just 0.9% of the mobile phone market, though no doubt a much higher percentage of the profits.Gartner says that 08Q4 was the lowest growth rate for the smart phone market, at 3.7%, compared with 13.9% growth for the full year. However, any growth could be considered good in tough times, and there is clearly a move towards smart phones as they become more capable and more versatile. It should therefore be reasonably safe to predict further growth for Apple iPhone and RIM sales in particular.But the smart phone market is not easy to call. Unlike the PC market, there is very little to keep people using one operating system. Users can easily switch from Symbian to Android, or vice versa, and they may not even notice.Another major factor is the appeal of particular handsets. If everyone wants a RAZR, Motorola's sales boom, and if no one wants a RAZR, it's a bust. And as the success of the iPhone has shown, the desirability of the handset can overcome limitations in both the software and the network.And one thing we don't know is which companies will have really attractive handsets in another five or 10 years. It might be Apple, Nokia, HTC, Palm, or a company we've not heard of, which might not even exist yet. Not many, if any, pundits were predicting in 1998 that Apple would be king of mobile phone handsets a decade later -- or even that it would enter the market for portable MP3 players.I shall therefore avoid predicting Android's ultimate victory until after it's happened.
There are loads of new game-themed events for your calendars this week, from the obscure to the monumental. Keep reading for fabulous new things to fill your days with.XL48 Game Camp(University of Derby, UK)20-21st March 2009Sponsored by Microsoft, Channel 4 and Pixe- Lab, "X48 is a marathon gamecamp where students and indie developers use Microsoft's XNA Game Studio 3.0 to create a game in less than 48 hours."A Life in Video Games; Interview with Atari founder Nolan Bushnell(BAFTA)19 March 2009Discuss the past and future of video gaming with Nolan Bushnell, Atari founder, engineer and entrepreneur. With 1972's two-player tennis game Pong, he kick-started both the arcade and home console industries, and has been exploring their sociable side ever since.Starts at 8pm. Book tickets here.IndieCade Europe(Nottingham)26-30 OctoberImagine a series of global showcases and festivals serving developers as well as the general public – collectively forming an international marketplace and a traveling celebration of this community's new voices and their trailblazing work. Imagine thousands of independent creators, developers, thinkers, players, and fans from across the world, sharing this sense of community and the work at its heart with the rest of the world. That's IndieCade.Under the Mask(University of Bedfordshire)5th-6thJune 2009Under the Mask is a conference series at the University of Bedfordshire that focuses upon the multi-faceted issue of the gamer. Culturally, socially, psychologically, professionally, the list of masks worn by the gamer is endless. This conference series aims to penetrate these masks, investigating why they are worn, how they are used, and how they are constructed by gaming culture, game developers, and by the gamers. The 'Under the Mask' series also provides a unique opportunity to play, watch and make games amongst fellow gamers.Music from Vintage Computers(Bletchley Park)20-21st MarchModern music will soon be heard from some of the earliest and rarest computers in the world at The National Museum of Computing at Bletchley Park.The project entitledObsolete?is the brainchild of internationally renowned chip tune musician Matthew C Applegate (Pixelh8) and is being funded by the Performing Rights Society Foundation. It will culminate in a series of concerts at Bletchley Park on 20 and 21 March 2009.Subscribe to our calendar here.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?At the moment my favourite is my Nokia E71 mobile phone. It's more or less similar to a BlackBerry. Ever since I've had it, it's made my life so much easier with access to emails and the net and all the other bits and bobs.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it five minutes ago to send an email. I'm using it all the time, either as a phone or to do email and other stuff. It's handy for Facebook and Twitter as well.What additional features would you add to it if you could?Sky+ TV – all the channels, that would be really good.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Probably. There are already watch-phones and stuff like that, so sooner or later we won't have to carry anything at all – we'll all have tiny gadgets in our ears.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Even though all of us have the latest phone or camera or computer or whatever, none of them are perfect – they always crash or go wrong. Sometimes they're not very helpful, such as the sat-nav not knowing where you are just as you need it.If you had one tip to give about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I'd say to have a look at the manual before you go ahead and use it, depending on what piece of technology it is. There's always so many options, and it's good to know what you're dealing with.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I think I'm kind of in between. I do try to keep up, but I wouldn't say I'm a super-nerd. I do try my best, though.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably … hmmmm, does that include a car? Then probably my Audi A3 Sport.Mac or PC, and why?Definitely Mac – being a musician and making music, there's only one way to go. Mac's always been the leader in the creative fields, be it graphic design or video and music production.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do a bit of both, really. I get sent loads of music for my radio show, whether it's MP3s or CDs. I buy CDs and DVDs, and download music – legally, of course. I'm not completely away from the physical media yet. I bought a few DVDs the other day – Transformers, the cartoon, I bought the box set.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I'd say probably not – just because of the fact that technology can still malfunction, and you don't want a butler malfunctioning at the wrong time.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A time machine or a teleport machine – or one that does both. I think that could be handy.• DJ Target is a member of urban band Roll Deep and also hosts his own radio show onBBC 1Xtrafrom 10pm till midnight each Saturday
Chatterbox Friday
It's Friday: time for another silly game-themed afternoon-waster.Raphpoints the gamesblog to another amusing game design meme from a few weeks ago (hey, I've been out of the country; sue me), the#backgame, or games described backwards in 140 characters or fewer. Inspired by#backflick, a movie-based meme on Twitter (championed by@wittertainment, aka Simon Mayo and Mark Kermode), the aim of the, er, game is likely easier than the last one Raph pointed us to. This one doesn't require in-depth knowledge of game designers' oeuvres, just the products themselves.So, if I was to describe Super Mario Bros, I'd say,"Plumber escapes girlfriend and hides stars in hard-to-reach places whilst tripping on hallucinogenics"Geddit?Hereare a few more from the Twitter massive to get you started.
Not as much as he was a year ago, it seems.Forbes magazine has just published itsannual list of billionairesand, horror of horrors, the 24-year-old Facebook founder has disappeared from the rankings.Last year, according to Forbes, Zuckerberg was worth a cool $1.5bn, making him the world'syoungest self-made billionaire. These days, thanks to the bursting of the internet bubble – and pretty much every money-related bubble around – he's dropped off the list completely.Forbes doesn't say precisely how much he's worth these days – but he's obviously lost at least $501m.Why the drop?Well, perhaps he should have never been on the list at all: after all, Zuckerberg's wealth was almost entirely virtual anyway, and not just because it's been made on the internet.His theoretical billionaire status was based on slim information about the amount of money being pumped into Facebook, and in particular Microsoft's decision tosplash out $240mon a tiny slice of the company.Plenty of people took the logical-but-ludicrous $15bn valuation as gospel, but thanks to the company's involvement in a lawsuit with Zucerkberg's Harvard classmates, we already knew that Facebook valueditselffar lower than that– at least when the courts came asking.Now,Forbes admits, "it's hard to imagine the privately held company being worth nearly as much as it was a year ago".The cherub-cheeked CEO isn't the only famous technology industry figure to get kicked out of the billionaires club, though. As theWall Street Journal points out, two legendary venture capitalists – Mike Moritz and Arthur Rock - have also been ejected, as their wealth sank with the financial markets.Still, Zuckerberg can console himself with the fact that, according to Forbes, he's still a "youthful multi-millionaire". Perhaps he can discuss the trials of coping with such a downgrade when hegoes on Oprah Winfrey's show. Yep, it's a hard life.
If you were reading the New York Times today, saysRebecca MacKinnon, you probably saw a story about aweird meme on the Chinese internet: the so-called "grass mud horse".Giving her speech at O'Reilly's ETech conference today MacKinnon, an academic, blogger and journalist based in China, points out that the NYT story – essentially about a dirty pun that is being used to bait the censors – doesn't tell you what the rude words that are at the centre of the storyactually are. And she promises to tell us what the New York Times wouldn't.She doesn't mince her words (OK, she does mince them a little bit) and does indeed tell us what phrase the Chinese "grass mud horse" sounds like. Those of a delicate disposition should look away now:It means "fuck your mother". (MacKinnon actually says "eff your mother", and displays the word with asterisks)Anyway, the point is that the Grass Mud Horse meme is being used by Chinese people angry at a recent crackdown on pornographic material on the internet."A lot of people think it [China's web] is boring because it's censored, but it's not," she says. The most interesting thing, in fact, is watching how people get around censorship."Because websites are censored and oftentimes it uses keywords, when you're on a website trying to write something politically sensitive or obscene you'll get an error notice that says 'sorry, your post contains bad words, please try again'."So people use things that sound like obscenities or can make political statements without being filtered out. As an example, she points to another meme, known as "the river crab wears three watches".This is based around two slogans used by Communist leaders – Hu Jintao's "harmonious society" and Jian Zemin's "three represents" – that get put together and twisted a little until they sound awfully like "the river crab wears three watches"."Basically they were saying the government has a lot of annoying slogans we want to make fun of," says MacKinnon.The question now is what is going on inside China. Is it healthy? Does it encourage democracy?The government in Beijing is starting to understand the internet and beginning to engage with the Chinese public online. What is developing is a sense of debate, if not traditional democracy."Scholars are calling this a form of authoritarian deliberation – you can have an authoritarian society, but you don't have democratic institutions, legal protections for free speech or open courts. But you do post comments and videos online."But, she adds, "that does not make a democracy".MacKinnon makes the additional point that many companies are complicit in this in a way that Westerners might not understand. After all, it is not necessarily the government that's doing the hands-on censorship in China. It's set the rules, but they are loose – and companies end up interpreting them and censoring things themselves.Go to Google.com and search for "Tiananmen massacre" and you find lots of gory pictures. Go to Google.cn and do the same and you'll see. But go to the Chinese search engine Baidu, however, and you won't find anything at all.In the end, she says, private IT and web companies are acting as the interface between people and government – and not acting in the interests of citizens.'You've got this layer developing between the government and citizens that favours the government, in that the companies running the IT services are under great pressure to censor. Companies have choices to make about what extent they're handling their users' content."This is one reason that MacKinnon is a backer of the recently-launchedGlobal Network Initiative; a grouping of companies trying to understand how to operate better. They need to do this, to comprehend that their decisions have real affects on real people.Ultimately, she says: "Freedom only remains healthy if we think about the implications of what we do on a day-to-day basis."
Julian Bleecker works at Nokia, heading a team of designers in LA, and also helps run theNear Future Laboratory, a design studio. And at O'Reilly's ETech conference in San Diego, he decided to give a talk that brought all those things together: explaining why science fiction isn't just important to engineers – but vital.He starts out by showing the classic scene from Minority Report; Tom Cruise using his hands to manipulate data that's being projected in the air in front of him.The technology is cool, he says, but incidental."It's fascinating. You wonder what's going on. But what's more useful to pay attention to is that they're not really emphasising the technology itself. They cut back and forth so that the context is much more important."(It's not the technology itself, but how it could be used that is important).It was so powerful that Minority Report became the focal point that helped a lot of people play around with the idea of similar interfaces."The film provides an anchor into these imaginary worlds that become substantiated," he says. "The film becomes a reference point for thinking about new possibilities."He points out that John Underkoffer, a consultant on the film, went and formed his own company around the same ideas."Stories matter more than features, specs and engineering," he says. "It's the way in which you construct a story around it that helps them imagine what it might be. The framing of a new idea helps translate it, so they can become involved. It's not a marketing story or a pitch."Jurassic Park is another example he points to. They needed realistic dinosaurs for a powerful representation of a speculative story, and used films explaining how the process took place to cement it in people's minds.In essence, Bleecker says, science fiction objects are just like engineering or design prototypes – except, in many ways, they are even more effective.He references a statement by David Kirby, who lectures in science communication at Manchester University:"Diegetic [narrative] prototypes have a major rhetorical advantage over true prototypes; in the diegesis these technologies exist as 'real' objects that function properly and which people actually use."Science fiction can do things that science fact cannot, he says, and it's better at circulating knowledge than science fact ever is. There are no barriers between disciplines, no obscure knowledge-sharing rituals and it talks to the public (whereas 5,000 experts in a subject usually end up talking to each other).Where does this take us? He shows some videos (go and watch them yourself);Death Star over San Francisco, andMetalosis Maligna.Then he refers to the sequence in the Dark Knight, where Batman takes Lucius' ubicomp system that takes everybody's phone and turns it into a sensor. That becomes a point of contention between them – is it right to spy on people? – that relates to the worries people have.Similarly, 2001 helped guide the way lots of engineers thought about the future.He suggests reading science fiction as a manual of the possible."There are insights to be had when you read Bruce Sterling as software documentation," he suggests. "It helps to think of science fiction props as a conclusion to the engineering projects of today."
A senior Google sales executive is taking over as chairman and chief executive of internet rival AOL, after the beleaguered web giant decided to shake up its top management.The New York-based web company – which has been struggling for success in recent years – announced that Tim Armstrong, a senior vice-president at Google, will be replacing Randy Falco, the current chairman and chief executive.Additionally, AOL's chief operating officer Ron Grant will also leave as a result of Armstrong's appointment.In a statement, Jeff Bewkes – the chairman and chief executive of AOL's parent company, Time Warner – said that Armstrong was a perfect replacement for Falco."Tim is the right executive to move AOL into the next phase of its evolution. At Google, Armstrong helped build one of the most successful media teams in the history of the internet," he said. "He's an advertising pioneer with a stellar reputation and a proven track record."Armstrong, who has been in charge of Google's American operations, responded by saying he was "excited about the opportunities".AOL will be hoping that Armstrong can pull back the company from a period of decline under the previous leadership. Falco, who took over in November 2006, has presided over a 50% drop in revenues – despite spending hundreds of millions of dollarsbuying new businesses such as the social network Bebo.Additionally, the company has started laying off thousands of workers as part of a plan to purge 10% of its global workforce.The move also threatens to mark a significant change in the terrain of the web industry. Over the past year there has been increasing speculation that other internet companies, includingYahoo and Microsoft, were considering a dealwith AOL to buy all or part of its business.But one expert said that this could drag the company further away from such a deal. Not only does Armstrong have a background with Google, but the Californian internet company has a 5% stake in AOL, which it bought for $1bn (£718m) in 2005.Last month Google exercised a clause in its contract with AOL, which means that it either has to spin off from its parent company Time Warner, or it would be forced to buy back the stake."Armstrong's likely to be Google-friendly," saidDanny Sullivan, editor of the SearchEngineLand website."Of course, I'd expect Armstrong to act in AOL's best interests, not Google … but it certainly does give them a much closer connection to AOL than either Yahoo or Microsoft will have."
On Saturday, a BBC Click television programme will show how botnets -- networks of compromised PCs -- are used to send spam and attack web sites. What has raised eyebrows is that the BBC bought its own botnet to do the job. You can pick them up cheap in internet chatrooms, though one security consultant reckons "the BBC got scammedon their way to expose the scammers by overpaying them".The BBC posted two short excerpts from the programme on its website, with the headlinesCyber crime risk exposed(on BBC News) andBBC team exposes cyber crime risk.Security expertGraham Cluley from Sophos, a UK-based antivirus company, pointed out on his blog that: "The Computer Misuse Act makes it an offence in the United Kingdom to access another person's computer, or alter data on their computer, without the owner's permission." He says:Sure, a TV report like this can raise awareness of the serious problem of computers being controlled by hackers. But is it appropriate for a broadcaster to use innocent people's computers without their permission for the purposes of their experiment?Out-Law.com duly asked a lawyer --Struan Roberrtson, a technology lawyer with Pinsent Masons-- who also happens to be editor of Pinsent Masons' Out-Law.com. He confirmed that the BBC "appears to have broken the Computer Misuse Act," adding: "It does not matter that the emails were sent to the BBC's own accounts and criminal intent is not necessary to establish an offence of unauthorised access to a computer."The maximum penalty for the offence is two years' imprisonment, but Roberrtson does not expect a prosecution "because the BBC's actions probably caused no harm. On the contrary, it probably did prompt many people to improve their security," he said.The BBC said that, following its demonstration, it warned users that their PCs had been compromised, and it had closed down the botnet.If the users pay attention and secure their PCs, they should be better off than if the BBC had not become involved.Cluley says that his company has often been approached to help with similar demos and has always refused for ethical reasons: "Even if the BBC felt the impact would be minimal - it doesn't make it right."Most visitors who voted in a straw poll at Cluley's site appear to agree: at the time of writing, 17% had voted "No, it's against the law" and 50% "No, it sets a dangerous precedent".[Update] The BBC responded that there was "a powerful public interest in demonstrating the ease with which such malware can be obtained and used," and that it would encourage people to defend their PCs from such attacks. Also: "The BBC has strict editorial guidelines for this type of investigation, which were followed to the letter.""Bots" -- robot PCs controlled remotely by hackers -- are a huge problem on the internet. Botnets are assembled and run by commercial -- though illegal -- operations on a professional basis: some will even give you service level agreements. Huge botnets are used to send billions of spam emails that create costs for everyone else. And as BBC Click also demonstrated, they can be used to swamp sites with traffic so that they stop working.But security companies are not able to rescue and clean up these compromised PCs -- potentially to the benefit of their owners, as well as everyone else -- because of the legal and ethical issues.After all, if you let people remove the Trojans that connect PCs to botnets, why not let them remove, for example, copyright music and movies, or pornography? Where does it stop?
On Tuesday, Iblogged aboutCapcom's Resident Evil 5 competition, which challenged zombie-loving Londoners to scour the Trafalgar Square area for fake body parts. Teams had to grab as many limbs and heads as possible before pegging it over to Westminster Bridge.Well, apparently it all went well, with hundreds of would-be body snatchers taking part. "The eventual winners were apprehended on Westminster Bridge, and were moved on by police officers as horrified tourists gawped at the bloodied mass of fake meat assembled next to the House of Commons," says the gleeful press release. Oh Capcom, you crazy controversy-seeking wags.The interesting thing is, some of the parts have been taken from their hiding places, but never handed in. Have they been kept as grissly momentos? The publisher has a warning for the culprits..."The body parts are very realistic and we don't want people to be alarmed by them. They've all been taken from their original positions, but we now have no idea where they are. If you have them, please either return them, or dispose of them in a responsible and careful manner. In addition, chicken livers were used for added gore, and, uncooked, they can be dangerous."There you go folks, if you find any severed limbs in central London over the next couple of days, whatever you do, don't lick them. However appetising they look.By the way, Resi 5 sales figures are coming in from Japan - the game shifted 400,000 copies in its first week, 312,000 of those on PS3. AsGamasutra points out, this is some way down on the one million+ debuts for Resi 2 and 3, but not bad in the current financial climate.
Recreated code machine at Bletchley ParkbyWellandfrom Flickr,Some Rights ReservedMilton Keynes Council has pledged £300,000 to help with needed repairs at the site that many consider the birthplace of the modern computer and was a key site in the Allied efforts to break German military codes.Last year, English Heritage paid £330,000 for necessary repairs to the roof of the mansion and threw down a challenge to other organisations. Chief Executive of English Heritage, Dr Simon Thurley said:When we announced our initial £300,000 grant last year for urgent roof repairs to the Grade II listed mansion, I laid down the gauntlet by pledging another £100,000 each year over three years if match funding could be found.Voters in Milton Keynes responded, supporting funds for additional repairs.Simon Greenish, director and CEO of the Bletchley Park Trust, thanked the people of Milton Keynes. He said:Not only would we like to convey enormous gratitude to Milton Keynes Council and English Heritage for their collaboration and the clear demonstration of their belief in the Trust but, equally importantly, to the people of Milton Keynes for voting to support Bletchley Park in the Milton Keynes Council Budget Consultation.This vital endorsement takes us one step closer to achieving our aim of creating a world-class educational and heritage site reflecting Bletchley Park's crucial contribution to the outcome of WW2 and the Twentieth Century.The £600,000 in new funds is a much needed boost for the efforts to preserve the site. As it fell into disrepair, there was talk that it could bebulldozed to make way for a shopping centre and a housing estate, and last year as the site failed to get funds from theNational Lottery and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, supporters feared that they would lose an important part of Britain's war-time past.However, not only did it receive support from English Heritagein 2008, but Americans joined the preservation effort, withIBM and encryption firm PGP pledging £57,000. Like English Heritage, the two firms hoped their money would encourage others in the technology industry to help preserve the key piece of computing history.Greenish said the new funding wasn't 'a complete solution'. The Bletchley Park Trust wants to raise £4 million for additional restoration and up to £5 million to develop the museum. The National Museum of Computing on the site is one of the largest collections of historical computers in Europe and features a reconstruction of the Colossus Mark 2 computer.If you want to support restoration efforts, check out theSave Bletchley Parkcampaign and you can followKelsey GriffinwithBletchley Park National Codes Centreon Twitter.
Sometimes when Google buys companies they sort of disappear, and people werewondering what had happened to GrandCentral, which Google bought in 2007. The answer came today when Google's Official blog announced:Here comes Google Voice. The post says:As you may know, GrandCentral offers many great features, including a single number to ring your home, work, and mobile phones, a central voicemail inbox that you could access on the web, and the ability to screen calls by listening in live as callers leave a voicemail. You'll find these features, and more, in the Google Voice preview. Check out thefeatures pagefor videos and more information on how these features work.American residents can use Google Voice like Skype, to make free local calls, or buy credits from CheckOut (Google's rival to PayPal) to make international calls at low rates.Unlike GrandCentral, Google Voice also handles SMS messaging, and it can transcribe voice mails, which makes them searchable. The transcription might be good, but even if it's far from perfect, I'd much rather scan through text to see if there is anything interesting, rather than listen to all of them.Another new feature: you can have conference calls, with recording, for up to six people.There are, of course, plenty of companies already operating in the VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) market, but Google has a huge amount of market power that could help drive adoption. On the other hand, a growing number of people might be wary of Google extending its market power. Also, centrally-logged voice communications could be a honeypot that attracts police investigators, tax authorities, divorce lawyers etc.The New York Times has a quotethat sums it up:"It raises two distinct problems," said Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center. "In the privacy world, it is increased profiling and tracking of users without safeguards. But the other problem is the growing consolidation of Internet-based services around one dominant company."One question that is unlikely to be answered any time soon: When will Google Voice be available outside the US?Would you use it if you could, or has Skype already got your business?
If you've picked up the paper, or seen the Technology site this morning, you'll have seen that I've written about the "voice risk analysis" system being used by 25 local councilsto "detect" benefit fraud, and on which the Department of Work and Pensions has spent at least £1.5m.The scientific basis for this system is hard to find. Two Swedish scientists who have investigated the underlying software suggest that its verifiability – that is, "is there a scientific basis for believing what this is telling you?" lies "at the astrology end of the [scientific] spectrum". Other tests by a different team of scientists suggest that on its own, the system's reliability – that is, "how often does it give the right answer?" – is about as good as flipping a coin (ie 50%, or chance).When I was researching the story, I knew that Tony McNulty was due to give a written ministerial statement with the results of the first sets of trials, which ran from May 2007 to November 2007, and which he had previously said would be published. (I found it a bit hard to believe that it had taken 18 months to write up the results of a pilot study on which large amounts of money had been spent, and which was extended to another 18 councils in May 2008. Wouldn't you publish the evaluation first so that citizens could see whether they were getting any return on their taxes? Perhaps I haven't worked enough in government.)Anyway, theresults have now been published.And pretty lousy reading they make. I think we need to call in the Bad Science police.From the statement:The Department is committed to ensuring that decisions to use or not use the technology are supported by evidence. The Department's evaluation is being conducted by departmental statisticians who are bound by a national code of practice.That sounds good... Now, let's see.In each trial customers provided information to support their claim over the telephone and staff used Voice Risk Analysis technology to help classify the call as high or low risk. A selection of customers from both groups was followed up with a face-to-face review that aimed to corroborate the operator's judgment by seeing whether this further investigation revealed changes that would have affected the benefit in payment.There then follows a table which shows the comparison of those where the "low risk" calls - where the system had suggested there wasn't much "risk" the caller was lying - had a benefit change; and another where benefits were changed (it doesn't say whether up or down; my research indicated for some councils benefits paid went up) after a call judged "high risk".The result: the "high risk" calls led to a larger percentage of changed benefits than the "low risk" ones.This is a fantastic piece of Bad Science, and it's been presented in a written ministerial statement. I think Tony McNulty should be ashamed. Perhaps he is; perhaps that's why this was written, rather than spoken.Why do I say that? Two reasons. First, the glaring error:there's no control group. We don't have a comparable group where the VRA systemwasn'tused, and where operators tried to decide by listening and using their human skills whether the caller was a "high risk" or "low risk".It's like running a drugs trial without a placebo - just having people who are ill and who are well, giving your drug to both of them, and seeing which ones get well. Here's a clue: a number of the ill ones will get well. Does that mean the drug works? Without the placebo as a control, you can't tell.This is why in the piece I wrote I asked whether any of the councils have tried a "blind test" - where you'd have a black box that would beep (as the VRA system does) to alert operators that it thought it had detected a "high risk" - except you'd just have a random system in there. The problem there is that ethically, you can't tell people you're using a system to monitor them if you know you've got something that doesn't. Of course, none of the councils had tried that.Just to make things worse, Mr McNulty hasn't supplied the raw numbers, only percentages. A primary school child will tell you that you can't make comparisons between different datasets if they're all expressed in percentages.That could have a serious effect. For instance, if (in the table) the councils of Lambeth and Wealden - which show the smallest difference between the "low risk" and "high risk" results - actually had by far the largest number of calls, then the differences shown by other councils would be overwhelmed in a meta-study which put them all together. You might therefore find that there's no significant difference between the two groups.I'm astonished that the government's statisticians have allowed this incomplete report to be put out, and that nobody has suggested doing the simple test (interviewing benefit claimants who haven't been through the VRA system) that would allow achi-squared testthat would actually tell us definitively whether this system works.I have asked the DWP for the full results, and whether (and if not, why not) any non-VRA followup interviews were carried out.And if you think this is pointless - remember, it's DWP spendingourmoney on a technology that remains unproven, and not even doing the proper tests to determine whether it works. There isn't even an estimate of savings. It's astonishing.
Founded by eighties coding legends Andrew and Philip Oliver and tucked away down a side street in sleepy Leamington Spa,Blitz Games Studioshas spent the last two decades diligently becoming one of the UK's largest independent game developers. Back in 1990, when it was known as Interactive Studios, it was just the Olivers holed up in a small office above an employment agency, taking on one staff member a month. Now there are over 200 people working here.Today, the company operates as a set of semi-autonomous divisions. The most high profile isVolatile Games, currently working on a reboot of Namco's Dead To Rights series. Elsewhere in the building is the serious games division,TruSim, toiling away on some cutting edge medical simulations, andBlitzTechcurrently working on a purportedly state-of-the-art 3D engine. I'll look at all those soon.Then there'sBlitz Arcade. Formed in 2006, it's a team of 35 staff mostly working on downloadable titles. "We saw how fundamental digital distribution was going to be for the future of videogames and created this division in response," explains business development director, Chris Swan. "We specialise in games that are essentially 'short-session' and generally of a smaller scope, which gives us an excellent opportunity to generate and retain our own IP".IP is vital for independent studios. Work on someone else's brand and you can be shoved off the project at any time. Develop a successful franchise of your own and you call the shots. There's really no such thing as stability in the industry right now, but this is as close as it gets. The Blitz Arcade division has also proved useful as a means of cracking new business areas – not only digital distribution on console and PC, but also iPhone development. Diversity is another good survival mechanism these days.In many ways, this is a model of how independent developers will do business in the coming years. It's all about adaptability. It's about not getting pigeonholed into one genre.With that in mind, this is what the Arcade team is working on right now…CodaChainCodaChain is an interesting place to start. It was originally entered into theDare to be Digitalgame design competition three years ago; Blitz were on the judging panel, loved it and employed the development team to work the prototype up into a commercial release. The game is an interesting mix of puzzler and rhythm action fun, a sort of musical version of Patapon with some Pikmin and Lemmings chucked in.You're a DJ running round a bright cartoon town collecting variously-skilled followers in order to solve puzzles and defeat the silencers, a shadowy police force that's banned music. Recruit a mime artist, for example, and they can be used to divert the attention of enemies while the rest of your crew slip past. Get a couple of builders to follow you and they can bash through obstacles. The visuals are bright and brash, mixing minimalist toy-like character models with feature-packed locations. As well as the single-player mode, there's a multiplayer option for up to four players, where the aim is to build the longest line of followers while sabotaging rival gangs – sort of a conga version of Snake… Blitz is still finalising formats and a release date.DroplitzDroplitz is another one with an interesting backstory. In 2006, Blitz started running Game Chart, a new way for internal staff to pitch ideas for development. Using the intranet system, anyone can write up and distribute a quick design brief – everyone else can comment on the idea, suggest changes, or simply vote on concepts they like. At key points throughout the year, (often coinciding events like GDC, where Blitz will pitch new projects at publishers), the ideas that get the most votes are considered for prototyping and stand a good chance of actually being developed. That's how Droplitz came about.Swan accurately describes it as a cross between Tetris and the old boardgame Downfall, though there's also an element of PipeMania. Water drips from the top of the screen and you must rotate a series of pipes to channel the fluid toward your collectors. If you create multiple paths simultaneously you earn score combos and generate even more water. It's sort of quietly and soothingly addictive, in the manner of the best casual puzzlers.The game is currently slated for a spring release, but formats are to be decided and negotiations are taking place. This is how Blitz works sometimes; it self-funds a project, gets it close to a finished product then pitches it out to publishers in order to secure wider distribution and maybe support and funding for a multiplatform release. Right now, this model must be hugely attractive to the publishers, who are busy cutting down on internal staff and looking for low risk ventures. If an independent studio can say 'here's a near finished game, and we can port that onto any platform for you' a lot of the uncertainty is removed.Encleverment ExperimentDue out in April on XBLA and possibly other formats, Encleverment Experiment is a modestly twisted take on the brain training genre. With a visual style that nods to '50s sci-fi, the focus is on bizarre logic puzzles; you may have to identify the correct route through a maze, pick out daft objects on colour-coded shelves or compete in a race where the hurdles are maths problems. The usual areas – memory, reaction speed, maths, pattern recognition - are tested, but interestingly, all the puzzles are procedurally generated, so you never have to attempt the same version twice. There's a single-player mode which pits you against a series of 15 AI opponents, or you can play in groups of up to four, either at home or online. The multiplayer mode works like a TV quiz show, and players are able to design their own versions of the show, picking and choosing their favourite rounds.There's also a neat little collecting feature. As you complete puzzles you earn noodles, an in-game currency that can be spent on a range of 60 cute mascot characters. Some, however, can only be attained by achieving certain goals, like answering all the questions correctly in a single round or beating a certain amount of tests. It's a clever extra, and the mascots - clearly influenced by designer toy ranges like Friends With You and Qee - are varied and interesting enough to hook you in.Next: 1&gt;Up and amazing Kung Fu gaming on XBLA...
A bumper edition of games news from around the web. Read on and prosper:• Game developers: meet Nintendo with UKTI &gt;&gt;news.bigdownload.com• First look at NASA's Unreal Engine 3 based MMO &gt;&gt;news.bigdownload.com• Casual sector to top $1bn by 2013 &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Tabula Rasa Going Out With A Bang &gt;&gt;games.slashdot.org• Comp.Sys.Sinclair Crap Games Competition 2009 &gt;&gt;alistairsserver.no-ip.org• Mario on the street pipes of NYC &gt;&gt;wonderlandblog.com• Is It Worth Developing Good Games For the Web? &gt;&gt;games.slashdot.org• Latoya Peterson: Those who identify as women or minorities are bullied into silence in online games &gt;&gt;guardian.co.uk• abandonia &gt;&gt;abandonia.com• So You Want to Be a Game Designer, Part 1 &gt;&gt;technewsworld.com• Exploring the enjoyment of playing browser games &gt;&gt;liebertonline.comKeep an eye out throughout the week by following us ondelicious.
This week, the digerati from around the world descend on Austin, TX, the coolest place in the Lone Star State, for the annualSouth by Southwest Interactiveconference. There will be a strong contingent of games folks there, using this as a platform to mingle with cool people outside their comfort zones and to practice their pitches before they hit theGame Developers Conferencein San Francisco the following week. I'll be reporting back from SxSWi with the latest news from theScreenburngames track, plus any other game-y things that are happening (in addition, of course to the Screenburn Arcade).In the meantime, here are the gamesblog's games-related panel picks for the SxSWi-bound.Friday 13 MarchFunologists Live &amp; In Person: Guerilla Game ResearchIf you work at a game company, research means understanding play, not analyzing boring spreadsheets. Meet Big Fish Games and Pogo funologists and learn how listening and watching gamers transforms product and web design. We share different innovative guerilla (discount) and traditional research methods to inspire user-centered design.Games By the People, For the PeopleWe are on the precipice of a new age in independent gaming, with more options than ever before for developers at every level to bring their dreams to life and share them with a public that is ravenous for new and innovative ideas. Stop focusing on all of the challenges that exist for indie developers in the world of big budget sequels, and explore the enormous user-generated content opportunities available to anyone interested in game design. Whether your goal is to make millions, or just get your ideas out into the world, this panel has something for you.Saturday 14th MarchBeing Indie and Successful in the Video Game IndustryJoin several successful indie game developers as they discuss the state of the indie video game scene, talk about the challenges facing independent developers and publishers, and speculate on what the future holds for indie players in the video game industry.iPhone: The New Gaming PlatformWith the launch of iPhone 3G and the App Store, Apple has created a marketplace for developers to innovate with native applications. One of the greatest successes has been with gaming and entertainment titles, and even Apple has been marketing iPhone as a portable gaming device. Will iPhone and iPod touch rival the dominance of Nintendo DS and Sony PSP? Hear from gaming experts who have embraced iPhone as the new gaming platform.Sunday 15th MarchGame Design Competition / Casual GamesThe Casual game design category from the 2009 ScreenBurn at SXSW Game Design Competition will have an hour-long panel, composed of four professional and modern game industry experts, to judge and provide meaningful game design feedback. Each of the four finalists will present a 5 minute PowerPoint or Keynote presentation followed by 5 minute Q&amp;A by the panelists. This is intended to be an accelerated simulation of what companies endure when pitching game concepts to publishers. Finally, a grand prize winner in each category will be determined by jury vote and audience reaction.Monday 16th MarchThe BBC, Six to Start and ARGs - Bringing TV to the WebThis is an advanced session from Six to Start and Roo Reynolds and Jo Twist from the BBC - learn how broadcasters and new media companies work in bringing about the intersection of broadcast television and online both now and in the future.Tuesday 17th MarchSocial Gamers: Away From the KeyboardOnline social networking sites are filled with data, content that can be used to feed rich and entertaining games. What can happen when we leave the computer behind and move gameplay into the real world? Our panel will explore technologies and methods that allow us to step away from the keyboard and create social games that work within the physical world.Britbash British Music Embassy(Latitude 30)Hey, the Proclaimers are playing!EventsDorkbotSaturday 14 MarchBrush Square Park East Tent (across from the Austin Convention CentThink of it as a science fair with free beer. Ample doses of electricity, tomfoolery, mayhem, makers and music combine to form one exquisite geek talent show. Sponsored by SXSW Interactive, the International Game Developer's Association of Austin and the Digital Media Council.Monday, March 16The Go GameThe Go Game's extravaganza at Six will crown a champion of the three day, 24/7 Running With SXSWissors mobile game. Watch teams battle and be the first to experience the highly anticipated "Hijack the Band" game - where the audience controls the show!If you see anything on theschedulethat you'd like me to report back on, please do let me know below, or onTwitter.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Among the people who agree that more people need to get into computers and engineering isLeah Buechley, an assistant professor at MIT's famous Media Lab. That's why, at ETech in San Jose today, she gave a explaining the secret super powers of electronic fashion."It's not enough to take existing models of technology – the things that engineers and designers do – and make them easier," she said. "You also need to think about the context they are used in."She took the example of Lego Mindstorms – a brilliant system for helping kids understand electronics and robotics. But it's basically the preserve of young boys."It leaves out people – I don't a lot of grandmothers who stay up late building Lego Mindstorm robots," she says. "They do quilting instead."Those cultural, gender and generational barriers are hard to break down, but Buechley thinks she's found a way: electronic fashion. By combining her love of craftwork and computing, she is trying."I discovered these fabrics – things like electro-conductive thread. I discovered how you could integrate textiles on the one hand an mathematics and a computer science PhD on the other."Buechley shows a printed circuit board made from colourful textiles and conductive fabric, with a chip soldered in the middle. These are her weapons.Using materials like electro-conductive thread isn't exactly new – if you go to any art school, you're likely to see a few people mucking around with the stuff – but Buechley has gone a step further and tried to get ordinary people using these tools.She crafted a kit calledLilypad- a series of pre-made components using a mixture of special textiles andArduinoparts (Arduino, if you're not familiar, is a hobbyist electronics platform).This allowed people to take was used for running classes in electronic fashion, which attracted a lot of young girls – "not your usual Lego Mindstorms crowd".Her classes made bags, clothes, outfits and other stuff with embedded electronics – helping to teach them about things like programming without ever realising it.Now, that was all well and good, she explained, but there was a problem: she was making all the kits by hand herself… a lot of work. So she hooked up with a company in Colorado,Sparkfun, to make them at commercial scale – and in a few months they've sold more than 3,000 main boards and a total of 20,000 pieces altogether.Now Buechley is taking things on another step, putting together a similar kit - but with conductive paint."It's a kit for paper computing," she said.
I have bought a Toshiba laptop for home use, connected to the mains supply. Should I remove the battery?Claude HuttonMost laptop batteries are now lithium-ion designs that only work for a limited number of cycles (ie, charging and discharging). They also suffer more from oxidation due to heat and when kept fully charged, so your battery should last longer if you remove it. TheBattery Universitysays laptop temperatures can climb to 45C, and "the battery's life expectancy when operating at high temperature is half compared with running at a more moderate 20C (68F) or lower".However, the BU also says: "Lithium-ion is well suited for laptop users who continually switch from fixed power to battery use. This user pattern is typical for those in the sales, service and medical field."
I've deleted a user account in Windows XP and belatedly discovered there may be a file in it with data that was not saved.David CambridgeUse an admin account to look in the C:\Documents and Settings\ folder for the name of the user account. If there is no folder or there's nothing in it, the files have been deleted. In this case, "deleted" means the space they occupied has been marked as free for re-use. If the space has not been used for new data, then you may be able to recover the file with an undelete program or something more sophisticated such asRecover My Files. Search using the name of the file or at least the extension (pst, doc or whatever) to eliminate unwanted clutter. The more you use the PC, however, the more likely it is that the file will be overwritten.
Every time I try to access Google the reply is printed in some indecipherable language. I then receive a message purporting to be from Microsoft telling me that I have a virus by the name of intervalhehehe and need to install Anti Spyware - at a cost of $39.95.Margaret GilesThis is a Trojan that appears to be connected with an infected version of WinRAR, and you might have downloaded it from a Google "sponsored link" (ie, an advertisement).Security Labs has published details and screen shots. Update your antivirus software, restart your PC in safe mode and run a scan. If that does not remove the virus, download and runSuperAntiSpyware.If you have problems accessing the web, go to your C:\Windows directory, press F3 and search for hosts. (It's in the C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\ETC folder.) When you find the file called HOSTS, delete it and restart your PC. This should stop the redirection, but does not remove the Trojan.
Apple's iLife suite of "consumer" ­applications is meant to be one of the reasons you'd want to buy a Mac. Every new machine comes loaded with the programs – the photo-management software iPhoto, music maker Garageband, movie-making software iMovie, website maker iWeb, and make-your-own DVD program iDVD. It being a new year, they have all been updated (with each tweak demonstrated to death by Apple marketing chief Phil Schiller at January's Macworld show).If you don't want to go to the mad expense of buying a computer, though, you can just buy the software – but it'll set you back £69, plus you'll need a machine running Leopard (aka OS X 10.5), and a Mac made within the past couple of years. (Note too it archives, rather than overwriting old versions of iLife.) But are the improvements worth the money? With many of the changes, if nobody told you they were there, you'd barely notice. OK, so there are a couple of things that are new, if not improved. Item: iPhoto now has face-recognising powers. So if you tell it that this person in that photo is called Alex, it will try to identify Alex in any of your other photos. Sometimes this has hilarious effects when itinsists it has found an "unknown face". Perhaps it uses the same algorithms as those people who find the image of the Virgin Mary in a cupcake's icing. (Google's free Picasa, also for Macs, can do this too: and it's free.) The only problem is if you have a large photo library you'll quickly get bored doing all the faces that appear. Either set aside some long, boring nights or be prepared to have tons of unidentified faces, and iPhoto prodding you, saying "Unknown face" like an eager idiot.The new iPhoto also offers geotagging – where was the photo taken? – and automatic uploads to Facebook and Flickr (which feels like a third-party opportunity squashed), plus a slideshow exporting option that will resize for various Apple products. You thought Microsoft had a monopoly on sneaky product tie-ins? Think again. The problem Apple faces in trying to update this suite annually is that sometimes "improvements" are no such thing. That was clearest last year, when the sublime iMovie HD (from 2006) was replaced by iMovie 08, which was dire. Although iMovie 09 is much improved, you still can't control sound levels within a track as you could in iMovie HD, nor get a linear idea of how your film looks. Instead, the editing track is split into layers atop each other. True, it has some neat new effects: a spinning globe to show movement between locations, and neat "packaging" effects. The fact that you can see your entire library of clips is either a bonus or a drawback (I think the latter). All in all, it won't yet satisfy those who (like me) have been with iMovie from its inception, and think iMovie HD was its zenith; but for those who have only used the 08 version, iMovie 09 will seem turbo-charged, rather than still catching up.Garageband was already near-enough perfect; there's nothing particular in the new version that compels an upgrade, unless you like to buy rather simple video demos of how to play an instrument. It does, though, gain dark grey-on-black sliders which make it almost impossible to see whether you're up or down in a scrolling view, and a "jam" function that lets you while away the hours in a band of your own. (It's fun.)As for iWeb and iDVD, well, iWeb is a now a neat WYSIWYG web editor that helps you put together a web page – or even site – with comparative ease: if it were a separate package, it might be worth half the purchase price. As for iDVD, I've barely ever used it in anger, though it drove me there when I tried; it's not the most intuitive DVD-burning program, and bears the Apple hallmarks of sickly cuteness – what you might call "let's make a film about puppies".I wonder if Apple will update this next January; it feels like it's ringing minimal changes on the theme. Is it worth £69? If you're not a web whiz, iWeb is worth half that, iPhoto a quarter, and iMovie 09 a quarter (compared with iMovie 08). So have the better Garageband for free. Cost justified, just about.Pros:Useful face recognition, good web design program.Cons:Movie program has been ­better, some functionality freeapple.com/ilife
