Cars that park themselves have been around for a while, but I've never experienced it until now. You press a button and the car scans the side of the road. When it passes a suitable space it beeps, tells you to stop (instructions come up on the dashboard). Select reverse, it says, and release the steering wheel. Whoa, OK then… There's something disconcerting about seeing the wheel spin round on its own. You do the pedals, going backwards and forwards and stopping; the car steers.And we're in. Not bad – the correct distance from the kerb, no scrapes to my neighbours' cars. Just one problem: we've parked under the tree that is home to the evil berry-eating, purple-pooing bird. That's why there's always a space. Ha, you didn't know that, did you, Mr Smartarse Volvo. A bit of local knowledge and human ingenuity still counts; it's actually reassuring to know that I'm not redundant. Yet.I spend an entertaining half-hour parking. It's good when there's a&nbsp;slot of about the right size, less good at parking at the end of a row of cars, or knowing what is someone's driveway, or where restrictions are. If I get a ticket I'm going to send it to Volvo; your car parked there, not me. You wouldn't actually ever use it, unless you were the world's worst parker. Handy for my girlfriend then. No, I'm not being sexist. She happens to be crap at parking, she happens to be a woman, the two are unconnected… [Ducks all the same.]More important is this car's impressive list of safety features. It sends out beams and sensors to detect and warn of impending collisions, with objects or people. There are air bags galore, even one for the driver's knees. It's basically half bat, half bouncy castle. There's a pedestrian air bag, in case the pedestrian detection system doesn't&nbsp;work and you hit someone. Weirdly, I couldn't find anyone prepared to help me test this out, hence all the parking.Oh, and here's the boring paragraph I'm sure no one actually reads this column for. The new V40 is an excellent "compact premium" car, a serious Scandi rival to the Germans – Audi A3, VW Golf, BMW 1 series. Good-looking on the outside, classy and refined inside (it reminds me a bit of me), the ride is firm and assured (ditto). It's less like me in its lack of thirst and the relatively low quantities of harmful gases it emits, especially if you go for the 113bhp, 1.6-litre D2 (up to 78mpg and 94g/km of CO2). See, I&nbsp;told you it was boring. Important, but boring. For&nbsp;that stuff go and get a car magazine, where it's done thoroughly and properly, by people who actually know stuff, and whom you can trust.Volvo V40 D3 SE NavPrice£23,795Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption65.7mpgCO2emissions114g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating7/10
Thousands of workers at Foxconn in China have gone on strike over working conditions related to production of the iPhone 5.Three to four thousand employees walked out of Foxconn's Zhengzhou factory on Friday, according to China Labor Watch. It said Foxconn and Apple had "raised overly strict demands on product quality" without providing adequate training.The strike comes just weeks after Foxconn was forced to close a plant in Taiyuan, when a brawl involving as many as 2,000 workersleft a number of people needing hospital treatment.China Labor Watch, a labor rights group which monitors factory conditions in China, said Friday's strike came after Foxconn and Apple introduced new quality controls, while at the same time Foxconn forced employees to work during a public holiday."Foxconn raised overly strict demands on product quality without providing worker training for the corresponding skills. This led to workers turning out products that did not meet standards, and ultimately put a tremendous amount of pressure on workers," China Labor Watch said in a statement.The organisation said the new quality demands led to workers turning out products that did not meet production standard, placing "a tremendous amount of pressure on workers"."Additionally, quality control inspectors fell into to conflicts with workers and were beaten up multiple times by workers. Factory management turned a deaf ear to complaints about these conflicts and took no corrective measures."The majority of Foxconn employees taking part in the strike worked on the "onsite quality control line", according to China Labor Watch. It said the strike meant iPhone 5 production lines were "in a state of paralysis for the entire day".The organisation said Apple was involved in some of the reasons for the dispute, pressing ahead with production demands despite design problems. The new quality demands included "indentations standards of 0.02mm and demands related to scratches on frames and back covers" China Labor Watch said.It said the pressure of the new quality demands, coupled with workers not being permitted to take vacation during a recent holiday period, had led to the strike."This strike is a result of the fact that these workers just have too much pressure," said CLW executive director Li Qiang.In September Foxconn was forced to shut a plant in Taiyuan, northern China, after a mass brawl. As many as 2,000 workers were said to have been involved in the violence, with pictures showing smashed windows and riot police at the site. Geoffrey Crothall, a spokesman for the pressure group China Labor Bulletin, said at the time that Foxconn workers were becoming increasingly emboldened."They're more willing to stand up for their rights, to stand up to injustice," he said.
Shares inZynga, the social gaming company behind Farmville and Mafia Wars, have plunged 20%  after it warned of disappointing third quarter earnings and cut its outlook for the year.The company, which is based in San Francisco and the creator of hit games played on Facebook, said it expected to make a net loss of $90m-$105m (£56m-£65m) in the third quarter, blaming delays in new titles and overpaying for another games creator, OMGPOP.It bought the creator of the hit app game Draw Something for a reported $200m in March, only six weeks after the game had been launched, but the studio has failed to replicate its initial success and Zynga wrote down its value by $90m.Much hyped in Silicon Valley before its flotation in December last year, Zynga has since lost three-quarters of its value.It floated at $10 a share, valuing the company at $7bn, but that was already far below earlier predictions of a $20bn valuation. On Friday  its shares were trading around $2.34.Since the float it has lost a wave of senior staff, including the chief creative officer, Mike Verdu, security chief Nils Puhlmann, and chief operating officer John Schappert.In the latest round of bad news, Friday's announcement put third quarter bookings, or upfront sales, at around $250m-$255m, down from $302m in the second quarter. In July its shares fell 40% after it reported a loss of $22.8m, saying at the time Facebook had changed its site to favour new games and, as a result, Zynga had lost customers.In a blogpost, Mark Pincus, the mercurial billionaire who is chief executive, claimed good progress with three new games but blamed a weaker outlook for the fourth quarter on "reduced performance of some live web games" and "several new games which are at risk of launching later than expected"."Let's not lose sight of the bigger picture. The world is playing games, and is increasingly choosing social games," Pincus wrote.In July, the Silicon Valley blogger Henry Blodget reported that Pincus and other senior directors in April had sold stock worth $516m when the company's share price was $12. Four months later, after its second quarter results, Zynga's shares plummeted to $3. Pincus is now among a host of major shareholders at the receiving end of a lawsuit alleging insider trading. Pincus himself reportedly sold 16.5m shares for $200m.Pincus has said the company will push further into gambling and mobile games to try to stem its losses.Industry observers suggest Zynga was unwise to go public with an immature business. The veteran Irish gaming entrepreneur and investor Dylan Collins said: "The big risk for Zynga is that they take a big strategic move like acquiring one or two very sensible companies and the market doesn't care – and the share price keeps coming down." He suggested Zynga's management may have discussed taking the company private to try to regain financial control of the firm.Zynga's misfortunes have serious implications for Facebook, which at the time of its own public offering derived 12% of its income from the games company. Zynga itself derives around 94% of its revenue from being on Facebook."There is change happening at either end of the spectrum for Facebook as a gaming platform, with older users switching to mobile and younger users on different platforms completely," said Collins."For children under 13, it looks as if tablets are going to be the platform of choice, which probably means ignoring Facebook. And with older users switching to mobile, it means Facebook is a lot less relevant than it used to be."From an investor point of view, social gaming is deemed to be dead, anyway."Zynga is a famously competitive and high pressure workplace. Employees are reported to be struggling with low morale. Pincus is haunted by a report on the company by San Francisco's SF Weekly in which a former employee claimed that the chief executive  actively encouraged copying rival games. "I don't fucking want innovation," the employee recalled him saying. "You're not smarter than your competitor. Just copy what they do and do it until you get their numbers."
After six years of "barely scraping by", Brook Drumm, a California-based web designer, had accumulated about $50,000 in credit-card debt. To salvage his finances, Drumm decided on an unorthodox solution: start a 3D printer company.Like many prospective business owners, Drumm didn't have the capital to get his idea off the ground. So he considered his options. He could put a lien on his house, ask friends for money or sell his cars. After consulting his wife, however, he decided to try Kickstarter, an online funding platform, in order to raise the $25,000 that he needed.To purchase the materials to create the printers, Drumm maxed out his credit cards. Then he set up aKickstarterpage and prayed."It was darkest place I've ever been, easily worst time of my life," he said. "Making it out of the debt was all I thought about."To Drumm's amazement, just 24 hours after submitting his pitch, the project reached its goal. Thirty days later, the projectprintrbothad been bombarded with $830,827 from 1,808 backers, surpassing his wildest expectations."It was totally surreal,"said Drumm, who is now scrambling to fulfill an avalanche of orders. "It changed my life."What is perhaps most notable about Drumm's story is that, at least in the rapidly expanding consumer 3D printing industry, it is not particularly remarkable. Several 3D printer companies have seen spikes in investment shortly after launching.Just last week aKickstartercampaign for the Formlabs' Form 1 printer raised almost as much as the printrbot did in its first day – and it still has 21 days to go. While several of these fledgling companies have usedKickstarterand other funding websites to help them get on to their feet, others have taken venture capital or simply used their own money to bootstrap their operations into the black.The men – and they are almost exclusively men – behind these companies come from all walks of life. Drumm went to school to become a pastor and got into 3D printing as a hobby. The Formlabs project was started by a team of MIT engineering and design students. What such entrepreneurs share is the conviction that this technology is the next big thing – big enough, some argue, to be this century's mostdisruptiveinvention.Most consumer 3D printers use a manufacturing process in which layers of plastic resin are laid on top of each other to make objects. While designers, architects and engineers have used 3D printers for decades, to create physical models for their design, hobbyists only started adopting the technology in 2007. Since then, consumer interest has ballooned and entrepreneurs have been scrambling to get a piece of the market."You can't keep up with the demand," said Drumm. "Right now there's six of us full-time, including my wife and myself, which is too small, honestly."Drumm spoke to the Guardian at the WorldMaker FaireNew York, an annual gathering of DIY hobbyists held byMakemagazine that has quickly become an important showcase for printer companies. According to the magazine's maker-in-chief, Sherry Huss, the number of 3D printing companies has increased every year since the first New York Maker Faire in 2010, when there were just three companies. In 2011 five businesses participated and this year about 20 companies, as well as dozens of ancillary businesses selling software, parts and other supplies, were in attendance."It's clearly a sign of the times," said Huss, who noted that her magazine will publish its first 3D printer buyer's guide in November.A recentstudysupports such anecdotal evidence about the industry's expansion. If current estimates are correct, the global 3D printing market will reach $2.99bn by 2018, making it one of the fastest growing industries in the US.Like printrbot, the majority of 3D printer companies at this year's Maker Faire were young – really young. Eugene Suyu, the 24-year-old founder ofTinkerine Studio, only started selling his company's first product, a printer called the Ditto, last weekend."With one or two companies the pricing was generally pretty high, but now with so many new people entering the market the prices for these printers are starting to flatline," said Suyu, from Vancouver.Erik de Bruijn, the founder ofUltimaker, a 3D printer company that started in May 2011, came from the Netherlands."It's been a real roller coaster, you know, starting a company," he said. "But we've sold thousands already. It's amazing how many people want this technology."While more expensive commercial models retail for a little under $3,000, most companies offer cheaper alternatives. Printrbot's most affordable model costs just $400 and the California-based companyDeezmakerretails a stripped-down version of its Bukobot for $599.Most companies sell their products online or at hobbyist events like Makerfaire, but the first two US stores opened last week, which is perhaps an indication of things to come. Diego Porqueras raised $167,410 (after asking for $42,000) in May 2012 onKickstarterand he set upDeezmakerin his Pasadena garage. After being overwhelmed with orders, Porqueras opened the first 3D printer store on the west coast.By far the most successful 3D printing company isMakerbot Industries. In April 2009 the New York-based company started selling printer kits, 5,200 of which were, as Makerbot's co-founder and CEO Bre Pettis says, "in the wild"  by August 2011. That success attracted the attention of the venture-capital world, which injected more than $10m into the business, allowing Makerbot to add more than 150 employees (they're still hiring) and open a store in lower Manhattan. In September, Makerbot launched its newest fourth-generation printer, the Replicator 2."We started really small," said Pettis. "As the CEO I started packing boxes, because it had to get done."Pettis, an impossibly enthusiastic evangelist for the technology, is also perhaps the most visible representative for the consumer 3D printing industry. He can often be found speaking on industry panels, was recently featured on the cover of geek bibleWiredand even appeared on theColbert Report.When talking to the entrepreneurs behind these machines, it is difficult not to notice the language they use to describe thetechnologybehind their blossoming industry. Phrases like "third industrial revolution" and "the reinvention of manufacturing" are bandied about with confidence. For many, the consumer 3D printing industry is a logical and inevitable step forward. As with the web and the personal computer before it, they expect most households to have some sort of desktop 3D printer in the not-too-distant future.But while they are bullish on the technology's growth, they are more cautious about their own success in the increasingly competitive market."I'm not convinced any of us will survive. I'm not convinced that we won't all do well," said Drumm. "It's like the wild wild west right now."
Let me hazard a wild guess: the system of passwords you use on the internet – for accessing online banking, email, shopping sites, Twitter and Facebook accounts – is a&nbsp;mess. You know perfectly well what yououghtto be doing: for each site you visit, you should be choosing a&nbsp;different, complex sequence of letters, numbers and symbols, and then memorising it. (That's rule number one of the conventional wisdom on passwords: never, ever write them down.) But you don't do this, because you weren't blessed with a brain that's capable of such feats. So instead you use the same familiar words for every site – your dog's name, the name of your street – with occasional ingenious permutations, such as adding "123" at the end. Or maybe you do try to follow the rules, in which case you're probably constantly getting locked out of your bank account or trying to remember the answers to various absurd security questions. ("What was your favourite sport as a child?" I'm now asked, though my real favourite sport was finding ways to dodge PE. One question at the iTunes Store asks users to nominate their "least favourite car".) And things are getting worse: these days, you find yourself forced to choose passwords with both upper- and lower-case letters, and what normal human being can remember multiple combinations of those? Not you, that's for sure.One reason not to feel too guilty about your bad password behaviour is that it seems to be almost universal. Last month, an analysis of leaked pin numbers revealed that aboutone in 10 of us uses "1234"; a recent security breach at Yahoo showed that thousands of users' passwords were either "password", "welcome", "123456" or "ninja". People choose terrible passwords even when more is at stake than their savings: among military security specialists, it's well-known that at the height of the cold war, the "secret unlocking code" for America's nuclear missiles was 00000000. Five years ago,Newsnight revealedthat, until 1997, some British nuclear missiles were armed by turning a key in what was essentially a bike lock. To choose whether the bomb should explode in the air or on the ground, you turned dials using an Allen key, Ikea-style. There weren't any passcodes at all. Speed of retaliation, in the event of an enemy attack, counted for everything.The parlous state of our passwords is the result of a different arms race, between malicious hackers and "white-hat" security testers. But when you talk to some of the people most deeply involved, it soon becomes clear that the conventional wisdom is flawed. For example: writing down your passwords may be an excellent plan. Employers who insist on their staff changing passwords every 90 days probably aren't increasing security, and may be making things worse. The same goes for some of the password rules that your bank insists you follow – no more than 12 characters, spaces not allowed, etcetera. At the bottom of all this is the truth that passwords, as a method for keeping our most private data secure on the internet, are fundamentally broken. When I asked the veteran security researcherBill Cheswickif there was a&nbsp;way to solve the problem once and for all, he thought about it, then suggested, "Burn your computer and go to the beach." But though the system may be in chaos, there are things you can do to stay both safe and sane. It's just that they are not necessarily the things you've been told.Password hacking takes many different forms, but one crucial thing to understand is that it's often not a matter of devilish cunning but of bludgeoning with brute force. Take the example of a hacker who sneaks on to a company's servers and steals a&nbsp;file containing a few million passwords. These will (hopefully) have been encrypted, so he can't just log into your account: if your password is "hello" – which of course it shouldn't be – it might be recorded in the file as something like "$1$r6T8SUB9$Qxe41FJyF/3gkPIuvKOQ90". Nor can he simply decode the gobbledegook, providing "one-way encryption" was used. What he can do, though, is feed millions of password guesses through the same encryption algorithm until one of them – bingo! – results in a matching string of gobbledegook. Then he knows he's found a password. (An additional encryption technique, known as "salting", renders this kind of attack impractical, but it's unclear how many firms actually use it.)This is where the length of your password makes an almost unbelievable difference. For a&nbsp;hacker with the computing power to make 1,000 guesses per second, a five-letter, purely random, all-lower-case password, such as "fpqzy", would take three and three-quarter hours to crack. Increase the number of letters to 20, though, and the cracking time increases, just a little bit: it's&nbsp;6.5&nbsp;thousand trillion centuries.Then there's the question of predictability. Nobody thinks up passwords by combining truly random sequences of letters and numbers; instead they follow rules, like using real words and replacing the letter O with a zero, or using first names followed by a year. Hackers know this, so their software can incorporate these rules when generating guesses, vastly reducing the time it takes to hit on a correct one. And every time there's a new leak of millions of passwords – as happened toGawkerin 2010 and toLinkedInandYahoothis year – it effectively adds to a&nbsp;massive body of knowledge about how people create passwords, which makes things even easier. If you think you've got a clever system for coming up with passwords, the chances are that hackers are already familiar with it.The least hackable password, then, would be a&nbsp;long string of completely random letters, numbers, spaces and symbols – but you'd never remember it. However, because length matters so much, the surprising truth is that a longish string of random English words, all in lower case – say, "awoken wheels angling ostrich" – is actually much more secure than a shorter password that follows your bank's annoying rules, such as "M@nch3st3r". And easier to remember: you've already formed a&nbsp;memorable image of some noisy wheels waking up an ostrich fishing by a riverbank, haven't you? As the popular geek comicXKCDput it last year, making exactly this point, "Through 20 years of effort, we've successfully trained everyone to use passwords that are hard for humans to remember, but easy for computers to guess."It gets worse: because passwords are too hard to remember, we've added account recovery processes involving security questions that are far too easy for the hackers to answer. That's howSarah Palin's personal email was hackedin 2008: the intruder correctly guessed information about her postal code and high school. A related weakness in account recovery was also to blame for a vicious hacking assault on the Wired magazine writerMat Honanin August. Hackers managed to commandeer his Google account, send racist messages under his name on Twitter and remotely wipe all the data on his laptop, phone and iPad. All this happened, one of the hackers later told Honan via online messages, because Amazon's customer services line was happy to give out the last four digits of his credit card number – which was what Apple's customer services needed in order to reset access to his Apple iCloud account.Some websites will let you use a passphrase, like the one about the angling ostrich. But many won't – and in those cases, several security experts agree, you should defy your bank and write them down. Their logic is simple: when you know you can't commit something to paper, you keep it simple, so you end up choosing insecure passwords. (The same applies to the advice – sometimes a requirement – to change your password regularly: the more passwords you have to remember, the more pressure to choose easy ones.) "I have 68 different passwords," a Microsoft security specialist namedJesper Johanssontold a conference several years ago. "If I am not allowed to write any of them down, guess what I am going to do? I am going to use the same password on every one of them." The cryptographerBruce Schneier, another advocate of writing down passwords, points out that most of us are pretty good at maintaining the security of small scraps of paper. Whether you can trust your spouse, or your housemates, is the kind of security calculation you're qualified to make. Whether your bank account might be at risk from a Russian hacking collective really isn't.When I put this argument to Neil Aitken, a&nbsp;spokesman for the UKPayments Council– which oversees, among other things, the inter-bank transfers system and the Link network – he did a&nbsp;remarkably good job of remaining calm. The problem, he explained, is that the laws on fraud impose certain responsibilities on bank customers. If somebody swipes money from your account, you'll have a harder time getting it back if you're deemed to have been "grossly negligent" in protecting your passwords. "You could have the most difficult-to-interpret password in the world, but if you tell someone else what it is, you've blown it." The council strongly advises British consumers never to write down or share their passwords.Both sides have a point. That's the problem with security: it's always a matter of trade-offs. More convenience means less security; more protection from remote attacks means less protection from a&nbsp;sneaky housemate. Would you rather run a&nbsp;slightly higher (but hard to quantify) risk of losing your money, or condemn yourself to years of password-related hassle? It's a question almost as perplexing as, "What's your least favourite car?"Bill Cheswick – "Ches" to his friends – is far from alone in believing that we're descending, as a&nbsp;society, into password chaos. What makes him unusual is that he's willing to accept responsibility for being partly to blame. In 1994, as a member of&nbsp;AT&amp;T's fabled research division, Bell Labs, he&nbsp;co-wrote a book with the evocative title ofFirewalls And Internet Security: Repelling The Wily Hacker. (He also coined the term "proxy server", one of several things that makes him, in internet circles, a minor deity.) The book helped lay the foundations for modern online security. But now, he says, when we meet in a Manhattan coffee bar, passwords have become "a pain in the&nbsp;ass! Who can keep track of all these things?" It's a&nbsp;subject on which Cheswick, a volubly enthusiastic man at most times anyway, grows so&nbsp;animated that people at other tables start to look up from their laptops. "And all these rules! You&nbsp;have to mix symbols, cases, numbers…"Cheswick calls these "eye-of-newt" rules because they resemble recipes for magical potions, although sometimes, when getting carried away giving speeches, he has been known to call them "password fascism", too. "I have 25 different accounts, so now I have to remember 25 different eye-of-newt passwords? That'snot gonna happen!"Besides, he argues, the focus on making passwords more complex is rapidly becoming irrelevant, because the more serious threat is from keyloggers – software surreptitiously installed on your computer, via the internet, that monitors the keys you're pressing. "I don't care how good your password is – if I'm watching you type, I got you," he says. You can reduce the risk by using a&nbsp;Mac, or by upgrading from the insecure Windows XP to Windows 7, and installing anti-virus software. But the only real guarantee is never to visit the kinds of sites where such "malware" resides. And "if the grandkids come round, and the teenage son types in one bad address? You're done." Hardly less sinister are "phishing" attacks, the topic of much media hype, in which an email or website that resembles something reputable, such as the log-in page of your bank, tricks you into parting with your password. (The basic anti-phishing advice is to check your browser address bar; to hover over links with your mouse to make sure they're what they claim to be; and never to provide your password in response to an email.)One day, we may not have to worry about any of this: there are innovations in development that might replace passwords entirely. Touchscreens could be configured to detect subtle aspects of your interactions with your computer – the distances between your fingers, the speeds at which you tap and scroll. Technologists at Rutgers University in New Jersey have built a prototype of a ring, worn on the finger, that would send tiny bursts of electricity through the user's skin to the screen, vouching for his or her identity. Fingerprint readers, built into some laptops already but with too many flaws to be taken seriously, could be improved. But don't hold your breath. "Passwords aren't going away" for the foreseeable future, Cheswick says. "I can wish as hard as I&nbsp;want, but they're just too convenient."In the meantime, he recommends doing what I&nbsp;did, after thoroughly scaring myself researching this article: install a piece of software known as a "password wallet", such asLastPassor1Password. These generate fiendishly random passwords for each of&nbsp;the sites you visit, storing them all behind a&nbsp;single master password. I installed LastPass and chose a&nbsp;fairly long sequence of English words with digits. I am now in the disorienting position of not knowing, and never having known, the password to my email, for example, but it doesn't matter: LastPass provides it whenever it's needed.It's not a perfect solution. LastPass is secure to an almost problematic degree: since it conducts all its encryption and decryption on users' own computers, my master password is unknown to the company, which means no one will be able to help me should I forget it. (There's no recovery process based on security questions, either.) And so – yes – I've written it down, in coded form, on a&nbsp;scrap of paper, which I've carefully hidden. I&nbsp;hope to have the password memorised soon. There's no such thing as total security, let alone total security plus total convenience, but this feels like a workable compromise. I'd just better not forget where I hid that piece of paper.
Roll up, roll up for this week's roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps. Games aren't included, because iOS games are in theseparate weekly mobile/tablet games post, which this week included the likes of NBA 2K13, Payback 2 HD, Re-Volt Classic and Zaxxon Escape.What about Android? Google's OS gets its own weekly roundup, which waspublished earlier in the day. TomTom, BBC Good Food, Xero and 17 other new apps can be found there.Here's this week's non-gaming iOS app selection:Blue Note by GroovebugJazz labels don't come much more iconic than Blue Note Records, which is under EMI's wing. This iPad app gathers songs, artwork, photos, videos and articles about Blue Note's artists and back catalogue, with track samples in the initial free download, and full streams if you subscribe for £1.49 a month. It's developed by US startup Groovebug, and is the first mobile app spawned by EMI's OpenEMI initiative, which encouraged developers to dig into its archives.iPadRadioplayerCan anything tempt British iPhone-owning radio fans away from TuneIn Radio? Radioplayer is having a go. The company behind it has backing from the BBC, Absolute Radio, Global Radio and other broadcasters, providing streams from a host of UK radio stations, as well as "catchup" shows on-demand.iPhoneGivitIf I had a pound for every social photo or video-sharing app that I've seen go live on the App Store, I'd probably have enough to buy 1% of Instagram. Givit focuses on video, helping you stitch together different clips, add effects and then share them to Facebook and YouTube.iPhoneNetbot for iPhone/Netbot for iPadAvailable in two separate versions, each costing £2.99, this is perhaps the best mobile app yet for Twitter-alternative community App.net. Its developer certainly has the experience for the job: Tapbots is best known for its Tweetbot Twitter app. That app provides the guts for this App.net version, including "smart gestures" to speed up your tweeti... App.netting.iPhone / iPadDigg for iPadThe relaunched Digg has split online opinion since it went live earlier this year, aggregating online technology news as before, but with less of the traditional community feel. Already available on iPhone, new Digg now has an iPad version, with a clean, minimalist design, and offline reading features.iPadMilaMila styles itself as a "smart business assistant" for small companies, with features including invoicing and e-commerce catalogue management. But the app is also pro-active in finding new leads, scanning Twitter and identifying potential customers based on what you're selling.iPhoneShelby GeniusA number of startups are tackling the issue of finding videos to watch on services like YouTube, Vimeo and DailyMotion (yes, but mainly YouTube). Shelby Genius is the latest, pulling in videos from those three sites, while also recommending other clips based on its community. Its aim is to be smarter than the search functions in those individual services' apps.iPhoneIntoGardensThere are a few traditional print gardening magazines that have been turned into iPad apps, but intoGardens has been designed for the tablet from the ground up. That means video, audio and shopping built into each digital issue, as well as a personal scrapbook section to keep interesting articles. The design is very appealing, while issues cost £2.99, or £9.99 for an annual subscription.iPadTaskbox - Mail"A mobile email client that allows you to swipe your way to inbox zero in less than 60 seconds," claims Taskbox's App Store listing. It clearly hasn't seen my inbox. But the very clever idea here is that Taskbox is a combined email client and to-do list-maker: so while you're swiping your way to an empty inbox, you can at the same time be creating tasks.Pancake PandemoniumReleased to co-incide with its printed book, Pancake Pandemonium is a food-focused story for children with 24 interactive pages, characterful illustrations and cat-hoovering. Which is always nice. A bonus mini-game can be unlocked as children read the story too.iPhone / iPadWonderbra Decoder"Some things really need to be kept between us girls, right?" notes the Google Play description of this bra-brand app. Those things being QR codes, seemingly. The app lets you scan codes on Wonderbra's latest round of adverts to digitally remove model Adriana Cernanova's clothes and examine her lingerie. Then buy it, obviously. It also works with the brand's new YouTube advert.iPhoneRecce - San FranciscoThe first Recce app was a whizzy 3D map of London released before the Olympic Games. Now its developer, eeGeo, has launched a new version for San Francisco. A snazzier alternative to the 3D views in Apple's own Maps, this works online and offline, and includes local offers, restaurant and event-booking features, and a database of tourist hotspots.iPhone / iPadTNW MagazineTechnology site TheNextWeb launched its longform TNW Magazine for iPad earlier this year, but it's now been downsized for iPhone too. The content is original, including app, film and book reviews, longer features that haven't been on the website, and tunes from music site 22Tracks to accompany your reading.iPhoneJamn – The Musician's Multi-ToolWhether you're learning to play the guitar, or writing your own songs, Jamn looks like an essential download. It uses a wheel-based user interface to show the relationships between keys, chords and scales, and is hoping to become a useful tool for players, songwriters and music teachers alike.iPhoneBirmingham Museums QuizYes, it may be a niche in a geographic sense, but this is a good example of how museums and other cultural institutions can be inventive in the apps world. It's a trivia quiz trail for seven museums around Birmingham (the UK one), with questions on two levels to suit children and adults. It can be played away from the seven sites too, if you're not within striking distance of the city.iPhoneEuropa League FourFourTwo Football Stats ZoneBritish football magazine FourFourTwo and stats provider Opta have been working together on apps for some time, with this the latest release. It focuses on the Europa League tournament, providing in-depth stats for every match to aid home analysis of the action being watched on TV. FourFourTwo is also pitching it as a good tool for fantasy football players, although realistically the separatePremier League versionis a better bet for that.iPhonePiko - Kid Video PlayerThis one's US-only, presumably for licensing reasons. It's a public beta of an app for parents – or rather, for their children – providing access to TV shows including Yo Gabba Gabba!, Rastamouse, Bo on the Go and Animal Mechanicals. Games and parental features will be added in future updates.iPhone / iPadCamera AwesomeWith 7m downloads on iPhone, Camera Awesome is one of the more popular apps to replace Apple's own camera software. Now it's been ported to iPad, with an emphasis on editing snaps as well as taking them, with a range of effects and filters acquired through in-app purchase.iPadNoisy Nee Naw!This is the latest children's app from Penguin Books' Ladybird imprint, following hot on the heels of the recent Skullabones Island: Pirates Ahoy! The two apps are similar, with the new one focusing on emergency services rather than pirates. Your child will be steering a fire engine, dressing up various emergency workers, and playing matching pairs.iPhone / iPadDisney American PresidentsAnother US-only app – although it'd be really interesting to see Disney try its hands at a UK version with monarchs or prime ministers. This aims to make the history of the US presidency interesting and engaging for children, with video, music, plenty of talking-heads and content based on the US educational curriculum.That's our selection, but what have you been using on your Android device this week? Make your recommendations, or give feedback on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Hold up, I'm a bit sweaty … pass me that towel, thanks. Just Dance 4 is hard work. Obviously it doesn't have to be an all-out aerobic session, and you can choose to splash around in the shallow end with a bit of Rick Astley and some Barry White, but we all know those are mostly included as a favour to the flat-footed. So I bypassed the easy ones and launched into Superbass, and emerged three minutes later breathless, tired and absolutely convinced that I am Nicky Minaj.Just Dance 4 packs 43 tracks, with a party-pleasing mix to suit both the thirtysomething trying to relive her Popworld-watching heyday, and the six-year-old who really, really likes Call Me Maybe. Essentially, if you've heard a song on Kiss FM in the past 12 months and thought, "Ooh, I would totally dance to that if I wasn't the wrong age for nightclubs", this collection has got you covered, and as a bonus you won't get sexually assaulted by a man in white jeans when you're getting a drink.The instructions tell you to follow the figure on screen "as if it was your reflection" (which is phrased as a bit of a Lynchian nightmare if you wanted to get into it, but that's only going to stop us from getting to the actual moves so we won't consider it any further). Pictograms drift into the bottom-right corner of the screen giving you a heads-up on the next step, and the score bar in the top left tells you how you're doing. It all works beautifully. I played the Wii version, and spotted no snags with the tracking at all – a bit of a triumph, given that Nintendo's now drifting-towards-history console hasn't always had the sharpest of eyes. Expect the Move, Kinnect and Wii U versions to be similarly keen.Just Dance 4The most important part, though, is that the choreography the consoles have to judge is brilliant fun. Routines have all the fizz and sparkle it takes to make a self-deluded person wonder whether, if her life had taken a different turn, she could have made it as a dancer after all. (At the time of writing, the author is still waiting for her callback.) There's a fine mix of arm-popping, sideways travel and hip shaking for every track, and every one gets the feel of the song down just right.Just Dance 4Dance Quests add extra challenges to each song, and there's also plenty of multiplayer thrown in with the option for head-to-head battles. (However, annoyingly, there are also a handful with routines for two or four dancers only, which leaves the solo player slightly locked out.) Exercise add-on Just Sweat is there too, now featuring an "actual calorie counter", presumably so you can know exactly how many slices of buttered malt loaf to tuck away after each session.Just Dance 4As a fitness regime, Just Dance ranks a fair way above the execrable Zumba game, and it cannily offers its own Latin-style workout. My favourite though, by a very long way, is the cheerleader workout. I don't even care if it's good for me. 25 straight minutes of marching and imaginary baton-twirling beats most of the things I could be doing with my time. Just Dance 4 is the best partner you could ask for. Time to hit the floor.
Time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps, covering smartphone and tablet apps available through the Google Play store.As ever, games are not included, as there is a separate weekly post for new mobile and tablet games.The latest onehas a number of Android games, including NBA 2K13, Jetpack Joyride, Beastie Bay, Rayman Jungle Run and Sony's PlayStation Mobile client.The weekly Best iPhone and iPad Apps posthas also now been published. For now, here are the 20 most notable new Android apps from the last seven days:TomTom UK &amp; IrelandIt's taken a while, but TomTom has brought its UK &amp; Ireland navigation app to Android – along with a range of other territories as separate downloads. Features include offline maps, traffic data, camera alerts and the promise of at least four mapping updates a year to keep the data current. Some popular smartphones aren't supported at launch though, including Samsung's Galaxy S III.BBC Good Food – RecipesBBC Worldwide has brought its Good Food cookbook collection to Android, with this free app acting as the container for a series of themed recipe collections. They're bought via in-app purchase, with themes including Healthy, Quick, One-pot, Cake and Festive.XeroCan accounting software be "beautiful"? Xero says it can, and is aiming to prove it with the company's new Android app. It runs the gamut of accountancy tasks for small and medium-sized businesses, from bank balances and invoicing to receipts and expense claims. The data is encrypted and stored on Xero's servers for security purposes.HubblApp discovery has improved greatly on the Google Play store (formerly Android Market) over the last couple of years, but as on iOS, there is always room for inventive discovery apps by third parties. Sol Studios' Hubbl is the latest, using social features and hashtags to suggest likely downloads, as well as riffing off its telescope-inspired name with a "SkyView for Apps" feature: point your phone at the sky to see some recommendations.MilaMila styles itself as a "smart business assistant" for small companies, with features including invoicing and e-commerce catalogue management. But the app is also pro-active in finding new leads, scanning Twitter and identifying potential customers based on what you're selling.ConjureExperienced Android users know the value of a good launcher app, customising the handset's home screen. Conjure is picking up some buzz with its promise of being the "fastest, smartest launcher" for Google-powered devices, from apps and contacts through to web searches and toggling various connectivity and volume modes.Wonderbra Decoder"Some things really need to be kept between us girls, right?" notes the Google Play description of this bra-brand app. Those things being QR codes, seemingly. The app lets you scan codes on Wonderbra's latest round of adverts to digitally remove model Adriana Cernanova's clothes and examine her lingerie. Then buy it, obviously. It also works with the brand's new YouTube advert.AOL OnAOL's new Android app is US-only for the moment. It's an online videos aggregator, pulling in videos in a range of categories and sorting them into channels, as well as AOL's own stable of video shows like Home of the Brave or Fetching. It's free and ad-supported.MyFord MobileThis is a niche, for now, but it shows the way automotive firms like Ford are thinking when it comes to their new cars. The app is for Ford's planned electric vehicles, helping owners check the charging status of their car, set the cabin temperature and find charging stations. It also calculates the cheapest time to charge the car, based on owners' electricity rates.Polkast MusiciOS users have Apple's iTunes Match as a cloud storage music service, but Polkast Music is the latest attempt to connect Android devices and iTunes music collections (see also: AirSync by DoubleTwist). Polkast Music doesn't store your songs in the cloud; it wirelessly plays songs from your computer's iTunes library on your Android device, cacheing songs as it goes for offline listening. It requires a companion app to be running on the computer.KliqUS startup Kliq was one of the companies plying its wares at the Silicon Valley DEMO conference earlier in the month. It's a tool for helping people import contacts from different social networks (including Facebook, Twitter and Google+) into "cliques" for more targeted sharing. An interesting idea, although it's clearly early days.Showtime AnytimeI recently wrote aboutsome of the reasonsBritish broadcasters bring their TV-on-demand apps to Android later than iOS. In the US, networks are also turning their attention to supporting Android, as seen in the new Showtime Anywhere app. It provides streaming access to shows including Dexter, Homeland, Shameless and Weeds.Sierra Trading PostAnother app for American Android users, this is retailer Sierra Trading Post's official ecommerce app, promising exclusive deals and discounts, mobile coupons, and a shopping cart that runs across smartphone, tablet and desktop versions of the store.SPARBritish retailers are getting in on the Android app action too. This app from SPAR is all about the offers: "Select, download and redeem exclusive mobile offers from your nearest store." News and recipes are thrown in for good measure, although for now the app is "in pilot phase", so only a selection of stores are supporting it.Earthquake -American Red CrossAnother US-focused app for the road, this time from the American Red Cross charity. It's aimed at people who live in earthquake-prone areas, with instructions on what to do in the event of a quake; features to let friends and family know you're safe; and data from the United States Geological survey on the magnitude and closeness of the quake.PieministerPies! If ever an app lent itself to a one-word review (with punctuation) it's this one, for British pie-tailer Pieminister. It's also the first app ever covered in this column to include the phrase "augmented pastry reality" in its Google Play store description. If you've guessed that means scanning packaging to get serving suggestions, jokes and a song, you'd be right.Maddie and Matt Values App"Polite and courteous children"? It's the unattainable dream for many parents, but this Android app aims to help. It wants to teach children good behaviour in 26 letter-shaped scenarios, with stories and interactivity to lighten the educational aspects.Say What?!"All these e-commerce, accounting and branded apps are very well," you may be thinking. "But where is the app that will translate my text messages into pirate language?" That would be Double Trouble's Say What?!, which translates messages into a range of novelty languages, while also promising to "make sense of LOLspeak" in texts from The Kids.Treater – Send Real TreatsThe last US-only app of this week's roundup, Treater is an app for sending real gifts to Facebook friends. Said gifts including beers, cupcakes, film tickets, smoothies and coffees. The treats are delivered as virtual gift cards on the friend's smartphone, and can then be redeemed in participating stores. An interesting idea, although Facebook isworking on its own version of this.Pet Pal - Pet Manager"All these turning-my-texts-into-piratespeak apps are very well," you may be thinking. "But where is the app that lets me organise my pets?" Meet Pet Pal. It's actually sensible rather than silly, providing a handy mobile way to store details on animals, as well as reminders (e.g. vet visits, worming) and some photo-storage features.That's our selection, but what have you been using on your Android device this week? Make your recommendations, or give feedback on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Samsung Electronics says it will report a record quarterly operating profit of 8.1tn Korean won (£4.5bn), nearly double last year's and up 25% sequentially, as strong sales of high-end TVs and Galaxy smartphones more than offset reduced orders for chips and screens from Apple, its main rival and leading customer.The figure covers the three months to the end of September. Most analysts, however, expect its run of four straight record quarters to end in December as the South Korean group, the world's leading maker of smartphones, TVs and memory chips, ramps up its marketing to counter Apple's new iPhone and other products in the increasingly crowded and competitive $200bn (£123.5bn) global smartphone market.The operating profit figure is an estimate provided by Samsung itself in an earnings preview. That beat the consensus from a poll of 26 analysts, who pegged it at 7.6tn won, up from 4.25tn a year ago.Samsung may have spent around $2.7bn on marketing in July-September alone around the London Olympic Games, for which it was a major sponsor, and new Galaxy promotions, Credit Suisse has estimated.This year's expected record profit of 28tn won will also trigger higher performance-related payouts to many of Samsung's 206,000 staff early next year. The business may have to set money aside in the current quarter if it fails in an appeal to overturn a US court verdict from August which awarded more than $1bn in damages to Apple for patent infringements on phones and tablets."Fourth-quarter profit will be pressured by one-off expenses: performance payouts and some $1bn in legal provisioning relating to the Apple litigation. Excluding those, core earnings will remain solid and a swing factor is how much Samsung spends on marketing," said Lee Sun-tae, analyst at NH Investment &amp; Securities.Analysts expect earnings to decline until the second quarter of next year as a slump in computer sales and a weak global economy sap demand for chips and electronics products.Smartphone tightrope"The biggest risk for Samsung is competitive product line-ups from its rivals such as the iPhone 5. Because handsets drive most of its profits, one misstep in handsets could result in losses for the whole Samsung group," said Byun Han-joon, an analyst at KB Investment &amp; Securities.So far though, there is no sign of that happening, with its former key rivals – Finland's Nokia, Taiwan's HTC and Motorola in the US – falling behind in both profits and shipments.Profit at Samsung's mobile division is likely to have more than doubled in July-September to around 5tn won – around two thirds of total group profit – as smartphone shipments are estimated to have topped 58m, including up to 20m Galaxy S IIIs. Samsung does not give figures for its shipments of smartphones, mobile phones or tablets, which are instead estimated by analysts.The company, valued at around $197bn, estimated its third-quarter revenue at 52tn won, in line with forecasts.Chips, cheaply?Strong handset sales compensated for reduced profits from its chip business, as prices of its mainstay dynamic random access memory (DRAM) chips, used in computers and mobiles, dropped 14% in the September quarter. DRAM chips now trade below what it costs most contract manufacturers to make them, and will squeeze near-term earnings, analysts say.Tablets and smartphones, the real growth areas, use far less storage. Samsung is expected to invest less in chips next year due to the drop in demand, which could be bad news for semiconductor equipment manufacturers such as ASML.Kwon Oh-hyun, promoted to Samsung CEO in June, said late last month that the group has yet to finalise its 2013 investment plans.Samsung is beefing up its product line-up, with the latest phone-cum-tablet Galaxy Note expected to go on sale in the US this month, and its ATIV smartphones that run on Microsoft's new Windows system to compete with Nokia's Lumia series.Note-takingSamsung's mobile division chief, JK Shin last, week predicted that sales of its large-screen Galaxy Note II could be three times higher than those of its predecessor model in the three months after launch. That would suggest sales of around 10m devices by the end of this year.Some analysts see the Note II, along with a stripped-down, cheaper version of the flagship Galaxy S III smartphone and rising NAND flash memory chip prices helping Samsung deliver higher fourth-quarter profit. Nomura on Friday predicted October-December profit could be up to 10% more than the 8.1tn won in July-September.In a note on Friday, Citi analyst Henry Kim predicted strong October-December profits, driven by a recovery in semiconductors, though telecoms operating margins could decline by 5 percentage points to 15% as it spends more on marketing. "The semiconductor division will show the strongest momentum," he said.Despite a bruising series of patent disputes and the reputational risk of the US court defeat in August, Samsung's brand value has surged this year as it shipped more handsets and smartphones than any of its rivals. The value of the Samsung brand has jumped to 9th in the world – up from 17th last year – at $32.9bn, according to brand consultancy Interbrand. That's more than Toyota Motor, but less than half of second-ranked Apple's $76.6bn.
Yey, Friday! That was quite a long week – three days in London, two events and one radio 'appearance'. And I'm doing a game jam over the weekend... How about you?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Forgotten Mapmaker: Nokia has better maps than Apple and maybe even Google &gt;&gt; The AtlanticAlexis Madrigal:Nokia is the company that receives the GPS data from both FedEx and UPS, the company's senior VP of Location Content, Cliff Fox, told me."We get over 12 billion probe data points per month coming into the organization," Fox said from his office in Chicago. "We get probe data not only from commercial vehicles like FedEx and UPS trucks, but we also get it from consumers through navigation applications."Depending on the device type, the data that streams into Nokia can have slight variations."The system that they have for tracking the UPS trucks is different from the way the maps application works on the Nokia device. You'll have differences on the amount of times per minute they ping their location, though typically it's every 5 to 15 seconds," Fox said. "It'll give you a location, a direction, and a speed as well."They can then use that data to identify new or changed roads. In 2012, they've used the GPS data they get to identify 65,000 road segments. (A road segment is defined as the strip of surface between intersecting roads.) The GPS data also comes in handy when they're building traffic maps because they know the velocity of the vehicles.Read on for the clever privacy protection tweak too. And yes, Nokia's Navteq does operate Streetview-style cars.TomTom navigation finally arrives on Android, but lacks compatibility with popular devices &gt;&gt; The VergeThe apps are available from Google Play now, although device compatibility isn't perfect: many of our devices -- including the Galaxy Nexus, Nexus 7, HTC One X, Galaxy S III, and Galaxy Note -- are listed as incompatible in our Google Play account, and we're sure that list will grow as more users attempt to buy the app.Limited at present to devices with 800x480 or 854x480 screens. Although why would you want a TomTom app if you're on Android?Five reasons location is the smartphone's killer map &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyAre you sitting somewhere comfy? Because right at this moment, your smartphone is likely calculating and then sharing your seated location. But don't worry: You are far from alone. Location-sharing services are on the rise. Here, the big reasons for the trend in personal placement.Pirates (PPI) blocked from becoming observer member of WIPO &gt;&gt; PirateTimesIn its General Assembly meeting of October, 3, 2012, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) has chosen to wait until 2013 to take a decision on the observer membership application of the PPI. Torn between the recent evidences of the Pirate Parties influence in several national elections and the objections of several of its member states, the UN agency chose to take no side and wait for a future ruling about political parties' applications.Very politically playing for time in the hope the Pirate Party will go away. We'll see who rusts first.HP smartphone not coming in 2013, says CEO Meg Whitman &gt;&gt; ComputerworldUK.comHP has no plans to launch a smartphone next year but will need to sell one eventually to avoid missing out on "a huge segment of the population," CEO Meg Whitman said yesterday.Such as the 50% in the US and UK who already have one, and where smartphones are 80% of handset sales? Any time, Ms Whitman. If only HP had owned a smartphone division.. pardon?Motorola dumps three 4G phones from Ice Cream Sandwich upgrade list &gt;&gt; TechHiveGoogle-owned phone maker Motorola Mobility has quietly backed off its decision to upgrade three of its 4G phones to Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) including the Atrix 4G, Photon 4G, and Electrify. Instead, the three phones will stay on Android 2.3 Gingerbread and receive maintenance upgrades. Motorola in February had listed the phones as slated for an Ice Cream Sandwich upgrade between July and September.And owners of the Atrix and Photon had an update pushed out which locked the bootloader, apparently, so they can't load a custom ROM.Jim Cramer: HP is the next Kodak &gt;&gt; TheStreetVideo. Just the headline is scary enough.Facebook: The making of 1 billion users &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe team in charge of tracking Facebook's (FB) growth works on the second floor of Building 17. Most days, the offices are like anywhere else at Facebook: whiteboards, toys on desks, shorts and flip-flops, pretty low-key. Around noon on Sept. 14, the second floor was packed. In one of the common areas, a giant screen showed the number of active Facebook users worldwide. About 100 people, including Mark Zuckerberg and his top lieutenants, watched the numbers run up by about a thousand users per minute: 999,980,000 ... 999,990,000 ... 1,000,000,000. The counter paused for a moment when it rounded 10 digits, as if to emphasize the point: 1 billion users.So Facebook actually hit that target on 14 September?AAPL: iPhone 5?s Amazing 93% Margin on NAND, Per RBC &gt;&gt; Barrons.comDoug Freedman of brokers RBC Capital:We were surprised to see Apple continue to charge $100 for each incremental 16GB of NAND, given that AMZN is charging $50 (Kindle Fire HD 7" and Kindle Fire HD 9" LTE) to $70 (Kindle Fire HD 9" WiFi) for each 16GB of NAND. We estimate that Apple is able to procure NAND flash for ~$0.42 per GB (at market prices or better), while reselling for $6.25 per GB (calculated as $100 for each 16GB of step-up). This implies a favorable 93% gross margin on NAND.Wonky calculation (going from the 32GB to 64GB model only adds $100) and the procurement price actually seems pretty high - not far from retail. ($42 for 100GB is about wholesale price for an SSD; you'd think Apple could do better.) Is the search for profit the reason why Apple doesn't offer an expansion slot? Though nor, come to that, does the Google Galaxy Nexus. Or HTC One X. Or Nokia Lumia models. By contrasat, Samsung's Galaxy S3 does offer SD expansion. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Too much of a good thing? How HP made a mockery of Envy &gt;&gt; Digital TrendsI was browsing the aisle of my least hated computer hardware retailer when I saw it: Sleek. Black. Chrome. It was...an HP Envy printer.Did my eyes deceive me? They did not. As I walked closer, I saw that the Envy signage on the boxes below the printer matched that on the printer itself. It was true. HP had developed an Envy printer and put it out to the public.That's the exact moment I knew the Envy sub-brand had jumped the shark.Envy was an outgrowth of HP's acquisition of gaming PC company Voodoo; now it is being applied to everything, to no good effect.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Eight years after it was launched as a Harvard dorm room project, Facebook has declared that its social network is now being used by 1 billion people around the world every month – or one in seven of the global population.Its founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, 28, is in need of good news after the company's disappointing flotation in May. He took to his personal Facebook account to say that the milestone was "by far the thing I am most proud of in my life".He has achieved his stated ambition of reaching 1 billion active monthly users just two years and three months after the social network reached the half-billion mark. Facebook reached 900 million active monthly users in April.With characteristic ambition, Zuckerberg talked of connecting "the rest of the world" – and the company launched a digital video commercial, directed by Alejandro González Iñárritu, whose film credits include Amores Perros and 21 Grams.Although expected, the announcement will help divert attention from the company's disastrous flotation. Facebook launched at $38 a share in May, only to drop steadily. This week shares were trading at around $21. As a result, Zuckerberg's personal fortune has fallen by about $8bn.Facebook's shares slumped over fears that revenues would be hit by consumers increasingly accessing the internet via mobile devices, which are harder to generate advertising revenue from. About 600 million people use Facebook's mobile platform, and one in 10 reportedly access the site only by phone.Users of the social network have run up 1.13tn "likes" – the internet's ubiquitous thumbs-up button – 140.3bn friend connections and 219bn shared photos since it launched in February 2004. More than 300m photos are uploaded every day and 62.6m songs played, demonstrating how fast the site has become part of people's everyday experience.Nevertheless, there are considerable hurdles to overcome if Facebook is to sign up another billion. In North America it is used by nearly 45% of the population, according to data from Socialbakers.com. However, the site has yet to reach more than 6% in Africa, where mobile phones – fast becoming Facebook's achilles heel – are predominant, and 7% in Asia, where it competes with local sites.Increasingly, Zuckerberg has taken to travelling the globe to help push the company in new territories. He visited the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, in Moscow last week, taking part in a TV chatshow and surprising programmers at a local event.The trip was an attempt to help the firm break into the significantRussian market, which is dominated by domestic social network VKontakte, which claims 100 million users. There are similar challenges for Facebook in China, where market rivals RenRen and Sina Weibo have 30 million and 300 million users respectively. It is offering a basic version of the site for users in developing countries including Cameroon, Qatar and Indonesia.But while Facebook is also hoping to lure more subscribers, its real challenge is to raise turnover, even to match Wall Street's reduced expectations. Richard Broughton, head of broadband at analysts Screen Digest, said Facebook is exploring multiple business models to try to boost mobile income.Experiments to boost growth include launching paid posts for individual users, allowing them to pay about $7 (£4.30) to promote their news in their friends' timelines, and discussions with the UK government over using Facebook identities to help citizens access public services.Broughton added that Facebook was finding it harder to make money outside the US, average revenues per user being far higher, about $14, in the States than the $3 in the rest of the world. Facebook's primary sources of income are advertising and payments for features including gaming – at the time of the float, the Farmville games company Zynga generated about 12% of its revenue.Nevertheless, the analyst warned that growth is slowing: "When they were initially filing, there were a lot of comparisons to Google, but that was predicated on growth. Now Facebook is plateauing. Social networks are substitutable. You can afford, as a user, to be on several networks. That means there is a reasonably low entry barrier to a competitor coming in."
On 4 October last year, Tim Cook took the stage for the first time at Apple's HQ in Cupertino, California, as its full-time chief executive,to start unveiling what turned out to be the iPhone 4S. It was also the first time Cook had been in the driving seat for an Apple presentation – which for years had been led by Steve Jobs, whose skill at making new products look desirable had become famed as a "reality distortion field".But Jobs was at his home nearby in Silicon Valley, gravely ill with neuroendocrine cancer, which had first been diagnosed in 2003, and surgically treated in 2004.Jobs died the day after Cook stood on the stage; his death led to a huge – and, to many, puzzling – outpouring of grief, and to a more explicable flurry of analyses suggesting that without its co-founder, Apple would wither on the vine.A year on, Apple doesn't look like a company in serious trouble. It has risen in value by more than 75%, from $346.2bn (£215.2bn) on 4 October last year to $619.9bn at the time of writing, becomingthe most valuable listed company in the worldand bringing it close to an all-time inflation-adjusted record (beaten only by Microsoft in 1999). It has sold more iPhones in that period than ever before (and then bettered that with pre-orders for the iPhone 5, which was released last month). Its profits have kept growing, in apparent defiance of any law of economic gravity."I never viewed my role as to replace him," Cook told the AllThingsDigital conference in May. "Steve was an original. I don't think another one of those is being made. I never felt the weight of being Steve."But is Apple really the same company without Jobs and with Cook as its helmsman? Inside the company, the word is that nothing seems different; business goes on as usual, work gets done, the relentless pressure on the staff continues. One thing that has gone: Jobs's sometimes infuriating (to staff) ability to argue one position on one day, and the exact opposite the next. "I saw it daily," Cook said.But without Jobs, can Apple still innovate?George Colony of Forrester Research suggested in Aprilthat Apple will, like Sony after the death of its leader, Akio Morita, in 1999, decline: "When Steve Jobs departed, he took three things with him: 1) singular charismatic leadership that bound the company together and elicited extraordinary performance from its people; 2) the ability to take big risks; and 3) an unparalleled ability to envision and design products."He suggested that Apple had between two and four years before revenue growth and product innovation would stall.Cook, though, denied that Jobs had had such a key importance, especially in the product field. "The [product] curator role moves around as it always had [when Jobs was there]," Cook told the ATD conference. "No one person does it all."Cook, like Jobs, still runs a tight ship in every sense: Apple is secretive about its plans and workings, with high-profile one-off presentations run by the top executives – Cook; the marketing chief, Phil Schiller; the iPhone software chief, Scott Forstall – over off-the-record meet-the-press brunches. For journalists and analysts, predicting Apple's next move is like being a Kremlinologist in the Soviet era: the slightest shift in public posture or hint of an approach to another company is minutely examined, and can stir rumours and make stock prices yo-yo.Cook himself remains largely an enigma – though famed in the industry for his ability to control the supply chains that are essential to any hardware maker's success. Single, and just weeks from his 52nd birthday, he is known as a fitness nut who goes hiking and cycling, and whose day often starts at 4.30am with a barrage of emails. His real skill, analysts agree, lies in the hidden iceberg of getting products built: the "supply chain" of manufacturers and parts makers who contribute everything that goes into the phones, tablets and computers it sells.Yet to external observers, quite a few subtle differences are evident in the year since Jobs's death. The first wasCook's decision in February to make donations to charity with Apple's money– $50m to Stanford hospitals, and a further $50m to other causes since then. Jobs, it was commonly agreed, would never have done that; one book, Inside Apple, quotes him as saying that giving money away was "a waste of time". (And, presumably, money.)The same month came another surprise:a statement about working conditions at the Foxconn plants in Chinawhere iPhones and iPads are made and assembled, in which Cook said: "We believe that workers everywhere have the right to a safe and fair work environment" and instituted wide-ranging checks by the Fair Labor Organisation, after a growing chorus of criticism over worker suicides and reports of exploitation.Next was another move involving money: in March, Cook announced thatApple would begin paying a dividend on its shares, for the first time since March 1995. That was when it first began to run into financial problems – from which it was only saved by Jobs's return in 1997, and then his hiring of Cook to take over the supply chain in 1998. Also in March this year, Cook did yet another thing Jobs never did:a public visit to the Foxconn factories, where he was photographed on the assembly lines – something that none of the senior executives at other companies who also use Foxconn, such as Dell, HP or Microsoft, has done.Charities, fair labour, dividends – all put a much more empathic face on a company that under Jobs had seemed hard and uncaring, particularly over Chinese workers' conditions.That suggests that Cook is trying to mould the company to see itself not as a scrappy underdog – as it was under Jobs until recently – but as what it actually is, a business giant, even though (as Cook once put it) all the individual products it sells could fit on a tabletop."I think the overarching theme for Cook v Jobs is that Cook is trying to show a softer side of Apple," says Horace Dediu, who runs the Asymco consultancy. "He seems to be willing to put a gentle and less recalcitrant face on the company. All these things, even dividends, are signals that Apple is kinder, gentler. However, it's early days. Every new manager wants to place his mark on the company and distance himself from the predecessor. In many ways they [Apple] have not changed."Ian Fogg, head of mobile at IHS Screen Digest, says: "If there is a change in Apple under Cook – and that's far from certain – it has been one of communication tone, and not product substance. Apple now appears slightly softer, more human, more socially aware in its communications and is more willing to respond to consumer feedback."The clearest example of that came just last month, whenCook penned an abject apologyfor thequality of the maps service on the new iPhone operating system. With 100 million people using it within just a week, the criticisms about errors – in locations, naming, or omissions – were overwhelming. Cook said he was "extremely sorry" and suggested a number of rival mapping services – including Nokia's and Microsoft's – available to iPhone users instead.A number of commentators said that Jobs would never have written such an apology – and would never have allowed maps of that quality to be released as a fully fledged product. But Carolina Milanesi, smartphone and tablets analyst at the Gartner research group, disagrees: "People think that Steve [Jobs] would have never brought maps to market. But there are indeed examples of products or services that came to market under Steve that were not perfect: 'antennagate' with the iPhone 4 [where call quality fell when the phone was held in the left hand] and Mobile Me [Apple's first attempt at a cloud service in July 2008, which saw people lose emails and synchronisations fail]." She thinks that when it came to the maps apology, "doing a mea culpa was less damaging than letting people think that Apple's core values have changed".Ironically, given Cook's expertise at wringing the best out of Apple's suppliers, it's also the supply chain that most threatens the company's treasured secrecy about what it will do next. Ahead of the iPhone 5 launch, almost every detail about its physical appearance was known: the screen size, new charging interface, camera. That's because parts and photos had leaked out from various plants – and because iPhones are made by the million, and there's huge value to rivals and accessory makers in knowing what the next model will look like, such details have become precious knowledge indeed.The latest supply chain leaks –reported by the Wall Street Journal, which demands at least two separate sources for any "anonymous" story – suggest that Apple is building an "iPad mini", a smaller version of its iPad, to be unveiled later this month. It will be the first entirely new product Cook has overseen; analysts are already totting up how many millions it might sell in the months until Christmas, even before its existence is confirmed.It's been a long haul for Cook, who said he wanted to work with Jobs within five minutes of his job interview in 1998. But he still has some way to go. Milanesi, says: "The status of demigod that Steve had meant he got away with more than your average CEO gets away with. Tim is not Steve. Which is not good or bad. Just different."
The head of GCHQ has spoken with regret of the treatment of Alan Turing, the second world war codebreaker and mathematical genius, who killed himself in 1954, two years after being convicted of homosexuality, which was then a criminal offence.In a rare speech to mark the centenary of Turing's birth, Iain Lobban said the unique people the country needed were often mavericks, and it was his job to set them to work in the world of secret intelligence, "not to tell them how to live their lives".Lobban told an audience in Leeds that Turing was a national asset whose death robbed the country of "one of our greatest minds". He said more people like Turing were needed if Britain was to stay ahead of the challenges and dangers posed from cyberspace."We can't rewrite the past," he said. "We can't wish mid-20th century Britain into a different society with different attitudes. We can be glad that we live in a more tolerant age. And we should remember that the cost of intolerance towards Alan Turing was his loss to the nation."In 2009 the then prime minister, Gordon Brown, apologised for the treatment and vilification Turing received.Turing was a central member of the team at Bletchley Park, the code-breaking centre that played a significant role during the 1940s, unravelling encrypted communications used by the Nazis. He also developed a machine that arguably became the model for the modern computer.Lobban, who has been head of GCHQ, the government's electronic intelligence-gathering centre, for four years, described Turing as "a founder of the information age … One of the people whose concepts are at the heart of a technological revolution which is as far-reaching as the industrial revolution."He added: "And of course there are many Turing stories: burying his silver bullion and then forgetting where he had buried it; chaining his mug to his radiator; cycling in his gas mask to ward off hay fever."But Turing was not an eccentric, unless you believe that there is only one way of being normal and to be otherwise is to be peculiar. Turing wasn't eccentric. He was unique."Lobban insisted today's GCHQ needed more people like him. "I strongly believe [the] agency needs the widest range of skills possible if it is to be successful, and to deny itself talent just because the person with the talent doesn't conform to a social stereotype is to starve itself of what it needs to thrive."Part of my job is to continue to foster that atmosphere: to attract the very best people and harness their talents, and not allow preconceptions and stereotypes to stifle innovation and agility. I want to harness the best talent … so that they can apply themselves to the big issues of intelligence and security which challenge an organisation which simply has to remain at the cutting edge in order to survive and thrive."I want to apply and exploit their talent. In return, I think it's fair that I don't need to tell them how to live their lives."Lobban said GCHQ needed to "reach beyond the university level. We must inspire schoolchildren to study maths and science. We must find tomorrow's Turings."He said that if Turing was alive now, he would be working to secure the UK's interests in cyberspace."Then, the technological challenge was to stay ahead of the Germans. Today, our challenges come from the explosion in the volume of communications as well as the relentless increase in new ways of accessing and processing it."Then, the challenge was to secure allied codes and ciphers to prevent the enemy doing to us what we were doing to them. Today, [it is] securing cyberspace so the UK … can use it safely to develop e-government and trade."Lobban also used the speech to explode some of the myths about Bletchley Park, particularly regarding the Enigma machine, which was used by the Nazis to encrypt messages."You have probably all seen the Hollywood version of the Enigma story," he said. "The films showing heroic sailors leaping onto sinking German submarines to recover their Enigma machines. The truth around the initial acquisition is a little more prosaic. In 1926, Edward Travis, who later became director of GCHQ, went to Berlin and obtained an Enigma machine by the simple expedient of going to the manufacturing company and buying one."
It's a heady cocktail of magic, vengeance and warped Victoriana. First-person stealth-em-upDishonored(PS3/Xbox/360/PC) has been one of the most hotly anticipated games of the year and now it's very nearly on our shelves. Two stonking trailers – one using gameplay and one video – have set a rabid horde of gamers salivating for its rich, inventive world of steampunk behemoths, massacres at masquerades and vicious supernatural badassery.Set in the city of Dunwall, a dirty, stratified amalgamation of turn-of-the-century London and Edinburgh beset by corruption and plague, it's a fairly simple story of betrayal and the thirst for revenge. You play as Corvo Attano, once a bodyguard to the Empress, and now, after being framed for her murder, Dunwall's most wanted criminal. Corvo is imprisoned and shortly to be executed when a mysterious visitor grants him fledgling demonic powers and sets him loose on the city to wreak havoc.What follows are a series of sandbox assassination missions, as Corvo sets about disposing of Dunwall's various evil aristocrats and schemers and bringing some small hope of recovery to its rank body politic. As the game's ironic tagline puts it: "Revenge solves everything."It's the setting, much more than the generic hero, that players are likely to fall in love with. Dunwall is a city of stark contrast, from the ludicrous opulence of its ruling elite to the plague-ridden squalor of its impoverished masses. The wealthy ride round in hulking, whale-oil-powered armoured vehicles. Dapper but deadly guardsmen patrol their mansions and heavily armed stilt-walkers march the streets outside their homes. The poor, meanwhile, do their best to fend off the city's ravenous and plague-ridden rodents. Those infected are transformed into weepers, ambling around in sewers and dark alleys, crying blood and mauling anything that moves.If it sounds a little gruesome, that's because it is. In fact, it's a lot gruesome. Totally, utterly gruesome. If you've watched the recent gameplay trailer you'll know a sizeable chunk of it is just footage of thick dark blood spurting from a variety of sliced necks. It's not unrepresentative. Your demonic powers are often viscerally unpleasant, such as summoning swarms of rats to chew your enemies down to red-raw skeletal husks. Even possession – controlling an enemy from within their mind – causes your target to puke their guts up when you leave. The morbid infests even the opulent settings. In one level, guests at a masquerade wear fiendish baby faces and spiked grimaces, like goth band Slipknot dressed up in ballgowns. There's at least a hint of violence in the design of almost everything.It's also, however, possible to play through the entire game without actually killing anyone. At the ball, for example, where your goal is to do away with an evil noblewoman, one of your fellow guests knows of your murderous intent and proposes another option: let him smuggle her away and imprison her as his life-long lover. Of course, that's not much less dark than just letting the rats eat her.It's all about giving the player options though. Not just to kill or not to kill, but how to kill, who to kill, and even simply how to get there. How to kill because, alongside several murderous demonic powers, there's an arsenal of incendiary crossbow bolts, pistols, grenades and traps to play around with. Who to kill because, just as you can play through the game killing no one, you can also kill almost everyone. Then there's breaking and entering: do you waltz in through the front door in a whirl of gunfire and slowed time or possess a fish and swim in through the sewers? Jump, free-run and teleport to the highest balcony? Sneak in through the shrubbery? Steal an invitation, stroll up and mingle?For all the options each mission presents – and side missions, alternate endings and hidden-ability upgrades ensuring it will reward multiple playthroughs – there is no escaping the fact that this is not a huge game. At least not by the standards of its publisher Bethesda Softworks, the people responsible for such gargantuan free-roaming sagas as Fallout 3 and Skyrim. Where Skyrim is epic, Dishonored is simply excellent. What this is, in contrast to the all-you-can-eat buffets of those mammoth open worlds, is gourmet gaming. It's exquisite down to the smallest detail; lovingly built, bursting with ideas and artisanal game design, and – for as long as it lasts – both delicious and deliciously macabre.• This article was amended on 5 October 2012. The original incorrectly said that Bethesda Softworks was the developer rather than the publisher.
Google has reached a settlement with a group of American publishers over its plans to create a massive web-based library, ending seven years of court wrangling.The deal means that the scheme, the Google Library Project, can move ahead, collecting and scanning books online and making them searchable to web users.The project had begun with Google Books working with seven major universities to digitise their libraries. Once the books are scanned, excerpts can be read in search results. But several major publishers went to the courts, complaining of copyright infringement.The publishers were worried that the Google Library Project would undermine their business models, with users choosing to read large samples of the books online rather than to buy them.The deal announced today, the terms of which have not been fully disclosed, means that publishers will be able to choose to make their books available to Google or to have them removed from the project. Google Books will now make 20% of any book browsable and also allow users to purchase the whole book.Tom Allen, the president of the Association of American Publishers, which represented the aggrieved companies, said in a statement: "We are pleased that this settlement addresses the issues that led to the litigation. It shows that digital services can provide innovative means to discover content while still respecting the rights of copyright holders."The publishers involved in the case were McGraw Hill, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Simon and Schuster and Pearson Education Inc and Penguin Group (USA), which are both part of Pearson.Google also welcomed the deal. The web giant's chief legal officer, David Drummond, said: "By putting this litigation with the publishers behind us, we can stay focused on our core mission and work to increase the number of books available to educate, excite and entertain our users."The deal, however, does not affect another current law suit, around similar issues, which was brought by the Authors Guild.
Personal login details for social networking sites, bank accounts and personal mobile phone accounts could be used be used as official proof of identity to access public services, the Cabinet Office has confirmed.Ministers are to announce in the next few weeks the first list of potential "certified providers" for its "identity assurance programme", which will allow citizens to assert their identity safely and securely online to access public services.The scheme is intended to help people sign in securely to the gov.uk site that is being developed as a portal for all online government services, including looking for a job, applying for welfare benefits, paying car tax or applying for a passport or a student loan.The Cabinet Office says the scheme is specifically designed for citizens to retain control of their own data, avoiding the issues of privacy and security raised by a centralised database that was involved in Labour's national identity card scheme.Under the scheme each individual is to be allowed to choose from a range of "trusted non-government organisations" to verify their identity without centrally storing or sharing their personal data or having knowledge of the government service that has asked for proof of identity.The Cabinet Office would not name individual companies but confirmed that the Department for Work and Pensions is working with the Cabinet Office identity assurance team to ensure that it will be available for the launch of the universal credit scheme for the unemployed and those on low incomes scheduled for 2013-14.The scheme is being billed as way of tackling identity theft and to help overcome "login fatigue" – having to remember too many logons, passwords and answers to security questions.The scheme has been dubbed Cabinet Office minister Frances Maude's "little brother" project.Privacy organisations such as the No2ID campaign, which has been consulted about the project, retain a degree of scepticism: "Although this is a fine scheme in principle and is backed by ministers the danger is that it could be sidelined and used as a fig leaf by the data-hungry government departments," Guy Herbert of No2ID told the Independent.Banks and mobile phone companies have a fairly secure idea of their customers' profiles and identities. But using personal profiles on social media network sites, such as Facebook, which are not necessarily verified, may raise questions about how far somebody with a fake account could use it to build an official identity for themselves with birth certificate, passports, driving licence and the rest.
Last year, theGameCity festivallaunched its ownannual prize, seeking to discover the most interesting titles from across the entire industry. The winner was Minecraft, beating the likes of Portal 2, Limbo and Child of Den.It's a very different sort of games award. There are no gamer votes and no industry insiders on the judging panel. Instead, a 'secret academy' creates a long list (helped in part by public suggestions), which is then shortened before being played an assessed by an eclectic panel that this year includes film producer David Puttnam, comic book artist David Gibbons, comedian and author Charlie Higson and radio presenter Jo Whiley. And the seven titles they'll be looking at were confirmed today. They are:Catherine - Atlus Persona GamesFez - PolytronJohann Sebastian Joust - Die Gute FabrikJourney - thatgamecompanyMass Effect 3 - BiowareProteus - Ed Key and David KanagaSuper Mario 3D Land - Nintendo EAD"Personally, I think it's a more balanced list than last year," says festival director, Iain Simons. "This isn't an award for 'indie' games, just brilliant games, so it's really nice to see some AAA work alongside the kinds of projects people might expect to see in something like this."We're asking which are the games you'd show to someone in order to demonstrate what's brilliant and interesting about video games. We want to encourage diversity – we're looking to show the breadth of what videogames are. Each game is there on it's own merits, but this year I know the academy also wanted to create the most interesting mix they could too. It's not just about the best game, it's about how we can help a non-specialist jury have the most interesting discussion too".And discussions are already beginning about the long list titles that didn't make the final cut. The like of Dark Souls, DayZ and Skyrim were all ejected.Simons is more than happy if the shortlist selection generates debate. "I think one of our key focus points for the prize moving forward is how we expose and explore those discussion moving forward. This isn't really about which is the best videogame. It's a story about how different people decide which is the best videogame - for me, that's what we need to work hard to explore more."There are plenty of events that rely on some hidden critical discussion, and then some democracy to work out who's best. I want us to be more about the journey, and in doing so – by virtue of the kinds of people who are on it – also be about the place of videogames in mainstream culture".There has also been some controversy about the judging panel, specifically the use of non-industry people. "We've had a couple of bits of very negative response from quite senior people within the games industry this year about the decision to use 'non-specialist' judges, in particular that it would really prejudice their ability to understand the nominated projects at all," says Simons. "Disappointingly, they didn't take their discontent public, which would have been helpful really - as it's another important part of the conversation."The problem is, videogame culture is such a weird, crazy, conflicted thing. On the night of the jury meeting in London,  a peer of the realm was playing Joust with the co-creator of Watchmen and Charlie Higson - having an impassioned, positive discussion about videogames which they'd just discovered. Just down the road poor Rupert Loman, also attempting to do something totally positive, is having to pull leggings onto hired young women at the Eurogamer Expo. Funny old world, innit?"Indeed it is, but then the industry is only going to become more complicated as game audiences widen, as digital culture becomes ever more pervasive and as new game types emerge on nascent platforms. That's part of the reasoning behind the prize, I suspect, and part of the reason it is so interesting.Anyway, the winner will be announced at the end of the GameCity festival which takes place later this month.
I don't want to rain on the 4G parade. I really don't. The UK has been waiting a long time for a 4G service and it has the potential to radically change the way we view and use our mobile devices.This will bring benefits to all of us in ways we probably don't even know yet – and not just to the kid on the train streaming video.Yet the 4G story didn't start off entirely happily. Ofcom was far too scared to force through the 4G spectrum auctions, while the mobile operators were frightened they wouldn't win any spectrum.The result was a stalemate. Without question though, Ofcom's move last August to allowEverything Everywhereto change some of its existing spectrum from 3G to 4G was a masterstroke, and has substantially moved the goalposts.The result was an agreement to conduct the auction in January and press ahead with a full roll-out in summer 2013.We're not at the end of the story today though. A few things may have been forgotten in the hype.Firstly, those familiar places where your 3G signal fails when you're on the train (or driving through the countryside) are likely to remain.Your mobile handset needs to contact a local mast to make and retain a connection – either for a call or to access the internet. It's a fact that there are not enough to feed our insatiable appetite for mobile data.So the mobile operators will need to apply for permission to put up new masts to cover the UK's many coverage blackspots. What's more, some of the masts already out there – specifically O2's and Vodafone's, which run on a different frequency to EE's – will need to be upgraded. This all costs money and takes time.Now that Ofcom has regained its momentum around 4G, I hope it will keep in the clever parts of its original proposals. There was a proposal to require universal 4G coverage (a universal service obligation, or USO), but it's reported that the Highlands &amp; Islands will now have to wait until 2014.It's as important for us to have good quality universal coverage as it is for key cities to get superfast speeds. EE has played its cards cleverly by handily avoiding the need to commit to the USO, so it will fall to the remaining mobile operators to pick up the tab and find a way through the planning quagmire to put new masts up.In the short term, it's likely that the frustrations we still have with our mobiles will remain – and some parts of the country will remain firmly in the internet slow lane.Finally, 4G is not the be-all and end-all. Really. Some of the biggest shifts in telephony are happening behind the scenes and (believe it or not) don't necessarily depend on 4G. Take internet telephony, AKA voice over internet protocol (VoIP), for instance, where voice calls are routed over the internet rather than via traditional point-to-point lines.Skype might be popular now for keeping in touch with your friends in far-flung lands, but the predicted market for VoIP is huge – the market is predicted to grow 47% in 2012 and 49% in 2013. This is something that businesses of every size should be keeping a close eye on.And the future? Well that remains rather exciting. I think in the future we'll see a single handset that will cleverly know when to use a 4G signal (eg while you're outdoors), when to use Wi-Fi for calls (eg when you're in a building), and how to seamlessly switch between the two while you keep talking.We're already halfway there – we launched a unified communications service called Gradwell One about a year ago – and I've already seen hints that we're very close to going the whole hog, enabling people to be contactable via one number wherever they happen to be. (Some might remember BT's OnePhone in 1999, which worked as a cordless Dect phone for 300m from its base station, and then as a mobile. Think of that, but popular.)So before you plough a lot of money into new 4G phones, weigh up your decision carefully. If you're after quicker internet access and a better signal in remote locations, 4G could well be the answer to your prayers.But it might depend on where you live. If you're prepared to be patient, you might choose to wait for the development that will really change the way we use the phone – the one number revolution.• Peter Gradwell is managing director of Gradwell Ltd, a voice-over-internet provider founded in 1998 which has an annual turnover of more than £5m.
I have enrolled on a medical course at university and I am having trouble choosing a Windows 7 laptop. I would preferably like one that is: lightweight and so easy to carry, durable, and fashionable, with the latest technology and specification to handle multimedia, graphics, Adobe software etc. Money is not a concern. What are your opinions on the Sony S and E series (i5), and could you recommend one for me please?EstherBy far the largest proportion of the Windows laptop market is for economy-priced machines, which usually cost less than £500. However, most of the larger suppliers have at least one well constructed high-end design, and in private, may even refer to it as a "hero product". Today, this should have a third generation Intel Core iX chip, code-named Ivy Bridge, and it may well have a dedicated graphics chip, to supplement the Intel HD 4000 graphics probably built into the processor. Several of these systems also include built in 3G connections as well as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.The "hero product" will often have a 1600 x 900 screen display instead of the usual 1366 x 768 pixels. Opting for this on anything smaller than a 17in screen will eliminate the vast majority of Windows laptops and almost guarantees a better quality machine. It also means that text looks smaller. Look at this resolution in a shop: it is not to everyone's taste.At the moment, the Sony S Series 13P probably fills the hero niche (the P stands for Premium) previously occupied by the "ultimate"Vaio Z. By comparison, theE Seriesuses plastic construction and competes in the economy market ("Stand-out style and everyday essentials for work and play," says Sony) at £400 to £500.The major difference between the Sony S Series 13 and the 13P is that the S has the base-level 13.3in widescreen with a resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels. The 13P has a Premium Display with a resolution of 1600 x 900 pixels.The Sony S Series 13 is the one you are most likely to see in a shop. It is usually white, but is also available in black and silver versions for an extra £20. The S Series 13P model comes in either carbon black or a gun-metal finish. Sony also sells a silver S Series 15 with a 15.5in Full HD (1920 x 1080 pixel) screen. All three are available from theSony UK website.The main advantage of buying direct is that you can configure your own laptop, with a choice of processor, memory, hard drive, optical drive, operating system and additional software. Also, you know you will get the latest version. Sony has been making S Series laptops for a few years and doesn't change the name when it updates the specification.The standard black S Series 13P (code SVS13A1C5E in the UK; SVS13A190X in the USA) starts at £1,020. However, you can upgrade from a 2.5GHz Intel Core i5-3210M to a 2.9GHz Core i7-3520M for an extra £50, and upgrade the slot-loading DVD player to Blu-ray for an extra £40. These are bargain prices. Upgrading from 4GB of memory to 8GB costs £100, which isn't, but you could increase it to 6GB for £50 or fit your own extra RAM.The 13P's Nvidia GeForce GT 640M LE graphics comes with 1GB of memory as standard, and upgrading to 2GB costs an extra £30. This would be useful for handling graphics, including your Adobe software and any high-end games. But for most computing purposes, such as word processing and web browsing, the dedicated graphics will usually be turned off to save battery power.An upgraded 13P with a backlit keyboard, Core i7 processor, 6GB of main memory, 2GB of video memory, 500GB hard drive, Blu-ray, three USB ports and two-year warranty comes out at £1,241.While this is expensive for a Windows laptop, it's the same as a 13.3in MacBook Pro with a similar spec (£1,249). The MacBook Pro has a bigger hard drive (750GB), but the Sony 13P has dedicated graphics, and Apple doesn't offer you Blu-ray or 3G. Whether you need these is another matter.The Sony S Series 13P is a high-end ultraportable, and would typically compete with other ultraportable business laptops such as the Lenovo ThinkPad X range and Toshiba's Portégé machines. However, the market has shifted over the past couple of years, following the success of Apple's MacBook Air. Most PC companies now offer similar Windows laptops following Intel's Ultrabook specification. This requires, among other things, a thin body and fast start-up and resume times.The MacBook Air and Ultrabooks are today's fashion, but manufacturers make some sacrifices to create thinner laptops. These include dropping the optical drive (which ultraportable ThinkPads did last century), restricting the number of ports, sealing in the battery, and replacing the hard drive with Flash memory chips. These SSDs (solid state drives) provide much snappier performance, especially since you never have to wait for hard drive platters to spin up to speed. The disadvantages are that SSDs are expensive and tend to be rather small, eg 128GB or 256GB.Sony's Ultrabook is theVaio T Series, which is similar to the S Series but better value. Prices start at £649 for the model with an 11.6in screen and £679 for the 13.3in version. Upgrading a T13 to a 1.7GHz Core i5-3317U processor, 8GB of memory and 128GB SSD will set you back £819. Compared with the 13P, you lose processor speed, the dedicated Nvidia graphics, keyboard backlighting and the DVD or Blu-ray drive, but gain in SSD speed and battery life. Weight is about the same.Several other Ultrabooks are also worth considering. The leading examples are the new Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon, Toshiba Portégé Z903, Samsung Series 9 and Asus Zenbook UX32A. All of these have the latest Intel Core i5-3317U (Ivy Bridge) processor or better.The ThinkPad X1 Carbon and Samsung Series 9 have the edge in showing 1600 x 900 pixels, whereas the Asus and Toshiba models only do the usual 1366 x 768. However, the X1 Carbon comes at a price, with the cheapest version costing£1,039.99if bought direct. TheToshiba Portégé Z930-11Gcosts even more. By contrast, you could get a shiny Asus UX32A for£695.92 at Amazon.co.uk, reduced from £849.99, or a chic Samsung Series 9 (NP900X3C-A02UK) for£922.09, reduced from £1,199.Asus also has a high-end Zenbook, the UX32VD, with a Full HD (1920 x 1080) screen, Nvidia GeForce GT 620M dedicated graphics and a somewhat better keyboard. This has not (as far as I know) been announced in the UK, so any you see will be imported. Either way, text will be rather small with so many pixels on screen, even with Windows 7's magnification set to 125%.After that, it's down to whether you like the screen and keyboard, what your main uses will be, and personal choice. If you will be carrying the machine around and stopping and starting it regularly, you would benefit from the longer battery life and fast resume times of an Ultrabook. If you will be using it more at home, or with heavyweight software, then you will benefit from the extra power and graphics of an ultraportable such as the Sony Series S 13P or Vaio Z.You might even want to step up from a 13.3in or 14in (X1 Carbon) screen to a 15.6in laptop, though this would mean carrying a bigger and heavier machine. If so, judging by reviews, a Samsung such as the Series 9 (900X4C) could be a better buy than the Sony S Series 15.In general, I like the Sony hardware, but the company has a reputation for loading its laptops with unwanted software. It's not always easy to remove programs you don't want, and it comes back if you need to re-set the laptop to factory condition using the recovery partition on the hard drive.Of course, Sony is not the only Windows supplier to do this to its consumer laptops. Business machines such as Lenovo ThinkPads, Toshiba Portégés and Dell Vostros usually ship with much less bloatware. They also tend to be designed for greater durability rather than the lowest price.When it comes to fashionability, the Sony and ThinkPad brands stand out from the general morass of Windows laptops, with the ThinkPad beingthe leading business brand over the past 20 years. But neither of these is quite at the pinnacles of yesteryear, following Sony's long-term financial problems and the sale of IBM's PC division (which developed the ThinkPad) to China's Lenovo in 2005.The companies that are increasing their brand value are South Korea's Samsung and Taiwan's Asus. These are becoming prestige brands in parts of Asia, though perhaps not yet in the west. The Sony S Series 13P and ThinkPad X1 Carbon have the most cachet, but the Samsung Series 9 and Asus Zenbook may be better value for money at discounted prices.
Now that creating triple-A games requires similar levels of investment to making movies, we should all be grateful Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network offer an outlet for maverick developers with big ideas but little resources.And developers don't come more maverick than Arkedo, a bunch of wacky Frenchmen whose Paris studio, so they say, includes a pop-up restaurant. Arkedo's latest opus, Hell Yeah! Wrath of the Dead Rabbit, is as madcap as its name suggests, yet it manages to be quite unlike any game you'll have encountered, both in terms of visuals and gameplay.Graphically speaking, it's pretty easy to describe – Ren &amp; Stimpy meets Itchy &amp; Scratchy. Primary and fluorescent colours abound and the setting – hell – supports all manner of surreal touches, such as a health-replenishing monster sporting 20-foot-long legs and an eyeball for a head reminiscent of The Residents. If you're prone to migraines, it might be a good idea to give Hell Yeah! a wide berth.Hell Yeah! even dabbles in satire: you take on the persona of Ash, a rabbit who happens to be the prince of hell. But an unscrupulous paparazzo snaps him with a rubber duck, and in order to restore his bad-ass image, he must get the photos back by rampaging through 10 worlds, killing 100 monsters in the process.This bizarre premise sets up gameplay best described as a mash-up of platforming and third-person shooting. Ash is equipped with a jet-pack which is also a drill, as well as an arsenal of over-the-top machine-guns, rockets, lasers which steadily grows as the game progresses. It's very much a side-scroller, and you open up otherwise inaccessible areas by disposing of prescribed numbers of monsters. Each world, naturally, ends with a boss-battle.Proceedings are never allowed to become repetitive and clever touches constantly abound. When you reduce a monster's health to zero, you're treated to a finishing-move mini-game reminiscent of WarioWare Inc, and as long as you time your button-presses (or correctly answer a parody of a questionnaire), you're rewarded with a death straight out of Itchy &amp; Scratchy – involving a swarm of stinging bees, perhaps, or an angry tyrannosaurus rex hatching from a giant egg.The monsters are great, too – one minute, you'll be taking on a giant dancing Bearbrick-style panda with laser-shooting eyes, and the next what appears to be a turd with a chainsaw sticking out of the top of his head.You can take a break from the action by visiting your island, where all the monsters you've killed can be put to work, earning you extra money to spend on weapons and upgrades.The game's retro spirit is reflected by a swiftly escalating level of difficulty, and it's not just about nailing precise jumps and shooting accurately – at times, Ash is forced to abandon his jetpack, drill and weaponry, so you must work out how to encourage monsters to self-immolate using the environment, dropping crates on their heads and so on.The end result epitomises all that is good about download games – you could argue the majority of this year's most innovative games have appeared on XBLA and the PSN. Hell Yeah! is hilarious to behold, constantly innovative and challenging but deeply satisfying to play.If you know someone whose mantra is: "They don't make games like that anymore," just force them to play it and they'll have been well and truly silenced.
Facebook is now used by 1 billion people every month, or one in every seven people in the world, its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, has confirmed.The milestone means Zuckerberg has achieved his stated ambition of reaching 1 billion active monthly users just two years and three months after the social network reached the half billion mark. Facebook reached 900 million active monthly users in April.Facebook has recorded 1.13 trillion Likes, 140.3 billion friend connections and 219bn shared photos since it launched in February 2004. More than 300m photos are uploaded every day and 62.6m songs played."Helping a billion people connect is amazing, humbling and by far the thing I am most proud of in my life,"wrote Zuckerberg in a Facebook timeline updateon his personal account. "I am committed to working every day to make Facebook better for you, and hopefully together one day we will be able to connect the rest of the world too."The announcement will also be a welcome distraction for the disastrous Facebook IPO. Facebook is still reeling from the share collapse, which launched at $38 a share in May only to drop steadily to $21 on Wednesday.As a result Zuckerberg tumbled down the Forbes 400 list of the richest Americans as his personal fortune fell by $8.1bn.Facebook's share price slumped after the flotation over fears the company's revenues would be adversely affected by consumers increasingly accessing the internet via mobile devices, which is harder to generate advertising revenue from. About 600 million people use Facebook's mobile platform, and one in 10 reportedly only use mobile to access the site.Richard Broughton, head of broadband at analysts Screen Digest, said Facebook is exploring multiple business models to try and boost mobile income."It's a major concern that they expressed when they filed for their IPO; if users continued to engage via mobile in preference to desktop that could damage their growth potential, and that's not a good situation to be in a market where smartphones are becoming more popular," he said.Facebook is also geographically skewed, Broughton added, with average revenues per user being far higher, about $14, in the US than the $3 in the rest of the world.Combined with plateauing growth in its core markets, Facebook will have to work harder, with smarter, more targeted and more lucrative adverts.Facebook's primary sources of income are advertising and payments for features including gaming. At the time of the IPO, social games company Zygna generated about 12% of Facebook's revenue.Broughton said growth, including on Facebook's popular games platform, is slowing. "When they were initially filing there were a lot of comparisons to Google but that was predicated on growth. Now Facebook is plateauing."Social networks are substitutable. You can afford, as a user, to be on several networks. That means there is a reasonably low entry barrier to a competitor coming in."While there is no single competitor to Facebook yet, Broughton pointed to services such as Salaam World, which is aiming to launch in November and sign up 50 million Muslim users within three years.The world's biggest social network recently launched paid posts for individual users, allowing users to pay about $7 (£4.30) to promote their news in their friends' timelines.Facebook also used the 1 billion user milestone on Thursday to launch a digital video ad to promote its own advertising tools. The ad, hosted on a Facebook pagesa and entitled"The Things that Connect Us", was directed by Alejandro González Iñárritu, whose film credits include Amores Perros and 21 Grams.
It's time for our weekly roundup of new games for smartphones and tablets, this time covering iOS, Android and Windows Phone.The week's pick of new and notable games includes basketball, racing, jetpacking and a few retro titles to boot.NBA 2K132K Games has launched its new basketball sim on iOS and Android, promising an engine based on the console version, and "One-Finger controls" designed for the touchscreen. As on console, Jay-Z has curated the soundtrack, while the official NBA teams and players are present and correct. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadPlayStation MobileOkay, not as such a game – this is an entire store. It's Sony's official PlayStation-branded app store for Android devices, downloadable directly from the company rather than through Google Play. Around 20 games are available at launch, with standouts including Super Crate Box, Aqua Kitty and Underline.AndroidPayback² HDRemember the days before Grand Theft Auto was available for iOS, but several games were trying to bring GTA-style gameplay to the touchscreen? Payback was one of the better ones, and now it's got a sequel. The model remains driving round a large world shooting people, completing missions and picking up new weapons along the way. Online multiplayer is also included.iPhone / iPadJetpack JoyrideHaving received enormous critical acclaim on iOS, Halfbrick Studios' Jetpack Joyride has flown onto Android, where it's proving just as popular. It sees grizzled spaceman Barry Steakfries flying through an endless level collecting coins, outfits and power-ups. It remains excellent.AndroidRe-Volt ClassicIf you owned Sega's Dreamcast console, you may have happy memories of remote-controlled racing game Re-Volt. Now it's been updated for iOS, with 14 themed tracks to zip around, 42 cars to unlock, and a plethora of game modes. Thankfully, the controls have been updated for touchscreens too.iPhone / iPadBeastie BayNothing to do with hip-hop: this is the latest game from Japanese developer Kairosoft, blending its addictive simulation gameplay with a dash of Pokemon. That means you have to build a town on a desert island, but also capture local creatures and send them into battle.AndroidRayman Jungle RunThe franchise that launched a million "Armless fun" jokes in reviews has popped up on Android, a couple of weeks after its iOS release. Here, Rayman is getting back to his 2D platform-adventure roots, with all the graphical flair fans of his console outings have come to expect.AndroidExtractionShoot 'em up Extraction: Project Outbreak won plenty of praise on iOS, but now it's available on Windows Phone too. Publisher Chillingo has kept its soldiers-gone-viral plotline and frenetic gameplay intact, while adding support for Microsoft's Xbox Live community.Windows PhoneKingdom RoyaleKorean publisher Gamevil has ported its Kingdom Royale social war-game from Android to iOS, mixing resource management and kingdom-building with turn-based battles against other players around the world. Humans, elves and orcs provide the cannon fodder.iPhone / iPadStunt Star: The Hollywood YearsA number of developers have had a crack at turning Hollywood stunts into mobile gameplay down the years – I've got fond memories of Digital Chocolate's Johnny Crash in the pre-App-Store years, for example. Stunt Star is great fun, with its emphasis on physics, power-ups and lots of crashes. And explosions. 70 levels provides plenty of challenge too.iPhone / iPadClucksClucks is only available in the US for now, which is a shame, as it's one of the more innovative social games released in recent memory. "If a picture is worth a thousand words, then a video is worth more," suggests its blurb, positioning Clucks as, essentially, Draw Something with video. Which means trying to get friends to guess a word without actually saying it, pinging videos back and forth to play. The publisher may surprise you too: AOL.iPhoneTentacles: Enter the DolphinTalking of surprising publishers, the company responsible for Tentacles: Enter the Dolphin is... Microsoft. The title sounds like it should be a banned DVD, but it's actually about a black tentacled creature called Lemmy (er...) who's trying to escape from a mad scientist's body through a "top-down platformer". Quirky, but very interesting.iPhone / iPadRestaurant StarA social game based on running a restaurant? WHY HAS NO ONE THOUGHT OF THIS BEFORE?! Oh. But enough flippancy, because Restaurant Star looks like a polished take on the social cook 'em up genre, with different cuisines to master, and friends to out-serve.AndroidZaxxon EscapeMy, Zaxxon is looking different. When the original arcade game launched in 1982, it was a space-shooting racer with isometric graphics. Now it's been turned into a fully into-the-screen 3D title for iOS, as you try to escape an asteroid city by swiping and tapping. It also adopts another modern gameplay feature: in-app purchases.Update:after this piece was published, the game was alsoreleased for Android.Android / iPhone / iPadDrift Mania Championship 210m people have apparently played the first Drift Mania Championship game, making a sequel an inevitability. Launching across iOS and Android, it's a fast-paced racer with lots of customisation and social features, with a mixture of solo and online multiplayer modes to master.Android / iPhone / iPadBlade GuardianDescribed as a "defense real-time strategy game" (so, er, tower defence then), Blade Guardian looks a polished addition to the genre, with plenty of depth. It's the second iOS game from developer Mistwalker Corporation, founded by Hironobu Sakaguchi – whose CV includes inventing a little-known RPG series by the name of Final Fantasy.iPhone / iPadBig Win FootballThat's football as in the American variety: endzones, touchdowns, comedy replacement referees and so on. Well, possibly not the last one in this case. Big Win Football is a card-based game where you build your team and its special moves from packs of virtual cards.AndroidRoller CasinoApple's decision to allow real-money gambling on iOS is spawning some interesting new titles. Roller Casino is the work of gambling firm Paddy Power, made for iOS rather than converted from an existing web game. Roulette, blackjack, slot machines and video poker are all included, but remember the stakes are real money, not virtual cash.iPhone / iPadFantasy WarAnother impressive game out of South Korea is Fantasy War, which describes itself as an "epic battle RPG". That means building up your skills, then taking to dungeons for all manner of monster-slaying treasure-looting fun. With the added spice of being able to nick the loot of other players.AndroidDrag Tag SmashImagine if Space Invaders had more of a puzzle element, along with a floor-shaking DOOF-DOOF-DOOF techno soundtrack. That, sort of, is what Drag Tag Smash is all about. It gets you breaking gaps in enemy lines, with the soundtrack closely tied into your actions as you "tag" those enemies. Who, by the way, spawn infinitely – providing a pleasantly old-school challenge.AndroidThat's our selection, but what are you playing this week on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations, or provide feedback on the games we've chosen, by posting a comment.
Outside of comic books, no medium loves a recurring character quite so much as video games. The goal for any console developer these days isn't to make one great game – it's to construct the foundations of a franchise, a starting point for sequels and spin-offs. Capcom has been at this longer than most and, 15 years after the Arklay Mansion incident, the biggest project in the company's history is Resident Evil 6.Sounds like a straight-to-DVD nasty, doesn't it? Resi 6 is more like one of those box sets yoking together Con Air and Die Hard, promising the purchaser several evenings' worth of extras getting tipped over balconies. Resi 6 is obsessed with delivering a "cinematic" action experience, its levels punctuated by regular set-pieces, constant explosions, sharply-edited camera changes and a never-ending supply of near-death experiences. The directorial eye is a big part of Resident Evil's heritage, but here the focus has overwhelmingly shifted: "survival horror" is now "constant action".In some ways that's a bad thing: Resident Evil isn't scary any more. It'll give you a few shocks, enemies jumping out of hidden places and big monsters bursting through the floorboards, but the days of creeping through darkened rooms with bottom clenched are over. Resi 6 is what you call a run-and-gunner, moving ever-forwards while blasting through crowds of biohazards. Resident Evil 5 leaned in this direction, but Resi 6 dives in with both guns blazing.The real surprise is how much of it there is. Capcom's focus on the production values of Resi 6 makes a casualty of progress – in the context of the third-person shooter genre, the controls are clunkier than they should be, and you'd be hard pressed to call any of its new systems innovative. So the compensation is a quadruple helping of lengthy single-player campaigns, three of which are playable in co-op.Resident Evil 6: Ada Wong returnsHeroes return, of course. Leon S Kennedy, last seen in Resident Evil 4, is joined for the first campaign by US agent Helena Harper, and this slice of Resi 6 is supposed to be delivering the horror. We know it doesn't quite manage that, but the most atmospheric environments in Resi 6 are found here – an early journey through a zombie-filled subway tunnel, complete with running trains, showcases the game's exquisite lighting tech like nothing else.Things escalate. By the end of Leon's campaign you'll have fought on top of trains, piloted a helicopter, wrestled a shark, had a shootout atop a skyscraper, ridden a mine cart and more or less surfed a jet; I'm pretty sure I saw a kitchen sink exploding at one point. These events are all over the place, really, some breathlessly exciting and others falling flat – the latter mainly thanks to an over-fiddly implementation of "Simon says" button-pressing, which isn't a fun thing to be doing in the first place.The other two campaigns star Chris Redfield, AKA Stubble Straightjaw, and Jake Muller, AKA White Rapper, and follow a pretty similar pattern – move forwards, fight a group of enemies, big set-piece, rinse and repeat. One of Resi 6's unqualified triumphs is that its shooting feels great, the meatier guns packing heavy recoil and each shot accompanied by a bellowing audio crack. It also doesn't hurt that the common enemies, whether zombies or the humanoid J-Avo, are often sent backflipping by the sheer force of your weapons.Resident Evil 6: Chris in the jaws of troubleThis is what saves Resi 6. Its cinematic sequences take control away from the player to a large extent, and then veer between brilliant and plain silly. But the bulk of the game is a combat system we've known since Resi 4, tweaked and tuned to be a tad more manoeuvrable, and then playable in co-op. Co-op makes everything better, that's just a truth, and Resi 6 is designed to be played with a buddy throughout (though the ally AI has improved vastly since Resi 5's item-quaffing Sheva).Each of the four campaigns took between five and seven hours to complete, plus on top of this there's the Mercenaries mode. This bonus mode is probably the best in gaming's history. Introduced in Resi 4, Mercs puts you in an enclosed arena, with a timer, sends in the enemies and doesn't stop – chaining kills gets combos, the enemies get more deadly as time goes on, and hitting big scores unlocks more gear for future missions. Freed of narrative restrictions and the need to move onwards, Resi's combat is left to fend for itself in a corner – and does it ever. Resi 6's take on Mercs is spiced up a little by the inclusion of assignable skills, but fundamentally it's a familiar, fantastic beast.Resident Evil 6: Jake in the heat of battleIn that sense, Mercs is Resi 6 writ large: a game built on old foundations. It's not a progressive title at all, but then it isn't intended to be. Capcom's intentions are simple: to move Resi into the mainstream action zone, and give players as much bang as possible for their buck. It is an unsophisticated experience. If you want to be terrified, or use your brain, Resi 6 isn't the game. But if you just want to spray monster brains all over the place, while occasionally cooing at some gorgeous scenery, Resi 6 delivers in several spades.•Game reviewed on PS3
The US Federal Trade Commission has carried out a huge international crackdown on a number of "tech support" scams being run out of India which have conned people in the UK, US, Canada and elsewhere out of millions of pounds since 2008.Asexplained by the Guardian in 2010, the scams used "boiler room" tactics, dialling through phone books for English-speaking countries. People who answered the phone were told the call came from Microsoft or their internet service provider, and that the person's computer was "reporting viruses". The caller would then perform an unnecessary "fix" on the computer and charge the person for it – and sometimes sign them up to multi-year "support" contracts. The cost could run to hundreds of pounds.People in the US, UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand were targeted because they, like the people carrying out the scam, are English-speaking. The Guardian understands that the scam was worth millions of pounds a year to the organised gangs carrying it out.At theFTC's request in six cases, a federal district judge froze the US assets of 17 people and 14 companies that have been accused of taking part in the operations. The FTC has also shut down 80 internet domain names and 130 phone numbers used in the US to carry out the scams.The FTC is seeking an end to the scams, and repayments for people who were conned out of money.Though the FTC said it could not put a figure on how many people had been scammed, or how much they had lost, Microsoft – which has been working with the commission for the past two years to try to catch the criminals – provided data on more than a thousand people who had been scammed, whose losses averaged $875 each.Microsoft has repeatedly pointed out that it would not call people about any problems with their computers. In some cases, the scammers would try to sell antivirus software from reputable companies, and in some cases would install new copies of Windows on a machine. However the licence key used on the software allowed Microsoft to trace it back to its buyer, which aided the investigation.The fraud occurred in several English-speaking countries. Joining the FTC in the enforcement action were the Australian Communications and Media Authority, the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency. David Vladeck, director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said it was working with law enforcement officials in India to catch the alleged perpetrators. The commission has also referred the cases to the US justice department for possible criminal prosecution.The companies whose assets have been frozen are: Pecon Software; PC Care247; Connexxions Infotech; Connexxions IT Services Private Ltd; Zeal IT Solutions; Lakshmi Infosoul Services Private Ltd; Virtual PC Solutions, First PC Solution; Direct PC Solution; Virtual IT Supports; Global Innovative Service; 24x7pchelp; 24x7pctech; Transfront Solutions; New World Services; Megabites Solutions; Mega Bits; Greybytes Cybertech; Bluesystemcare; Shine Solutions Private Ltd. The FTC has also named 17 people who were singly or together directors of the accused companies.The companies involved had US locations which were used to funnel money back to India. Some also have UK offices. However the FTC asserts that the companies used "virtual" offices which were in fact just mail-forwarding facilities. The scam also used voice-over-internet phone lines to make them appear to be calling from inside the country being targeted, when in fact the caller was in India.The Guardian's own investigations have found that one gang was using locations and accounts in Canada to transfer money from the scams back to India.The defendants have been charged with violating the FTC Act, which bars "unfair and deceptive" commercial practices, breaching the Telemarketing Sales Rule and illegally calling numbers that are on the National Do Not Call Registry.The scheme involved getting a computer user to look at a program called "Event Viewer" that is a standard part of the Windows operating system. That displays logs of events occurring on the computer, sometimes with the label "Warning" or "Error" – but which in fact have no significance to the smooth running of the computer. The caller would then say that these were due to "viruses", that they had been alerted to them remotely, and that they could fix them. They then would use a remote login program to appear to "fix" the computer."Clearly the defendant's [modus operandi] was to exploit these fears about malware hiding in the machine," said the FTC chairman, Jon Leibowitz. "These scams fleeced English-speaking consumers worldwide likely to the tune of tens of millions of dollars and resulted in innumerable Do Not Call violations in the US."
Cliff Bleszinski is leaving Epic Games. For many, this is like being told that the lead singer is leaving their favourite band – sure, he's only part of a team, but he's the frontman, and has been for over a decade. He is Gears of War.And his reasoning is beginning to sound very familiar. Ina blog poston the company website he states:"I've been doing this since I was a teenager, and outside of my sabbatical last year, I have been going non-stop. I literally grew up in this business [...] And now that I'm grown up, it's time for a much needed break."A pattern seems to be forming. Last month Bioware co-founders Ray Muzyka and Greg Zeschuk announced that they would be leaving the industry. Zeschuk explained inhis own blog statement, "I've reached an unexpected point in my life where I no longer have the passion that I once did for the company, for the games, and for the challenge of creation."Less dramatic have been the numerous instances of veteran video game designers moving on to smaller projects this year. Peter Molyneux left Lionhead to start up 22cans, Gears 3 lead designer Lee Perry quit Epic to form BitMonster Games and work on smartphone titles, senior Irrational Games staffers Tim Gerritsen and Nate Wells left the Bioshock Infinite project in August, while Uncharted co-designer Richard Lemarchand is now teaching games at the University of Southern California.Sure, people move around a lot in this industry, and over the past three years there has been a diaspora of developers from the mainstream console industry to the smartphone and digital sectors, where project times are shorter and budgets are more reasonable.And then, of course, there is a generational element. Greg and Ray at Bioware and Cliff at Epic have been making triple A blockbusters for 20 years. 20 years of high-pressure, huge team management, spiralling publisher expectations and community demands. "Making a game is hard," developers always laugh, but few of us understand how hard it is, with year-long crunch periods and profit-hungry shareholders sweating over every delay and Metacritic score.But is there something else? This is, after all, the longest ever console cycle. The Xbox 360 and PS3 have been with us for seven years, an epoch in technological terms. Development teams are finding it ever harder to squeeze the performance they want out of these ageing machines; and cursed to peruse multi-platform release schedules, they're now having to facilitate the demands of console gamers while meeting the expectations of customers with high-end PCs, whose graphics hardware is ten times as powerful as the 360 and PS3.When consoles die, they tend to do so with a whimper rather than a bang. As prices drop and early adopter interest wanes, manufacturers target family audiences, and games begin to creep lower down the Pegi ratings. The Mega Drive and PlayStation were both sustained into their retirements by Disney platformers and licensed tie-ins, the odd piece of Japanese brilliance keeping the hardcore interested. But by then, most of the developers had moved on, because studios are – and this may come as a shock to some executives – staffed by human beings, human beings who are fascinated by new technologies and fresh possibilities. People get bored, especially incredibly talented people who want to test themselves at the forefront of technical possibility.For 30 years developers have lived by console cycles, working with the ebb and flow of audio/visual progress. Everyone syncs in to this pattern, and when the pattern is disrupted, things start to wear and breakdown. The Move and Kinect were released to energise the current generation, so that Microsoft and Sony could have some more time between billion dollar console launches. But the failure of Move and the ennui now surrounding Kinect show that the rhythms of development are difficult to mess with.Now we're at a stage where the major publishers are surely holding off any original new IP for the next generation of consoles, set to be announced next year. There are some notable exceptions - Dishonored, Remember Me – but the likes of Watch Dogs and Star Wars 1313 are already getting both gamers and developers salivating for what's to come. It's just that for a few high profile veterans, the wait is too long, and the run-up too tiring.The challenge of retaining senior design staff is going to be a key one for major publishers in the coming years. As the digital sector grows, offering ever larger audiences and more enticing financial and creative rewards, the lure will increase. Game developers, generally, aren't in this to get rich - they love to make stuff. But in the future, making big, big games will mean managing teams of over 300 people and budgets in the hundreds of millions; that doesn't sound like fun to me, and it doesn't sound wildly conducive to individual, subjective creativity.On Wednesday, Tom Hall, one of the founder members of id Software, starteda Kickstarter fundfor an old school RPG, built by a small independent team. Similarly, Obsidian Entertainmentjust raised over $2mfor its Project Eternity game. Medium-sized studios are getting out of that whole expensive and disheartening dance with major publishers and going it alone. Their projects won't be as gigantic as Skyrim, but they'll provide the designers with the prospect of doing what they want to do – creating idiosyncratic adventures within working structures that won't have everyone sleeping under their desks for two years.People burn out; they have parameters. Bleszinski, Muzyka and Zeschuk are all rich men who probably fancied a bit of a rest – they've earned it. But partly, I do wonder whether the seven years of this generation took their toll, and whether they looked ahead to the bloated teams and schedules of the coming era and thought, nope, that's it.And really, that's a scary thought – because if game developers are tired of this generation, wait til they get a load of the next one.
Doing anything ridiculous this weekend? I am. As part of theLondon Games Festival, I'll be participating in a 48-hour game jam, in which journalists will be writing the games, with the help of student programmers, while a selection of established indie developers will act as journalists, writing previews and interviews as the madness progresses."The idea came to me when I was writing a blog to deadline for Develop at this year's GDC," says organiser and veteran developer, Will Luton. "I thought 'we always bitch on journalists but these guys have a tough job'. It was a small leap to swap the roles in a Game Hack – I put it to Twitter, the response was insane and Ukie and Develop pitched in to make it happen."I'll be competing against three other games writers: Rob Crossley from CVG, Lewie Procter from Savy Gamer and Dan Griliopoulos from Rock Paper Shotgun. The developers writing it all up are Andrew Smith from Spilt Milk Studios, Mike Bithell, creator of Thomas Was Alone, Peter Theophilus-Bevis from Blitz Studios and Jim Griffiths from Mediatonic.The action will kick off at 5pm on Friday when the organisers will reveal the theme of the jam. We'll then be 'coding' (as I believe they say) until 5pm on Sunday. Gulp.I'll be live-blogging the event on Gamesblog – for just as long as I am able to construct coherent sentences. You'll also be able to follow the #journodevswap hash tag on Twitter.
Hello, it's Thursday and you're watching Chatterbox!
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow many tablets are in the USA? And does it matter? &gt;&gt; ForbesBenedict Evans of Enders Analysis:I suspect Android tablets face an even bigger self-selection issue than Android phones. Given you can get a great app and content experience from Apple for $400 (or lower if the iPad Mini exists) and a great content experience from Amazon for $160, what sort of person with what sort of use case will buy the pure Android tablet, and will they be the kind of person that would install cool new apps and buy stuff? Or are they buying a 'web tablet' at Walgreens? Certainly, UK retailers are ramping up for a 'cheap Android tablet Christmas'.That doesn't really matter to Google, of course - all of these devices, even the iPad, are expanding the inventory for Adsense.Except, of course, the Kindle Fires.The lawyer who defends Anonymous &gt;&gt; Radio Free EuropeAs a lawyer not particularly immersed in the technology world, Jay Leiderman first became interested in the hacker collective Anonymous around December 2010. That was when Anonymous activists launched distributed denial of service attacks (DDoS) against Mastercard and PayPal, who stopped processing donations to WikiLeaks.Since then, he has represented a number of high-profile hackers, including Commander X, who is on the run from the FBI for a DDoS attack on a county website in Santa Cruz, California, to protest a ban on public sleeping, and Raynaldo Rivera, a suspected hacker from LulzSec who is accused of stealing information from Sony computer systems.Alex meets the web geeks &gt;&gt; Peattie &amp; TaylorWhen you need their business...Ultrabook shipments disappointing, IHS says &gt;&gt; DigitimesAn estimated 10.3m ultrabooks will ship worldwide in 2012, according to IHS. This is down from the previous forecast issued earlier in 2012 of 22m units. In the newly-adjusted forecast for 2012, more than half of the shipments for the year are expected to come in the fourth quarter, the reasearch firm noted.That's a big downrating. Ultrabooks really need Windows 8, and vice-versa (to a lesser extent).Stephen Elop on Apple Map flap and why location is big for Nokia &gt;&gt; AllThingsDApple and the rest of the industry are seeing just how hard it is to do mapping well, Elop said."I'm not talking about some city being in the middle of the ocean or Paddington Station showing up as a park," Elop said.Location-based services, broadly speaking, are critical to the future of phones, Elop said. While mapping is today still a comparatively small source of revenue for Nokia, Elop said it is a growth business, as evidenced by recent deals with Amazon and Oracle.The row between Apple and Google - and especially the maps fallout - has turned into some of the best news Nokia could have hoped for. It owns Navteq and needs it to pay back.Wicoms and Skype launch free Skype Wi-Fi across UK and Ireland &gt;&gt; Wicoms WirelessFrom Tuesday:Wicoms and Skype today announced the launch of a new WiFi network initiative called Free Skype WiFi. The new service is rolling out in the UK and the Republic of Ireland in participating high street venues and businesses to deliver simple, trustworthy and free public internet access. The Free Skype WiFi service is available for businesses to purchase atskypewifi.wicoms.com.Skype users can log in with their Skype ID using the Skype Wi-Fi app. Or enter an email for access.Apple 'too late to the 7in tablet market', but 10 million iPad mini sales by Christmas &gt;&gt; Macworld UKA Barclays analyst believes that Apple is ramping up to sell nine to ten million iPad mini units before the end of the year. According to Barclays analyst Kirk Yang, Apple is using Hon Hai Precision Industry (Foxconn) and Pegatron to produce the iPad mini. Where Hon Hai is expected to ship six to seven million iPad minis in the run up to Christmas, Pegatron is expected to ship three million iPad minis in the fourth quarter of 2012 - less than had been hoped.You have to love analysts calculating that selling 10m units of an as-yet unannounced product by Christmas is "too few". Rob Enderle, astute as ever, meanwhile reckons that Apple is "either months or almost a year later to the market with this".Samsung teases Galaxy S3 mini for October 11 launch &gt;&gt; CNET NewsSmartphone buyers who think the Galaxy S3 is too big could see a smaller version launch as early as next week.An invite sent out by Samsung for an October 11 launch event touts a smaller product on the horizon with the headline "The size may be small" and the subheading "and so small can be big," according to Google Translate.Hasn't landed here yet. The timing is interesting.
A whistleblower at the Department for Culture Media and Sport has been sacked for sharing confidential information that suggests BT is inflating its charges for building Britain's rural broadband network.The chair of the Public Accounts Committee, Margaret Hodge, has asked for an investigation. The row is yet another sign of growing disquiet around the rural broadband project being run by the DCMS.Ministers have been accused of effectively giving BT a £1bn public subsidy without genuine competition. Mike Kiely, a consultant to the department's broadband development UK project since it was launched in 2010, was dismissed after information he sent to councils to help them get better value for money was leaked to theBrokentelephoneblog.The department has refused to comment. BT has denied inflating charges and says it has secured contracts because it is committing extra funds to improve broadband access.Described by one of those who knows him well as "a serious person who wanted to do the right thing", Kiely is understood to have been sacked two weeks ago because the information he shared was commercially confidential to BT. A DCMS spokesman said: "We do not comment on individual staffing matters."Following the leak, a DCMS email trawl uncovered that Kiely had sent a document to councils with price information, in which he argued that BT's charges for installing fibre connected cabinets in rural areas were inflated and did not reflect actual costs.It claimed prices for cabinets ranged from as little as £11,689 before central and labour costs. However, once these were added, prices rose steeply, to £17,000 for "generic" rural areas to £30,000 for the most rural areas of the UK.Kiely claimed BT was attempting to charge an abstract wholesale price rather than one based on unit costs. He wrote: "In attempting to establish a wholesale price, there has been significant inflation of costs by adding new job types and not reducing costs where these job types had already been accounted."Hodge has already said she will examine Kiely's claims as part of a new inquiry and she has written to Whitehall's spending watchdog, the National Audit Office, to urge an investigation.She told the Guardian: "I am getting increasingly concerned at the way in which whistleblowers are being bullied. All too often people hide behind commercial confidentiality. This culture denies us the right to know how our money is being spent."Councils across the UK are currently offering contracts to wire up their rural communities in order to meet the government broadband targets set for 2015.They have £530m of government money to spend in the lifetime of this parliamentand are committed to matching it. With some councils offering to raise two or three times as much, the overall taxpayer spend will be more than £1bn.So far, only BT has won council contracts. It has also spent government funds wiring up Northern Ireland and Cornwall. In July BT signed a £425m deal to connect Wales, half of which is being paid for by the public sector.Councils find price comparisons difficult because there are only two approved broadband development UK (BDUK) bidders – BT and Fujitsu. In many council areas Fujitsu has not put in bids. Councils cannot share information with each other, because they are asked to sign non disclosure agreements. Kiely's document intended to arm them with the information needed to negotiate a better deal from BT.Kiely was the BDUK official responsible for liaising with community broadband projects. Malcolm Corbett, chief executive of the Independent Networks Cooperative, which represents community broadband activists and network builders like Fujitsu and Cable &amp; Wireless, worked with him.Corbett said: "Quite a number of local authorities have concerns about how the BDUK process is working. Mike was simply trying to share information in order to better inform them. We need to get some competition into the process because it means that we have got a better chance of getting value for money."The Independent Networks Cooperative wants an overhaul of the much criticised BDUK process and has requested a meeting with Maria Miller, the culture secretary.A BT spokesman said: "BT is winning BDUK tenders precisely because it is committing extra funds to improve broadband access in those counties. These funds are in addition to our commercial investment of £2.5 billion."It is ludicrous that some people are suggesting that we are trying to pass on the full cost of deployment to our public sector partners. In fact, we are looking at a low double digit year payback in these areas even when the public funds are taken into account."
Do you know why manhole covers are round? How much toilet paper is needed to cover Texas? Whether people can swim faster in water or syrup?Several books, websites and forums claim that the ability to answer these questions is the key to getting a gig at one of the most revered tech companies in the world. They purport to give hopefuls the cheat's code to a life of free meals, laundry service and Lego walls within Google's employ. All you have to do, they suggest, is learn the tricks.But current and former Googlers agree that the ability to answer brain teasers isn't the secret key to getting a job at the search giant – because there isn't one.A software engineer who worked at the company for four and a half years and at one point interviewed two to three Google applicants per week, said the company actually frowns on brain teasers."I've actually been amused when I see these 'what questions they ask at Google' type things, because, one, they're usually just these very old brain teasers, and two, once they're published somewhere, Google's not going to ask them any more," the software engineer said.Google employees agree that getting into the company is a rigorous process – applicants go through multiple rounds of interviews that can last several hours – but the trick question myth has been a part of tech company lore for decades."My understanding is that this is the sort of the thing that has been going around for at least 10 or 15 or 20 years; that at x tech company these are the things they ask. Before it was Google, it was said that Microsoft and IBM would ask these questions."Gayle Laakmann McDowell, author of The Google Resume and founder and CEO ofCareerCup.com, was a software engineer at Google between 2005 and 2008, where she, too, interviewed potential candidates. McDowell said Microsoft asked brain teasers 15 years ago but have since ended the practice."Any information that is out that the companies are asking brain teasers is very, very out of date – or people are misinterpreting what the questions are about," McDowell told the Guardian.She says that people who assess difficult estimation questions (how many pizzas are delivered every year in New York?) as trick questions don't understand what they are being asked."Ninety-nine percent of the time it's about problem solving. Just ask questions and see if you can logically deduce the answer," McDowell said.These questions are typical for positions like software engineering that rely heavily on mathematics."All the tech companies are really asking very similar questions. There's nothing that scary about Google's," McDowell said.
Everything Everywhere has announced that it will start offering its 4G service on 30 October. Here's what you might expect - including which handsets will (and won't) work on it - and the details that remain to be determined.This is the sort of the speed that a 4G network offers on a phone - and something like this is what you may be able to expect from Everything Everywhere's network (from the conjoining of Orange and T-Mobile in the UK) by the end of October.Speedtest.net app results for EE's 4G network, tested in London on 2 October 2012By contrast, here's what a 3G network offers (in the same location, same time):Speedtest.net app for EE's 3G network, tested on 2 October 2012For those who don't have the images, the 4G network shows 38.59 megabits per second (Mbps) on the download, and 12.38 Mbps on the upload, using the standard Speedtest app; for the 3G network, it's 4.08 Mbps for downloads and 2.72 for uploads.That's a factor of more than nine times faster on downloads, and 4.5 times faster for uploads.Got a need for speed? 4G has itThough you might not see such speeds once there are more people on the 4G network, it's clear that it has substantial headroom in speed terms over 3G - which has a theoretical maximum download speed of 7.2 Mbps, although other UMTS (3G) technologies such asHSDPAcan in theory offer connections at up to 42 Mbps, and HSPA+ an incredible 337 Mbps.By contrast LTE can - again, in theory - offer 300 Mbps downlink and 75 Mbps for the uplink.EE has been working for some time on setting up its 4G network; the company decided to go ahead with building it even before Ofcom had decided to allow it to re-use its 1800MHz spectrum for 4G connections. Presently EE has about 60MHz available in the 1800MHz band to use for 4G (which will be shared with 2G services); next September it is obliged by Ofcom to sell 10MHz to Three. EE says that won't "significantly" affect its offering.The base towers use Huawei's 4G systems - a significant win for the Chinese company which is rapidly challenging to become the largest provider of mobile network infrastructure in the world, against its main rivals Ericsson and Nokia Siemens Networks.Of course, the early tests are on uncongested 4G networks, compared with (comparatively) congested 3G ones. EE says that 4G will offer "superfast mobile internet at speeds typically five times faster than 3G speeds today".What will EE get?Very probably, more customers. Already the biggest network in the UK (in terms of customers), it will now have around 11 months' headstart on other companies, which have yet to win 4G spectrum through the auction. Despite thepeace deal brokered by the government and Ofcom, the reality is that EE will be able to offer handsets tuned for 4G at a time rivals cannot.It plans to launch in 10 cities on 30 October, and up that to 16 by the end of the year.Handsets that will work on EE's 4GNote that no handset bought before mid-September, even if it says it's 4G-ready, will work on EE's 4G network, apart from the iPhone 5 (and even in that case, only if bought in the UK). The following are on offer:• Apple iPhone 5• Samsung Galaxy S3 LTE (butnotany SGS3 handsets sold in the UK up to this point)• HTC's One XL• Huawei Ascend P1 LTE• Samsung Galaxy Note 2 LTE (from 15 October)• Huawei mobile dongleAll are being offered through EE. (Note that the "new" iPad, aka iPad 3, launched earlier this year with 4G connectivity in the US won't work for EE's 4G because it uses a 2100MHz chipset.)Why won't existing "4G" handsets work on EE's 4G?Although the SGS3 was sold as having 4G capability (and does, on networks that offered it as such), any that have been previously sold in the UK - even by Orange/T-Mobile itself -will not workfor EE's 4G services. "The modem's different, the antenna is different, it's a different SKU [stock-keeping unit]", says Tom Bennett, EE's director of network services. In essence, any SGS3s (and other 4G phones, excepting the iPhone 5) not sold through EE for its 4G services won't work on its network, no matter what the specifications might say. Any iPhone 5 sold in the UK, even with another network,willwork because it does use the 1800MHz chipset. (However, those networks will surely be reluctant to release people from contracts already signed without large compensation.)Getting onto EE's 4G service will mean signing a new contract and in effect joining a new service, even for existing customers of Orange/T-Mobile. For the latter, there may be discounts if they signed a contract earlier this year; anyone who signs an Orange/T-Mobile contract for a 3G smartphone between now and the launch of the 4G service will be able to shift over with no penalty.Confusingly, EE will now be the brand both for the network supplying coverage to Orange/T-Mobile customers on 3G contracts, and the brand supplying 4G connectivity.Customers on other networks who want to shift over to EE to get 4G speeds will have to sign new contracts.4G: the good news4G is much, much faster than 3G. It offers higher speeds over longer distances from the base stations than 3G (because it uses different encoding and error-correction, says Bennett) and offers better connections even inside buildings where 3G services might be attenuated. (The speed tests above were taken by two iPhone 5s sitting side-by-side, in an upstairs room in the Frontline Club in Paddington, London. There were two large windows nearby, though also plenty of brickwork.)4G is also fast enough to work as a replacement for fixed broadband in rural locations; given that many people outside cities don't get speeds much above 4Mbps, the potential for 4G to fill in the digital speed gap is substantial. However, whether it's effective for that will depend heavily on the cost of the service. EE has been testing it in Cornwall and Cumbria, with what it says are encouraging results.4G: the bad newsOne key difference between 4G and 3G is that 4G is a data-only connection, so that if you're surfing the web on 4G and get a voice call, the connection will automatically drop down to 3G (which is a voice-and-data connection), says David Salam, EE's director of network strategy architecture. If you're trying to do data-intensive work but also get phone calls regularly, that might be a problem.4G phones bought and working here won't necessarily connect to 4G networks in other countries. Theymight work with Optusin Australia (which is building an 1800MHz 4G network), but there's no guarantee of it. Thailand has 4G networks using 1800MHz, but again, if the handsets aren't tuned for the precise frequency bands involved, they won't be able to connect.EE 4G: the puzzling and uncertain newsEE isn't giving anything away about its pricing. But it does expect that people will want to use a lot of data. Will it therefore jack up the contract costs? Salam wouldn't be drawn. But he did say that "with 16 cities, we'll have coverage for 70% of the population. By 2014 we hope that will be up to 98% of the population. That's mass-market. We aren't building this for the elite few."4G: the predicted effectStudies in the US and South Korea, which have been in the forefront of implementing 4G (in the US's case, since early 2011) show that there's a dramatic ramp in the popularity of sites showing video, because people on the move are suddenly able to access streaming video without interruption - and buffering is much faster. Expect to see sites which do offer video to leap to the top of the viewing charts. Likely beneficiaries: the BBC's iPlayer, 4OD, ITVPlayer and any site that has a good variety of video content.Making video calls will also become much more feasible because of the fast uplink speeds. In fact, sending video of any sort will become much simpler - with all that implies for coverage of live events.Without knowing how much the data allowances will be on 4G, it's not possible to say whether people will be burning through their data allowances more quickly. But on the basis that 4G lets you get at data nine times faster, one might expect that 500 megabytes - currently the common ceiling for flat-rate data plans on most of the networks (apart from Three, which has a number of plans offering unlimited data) - will seem too restrictive.If 4G pushes the data allowance up (one might guess to 2GB per month) that will create extra pressure on the other network operators, whose 500MB will look stingy (even if one can't normally get through it). It could have a similar effect to Google's introduction of Gmail in 2004, when it offered an entire gigabyte of free email storage - ten times more than rivals like Hotmail and Yaho were offering. That kicked off a revolution in webmail.If (and it's still if) EE does the same with mobile data, and the other networks pitch in with their 4G offerings, we may see mobile data consumption - and, because of the fast uplink speed, creation - skyrocket in the coming years.
Bad Hotel is a great name for a smartphone game. Short, funny, intriguing – before you've even seen a single screenshot, you're interested. But as the wealth of positive reviews and a healthy Metacritic rating suggest, this is not all the game has to offer: it's an entertaining and compulsive mix of tower defence puzzler and musical toy; a stylish, confidently eccentric treat. So success was inevitable right?Wrong. Because as everyone who's involved in smartphone game development knows, the app stores for both iOS and Android devices are congested mega-zones, crammed with thousands of games, many of them terrible, many amazing, but all lumped together on the same digital shop shelf. Getting your game noticed is the fundamental challenge facing any developer.Last month, Yann Seznec, the founder of Lucky Frame and co-designer of Bad Hotel wrotea fascinating blogpostabout the game's first month on sale. He discussed the decisions he made that paid off, the mistakes, the stats, the impossibility of understanding the App Store rankings system and other factors that played a part in the game's release and success. It was fascinating reading.So I asked Yann to condense all that into five crucial elements that every smartphone game developer should consider on releasing a new title. And here's what he came back with:Press and media coverage is a long-term thing"The extremely positive reception we got for Bad Hotel is not only as a result of it being a great game (which it is, of course!) – there are many great games that do not get as good coverage. But we were very fortunate to get some attention for our last game, Pugs Luv Beats, which we managed to take advantage of in terms of keeping in touch with bloggers and journalists. We tried to keep people in the loop as much as possible, telling everyone about our new game both with teasers and concrete information."The traditional Thursday release date is overrated."We released on a Tuesday. This actually allowed us to get a bit more attention than we probably would have, and it helped us gain some momentum towards Thursday evening, when Apple's features are refreshed."Features are important"This is not a new idea, of course, but being featured on the front page of the App Store helped raise sales significantly. We didn't get a "big" feature (like Editor's Choice or similar), but even just having some extra visibility helped enormously. When we stopped being featured our sales dropped accordingly. Nothing too surprising there.A company like Lucky Frame is too small to be on Apple's radar. The bigger (or simply more successful) companies will get contacted by Apple and will be able to develop a relationship with them, but it seems like you kind of have to prove yourself first. I think that's why we were featured - because we had managed to create a really strong buzz for the first two days of release, leading up to the all-important Thursday evening when the lists are refreshed on the store.So we were successful enough to get a small feature from Apple, but not quite big enough to get contacted by Apple directly and featured in any major way. Baby steps!"The competition near the top is very fierce"Forget about 1% of apps making all the money - more like .001%! At one point we were ranking around 100th in the world for all apps - but that meant selling around 1000 copies in a day (maybe a bit more). For an app at $.99 that means income of around $700 a day… we are a three-person company, which in our case represents approximately breaking even (if it were to sustain for an entire month). Our calculations, though, show that we were in the 99.99th percentile of app sales, which once again proves that the vast majority of developers are not sustainable from app sales."The App Store ratings system is very tough to deal with"I am entirely in favour of giving users an opportunity to review apps on the iTunes store, even negatively. But the current system is strangely closed – we have no way of responding publicly or privately to reviews, so when someone gives us a one-star review because it, 'doesn't work on my phone', we are unable to help them out and get it working. Instead, other users see that comment and possibly don't buy our app. Similarly, there is a strange culture of reviews on the App Store where people will hold their star ratings ransom for some arbitrary feature. 'I love this game, but I want you to change a thing. One star for now, I'll change this to five star when you change that.'"• Bad Hotel is available oniOSfor £1.49
Two more well-known brands have launched HTML5 mobile sites as an alternative to native apps. The New York Times and Burberry join an increasingly long list of high-profile companies serving their customers through the browser as well as the app stores.The New York Times'HTML5 site(or web-app, if you must) has launched for iPad, although it will sit alongside the newspaper's existing native apps rather than replace them – this isn't a Financial Times-style decision to ditch the app stores. In fact, the publisher is describing the app as "experimental".The app is available to subscribers, includes sponsorship from Lincoln, and has a few new navigational tricks up its sleeve, including a Trending section presenting the most popular NYT articles on Twitter."Our subscribers have told us they are interested in trying new ways of reading The Times across a variety of platforms," said The New York Times Media Group's Denise Warren in a statement."We are working constantly to develop new products that distribute our content in innovative ways, and this Web-based app is just one example of that."Much of the initial coverage of the new site has focused on its shortcomings when compared to the NYT's native apps (for example,Nieman Journalism LabandMashable).Which may be true right now, but the HTML5 route lends itself to weekly and even daily improvements, with no App Store approval delays. The example of the Financial Times shows what's possible in that regard, while The Economist also received a warm reception for itsElectionism HTML5 site.Burberry's HTML5 site is more of a branding exercise for the company's new watch, The Britain.Accessed through Burberry'smain mobile website, it includes a spinnable 3D model of the watch, which shows the time and weather for the visitor's current location. On iPhone, the model is to scale, with the hope that people will use the site to see how it (virtually) looks on their wrist.Burberry's HTML5 site for its The Britain watchA whizzy 3D watch isn't going to change the mobile world, but what's interesting about Burberry's campaign is the decision to use HTML5. Most fashion brands would launch a native app for this kind of thing – and likely iOS-only.For example, Guess Watches has justlaunched an iOS appto promote its range of timepieces, with plans to add augmented reality features. Burberry's site skips the AR, but will work on Android devices besides iOS, and other platforms in the future.These are just two examples of well-known brands experimenting with HTML5 alongside their native apps. It's not a tipping point, or a sign of a desire to abandon the app stores.If anything, it's a sensible recognition by the New York Times and Burberry of what their readers/customers are doing with their smartphones and tablets. People don't use native apps OR their browser – they use both.Perhaps soon, even mobile industry conference organisers will take the hint, and stop scheduling sessions with titles like "Native apps or HTML5?", in favour of the more accurate "Native apps and/or HTML5 when appropriate, and often both".If there's a strategy guaranteed to position publishers and brands for success on smartphones and tablets in 2012 and beyond, it's flexibility and a willingness to experiment, rather than platform dogmatism.
Here we go with Wednesday. Are any of you coming to the Dishonored event at the Guardian tonight? Come and say hello if you are!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPeak Chrome? Google's browser falls as Firefox, Internet Explorer stay flat &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaBit hard to call it a "fall" where Chrome's share has varied by 1% or so. More puzzling are the mobile browser stats, which are miles out of line with installed base. Why?Atooma is like an IFTTT for mobile and it's insanely clever &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIn essence, Atooma lets you set up conditional events (an "IF") that will automatically trigger simple actions (a "DO"), based on things like time, location, your favourite apps, email (and so on). So, because it is a contextual app which is aware of your location and the time of day, it effectively makes your smartphone smarter.Here are some examples:Looks rather like Tasker (also Android) in what it lets you do. IFTTT is "If This, Then That", a web service. Atooma's developers say they're working on an iOS version. Don't hold your breath.Samsung benefiting from iPhone comparisons &gt;&gt; LocalyticsSales growth of the SGS3 jumped around the time of the Samsung-Apple verdict, and the iPhone 5 launch. (See the graphs.)A possible implication of this analysis is that a portion of smartphone users appear less tied to a particular operating system, instead comparing the full package of device, mobile network and available apps before choosing what to buy. This not only creates new opportunities for Android device manufacturers but also new Windows 8 devices.FTC case results in $163m judgment against "scareware" marketer &gt;&gt; FTCAt the Federal Trade Commission's request, a federal court imposeda judgment of more than $163m on the final defendantin the FTC's case against an operation that used computer "scareware" to trick consumers into thinking their computers were infected with malicious software, and then sold them software to "fix" their non-existent problem.  The court order also permanently prohibits the defendant, Kristy Ross, from selling computer security software and any other software that interferes with consumers' computer use, and from any form of deceptive marketing.$163m? A huge verdict in every way.Apple Maps &gt;&gt; OpenStreetMap FoundationOpenStreetMap is mentioned in Apple's credits, and we have spotted some areas where we think we can see our data in use. For example here in Islamabad...We welcome Apple (or anybody else!) using our map data and we'd like to see them use it more.If you are having problems with the maps on your phone, have a look at an app that only uses current OpenStreetMap data. That way, you'll know the source. And if you find that the data in your area can be improved or updated, you can improve it!OSM is British, in case you didn't know.Absurdly hyped startup Airtime has officially flopped and top execs are fleeing &gt;&gt; Business InsiderAirtime, the startup with a product that connects random Facebook users in video chats, is a huge flop and its senior people are fleeing the company, Liz Gannes of All Things D reports.CTO Eric Feng, brought in through a March acquisition, is on his way out. Cofounder Shawn Fanning is no longer day to day at the company.It's particularly bad news that Feng is leaving because after joining the company in March, he fired everyone who had been working on the startup's tech before.BusinessInsider's version is much more direct than ATD's. Total daily active users: 11,000. Venture capital invested: $13m. (By comparison: Instagram has 11m, though of course that cost a cool billion..)What happened when MPs took a maths exam &gt;&gt; BBC NewsA total of 97 MPs were asked this probability problem: if you spin a coin twice, what is the probability of getting two heads?Among Conservative members, 47% gave the wrong answer, which is disappointing enough. But of the 44 Labour MPs who took part, 77% answered incorrectly.Terrifying. But what is the probability that they got that answer by guessing?The smartphone battle has now moved from hardware to services &gt;&gt; Fortune TechAfter an ill-fated push into music with Ovi Music some years ago, Nokia are now re-entering the music service business with the streaming Nokia Music service. Nokia's acquisition of mapping platform Navteq five years ago was widely criticized for the high price tag. However, today Nokia's mapping platform powers 4 of 5 in-car navigation systems globally, Nokia will power the maps in Amazon's latest Kindle Fire devices, and Nokia Maps are regularly receiving excellent reviews when compared to other mapping solutions, including Google Maps. Nokia Maps is clearly one of the company's crown jewels. The combined service assets of Microsoft and Nokia are impressive and mutually beneficial.Specifications, features, services. As each gets commoditised, you have to move up the value chain.February 2010: We're turning comments off for a bit &gt;&gt; EngadgetFebruary 2010:Luckily, our commenting community makes up only a small percentage of our readership (and the bad eggs an even smaller part of that number), so while they may be loud, they don't speak for most people who come to Engadget looking for tech news. Regardless, we're going to crank things down for a little bit to let everyone just cool off, and we'll switch them back on when we feel like we've shaken some of the trolls and spammers loose from the branches (AKA swing the banhammer in our downtime).Interesting idea. (Comments typically represent less than 1% of page views.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
On the show this week Aleks Krotoski explores the idea of digital death ahead of theDigital Death Daysymposium taking place in London on 6 October. Aleks is joined by co-organisoer Andriana Cassimatis and the developer of the Legacy app, Victoria Moore, to discuss why we need to consider what happens to our growing digital assets when we die.Aleks is joined by Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur to discuss new fines for those who send spam texts and the latest results from BlackBerry maker RIM.
The remark by the RIM chief executive that "we have a clear shot at being the number three platform on the market" in smartphones is under threat in Europe. New research from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech has found that low-cost phones from Nokia are driving up market share of Microsoft's Windows Phone, which is starting to challenge the BlackBerry for third place in Europe.In Italy, Windows Phone achieved a 10.4% share in the 12 weeks to 2 September 2012, the first time the platform has hit double digits for market share in a single country. RIM's BlackBerry, by contrast, saw its share fall from 4.8% in the same period a year ago to just 3.5% this time.Market share reflects a snapshot of sales, not the proportion or number of devices in use, known as the "installed base". The Kantar figures also reflect consumer, and not corporate sales.Across the "big five" EU countries – the UK, Germany, Italy, Spain and France – Windows Phone now shows a 5% share, up one point from a year ago, while RIM's has almost halved from 12.2% to 6.4%.But the challenge for both the smaller platforms is thrown into stark relief by data showing that in the US, Android and iOS combined had 93% of all smartphone sales in the period, which precedes the launch of the iPhone 5. In the "big five" European countries, Android plus iOS had an 82.5% share, of which the majority was Android, with 68.5%, while iOS had a 14% share.Samsung is crushing the rest of the smartphone market, with a market share of 48% across the "big five" European countries, says Kantar. Sony is also doing well in the region, with its new Experia phones outselling both the Nokia and BlackBerry models in Spain, German and France, Kantar said.Other data shows Android strengthening its market share in every territory except, unusually, the US, where its share fell from 62.9% a year ago to 59.6% now; only the iPhone showed market share growth there, up from 24.6% to 33.6%.Elsewhere, Android dominates. In the UK, Android had 62.5% of sales, up from 49.9% a year ago; in Germany, 78.6% (from 51.4%); in France 61.5% (47.8%); in Italy 58.7% (37.2%); in Spain 84% (55.2%); in Australia 65.8% (48.8%).Android is also taking over in emerging markets where Nokia's now-deprecate Symbian and RIM's BlackBerry had dominated.In Brazil it had 47.1% of sales, compared to 19.6% a year ago – and zoomed past Symbian, which last year had 64.5% of sales for the 12-week period. That has dropped to 26.7%, although Windows Phone has jumped to 12.2%, suggesting that Nokia has a total market there of 38.9% – almost certainly bigger than any single rival. RIM increased its market share from 2.5% to 4.1%, in line with its general growth in emerging markets in the past quarter.In Mexico, Android leads with a 37.3% share (19.4% last year), overtaking the former leader RIM's 34.4% share at the same time last year. Though Symbian is dropping there, it still has a 20.2% share – and together with the 2.7% share suggests that Nokia has a 22.9% share in the country, while RIM has a 29.7% share.A total of 57.6% of British mobile phone users have smartphones, which made up 80.4% of all sales here in the 12-week period, Kantar said.
A court has lifted a temporary sales ban on Samsung's Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet, allowing the company to sell the product in the US.While the Galaxy 10.1 is an older model, the lifting of the ban could still help Samsung in the runup to the pivotal festive season.The court had previously fined the Korean tech giant $1bn for infringing Apple patents and too closely mimicking its designs."We are pleased with the court's action today, which vindicates our position that there was no infringement of Apple's design patent and that an injunction was not called for," Samsung said in a statement.Separately, Samsung filed a motion on Monday against Apple in a California court saying the iPhone 5 had infringed some of the company's patents – and indicated that it will begin legal action aimed at banning it from sale in the US, a move which could cripple Apple's business."We have always preferred to compete in the marketplace with our innovative products, rather than in courtrooms. However, Apple continues to take aggressive legal measures that will limit market competition," Samsung said in a statement. It added that it had "little choice but to take the steps necessary to protect our innovations and intellectual property rights".Samsung is said to be the world's largest smartphone maker, ahead of Apple, but lags in the tablet field, where it sold an estimated 2m devices in the second quarter of this year against Apple's 17m iPads.The world's top two smartphone makers are locked in patent disputes in 10 countries as they vie to dominate the lucrative market.The legal fight began last year when Apple sued Samsung in multiple countries, and the Korean firm countersued.Since then though neither side had won a decisive victory – until Apple's $1bn win, which is now being disputed by both sides. Samsung claims the jury used flawed reasoning, while Apple is seeking to raise the damages by about $700m ($433m).Meanwhile, Samsung's use of patents deemed essential to standards such as 3G networking has triggered an antitrust investigation by the European commission which could lead to a fine if it is found to have abused its ownership of those patents.The injunction on the Galaxy tablet had been put in place ahead of the month-long trial which Apple won in the US. However, the jury found that Samsung's tablet had not violated Apple's D'889 "trade dress" patent – essentially covering the cosmetic appearance of the iPad – which was the basis for the tablet injunction, and the Korean firm argued the sales ban should be lifted."The court does not agree with Apple that Samsung's motion for dissolution of the 26 June preliminary injunction cannot be fairly decided without resolving Apple's post-trial motions," Judge Lucy Koh said in her ruling.Apple did not respond to requests for comment.
Here comes Tuesday. I was on theOne Life Leftradio programme last night – rather nervewracking but good fun in the end. What did YOU get up to?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAugmented Reality + Facial Recognition &gt;&gt; Viewdle®Viewdle's best-in class computer vision technology showcases the power of your smartphone through camera-based innovations in augmented reality, device interaction, media management, gaming, + social networking.And is rumoured to have been acquired by Google for $30m. No confirmation at the time of writing, though.Who did the Stuxnet? Final Episode &gt;&gt; CryptomeVia Brian Krebs, who says he's been unable to verify any of these allegations posted to Cryptome (a sort of Wikileaks of security services stuff, but without redaction or quality control).Hard drive shipments rebound to record level in 2012 &gt;&gt; iSuppliA year after the Thailand flooding disaster partially derailed production, the global hard disk drive (HDD) industry has fully recovered, with shipments to the computer market expected to hit a record level this year, driven by the enterprise market as well as the arrival of the Windows 8 operating system.HDD shipments in 2012 for the overall computer market, including PCs, are forecast to reach 524.0m units, up 4.3% from 502.5m units last year, according to an IHS iSuppli Storage Space Market Brief from information and analytics provider IHS.The 2012 number will be the highest shipment figure on record in the HDD books at year-end--but the achievement will not stand for long. In fact, HDD shipments are projected to climb continually, the stellar results of each year bested by the next in predictable but welcome fashion until at least 2016.Wes Miller, of the consultancy Directions On Microsoft, remarked: "Windows 8 and Windows RT don't mark a recovery point for spinning disks. They mark the beginning of the end."Hitler finds out about Apple's new iOS6 maps &gt;&gt; YouTubeFINALLY.Illegal marketing clampdown begins as spam texters set for six figure fine &gt;&gt; ICO BlogLetters have gone out today to two individuals that we have found to have broken the law. Subject to final ratification, the recommendations total well over a quarter of a million pounds. Further details about each case will be revealed once we are able to formally announce our action next month; however this is an important step that shows those who blatantly break the law will be in line for a sizeable six figure penalty from the ICO.While companies can phone you to sell you the latest product or service, the law states that individuals should not receive unsolicited texts or automated marketing calls unless they have given their permission. Marketing companies are also forbidden from phoning individuals registered with the Telephone Preference Service (TPS) unless they have given their explicit consent. While honest mistakes can occasionally be made we will look to take action against individuals and companies that continue to break the law.Finally, the ICO discovers it has teeth.The PC is over &gt;&gt; Coding HorrorJeff Atwood:But even as an inveterate PC hot-rodder, I've noticed that in the last few years I've started to lose interest in the upgrade treadmill of ever faster CPUs with more cores, more sophisticated GPUs, more bandwidth, more gigabytes of RAM. Other than solid state drives, which gave us a badly needed order of magnitudeimprovement in disk speeds, when was the last time you felt you needed to upgrade a powerful desktop or laptop computer? If I dropped a SSD in it, do you honestly think you could tell the difference in real world non-gaming desktop usage between a high end 2009 personal computer and one from today?Because I'm not sure I could.This, from a guy who used to have "Windows" written through him like he was a stick of rock.Notch doesn't hate Windows 8, he's just confused &gt;&gt; Within WindowsSo last night, Markus "Notch" Persson -- the Minecraft guy -- mentioned that Microsoft reached out to the company (Mojang AB) in an attempt to get the wildly popular Minecraft video game into the Windows Store. Shortly after, though, he denounced Microsoft for "ruining the PC" with Windows 8 and its "closed" nature. What's really going on here: Notch is just confused about Windows 8.Allow me to help.Remains to be seen whether Persson will shift his position. No signs at the time of linking to this.Where To? will make you feel better about Apple Maps &gt;&gt; TUAWWhere To? now offers a link to Apple Maps once you have found your destination using the app's local search. The Google-powered search data is far more complete than what Apple Maps offers through Yelp, so this is a good solution. This latest version of Where To? also works well with iOS 6, and doesn't 'letterbox' on an iPhone 5.When you find a location you'll get reviews, links to websites and business hours. One other nice feature is that Where To? can be launched from Apple Maps, to get a more complete idea of what is around your chosen destination.The Maps messup is turning into a gigantic opportunity for maps app developers.The iPad 1 &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment:Apple was able to stuff iOS 6 into the same 256 MB RAM limit on the iPhone 3GS, but the 3GS' screen is much smaller than the iPad's. Apps on the 3GS therefore need much less RAM for screen images, textures, and buffers, so if iOS 6 barely fit into the 3GS, it's extremely plausible that Apple just couldn't make enough feature cuts to run it on the iPad 1 and leave enough free RAM for apps to run without crashing.Knowing Apple, that sounds like a far more plausible explanation than the most popular theory I've heard: that Apple just wants to force iPad 1 owners to buy new iPads.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Google's market capitalisation passed that of Microsoft in early trading on the Nasdaq on Monday, marking another moment at which the company that defined computing in the 1990s has been outpaced by rivals.First it was Apple, once a minnow in the PC market, which blew past Microsoft in May 2010, hitting $227.26bn against Bill Gates's creation's $227.25bn.Now it is Google's turn, with its total share capital – and in effect the stock market's estimates of its total future profits – valued at $248.35bn against Microsoft's $247.73bn. It is also knocking on Walmart's door: even a slight rise in its value could put it third in the US listings.By calculations on Monday evening, Apple is now the most valuable public company in the world ($626.87bn), with Google fourth and Microsoft fifth in a&nbsp;list that is dominated by technology companies.
Fifa 13 has rocketed to the top of the UK software charts, shifting over one million units in its first week on sale. It's an achievement that has only previously been equaled by the last three Call of Duty titles. The latest instalment of Fifa's long-standing rival, Pro Evolution Soccer, stands at a respectable number five.It's not only rather nice news for EA, the game has also delivered a hefty adrenaline boost to UK game sales figures. As industry news site MCVnotes:"In hitting these incredible sales, FIFA 13 betters the week one numbers of FIFA 12 by 27 per cent in units and 31 per cent in value. Again, remarkable in the current in the current climate."Its success drove the overall market to a 196 per cent week-on-week gain in unit sales and a 282 per cent jump in revenue. FIFA 13 claimed 71 per cent of the UK's total video game unit sales last week and 80 per cent of its revenue."Meanwhile, the latest World of Warcraft update, Mists of Pandaria, stalled at number four, stopping short behind Borderlands 2 and F1 2012.
2.52pmBSTThe endCook tells usthe Foo Fighters are &quot;awesome&quot;and thanks everyone. And he heads off stage - but the mic hasn&apos;t been turned down. Oh no! &quot;That went fantastic!&quot; he enthuses to the first person off stage. Phew.We&apos;re done here too - thanks for tuning in. We hope to have hands-on video and more analysis very soon.2.52pmBSTIt&apos;s something of an Unplugged version of Foo Fighters, so not quite the headbanging you might have expected. Still not as abrupt a headjerk as the time Steve Jobs introduced Kanye West, who did a version of Gold Digger in which he made reference to Jobs&apos;s haircut.&quot;One of the incredible things about being here is that you&apos;re meeting people who are shaping our future,&quot; says Dave Grohl.&quot;And just like Little Richard, Tom Petty, Jimmy Page,these are just people who took it upon themselves to change our future, but you meet them and they&apos;re people! And this one&apos;s dedicated to all those people.&quot;OK, perhaps Dave Grohl isn&apos;t the perfect guy to be doing this. Good singer, blah inter-song talker. (Still waiting for him to pull a giant Gibson and a big fuzzbox from behind the drum kit. I think it&apos;s safe to say there isn&apos;t an iPad mini to come.)The Foo Fighters wrap things up  Photograph: Jeff Chiu/AP2.52pmBSTWhat's Cooking?And now back Tim Cook, with a run-through of what we&apos;ve learnt.&quot;That&apos;s iPod and iTunes, they are a great duo. Now we do love music. We&apos;re so excited that we created an ad.&quot; I&apos;m not absolutely sure that&apos;s why they created the ad, to be honest.Cook says Apple has created &quot;a completely new iTunes&quot;. As for theiPhone 5, it&apos;s &quot;the thinnest, lightest and best iPhone we have ever shipped, powered by iOS 6, now with 200 new features for you to discover and explore&quot;.&quot;When you look at each of these they are incredible industry-leading innovations by themselves, but what sets them apart is that only Apple could create such amazing hardware, software and services and bring them together. Apple has never been stronger.&quot;And then, for the first time in years, it&apos;s going to be a musical playout. The music will be played by... FOO FIGHTERS! Take it away Dave Grohl. &quot;What an amazing day, huh?,&quot; he Grohls.The suited and booted audience are obviously not fist-pumping or mosh-pitting, but give them time.2.52pmBSTSo what about theheadphones? &quot;We have shipped 600m sets of headphones. If you do that math that&apos;s 1.2bn little speakers.&quot; No kidding.&quot;We&apos;ve spent three years designing an entirely new headphone. We call them...headpods. They look unlike any headphone you&apos;ve ever seen before.&quot; (Well, apart from that&quot;what is coming in the new iPhone&quot; graphicthat was running earlier today.)If these headphones reduce the amount of lost sound then that will certainly be a huge benefit. (We pointed this out in 2006.)The new EarPods will come with the new iPod Touch, iPod nano and, of course, the iPhone 5. (Oh, not the old iPhone 4S or 4? That&apos;s the implication.)They&apos;re also available in Product Red, where a portion of the profits goes to fight AIDS in Africa. Over $50m has been donated so far.The refreshed iPod Touch with new earpods  Photograph: Beck Diefenbach/ReutersThe new earbud  Photograph: Beck Diefenbach/Reuters2.52pmBSTPart of the festivities: a dance crew working with Ustream performs outside the Yerba Buena Center where Apple is holding the event.  Photograph: John G  Mabanglo/EP2.52pmBSTiPods still exist, continue to get updatedWe&apos;re now being shown some newiPod nanos. They come with integrated an FM tuner, and you can get them in lot of colours. Anyone would think that iPods weren&apos;t going extinct.We&apos;re also seeing the newiPod Touch, which has much more processing power – the iPod Touch has the power that once would have been required in a supercomputer before.It also has a hidden button that lets you attach a wrist strap. (But you&apos;d have to decide whether people will be more impressed by &quot;have you seen my supercomputer?&quot; or &quot;have you seen my wrist strap button?&quot;).The iPod Touch now has Siri as well. (Does Siri get better by having more people using it? It seems to have improved over the past year.) The Touch shall also come in five colours, again with its own wrist loop. (&quot;Oh, that? It&apos;s my colour co-ordinated supercomputer wrist strap.&quot;)The new iPod Nano  Photograph: Beck Diefenbach/Reuters2.52pmBST&quot;The new iTunes will be available in late October&quot;.Note that. Very interesting: why a new iTunes showcased now but not available untillate October? Why not just show it then, or just introduce it and let everyone get on with it?That&apos;s been the case in the past, pretty much - you get a new version of iTunes, and you get on with it.Brushed metal becomespassé, in aneyeblink.So what&apos;s going to happen in October, doyouthink, that might make it worth changing iTunes, particularly for iOS...?2.52pmBSTVodafonehas a statement:&quot;Vodafone welcomes the arrival of the new iPhone and Vodafone UK plans to offer the new device to our customers. Availability of the new device will be announced in due course.&quot;2.52pmBSTRedesigned iTunes storeThere&apos;ll be a re-designed iTunes store on the iPhone and iPad.And the App Store will integrate Facebook Likes into product pages. (Er, this isn&apos;t quite as thrilling as we&apos;d expected.)&quot;Today a brand new version... we have built iCloud right in,&quot; says Eddy Cue, as he demonstrates the new version of iTunes. Jeff Robbin comes up on stage to do the demo – Robbin, by the way, is the guy who wrote the MP3-playing SoundJam MP program in 1999 which Apple snapped up. Robbin turned it into iTunes, which became the integration for the iPod; the rest is history. Robbin is to some extent the guy whose software got Apple where it is today.(It has to be said that watching people demo music library software is never going to compare with car chase games. We&apos;ll spare you the pain.)2.52pmBSTCue the musicEddy Cue, the head of music. &quot;iTunes Store has 26m songs, you have purchased over 20bn songs since we launched it 9 years ago.&quot; My credit card knows it.iTunes Store is in 63 countries around the world. &quot;With that we now have 435m iTunes accounts with one-click purchasing and they can easily shop from anywhere … but over the past few years there&apos;s been an amazing trend: two-thirds directly to iOS.&quot;Eddy Cue and the iTunes video offerings  Photograph: Beck Diefenbach/Reuters2.52pmBSTTim Cookis back to say he&apos;s going to talk about &quot;something near and dear to our hearts, and that&apos;s music.&quot; Is he going to kill Ping?&quot;iPod and iTunes... have revolutionised the music industry. We like it when we can make enjoying it even simpler.. changes with both iPod and iTunes.&quot;Aha, here is our One More Thing, and it&apos;s over to Eddy Cue, the head of music, to deliver it.&quot;iTunes Store has 26m songs, you have purchased over 20bn songs since we launched it 9 years ago.&quot; My credit card knows it.iTunes Storein 63 countries around the world. &quot;With that we now have 435m iTunes accounts with one-click purchasing and they can easily shop from anywhere.... but over the past few years there&apos;s been an amazing trend .. two-thirds directly to iOS.&quot;2.52pmBSTiOSSo, the iOS 6 rollout is on 19 September. For the iPad as well.2.52pmBSTPriceSchiller is backin his taupe shirt. &quot;Just two questions left: how much do I have to spend?&quot;The same prices as for the 4S last year:$199 (16GB), $299 (32GB), $399 (64GB).&quot;When can i get my hands on one? You can pre-order on September 14, ship just one week later – September 21 – in US, UK, Canada, France, Hong Kong, Singapore, and then a week later in 20 more countries, and by the end of this year in more than 100 countries. It&apos;s the fastest rollout ever.&quot;Has Apple&apos;s stock rocketed yet? On that basis it should becausethe Christmas quarter is going to go enormous.2.52pmBSTIve still in the video.Fascinating point: I&apos;ve never seen him do one of the presentations in more than 15 years of watching Apple presentations; he&apos;s always in video, perhaps because he speaks so quietly and doesn&apos;t project&quot;Chamfered edge … many pieces seamlessly come together … highly sophisticated process.&quot;Picture of robot-only factory: &quot;We now measure in microns.. the only way to deliver this level of quality.&quot;Interesting how we&apos;ve approaching the nano-scale even at the physical level of where you hold a device.2.52pmBSTNeed for speed&quot;You&apos;ll experience a big increase in speed in everything you use the iPhone for... especially for graphics-intensive apps.&quot; That&apos;s perhaps going to be the point this will be sold on. Bigger screen and faster …… but no, maybe not. Here comes the cuddly video whereSir Jonathan Ivetalks about how they don&apos;t want to make just a new phone, they want to make a much better phone.2.52pmBSTThe iPhone 5 will come in black and white, just like the old ones.There has been no NFC mentioned at all so far, although we&apos;ve only been going for 50 minutes. They zipped through iOS 6, which makes it feel like there must be something more to come......but no, maybe not. We&apos;re now watching a cuddly video where (Sir)Jonathan Ivetalks about how Apple didn&apos;t just want to make a new phone, they wanted to make a much better phone.&quot;You&apos;ll experience a big increase in speed in everything you use the iPhone for ... especially for graphics-intensive apps,&quot; Ive says. That&apos;s perhaps going to be a main point the iPhone 5 will be sold on – it&apos;ll have a bigger screen and be faster.Ive&apos;s video continues(I have never seen him do one of the presentations in more than 15 years of watching Apple presentations; he&apos;s always in video, perhaps because he&apos;s so quiet).&quot;Chamfered edge.&quot; &quot;Many pieces seamlessly come together.&quot; &quot;Highly sophisticated process.&quot; Picture of robot-only factory: &quot;We now measure in microns.. the only way to deliver this level of quality.&quot;Interesting howwe&apos;re approaching the nano-scale even at the physical levelof where you hold a device.Schiller shows off the two color options: black and white, same as always.  Photograph: Be2.52pmBSTSiriShowing off Siri, which can now do sports (or at least American sports - can it do British ones?)Now if you ask Siri &quot;what&apos;s the best...&quot; it replies &quot;that&apos;s a very subjective question...&quot;Or: &quot;find a reservation for four for sushi at eight o&apos;clock&quot;. That&apos;s pretty awesome, integrated with the OpenTable app. (In the US, unclear if it&apos;s in the UK too.)2.52pmBSTScott Forstall klaxon!Forstall,aka, the guy seen as the rising star of Apple, a possible future CEO, the man who led the team that shrank Mac OSX down onto a phone for the original iPhone in &quot;Project Purple&quot;.He&apos;s showing off the maps. The big question will be whether the directions – turn-by-turn – will work in the UK.Then Forstall demoes tweeting from anywhere, before showing off Safari on the big display – the iOS6 browser tabs know what you have open on Safari back on your Mac, so all your browsing is in sync.(Google does this with Chrome on different devices, including smartphones. The major difference is that Chrome isn&apos;t the default browser yet on most Android phones.)And then we get a look atPassbook, which collects all your e-tickets – and if you get rid of one there&apos;s a fun shredder. (A Forstall specialism – he loves such &quot;skeumorphs&quot;, or lifelike representations.) Also works in lock screen so you don&apos;t have to unlock phone at the airport.Scott Forstall, senior vice president of iOS Software at Apple Inc. Photograph: BECK DIEFENBACH/REUTERS2.52pmBST&quot;But what about all the connectors you have now?&quot; There&apos;s a 30-pin-to-Lightning adaptor. Slightly chunky-looking but, OK, they couldn&apos;t just abandon it completely.And now on to the software - iOS 6.2.52pmBSTTime to connectOK, now let&apos;s kill the connector. &quot;So many things we used to do over the wire we now do wirelessly. We use Bluetooth … Wi-Fi for our stereo … iTunes … it&apos;s time for the connector to evolve.&quot;New connector is called &quot;Lightning … so we have Thunderbolt and Lightning&quot;. Hurrah for puns. 80% smaller, reversible, &quot;easier to use&quot;. Bose already doing it, as are B&amp;W, JBL and Bang &amp; Olufsen.Phil Schiller, senior vice president of worldwide marketing at Apple Inc., introduces the iPhone 5 new connector.  Photograph: BECK DIEFENBACH/REUTERS2.52pmBSTPanoramic images... the presentation shows 28 megapixel stitching. (This is in the Samsung Galaxy S3 range and the new Nokia Lumia range - will be interesting to do a panorama shootout.)We&apos;re shown a panorama that includes some footage pointing into the sun - which normally creates exposure challenges. You can also do wacky panoramas where you run around behind and appear at either end.Photos while recording. The back camera takes 1080 pixel images, and can take photos while recording video. The front does the same but at 720p. This is all feature-competitive with the Samsung top end, but makes it hard for the Nokia Lumia to compare. (Although the Samsung S3 won&apos;t work with EvEv LTE in the UK - you&apos;ll have to wait for future models.)"Look at that bee, you can see the veins on the wings of the bee."  Photograph: Eric Risberg/APSchiller shows off panorama function.  Photograph: Jeff Chiu/AP2.52pmBSTPhil Schiller. With two iPhones.  Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images2.52pmBSTPerformance claimsSo according to Apple, the iPhone 5 will achieve:• 225 hours standby• 40 hours music playback• 10 hours LTE use• 10 hours video• 8 hours 3G• 8 hours Wi-FiThose aren&apos;t much shifted from the 4S, thoughthe LTE figure is surprisingly high.As for the camera, there&apos;ll be an A6 chip used to process images, and a &quot;smart filter&quot; which looks at the image and figures out where areas should be coloured (sky) or textured. &quot;Faster photo capture, now 40% faster&quot;.&quot;It all adds up to what sort of pictures you can get.&quot; Pictures, which won&apos;t work. &quot;Kids look happier,&quot; he says. Same pictures as last year? &quot;Look at that bee, you can see the veins on the wings of the bee.&quot;2.52pmBST&quot;We used Game Centre to create time-shifted multiplayer - that&apos;s my race from yesterday.&quot; His assistant is racing him now and catching up to the guy who&apos;s standing there giving the talk. &quot;This is something we&apos;ve never seen done before.&quot; Can actually bump into the car that was used in the previously recorded race. (That&apos;s really impressive.)2.52pmBSTDemo time!EA Studios is going to show Real Racing 3 on the legendary race arena Laguna Sega. (I think I heard that right.) Full console quality in your hands. Reflections off the side of the car – which is impressive. &quot;It actually makes the game easier to play. Even has rear-view mirrors.&quot; Tasty. There&apos;s lens flare, too.2.52pmBST&quot;Developers are going to love what they can do with this for CPU-intensive applications.&quot; [Then again, chess players are going to hate getting beaten even worse by a darn machine twice as quickly.]2.52pmBST&quot;We&apos;ve updated every aspect of iPhone 5 over iPhone 4S. A brand-new chip - the Apple A6 chip. (Who had this in the poll?) 2x faster CPU, 2x faster graphics.&quot;2.52pmBSTNetworks4G/LTE gives you a theoretical maximum downlink of 100megabits per second. Single chip, single radio, dynamic antenna - the latter from the iPhone 4S, switching between two virtual antennas for signal reception.&quot;&quot;LTE is the most complicated networking technology ever brought to this earth.&quot; Who with?Sprint, Verizon and AT&amp;T in the US; Asia, Softbank, KDDI, Smartone; Australia, Telstra, Optus, Virgin Mobile;in Europe Deutsche Telekom and – hurrah! – EvEv in the UK.back shot of the iphone 5twitter.com/iPhoneTeam/sta…&mdash; All iPhone (@iPhoneTeam)September 12, 20122.52pmBST&quot;44% more colour saturation, the most accurate display in the industry.. integrated touch, we remove a layer making it have less glare in sunlight.&quot;Next: &quot;ultrafast wireless technology.&quot;*4G/LTE klaxon!*We&apos;re ticking off the already-leaked features one by one.2.52pmBSTA thoughtIf Apple has been able to scale the apps so that they will work on a 16:9 screen rather than the 4:3 ratio of the iPhone 4, then that opens the way to an &quot;iPad mini&quot; in the same ratio.Edit:thanks to Craig Grannell for pointing out that the original iPhone is a 3:2 ratio, not 4:3 - the latter is for the iPad.side view of the iphone 5twitter.com/iPhoneTeam/sta…&mdash; All iPhone (@iPhoneTeam)September 12, 20122.52pmBST&quot;What is the design centre for a phone? It&apos;s this - your hand, the horizontally opposed thumb, it should be easy to send messages, type emails, surf the web... &quot; 16:9 ratio, so a fifth row.&quot;All the software has been updated to take advantage of this display. Your calendar shows more events.&quot;Basically, the gravitational force that has been expanding every other smartphone screen has caught up with Apple. Hard to think that if Samsung and others hadn&apos;t been making bigger phones that Apple wouldn&apos;t have followed.2.52pmBSTIt is indeed taller (5 rows plus dock), two-tone back.&quot;Made entirely of glass and aluminium, unlike anything we or anyone in our industry has made before. Hardware and software engineering is the most challenging our team has ever taken on.&quot;First: &quot;the thinnest and lightest phone we&apos;ve ever made, 7.6mm thin, 112g so 20% lighter, smaller volume. &quot;This is the monumental challenge.. have everything the iPhone 4S has even before new features. It&apos;s really easy to make a product that&apos;s bigger, everyone does that.&quot; Dig at Samsung.Phil Schiller with the new iPhone 5.  Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images2.52pmBSTFirst lookAnyhow, phones. &quot;Today, we&apos;re going to introduce iPhone 5.&quot; SEO experts everywhere rejoice - I think that&apos;s them clapping in the audience. So let&apos;s take a look.&quot; Lights go out, it&apos;s suspended in the middle of the stage, &quot;the most beautiful product we have ever made.&quot;2.52pmBSTOMG!This is incredible. Unheard of.Phil Schiller is wearing a taupe-coloured shirt.2.52pmBST&quot;App Store has been an absolute revolution. It&apos;sphenomenal.&quot; Last quarter sold the 400 millionth iOS device (that&apos;s iPod Touch, iPhone, iPad). [Compare that to Android: 480m, according to Eric Schmidt last week.]&quot;We have some very exciting news to tell you about iPhone.&quot;*Phil Schiller klaxon!*2.52pmBSTSome tablet stats. Is this a leadup to an iPad mini? Doesn&apos;t feel right. The other odd thing is that this is only being shown to journalists and analysts, who will mostly know these stats anyway.iPad makes 91% of web traffic - &quot;I don&apos;t know what these other web tablets are doing!&quot; And: almost all Fortune 500 testing or deploying iPads, and deploying custom apps. That latter point is relevant.2.52pmBSTApple's post-PC revolution&quot;In the past six years we have outpaced the PC&quot; in terms of growth. The iPad is driving the post-PC revolution at a breathtaking pace&quot;.Cook has a sort of breathy, urgent delivery, as though he&apos;s announcing an exciting new series on US TV. &quot;17 million iPads! We sold more iPads than any PC manufacturer sold of their entire PC lineup. Yes we are in a post-PC world. This brings us to 84m units which is absolutely shocking when you think this is a product category that didn&apos;t even exist two and a half years ago.&quot;2.52pmBSTCook: &quot;Our stores offer the best buying experience and the best customer experience on the planet.&quot;83m visitors in the past quarter. Interesting given rumours that the ex-Dixons chief now in charge of retail hasn&apos;t been popular and has been trying to monetise more heavily. Emphasis on customer service by Cook might point to something different.2.52pmBST&quot;We&apos;ve got some really cool things to show you.&quot; As always. Apple Retail update: Barcelona store. Beautiful store. &quot;Here&apos;s a picture of the interior&quot;. Empty of course because it wasn&apos;t open. Huge crowd for opening day - which doesn&apos;t sound like the doomy Spanish economy we&apos;ve been hearing about. Could Apple be increasing Spain&apos;s GDP with this next phone, as it&apos;s said itcould do the for US?Apple CEO Tim Cook. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images2.52pmBSTGuardian staff wetting themselves about whether a mobile phone might or might not have a bigger screen&quot;Children are dying every second,&quot;writessnarfin the comments section.&quot;And you&apos;re wetting yourselves about whether a mobile phone might or might not have a bigger screen?&quot;Do you have a camera in our office?2.52pmBSTTim Cook takes the stage&quot;Program about to begin&quot; says the note on the screen. Let&apos;s do this thing.Tim Cookis on stage, happy and in his black shirt (untucked) and blue jeans.2.52pmBSTWhile we&apos;re waiting, a bit of reading. &quot;Is this the last great iPhone launch?&quot; asksMashable, before answering, essentially, that yes, yes it is:Battery life can improve, of course. But Lithium-ion, the dominant battery technology of the last two decades, has hit something of a wall, something seemingly inherent in chemistry. Absent a scientific breakthrough, battery improvements are all going to be on the software side — doing more with less power.The device could get lighter, certainly, and thinner, possibly — although you still need space for a power button, a lock button, a headphone jack, a dock connector and volume controls. (It really doesn’t get much thinner than the iPod Touch.)But again, really, these are incremental improvements. Like the chips on the inside, they’re always going to be interesting to the Apple cognoscenti — not so much to the audience at large. We’ll care more and more about iOS 6 and its inheritors; not so much about the iPhone 6.That’s why we’re being teased with the possibility of truly new Apple products, such as theiPad MinioriTV, later this year. These are the launches that will remain a big deal — when Apple, the world’s most obsessively design-minded mass-market company, tackles an entirely new category.So what will this iPhone look like?The Guardian&apos;s Datastore has a Graphic News imagethat has visualised the rumours.And why not have a go atcrowdsourcing the iPhone 5&apos;s specifications?Take part in our fun(ish) questionnaire.Ps – the last two links will essentially become redundant inthree minutes, so you may wish to get clicking.2.52pmBSTInside the event in London we are being treated to some BANGING music.It&apos;s not quite as good as the Internet Explorer advert&apos;s music (remind us who it is?), though we&apos;d hoped for a bit of that new Muse dupstep single. Once, the music ahead of an Apple launch told you something about what was coming; Steve Jobs would choose it personally. Hard not to feel that now it comes from someone plugging in the iTunes Store and hitting &quot;Modern&quot; and &quot;shuffle&quot;.Emotion is running... as low as it usually does among British journalists.2.52pmBSTSo much seems to have leaked so far - bigger screen, name of the phone (iPhone 5), new dock connector - that it feels as though the only things that we&apos;ve yet to find out are what colour shirt Phil Schiller will wear (actually, we can guess - blue).That, andthe price. And... the &quot;something special&quot;, which last year was &quot;Siri&quot;, the voice assistant, which many people have derided but is likely to be an increasingly important feature.2.52pmBSTApple to reveal iPhone 5Apple will unveil the latest incarnation of the iPhone at an event in San Francisco on Wednesday. The iPhone 5, or new iPhone, or iPhone 4GS, orwhatever else it might be called(itprobably will be called an iPhone 5) is expected to have 4G capability, a bigger screen, and a smaller dock connector.It has been a particularly leak-heavy pre-launch period for Apple, withpreviews of the expected revamped dock connector and headphones appearing, as well asmuch speculation over the size of the new iPhone&apos;s screen.Apple is also expectedto launch the latest version of its operating system, iOS 6, on Wednesday, withthe company&apos;s website suggestingthe update will revamp Siri, FaceTime and Safari, among other services.Elsewhere,speculative searching of Apple&apos;s websitehas led numerous tech websitesto suggest that the iPhone 5 will have 4G LTE.Bored of rumours? Don&apos;t worry. We should know actual, real things about this new mobile phone quite soon.Charles Arthuris at an Apple event in London, where the California event will be live streamed, andAdam Gabbattwill be monitoring reaction from New York. Follow live coverage here.
Two people responsible for sending out millions of spam texts offering accident compensation and payment protection insurance (PPI) mis-selling services face fines totalling about half a million pounds, following a crackdown by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO).Another eight companies could face similar fines as the data enforcement office concentrates on unsolicited texts, which its research has shown is one of the most annoying examples of unwanted marketing people receive.The case is the first of its kind in which the ICO has used its new powers to levy fines of up to £500,000 for misuse of personal data.Among the abuses cited are that the texts had no named sender, and that when people texted "STOP" to be taken off the list, their number was added to a new list, which was then sold to other companies for further spam marketing.It is also illegal to send text marketing messages or automated marketing calls to people who have not opted to receive them from the company involved – which also means any company that used the numbers collected from "STOP" texts would be breaking the law.The ICOsaidmore cases were in the pipeline as it tries to stamp out such practices. "Those who blatantly break the law will be in line for a sizeable six-figure penalty from the ICO," said Simon Entwisle, the office's director of operations.The individuals, who have not yet been named, have been given 28 days to respond to the ICO to explain how their activities were legal. If they cannot, then a "final penalty notice" will come into force, making them personally liable for the payment.They were both linked to a company that is registered under the Data Protection Act, but which the ICO said broke the law in sending the texts.Entwisle said: "The public have told us that they are increasingly concerned about the illegal marketing texts and calls. These are often made by rogue companies claiming to offer payouts for accidents a person has never had or payment protection insurance claims that they are not necessarily entitled to."He added: "While companies can phone people to sell them the latest product or service, the law states that individuals should not receive unsolicited texts or automated marketing calls unless they have given their permission."The ICO said it had been investigating the two individuals since the end of last year. "They are linked to the same company, and are ultimately responsible for the actions of the company," said a spokesman.UK-based marketing companies are forbidden from calling people who have registered their numbers with the freeTelephone Preference Serviceunless they have received explicit consent.However, the growth in availability of automated diallers and databases of mobile phone numbers, plus the rise of low-cost internet-to-SMS "gateways", has made it easier and cheaper for scammers to send out huge numbers of texts indiscriminately.The ICO said in the past six months, since it began asking people to forward examples of spam texts, it had received nearly 30,000 examples.
UK games chart, week ending 28 September 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (42)12 (1)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (71)PS3 (25)PC (4)23 (2)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (47)PC (2)24 (–)World Of Warcraft: Mists Of Pandaria(12+)PC (100)15 (3)Pro Evolution Soccer 2013(3+)PS3 (63)Xbox 360 (35)PC (2)26 (4)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (41)77 (–)Rocksmith (12+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (36)18 (13)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (76)PS3 (16)PC (8)429 (5)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (32)Wii (18)PS3 (16)DS (9)1510 (7)New Super Mario Bros. 2(3+)3DS (100)711 (–)Dead Or Alive 5 (16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)112 (–)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)1813 (6)Littlebigplanet Ps Vita(7+)VITA (100)214 (12)Dead Island Goty Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (34)PC (1)1315 (10)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (44)PC (6)1416 (–)Angry Birds Trilogy (3+)Xbox 360 (51)3DS (28)PS3 (21)117 (–)Gran Turismo 5 Academy Edition (3+)PS3 (100)118 (11)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)PC (1)1419 (9)Guild Wars 2(12+)PC (100)520 (8)Tekken Tag Tournament 2(16+)PS3 (57)Xbox 360 (43)3UKIEGames Charts &copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Early reports from reviewers who've played the final code say it's one of the games of the year – and you can find out all about it at the Guardian office on Wednesday night. Dishonored, from French developer Arkane Studios, takes players into a dark steam punk city, where a deadly plague rages and a treacherous aristocrat runs a nightmarish police state.To celebrate the launch of the game later this month, Guardian Extra has teamed up with publisher Bethesda to host an event at our offices in Kings Place. Art director Sebastien Mitton and visual design director Viktor Antonov will talk about how they imagined and built the city Dunwall and its unique retro futuristic architecture. This is an amazing opportunity to discover how some of the most talented artists in the industry work.Mitton and Antonov will explain the creation of the game, before discussing its inception with me, followed by an audience Q&amp;A and a chance to browse a gallery of concept art. There are be the chance to win an exclusive piece of art designed just for the night.There are still some tickets available, at £8 each.Please go straight here to secure your place!
Here we go again, it's Monday! Any gaming over the weekend?
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAs Apple and Samsung dominate, Japan's tech giants are in a free fall - The Washington PostWhile electronics giants Apple and Samsung fight each other for market dominance, with hotly competitive product releases and tit-for-tat patent lawsuits, Japan's consumer electronics makers find themselves in an increasingly perilous fight for relevance and, in some cases, survival.Companies such as Sony, Panasonic and Sharp once controlled the industry, outclassing and outselling their US rivals. But now they represent the most alarming telltale of corporate Japan's ­two-decade struggle to adapt, downsize and innovate.More spring cleaning &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogLatest scheduled for the chop: AdSense for Feeds (to put ads in RSS feeds); spreadsheet gadgets; Google News's Badges and Recommended Sections; and more. The Google News ones didn't last long. Besides Google News itself, has any of Google's initiatives around news content lasted? (FastFlip didn't - what else?)Lookout releases protection against dialer-related attacks &gt;&gt; Official Lookout blogThe industry is working fast to patch this vulnerability. Google patched it for the stock Android dialer nearly three months ago (but it's unknown how broadly that patch has been merged into OEM Android firmwares), and phone manufacturers and carriers have already issued patches for a number of popular device types.While we're not aware of malicious examples of a dialer-based attack in-the-wild, it still remains a concerning vulnerability: the worst known exploit results in total data loss, and there are likely a number of additional device-specific codes that are not being broadly discussed. The vulnerability still may affect many Android handsets.Google Play:Lookout Security software.Color CEO Bill Nguyen checks out of day-to-day operations, while a new leadership team re-tools &gt;&gt; TechCrunchFirst paragraph:Sources tell us there is turmoil at the executive levels of Color Labs. As you may know, the startup launched with a focus on photo-sharing but quickly became the poster child of Silicon Valley hype after landing more than $40m in funding but failing to gain any real user traction. In recent months the company's leadership has been in a state of flux, we're told -- and some are attributing the instability to Color's charismatic but controversial founder Bill Nguyen.One day someone's going to teach Techcrunch the difference between news stories and stream of consciousness. Anyhow, it looks like Color is pretty much washed up at this stage.StarCraft: Orcs in space go down in flames &gt;&gt; Code Of HonorFrom the games frontiers of the 1990s:As Ion Storm started to disintegrate due to financial and political problems, members of its development teams left to pursue other opportunities. From this crew Blizzard managed to hire Mark Skelton and Patrick Thomas for the burgeoning cinematics team, where they worked to produce some of Blizzard's epic cut-scenes. I spent a lot of time with the cinematics team members (who sat not far from me) and hung out with Mark and Patrick, including during numerous surfing outings to Laguna Beach and Huntington Beach.At some point I talked with Mark and Patrick about how Dominion Storm knocked us on our heels, and they let us in on Ion Storm's dirty little secret: the entire demo was a pre-rendered movie, and the people who showed the "demo" were just pretending to play the game.And it gets better.Even Windows 8 early adopters prefer Windows 7 by two to one &gt;&gt; ZDNetForumswindows8.com, the self-proclaimed largest Windows 8 help and support forum on the Internet, is filled with posts on such subjects as how to try to terminate a process in the Windows 8 task manager when access is denied and the state of Winodws 8 HP printer drivers. These hard-core Windows 8 early adopters group recently polled their users. And, 50,000 votes later, they found that theirmemberships' favorite Windows operating system was overwhemling&nbsp;Windows 7.The breakdown for favorite version of Windows, from top to bottom, was Windows 7: 53%; Windows 8: 25%, XP: 20% and Other: 2%. Research house Gartner wouldn't argue. In a Webinar, Gartner analysts Steve Kleynhans and Michael Silver argue that if your company isstill using XP you want to upgrade to Windows 7 and not be distracted by Windows 8.Who on earth are these 2% on the Windows 8 forums whose favourite isn't Windows 8,7, or XP? They're not - gasp - Vista users, are they?Taking the American Express Passbook pass for a spin &gt;&gt; idownloadblogLet me just say, that it's great that Amex is gung-ho about supporting Passbook. As a big time Amex user, I welcome the ability to get a quick glance at my account balances and last charges, across all of my iCloud synced devices.I will say that the actual look of the passes leave a lot to be desired. Amex makes some good looking, if not iconic looking pieces of plastic. Amex cards, in general, look anything but generic, but its Passbook passes are about as generic as they get.Apple's quiet shift into mobile payments by capturing card use?Google's answer to Siri thinks ahead &gt;&gt; Technology ReviewGoogle Now also introduces a new trick. It combines the constant stream of data a smartphone collects on its owner with clues about the person's life that Google can sift from Web searches and e-mails to guess what he or she would ask it for next. This enables Google Now not only to meet a user's needs but also, in some cases, to preëmpt them. Virtual index cards appear offering information it thinks you need to know at a particular time."That's actually been a goal for us with Android from the beginning," says Hugo Barra, director of product management for Android, when asked why Google has moved to position a souped-up version of search at the heart of Android. The desire to offer useful information without a person even asking "comes from Larry [Page, Google's cofounder]," adds Barra, "if you read the[2012] founders' letter, he said that one of the company goals is to get out of the way of the user."Android users download 870 MB a month over cellular: New research &gt;&gt; TelecomTVA new paper from NPD Connected Intelligence shows that Android smartphone users, in the US, on average download about 870 MB of data per month on cellular networks and around 2.5 GB per month on Wi-Fi networks.The data is noteworthy in light of recent network and pricing strategies by wireless carriers. AT&amp;T Mobility and Verizon Wireless  currently charge customers on a per-MB basis, where prices decline as subscribers add more data to their monthly allotment. Elsewhere, Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile USA offer unlimited smartphone data services.This seems like a colossal amount; the sample was 1,000 Android users, in which those aged 18-24 used the most mobile data (1.05GB/month); those aged 55 or older used the least - 750MB/month. This still seems huge compared to normal usage in the UK, where 500MB marks off high usage.Google's "iLost" Motorola ad faked an address to "lose" iOS 6 Maps &gt;&gt; AppleInsiderDaniel Eran Dilger:Apple's new Maps service certainly isn't without flaw, making the fake address goosechase that Google invented to create its Droid "iLost" advertising even more surprising. Why not just point out a real address that Apple's Maps can't actually locate?Which he then proceeds to try - but also compares how Google manages.Minecraft creator declines to 'play along' with Windows 8 &gt;&gt; Kotaku'Notch', creator of the fabulously successful and popular Minecraft game, doesn't want to go down the "certification" route for Windows 8. If he doesn't, might a lot of people hold back from upgrading?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
