A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHands-on with Jolla's first smartphone running Sailfish OS &gt;&gt; The Next WebNick Summers:The first Jolla smartphone is still in development, but it's already shaping up to be a robust and refreshing proposition. The vertical screen layout is a nice change from Android or iOS, and the overall design is rather beautiful. The apps are sleek, it's nippy to use and general navigation is a far cry from the mess found on BlackBerry 10.iOS 7 vs. Windows Phone 8 &gt;&gt; YouTubeWhen seen statically, very similar. Might iOS 7 boost sales of Windows Phone? (Thanks @timacheson for the link.)Evolution of Get Lucky [Daft Punk Chronologic cover by PV NOVA] &gt;&gt; YouTubeSo the technology angle is.. you can make your own cover version and post it too. Oh, all right, it's just a brilliant concept around the summer's best song.Windows XP's demise will do more for PC sales than Win 8, HP says &gt;&gt;ComputerworldUK.comAt a press conference Monday, HP officials flashed a slide that said, simply, "Goodbye XP, Hello HP.""We think this will bring a big opportunity for HP," said Enrique Lore, senior vice president and general manager of HP's business PCs.Lore was asked, in a later interview, whether the demand for XP replacement systems could help sales more than Windows 8. His response was unequivocal: "Yes, significantly more, especially on the commercial side," he said.Lore said 40% to 50% of business users remain on XP systems.That latter fact is really quite scary.Sweden's data protection Authority bans Google cloud services over privacy concerns &gt;&gt; The Privacy SurgeonSimon Davies:In a landmark ruling, Sweden's data protection authority (the Swedish Data Inspection Board) this week issued a decision that prohibits the nation's public sector bodies from using the cloud service Google Apps.Theruling– which bans Google cloud products such as calendar services, email and data processing functions – is based on inadequacies in the Google contract. A risk assessment by the Board determined that the contract gives Google too much covert discretion over how data can be used, and that public sector customers are unable to ensure that data protection rights are protected.Sweden's not exactly the largest country, but you have to wonder if this might be the start of a trend, given the NSA Prism revelations.Content, not the chrome. Apps, not the phone. &gt;&gt; getwired.comWes Miller:Ahead of WWDC 2013, many people were still expecting Apple to add live tiles, and possibly widgets to iOS 7. I didn't expect either, and as a result wasn't terribly disappointed to see them not included (that might be an understatement on my part).At first glance, live tiles may seem like a no-brainer in any operating system. Tiles that provide you information from within an app… How could this go wrong?Here's the problems that I have with live tiles in Windows 8, and why I think they wouldn't make sense on iOS (either):Jony Ive redesigns things &gt;&gt; TumblrIt is very hard to pick a favourite from this, though the Windows Phone do-over is outstanding. And the battery. And Garageband. And...WTF is Waze and why did Google just pay a billion+ for it? &gt;&gt; TechCrunchRip Empson:Because of its giant data set, and maturing mapping infrastructure, Google itself has begun to leverage that data to offer custom, personalized maps for its users — something that's fundamental to the social, customizable experience Waze has sought to create. But, generally speaking, when it comes to realtime navigation, adjusting to the driver's route as it goes, Google still feels more pre-programmed. Yes, it has improved in the newest version of Google Maps, but while it has colored traffic layers to show users degrees of traffic, it doesn't seem on par with Waze's in-route, constantly-updated traffic info. And it often doesn't offer the same number of potential routes as Waze when a driver is, say, looking to avoid traffic.For 50m users, $1bn is $20 per current user (and will get cheaper as more join). Obvious questions: will Waze be allowed to build a BB10 or Windows Phone app? How long will Facebook signin survive before it's replaced with Google+ signin? And is Wave the biggest competitor to Google Maps? If so, doesn't the call for an antitrust investigation make sense?iOS7's panorama &gt;&gt; VineJeff Shin: "Unmentioned iOS 7 change: set a panorama as your wallpaper, and spin around." Great use of Vine. (Thanks @slimbowski for the link.)iOS 7 support for game controllers gets detailed &gt;&gt; NDTV GadgetsLooks like Apple's betting big time on mobile gaming with iOS 7, the next iteration of the company's mobile OS.While it's already known that iOS devices including the iPhone, iPod touch and iPad have made a dent into portable gaming device makers' market, the upcoming iOS version aims to take it to the next level by offering support for hardware game controllers.Speculation at WWDC is that hardware controller + iPhone + Airplay screen mirroring to AppleTV plugged into a TV = enormous "games console" market. The AppleTV costs $99 (or - uh? - £99). How much do other games consoles cost? (Thanks @EasilyLead for the link.)Smartphone users around the world - statistics and facts &gt;&gt; Go-gulfThe smartphone world is expanding at a rapid pace. There are already more than 1.08 billion smartphone users in the world, out of which, 91.4m are from the United States. To help you understand the world of smartphone users in a better way, we have compiled some interesting data in our infographic "Smartphone Users Statistics and Facts".The data is fascinating, though unfortunately none of the sources is provided - which makes it hard to gauge its accuracy or timeliness. (Thanks @imaginarynumber for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday!
It's the final day of EToo London, and once again, Keith Stuart and Georg Backer will be presenting a series of interviews with indie developers, big gaming stars and celebrity guests.Tonight from 7pm: Richard Lemarchand, the lead designer on the Uncharted series, Martin Hollis, co-creator of GoldenEye and, if the Skype connection holds up, Patrick Bach of EA DICE!
Are there any good Android phones for around £100 out of contract? My three-year-old iPhone 4 was wonderful but it has become a liability. Typing has always been a problem and, as the new iPhone will not have a better typing system, I've had enough. I tried a Lumia and found it excellent except for the terrible media player. The primary use for my phone is as a Walkman, so I think an Android must be it. I'm now out of contract, and happier that way.EdA lot of tech websites will tell you the top four or five Android phones every month, and they usually cost £400 to £600, which is the price of a decent laptop. Not many sites cover all the cheap Android phones, partly because there are too many of them. Sometimes one breaks through and becomes famous, like the Orange San Francisco (a rebadged ZTE phone), but I haven't noticed one of those around at the moment.Smartphones in the core £150 to £250 price range usually have lower specifications than the top models, and may simply be older phones from the leading brands. However, you can save money by dropping from a top-tier brand such as Samsung, Nokia, HTC or Sony to one of the Chinese contenders – usually either ZTE or Huawei. As you are used to an Apple iPhone 4, you may find these somewhat unpolished in comparison. Still, the Huawei Ascend P1 looks good value at Expansys, which is currently selling it discounted from £249.99 to£174.99.Going below £150 involves significant compromises in processor power, memory and screen resolution. Also, you may find cheaper phones are still running old versions of Android (2.x) rather than more recent (4.x) ones.Cheap AndroidsThe best cheap Android phones include the Sony Xperia E (£108.50at Amazon.co.uk), HTC Desire C (£105.49), and the Samsung S6310 Galaxy Young (£128.70).All three have half-VGA screens (320 x 480 pixels), and both the Sony Xperia E and Samsung S6310 run Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean) on 1GHz Cortex A5 processors. The older HTC Desire C lags in running non-upgradeable Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) on a 600MHz Cortex A5. I reckon the Sony Xperia E is the pick of the bunch, at the price, but these models are really aimed at people upgrading from feature phones, not downgrading from an iPhone 4. You will get a much better phone if you can spend a bit more.For example, stepping up from the Xperia E to the Xperia U£149.95would get you a better (but still 3.5in) WVGA screen with a resolution of 480 x 854 pixels, twice the memory, a better processor (dual-core 1GHz Cortex A9), and a better camera (5 megapixels instead of 3MP) with LED flash. The U comes with Android 2.3 (Gingerbread) but you can upgrade it to 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich).You will lose some resolution compared with the iPhone 4's 3.5in screen (640 x 960 pixels). However, the Xperia U is about an ounce lighter, and you gain a microUSB v2.0 port with USB On-The-Go, stereo FM radio with RDS, camera image stabilisation, and the chance to use a Swype or other keyboard. (As you know, you will also lose access to the iPhone's app collection.)For other differences, check thisside-by-side comparisonat the excellent GSMArena website.The deal-breaker with the Sony Xperia U is that you cannot expand the 4GB of memory provided for your documents and media files (there's another 2GB for apps). This may involve swapping too many files around, depending on your musical tastes. While the Samsung I8160 Galaxy Ace 2 would solve that problem in an otherwise equivalent phone, the£178.12price is a long way from your desired "around £100". Of course, you may find it cheaper if you shop around.If you are feeling lucky, you could take a flyer on a cheap white-box Android smartphone. One of the better known examples is the V1277 or Star V12, which is sometimes referred to as the MTK6577 after its Media Tek processor. AGoogle searchwill find lots of YouTube videos, reviews and forum discussions. AnAmazon.co.uk search for V1277found it for£105.99(MTK6577), though some sellers charge more than £150. I've not seen or tried the V1277 myself, but it generally gets good reviews and the specification is excellent for the price.Lumia reconsidered?Alternatively, you could reconsider a Nokia Lumia, which you say you found "excellent". The Nokia Lumia 520 is better than the three cheap name-brand Android models mentioned above. It has a faster dual-core processor, and a bigger (4in) screen with more than twice the resolution (480 x 800 pixels). Also, its 8GB memory can be expanded with a microSD card up to 64GB in size.Amazon.co.uk has the Lumia 520 for£129.95, but you should be able to get one for £10-£20 less on the high street.You don't like the Lumia's "terrible media player", but there are already some third-party alternatives. For example, you could try the free VK Player, Audio Player Free, DAAP Media Player ($1.99) or Ultimate Media Player(beta), amongst others. The old Zune software was good, so Microsoft may well improve the current player, or Nokia may add a better app.FuturesSince your iPhone 4 hardware is giving you problems, you may be in a hurry to buy. If not, Google is expected to release Android 5.0, code-named Key Lime Pie, later this year: rumours suggest October. There will also be a Windows Phone 8 Blue update, following the release of Windows 8.1.According to Microsoft's Michael Stroh, this will bring back "support for FM radio (we heard you!)", make it easier to select, download, and pin tunes in Xbox Music, and "improve the accuracy of song info and other metadata – something I know music fans will appreciate".
"We're making a truly terrifying game. Really, the player will experience unimaginable fear."A statement of intent like this would strike most players as something of an arrogant brag. But since these sentiments spilled from the mouth of Shinji Mikami ahead of the demo of his latest game, The Evil Within, we're prepared to give them some credence. After all, the last time Mikami banged out a horror title was in 2005 and the game in question was Resident Evil 4 – widely recognised by most survival horror fans as the best entry in the series since the first instalment.His new game, The Evil Within, is his return to the survival horror genre and it's survival horror done correctly. In this game, Mikami says, players will have limited resources and they'll need to rely on their wits to survive. The gameplay will involve a lot of sneaking around and skilful avoidance of unbeatable monstrosities. It goes without saying that it will be completely bloody terrifying.In The Evil Within, players take on the role of a detective, Sebastian Castellanos, who is dispatched to the Beacon Mental Hospital after reports come in of a violent disturbance on the premises. Even before Castellanos and his partners open the doors of the asylum there are signs that they should have probably stayed at home; the cop who responded to the call repeats the same phrase again and again on the police band, and, when they arrive, Castellanos and his colleagues see that the driveway of the asylum is filled with empty police cars.Even the walk up to the hospital's doors is fraught with tension. The Evil Within's grainy visuals look as though they were shot through on low-grade film stock, lending the game the atmosphere of an underground horror movie from the 80s. As Castellanos approached the gothic asylum in a shower of rainfall, his partner notes that all of the squad cars have been relieved of their weapons. Upon entering the hospital, they see a floor littered with bloodied corpses.As the pair of them navigate their way through the human wreckage, Sebastian's partner spies a survivor in an office off to one side of the asylum's reception area. A doctor lies on the floor against the wall, mumbling – clearly catatonic. Castellanos leaves his partner with the doctor and checks the CCTV cameras and it's here that The Evil Within pulls its first knife-twist.Sebastian sees three cops fleeing on camera, firing randomly behind them. Suddenly a flickering, cowled figure enters the frame, stabbing each of the cops with what looks like a syringe. The figure then turns towards the CCTV camera and vanishes. It then reappears at Sebastian's shoulder, and jams a syringe into his neck. The scene then cuts to black.When the visuals bleed back into focus, Castellanos finds himself hanging upside down alongside a lot of similarly strung up dead bodies. Off to the left, he can hear some wet stabbing sounds and then a gigantic figure in a mask appears clutching a human torso and a machete. It lumbers past Sebastian and sets to work mutilating its trophy on a nearby slab as Bach's Air on a G-String plays in the background.Castellanos is able to swing towards one of the cadavers near him, grab a knife that's stuck through its gullet and cut himself free. Tumbling to the floor, he's able to sneak past the giant and head to a nearby door. His escape route turns out to be locked and, to his horror, he spies a set of keys on a hook that's just inches away from the cleaver-wielding brute. He lifts the keys, unlocks the door and is almost to the exit when he inadvertently sets off an alarm, which prompts the nightmarish figure to pursue him down a corridor while wielding a chainsaw. Sebastian escapes, but not before his leg is sliced through and he's forced to hobble through a corridor filled with whirring blades.What follows is a particularly harrowing game of cat and mouse where a limping Castellanos tries to evade his tormentor with no way of fighting his way out if things turn sour – as evidenced as when, in the demo I watched, a wrong step caused the protagonist to be buzz-sawed in half.  The tension in these scenes is so horrendous, that when Sebastian opened the door and the hinges creaked I winced in anticipation of the worst.The Evil Within is perfectly paced, oscillating between nail-biting chase scenes and giant horrific spectacle, such as when Castellanos wanders outside the hospital to find that its grounds suhave become an island cut adrift from the rest of the world. The game also makes a lot of mileage out of building up razor-sharp tension, reducing the soundtrack to footfalls and creaking doors and then having horrific monsters amble into view as though this is the natural state of things.Throughout, it feels like the protagonist is at risk and riding their luck in the face of imminent slaughter. Couple that with reduced resources, a soundtrack worthy of the best extreme horror entertainment and a story that's as intriguing as it is horrifying and you are looking at the return of genuine survival horror on the next generation of consoles."We're making a truly terrifying game. Really, the player will experience unimaginable fear."You bet your life.
Social game Candy Crush Saga has been an enormous hit on mobile devices, helping its publisher King reach more than 70m daily active players – more than Zynga. Now it's got a follow-up: Pet Rescue Saga.The game has beenavailable on Facebookfor some time, where it has more than 10m monthly active users (MAUs). It has now been releasedfor iOSandfor Androidas a free-to-play game, funded by in-app purchases of items, extra moves and lives.Pet Rescue Saga is a block-based puzzle game full of cutesy animals: "Puppies, bunnies, piglets and many more lovable pets," as the game's app store listings put it. Like Candy Crush Saga, it synchronises with the Facebook version, enabling people to see how their scores compare to friends.It's King's third mobile game, with Bubble Witch Saga having been released in July 2012, then Candy Crush Saga in November 2012. It's the latter game that has become a mobile phenomenon, generating more than 500m daily gameplays by mid-May according to the publisher.Analytics firm App Annie estimated thatCandy Crush Saga was the most-downloaded gameon both Apple's App Store and Google's Android Play in April 2013, and the third most lucrative on both in terms of monthly revenues.Rival analytics firm Distimo claimed that in May 2013,Candy Crush Saga was the most-downloaded appof any category on the App Store, and fifth on Google Play. It was the second most lucrative app on the App Store that month, and fifth on Google Play, according to Distimo's rankings.Sales of in-game items have been so lucrative for King, the publisher has announced plans to stop selling advertising within its mobile games. "We've grown very fast over the last year,"chief marketing officer Alex Dale told TechCrunch.The business model has changed because the majority of our revenue growth has come from micro-transactions around the Saga games. It makes sense for us to reallocate the resources we had previously committed to advertising business."King has become a big-budget advertiser itself, though. The company ran a TV ad for Candy Crush Saga during the Champions League football final in the UK in May 2013, for example.The game is part of a wave of free-to-play titles –Clash of Clans, Hay Day and Puzzle &amp; Dragons from Supercell and GungHobeing other prominent examples – that have been making big money on smartphones and tablets.It's fashionable to compare their success to the recent troubles of social games publisher Zynga, whose struggle to repeat its Facebook dominance on mobile recentlysaw the company lay off 580 employees.Zynga should act as a cautionary tale for King, though. At its peak on Facebook, its flagship FarmVille game was just as mainstream a phenomenon as Candy Crush Saga is on mobile now. King may be tasting sweet success in 2013, but that is no guarantee that players will still be finding its Saga games tasty in 2014, 2015 and beyond.
Slick presentations are all very well, but can hide a multitude of sins – there's no substitute for getting your hands on a game in order to gauge its merits. Currently, exact details of precisely which games will be available when the PlayStation 4 goes on sale remain unknown, but at least we managed to get some hands-on time with several of Sony's key first-party titles for the new console.Killzone: Shadow FallKillzone is a slightly odd franchise: Guerrilla's first-person shooter has never quite hit the heights necessary to inspire the devotion afforded to the likes of Halo, but it has always been a solid performer. But Killzone: Shadow Fall, we reckon, is going to be the key PS4 launch title – the one that everyone will buy (unless they have an inescapable aversion to first-person shooters). Luckily, it's also the most impressive of the handful of Sony's PS4 launch titles that were playable at E3.For starters, it looks great, with incredible draw-distances and notably detailed (and therefore convincing) environments. And it doesn't look much like Killzones of yore – Guerrilla has finally ditched the gloomy black, brown and grey colour palette in favour of something rather more colourful, and lashings of lens-flare. Even though it is a PS4 launch title, it's sufficiently gorgeous to impress anyone who sees you playing it.We played through a huge, sprawling open-world level, in which there were several specified objectives that you could take on however you preferred. We started behind Helghast lines, at the top of a cliff, looking down on a forest in which a pall of smoke indicated a downed aircraft which we had to reach; another objective involved disabling anti-aircraft turrets.The game eschewed any form of being ushered down a specific path. Playing as a Shadow Marshal, we had a bunch of useful abilities, accessible by swiping the Dual Shock 4's touch-pad to the left or right, or up and down. One of which was a zip-line, which can attach to any surface (as long as it's below where you currently are). Other toys included the OWL drone, which can be sent to take on enemies – it will cope with one, but two or more will destroy it, but you can use it to engage enemies while you outflank them. And it can be sent to hack alarm pads, which Helghast would trigger when under attack, bringing in reinforcements by drop-ship.In classic Killzone style, you can also generate a shield to stand behind (this time around, not tied to a particular gun). Our light machine-gun had an alternate sniper-fire mode, and in tricky situations (using the D-pad), we could launch an adrenaline burst, temporarily slowing down time. A sonar sensor could be employed to scope out concealed nearby enemies.That bristling array of gadgetry was pretty much essential – Killzone: Shadow Fall is pretty hard, with rigorous enemy AI (if they get close, they shine lights in your eyes, more or less blinding you, so you can't remain static), and in the level we played, employing stealth (followed by a neck-snapping takedown) was essential, as was deploying the OWL drone to keep enemies occupied. The control system's feel was superb, with great precision and just the right amount of snap, and visually, we found ourselves taking things slowly just because the scenery was so sumptuous. We climbed what was definitely the most realistic-looking rock face in any game.There's no doubt whatsoever that Shadow Fall will be, by some considerable distance, the best Killzone game ever —playing it induced far more frissons of excitement than any of its predecessors. Of course, at this stage we can't say whether its storyline will live up to the visuals and the gameplay, but if you buy a PS4, it should be the first Sony-published game you buy.Dual Shock 4PlayStation 4 Dual Shock 4 controller: Sony's best yetThe PlayStation 4's Dual Shock 4 controller may look like its similarly named predecessors, but it has received a major and very thoughtful overhaul. The first thing you notice about it is that the hand-grips are much longer than those of previous Dual Shocks – which is great, especially for those with larger hands. It instantly feels great to grip.The analogue sticks are a tiny bit stiffer than previously, but still move slickly, and the two sets of triggers for each hand are far more naturally placed than previously. But the biggest change to the controller is the touch-pad, which can also tilt slightly in any direction. In effect – as seen in Killzone: Shadow Fall – it can operate like a sort of mouse, and it offers all sorts of possibilities for developers – it supports multi-touch, so can read specific gestures. One notable absence on the controller is the Start button, whose responsibilities have devolved to the touch-pad. Force-feedback is impressive, too, thanks to the presence of two motors, one in each grip. The Dual Shock 4 is by far the best controller Sony has ever designed.DriveclubDriveclub: geared up for social playRuncorn-based driving game developer Evolution Studios has a great track record – in recent years, it has been responsible for the Motor Storm games. But the demo of its PS4 launch title, Driveclub, which we played at E3 left us thinking that the jury will remain out until we can scrutinise a more complete version of the game.It consisted of one track – a custom-designed effort in countryside surroundings  – and four cars, including the Audi R8 V10, Pagani Huayra and McLaren MP4-12C. There was a glimpse of its social networking-style attributes on show, in the form of mini-challenges that you encountered at various parts of the track (average speed, cornering tidiness and drifting), in which you faced off against another car – the PS4 pods at the show were networked up to each other. You would either win or lose points for your Drive Club, and everything was totted up at the end of the race. The game also used the PS4 camera to take a snapshot of its participants before the race, and you could see thumbnails of your competitors' photos on the backs of their ghost-cars.While Driveclub was tidy enough – handling seemed fairly realistic, although skewed more towards arcade-style than simulation – the E3 demo didn't inspire. Visually, it wasn't that impressive, and what was on offer didn't seem vastly different than anything we'd seen before. Evolution Studios has a lot of work to do between now and Christmas if Driveclub is to achieve must-have status.KnackKnack: cool charactersKnack is that rarest of items at the launch of a new console – an all-new series that promises originality. It's a quirky third-person action-adventure game, clearly designed to appeal more to the young than to hardcore gamers. You play Knack, an odd-looking, vaguely robotic glass character with the ability to surround himself (using a force-field) with a cloud of detritus picked up from his surroundings, and thereby to grow in size and change shape.The demo we played showed that Knack majors on simplicity as far as gameplay is concerned – Knack can attack, jump and dodge, and that's just about it. He progresses along a single path, taking out enemies and solving mainly environmental puzzles. For example, he can denude himself of his forcefield of junk-shards and walk unaffected through laser-fields (since he's made of glass).There were hidden areas he could smash open, collecting components that could be made into helpful items – such as one that harvests energy from enemies that could be used for special attacks. While there were some cute touches – in an ice level, for example, Knack assembles a body made of ice – the gameplay on offer in the demo was a tad repetitive and not particularly challenging. Although difficulty levels did ramp up somewhat towards the end of the demo when, thanks to relics he discovered, Knack had grown to about 30 feet in height, acquiring the ability to pick up and throw cars at equally giant (and heavily armed) enemies.Knack was certainly quirky. But graphically, it didn't give the impression of anything more than scratching the surface of the PS4's abilities. Whether its component-assembly engine will allow its gameplay to mutate and progress remains to be seen – a more extended play will be required before we decide whether or not it is likely to be an essential PS4 purchase.InFamous: Second SonInFamous: Second Son: cult appealSony's InFamous third-person superpower-themed action-adventure franchise is reminiscent of Killzone, in that its following is more cult than mainstream. But from what we could see at E3, it looks set to acquire a PS4-powered makeover that could elevate it to new heights. But there's bad news – it won't be available until early 2014.And we didn't actually get hands-on with it at E3 – frustratingly having to sit next to one of its developers, who was at least playing it live. It had loads more personality than its predecessors, however, and was very impressive visually.Second Son puts you in control of Delsin Rowe, a 24-year-old slacker just discovering his superhero powers. It's set seven years after InFamous 2, in a world made nervous by the events chronicled in that game – the outbreak of a significant chunk of the population discovering their superpowers has wrecked part of America, and the Department of Unified Protection has been set up to rein in the superheroes and villains, and safeguard the ordinary folk. The action takes place in a meticulous rendering of Seattle – the demo we saw involved taking out a DUP outpost in the grounds of the Space Needle, and contained a good deal of virtual rain.Delsin's superpower is that he can take powers from others, so he can support several sets of superpowers. But when we saw him, he was imbued with a smoke-based superpower, which gave him some incredible moves (and gave a good idea of how the PS4 will be at particle effects). He could fire charges from his hands, do jetpack-style mini-hovers and send out charged-up grenade-style attacks. Plus he can waft into vents and out of the other end of the pipes they lead into. He has a particularly handy-looking dash-attack, and the demo ended with a spectacular, environment-flattening attack in which he soared into the air, then dive-bombed down, causing a massive explosion.InFamous: Second Son was perhaps the most compelling of Sony's PS4 launch-window games: it looked inventive and visually spectacular. It's exactly the sort of game that you need in order to justify the purchase of a newly launched console, in fact.The PlayroomThe final item of PS4 software that we played was an intriguing item called The Playroom – although Sony points out that it will probably come out under another name, if indeed it comes out. It was a collection of apps created by Sony's Japan Studio, designed expressly to show how the PS4's camera and the controller's Motion Bar interact. It may well end up being bundled with the PS4, although Sony hasn't yet decided whether or not to do that.The first Playroom app was called Controller Checkup, and it was simply a tour around the Dual Shock 4, highlighting the double motors – which, Sony says, can create a sensation of weight by operating asymmetrically, the motion-sensing and the built-in speaker. Next up was Play With Asobi: rubbing the touchpad, as if it was a genie-producing lamp, caused a floating robot to appear, with whom you could interact against a backdrop of the PS4 camera shot of the player. You could bat him away, tickle him and so on. If you annoyed him, he would set your hair on fire or encase your head in virtual ice. Basic stuff, but cute, and it proved that the PS4 camera can do some pretty sophisticated body and facial recognition, plus precise motion-detection.The next app was called AR Bots. It began by showing what purported to be the area in the controller beneath the touch-pad – full of tiny robots. You could make them fall over by tilting the conveyor, or open up chinks of light by pressing the buttons – to which they responded with little dance moves. Then you could zoom out to the camera shot of you sitting in front of the PS4, and flip them out of the controller by running your finger across the touch-pad. You could then interact with them by moving your body, or even throw them virtual toys which you could create using an Android app on a tablet. Cute again, but not the sort of thing you'd spend hours playing.Finally, the Playroom package included a take on the classic game Air Hockey, with two players moving their puck-hitters up and down with their touch-pads, and warping the play area by tilting the controller.The Playroom was quite rough and ready, and was little more than tech-demos, but it did show how developers can use the PS4 camera in tandem with the Dual Shock 4 – which, compared to its predecessors is a box of tricks – to generate some pretty unconventional gameplay, which even approaches the sort of things the Xbox One will be able to do via Kinect.
Remember the days when social network MySpace was a riot of flashing boxes and animated GIFs? As its visual clutter mounted, users drained away to the sparser white spaces of Facebook, and a new social networking cycle began.In 2013,Myspace(without the capital S) is an altogether different beast. Relaunched as a social music site – and fresh out of beta this week – it sports bigger, bolder images of people and album artwork, and far less flashing ugliness.It can't escape its past entirely, though. Also new isa revamped version of Myspace's iPhone app, armed with a feature named GIF Creator to help users "effortlessly make a stop-motion masterpiece, and share it instantly on your Myspace profile".It's a nod to the popularity of Twitter's Vine app, as well as to the Tumblr and BuzzFeed-led resurgence in animated GIFs. But also a nod back to the original MySpace. "We were forced by our membership to do it,"chief executive Tim Vanderhook tells Fast Company, in an interview stressing the role user feedback is playing in the site's comeback strategy.New Myspace wasfirst shown off publicly in November 2012, after Vanderhook's company Specific Media acquired the social network from its previous owner News Corporation in 2011. The site thenlaunched in beta early in 2013as an invite-only affair, with a strong emphasis on music and musicians, as well as designers, filmmakers and other creatives.Besides the GIF Creator, Myspace's iPhone app showcases another key feature that's hoping to win back millions of users: Social Radio. Promising "your own personal radio station loaded with the music you love", it's just the latest in a growing queue of personal-radio services jostling for attention on smartphones: Pandora and iHeartRadio in the US, and the radio features in streaming services like Spotify and Deezer globally.Oh, andiTunes Radio, which Apple announced this week at its WWDC conference in San Francisco, and which Vanderhook is already targeting as a less-interesting version of what Myspace is doing."I think we have a bigger idea," he says in the Fast Company piece. "We're giving everyone in the world their own radio station. We're crowdsourcing to make new stations. Apple's taking an algorithmic approach. That's been done before."Myspace's twist on the format is getting artists to curate radio stations for their fans to play, picking songs from their own back catalogues as well as tracks that have inspired them. Pharrell Williams, Lil Wayne, Carly Rae Jepsen and Myspace investor Justin Timberlake are among the first curators on board.Myspace issinking $20m into an advertising campaignto let people know about the new website and app, hammering home the message that things have changed a lot from the previous version's darkest days under News Corp.That past is inescapable for more reasons than the app's GIF creation feature, though. TechCrunch notes thatthere are already users protesting that all their blog posts from the old MySpace have vanishedas part of the relaunch, with no warning, or tools to help people download and preserve their data.That may prove to be a short-term controversy for Myspace – if it can provide those tools – but its long-term challenge is to prove that its new site and app remains relevant amid a sea of streaming music, personal radio and music discovery services, not to mention the WhatsApp generation of messaging apps that are proving so appealing to the young people who should be Myspace's lifeblood.
Google should face a comprehensive inquiry into its tax affairs from HM Revenue &amp; Customs, a committee of MPs says, after concluding that the internet giant's tax arrangements were "deeply unconvincing" and that the company's own account of its operations made "absolutely no sense".A report from the all-party public accounts committee concluded that the search engine giant – under pressure over its low payments of corporation tax – uses financial arrangements with the intent of avoiding handing over money to the exchequer running into the billions.Margaret Hodge, the committee's chair, said the only way for Google to repair its damaged reputation was to arrange to pay a fair share of tax in the countries where it earns profits. She said that Google had "brazenly" argued that its tax affairs were defensible and lawful.The company had told Hodge's committee that its advertising sales take place in Ireland, rather than the UK, an argument which she described as "deeply unconvincing and has been undermined by information from whistleblowers, including ex-employees of Google, who told us that UK-based staff are engaged in selling".Concluding that Google's Irish employees simply processed the bills, Hodge said that Google adopted a "highly contrived tax arrangement that has no purpose other than to enable the company to avoid UK corporation tax". Her committee, in its report, also expressed surprise that the firm had not been previously challenged by the tax authorities over its arrangements.Google generated around £11.5bn in revenue from the UK between 2006 and 2011, but paid just £10m in corporation tax, found the PAC report. During this period, the main rate of corporation tax was between 26% and 30%.Hodge said the committee was not specifically singling out Google – or Starbucks and Amazon, companies that also gave evidence to the inquiry – but believed that their tax avoidance activities were illustrative of a much wider problem among multinationals in the modern globalised business environment.The report found that HMRC was "not sufficiently challenging of multinationals' manifestly artificial tax structures", noting that the taxman has never challenged an internet-based company in the courts on the key issue of the location of its "permanent establishment", which determines which country's taxes it should pay.Any commonsense reading of HMRC's own guidance suggests it should "vigorously question Google's claim that it is acting lawfully", said the committee. "HMRC should now fully investigate Google in the light of the evidence provided by whistleblowers."The PAC report is the culmination of a torrid seven months for the search engine's executives who first appeared in November but were recalled in May following evidence from whistleblowers who claimed that the firm had misled the committee.Revenue and Customs refused to comment on whether it was undertaking any inquiry into Google. But last month,the Guardian disclosed that tax investigatorsmet one former Google employee, Barney Jones, and were handed thousands of electronic documents related to the firm's sales activities.In an interview with the Guardian, given before the PAC report had been published, Jones said he had decided to give evidence to MPs after he had heard Matt Brittin, Google's vice-president responsible for the UK, give evidence previously. Brittin had told MPs that "nobody [in the UK] is selling".Jones said: "I looked at his story and could not believe what I saw."Brittin was brought back in front of the committee in May over evidence from whistleblowers which showed "clear discrepancies" with his claim that none of Google's 1,300 UK staff were working in sales. At that hearing, Hodge questioned the appropriateness of Google's "Don't be evil" motto, telling Brittin: "I think that you do do evil, in that you use smoke and mirrors to avoid paying tax."After taking evidence from Google's UK auditor Ernst &amp; Young, the committee found that the reputation of Britain's big accountancy firms had been damaged by "their substantial role in advising their clients on corporate structures and tax planning which serve only to help them avoid UK taxes".Google said it complied with UK tax law, and a spokesman added: "It's clear from this report that the public accounts committee wants to see international companies paying more tax where their customers are located, but that's not how the rules operate today. We welcome the call to make the current system simpler and more transparent."A Revenue &amp; Customs official said that HMRC did not comment on inquiries into taxpayers such as Google. The head of business tax, Jim Harra, said: "Since 2010 we have collected over £23bn in extra tax through challenging large businesses' tax arrangements. Through tackling transfer pricing issues, we have collected £2bn since 2010 alone. We relentlessly pursue businesses who don't play by the rules. These results reflect this."
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUK ISPs secretly start blocking torrent site proxies &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakSeveral UK Internet providers have quietly added a list of new sites to their secretive anti-piracy blocklists. Following in the footsteps of Sky, the first ISP to initiate a proxy blockade, Virgin, BT and several other providers now restrict access to several torrent site proxies. The surprise isn't really that proxies have been added to the blocklist, but that the music industry and ISPs are failing to disclose which sites are being banned.Following High Court orders, six UK ISPs are required to block subscriber access to several of the world's largest torrent sites.The blocking orders are intended to deter online piracy and were requested by the music industry group BPI on behalf of a variety of major labels.The order also means that new proxies that appear can also be silently blocked. It's an arms race. (Thanks @LazioLazio for the pointer.)iOS 7 &gt;&gt; Matt GemmellWhilst much of the rest of the industry has moved to a less embellished UI style (admittedly partly just for differentiation's sake), iOS remained firmly rooted in the practice of clearly delineating sections of each screen, using pseudo-3D visual effects like gloss and shadows, and mimicking physical affordances.The thing is, we've grown up. We don't require hand-holding to tell us what to click or tap. Interactivity is a matter of invitation, and physical cues are only one specific type.Thoughtful post.Why I (almost) never use my Surface RT &gt;&gt; CITEworldNancy Gohring:I'm looking forward to the release of Windows 8.1 in hopes that it will contain some performance upgrades that will make me reach for my Surface RT more often.I have a Surface RT and a Windows 8 laptop and I more often reach for my laptop – even though it's bulkier – than the Surface RT. That because Windows RT, at least as executed on my Surface, fails at one of the central reasons for its existence – speed.My biggest beef with the tablet is how slow it is to start up and to launch programs. It's gotten noticeably slower since I got the tablet, right around the time it first went on sale. It's slow enough to start up that I'd rather dig out my laptop than use the Surface, which is typically closer by.Before you ask, she's tried a wipe-and-reinstall.Big data has to show that it's not like Big Brother &gt;&gt; FT.comJohn Gapper:One of the concerns that springs from this is that big data companies with such software are very difficult to compete with. The more data that I and other users provide them with, the better they are at predicting what we want. The machine brain becomes cleverer with use.Another is trust. Social networks have been poor at protecting users' data, and they hold only a fraction of the information on people's behaviour, habits and intentions on the new generation of services. It is no wonder that the NSA turns to them – it has computing power and they have swaths of material.A third is ownership. We each have rights over our own information, but what happens when it gets mixed up with that of others and combined into a vast database of intentions? If I change my mind, how can it be unscrambled?(Subscription required.)All sizes | iOS 6 iOS 7 Full Comparison &gt;&gt; FlickrMatt Gemmell puts all the apps that have new faces side by side. It's quite a difference.Google Glass teardown &gt;&gt; CatwigScott Torborg and Star Simpson:Growing up on a rich diet of dystopian tech fiction, we were filled with both intrigue and concern about Glass and decided to take our model apart to bring you a detailed view into the electronics guts of the device.Also contains a typically prescient quote from Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash.Wall Street is obsessed with Snapchat &gt;&gt; Daily IntelligencerSnapchat, which now transmitsroughly 150 million shared photosa day, isn't totally safe for Wall Street workers. Screenshots of snaps canstill be capturedand apublic leaderboardcan give hints about a user's activity. One Wall Street executive said that while his firm didn't have a specific Snapchat policy for employees, Snapchat use would be covered under the firm's general social media policy, which prohibits inappropriate use or disclosure of privileged information.But compliance officers can only track what they can see. And though Snapchat may never be truly safe, it's safer than most of the other messaging apps out there - which means that its use as a haven for incriminating Wall Street photos looks poised to grow.Perhaps should be a top priority for BlackBerry if it wants to regain its position there. (There's an Android port, but not native.)The story of how temperature and humidity sensors made it into the Samsung Galaxy S4 &gt;&gt; OpenSignalJames Robinson:Since we're big fans of sensors at OpenSignal, we were rooting for someone – anyone – to put that chip in a phone, but would never have guessed that it would first appear in the S4 – Samsung's flagship phone. The technology seemed too new &amp; geeky to see first light in such a mainstream device.Last week I got some of the backstory on how this came about from Sensirion, the Switzerland based company that produces the very same SHTC1 chip in the S4. It's a fascinating tale that reveals a lot about the relationship between Google and device manufacturers. To me, it illustrates why Android is such a brilliant platform for encouraging innovation.It's chickens, eggs and forks. And allows crowdsourcing of weather conditions.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday. The last day of E3 and EToo! You can watch the finalEToo London feedtonight from 7pm!
This week's edition of the podcast is dedicated to a recording of the 'Silicon Sisters' debate which took place as part of the 2013Silicon Milkroundabout Jobs Fairwhich took place this May.Jemima Kiss, Guardian's Head of Technology chaired the panel which includedRob JohnsonfromMakers Academy,Iris LapinskiCEO ofApps For Good,Robyn Extondeveloper ofDattch, the lesbian dating app and a member ofGeek Girl MeetupandJackson HullCTO ofOne Fine Stay.The panel discuss ways in which companies can encourage more women into technical jobs in the tech industries.
A former Google employee turned whistleblower, whose evidence is crucial to a parliamentary report released on Thursday into the search engine's tax affairs, has explained that his decision to speak out was rooted in his Christian beliefs.Barney Jones, a father of four, said he felt compelled by his faith to give evidence to the public accounts committee. He was prompted to do so after reading what appeared to be misleading evidence from a senior Google executive claiming that the company did not sell products in the UK and therefore owed no tax there.Jones, 34, a member of the sales team for the company between 2002 and 2006, said he could think of no material benefits to speaking out, but he would do it again if a company he worked for was involved in an "immoral" tax scheme."I don't think there has been any real benefit to me for standing up. The main benefit is knowing that, as one day we will all be held accountable for our actions – I believe that Jesus will hold us accountable for the good and bad we have done – I will know that I didn't allow something within my power to just slip through. But I stood up and said: 'Well, actually this is a wrong thing, and this is something we have to think about,'" he said.On the eve of the release of the committee's report into Google, which is expected to be highly critical, Jones said his career options had probably been damaged because prospective employers may see him as a troublemaker. But he expressed no regrets for explaining how the company sold products from London, but claimed that it only did so from Ireland, where corporation tax is much lower."If no one had stood up and said: 'I don't think this is the right thing,' we would not be having this particular debate about international taxation and therefore the British taxpayer would not get all of the money needed to build the next generation of hospitals and schools," he said.Jones approached the public accounts committee in May  after reading a newspaper account of the evidence from Matt Brittin, Google's vice-president, who told MPs: "Nobody [in the UK] is selling."The dispute over tax revolves around Google's use of its European headquarters in Dublin to minimise its tax bill in Britain. By booking all UK sales through Ireland, it handed HMRC only about £10m in corporation tax over the period 2006-11. It is able to record the revenues in Ireland because the UK company is deemed to drum up new business, with sales staff in Dublin executing all deals.But Jones said he attended meetings where Google's London sales staff closed deals.  "I looked at his [Brittin's] story and could not believe what I saw," he said.Jones left the company seven years ago but, like many Google employees, had copied his documents on to a memory stick because he had personal emails and photos among his work files. He has contracts, invoices and correspondence between Google and its customers in Britain, which have been seen by the Guardian.Jones, whose father was a headteacher and whose mother was a social worker, gave his evidence to the committee.Hodge recalled Brittin to give evidence to the committee, and concluded that the company's behaviour was "devious, calculated and, in my view, unethical".Jones has spoken to former colleagues, some of whom still work at Google, and has received a mixed response from them, he said."Many have pointed out to me that by taking a stand on this I haven't made myself massively popular. My employment prospects for the future have been affected. Certainly a lot of companies that have a European HQ in Dublin are unlikely to be top of my list of future potential employers. But that's OK," he said.Despite this, Jones, who lives in south London with his wife and children, said he would encourage others to blow the whistle.Jones said he still thought of his time at Google with great fondness and hoped the company would return to its core values."Google is a great company and it has a great history and heritage of the management being held accountable to staff."I remember some wonderful town-hall-type meetings where Google staff got up and questioned senior management about what the company has done, the direction of the company," he said.He said he hoped Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman, would listen to the committee's report. "I think Eric is bound to listen. I'm an ex-employee and quite a low-level one at that – but I know there are lots of other employees who are very concerned about the company doing the right thing by other countries and I am sure Eric will think long and hard about how to address this problem," he said.
The US Department of Justice has been urged to blockGoogle's $1.3bn acquisition of the traffic app Waze, on antitrust grounds.John Simpson, the privacy project director of Consumer Watchdog, a US pressure group, haswritten a letter to the DoJwarning that allowing the acquisition "would remove the most viable competitor to Google Maps in the mobile space".Simpson writes that "Google already dominates the online mapping business" and alleges that the company "was able to muscle its way to dominance by unfairly favouring its own services" ahead of competitors, through its power in the search business.If the DoJ takes up the case, it would add to a growing number of antitrust investigations in progress against Google. In the US the Federal Trade Commission isinvestigatingwhether the company has broken antitrust rules in its sales of online display ads, while in Europe its dominance of search is the target of a long-running European Commission investigation in which it has been told to revise its presentation of search results. Simpson has also asked the FTC to determine whether it should investigate the takeover.Google and Waze, from Israel, announced the purchase on Tuesday after acquisition talks which are said to have also involved Facebook, which had been interested in Waze's social element.Waze's chief executive, Noam Bardin, said in ablogpost about the takeoverthat he had considered whether to seek a public listing, to keep the company independent, but added that "an IPO [initial public offering] often shifts attention to bankers, lawyers and the happiness of Wall Street, and we decided we'd rather spend our time with you, the Waze community."Waze, which has nearly 50 million users worldwide, is a free smartphone app that provides driving directions and crowdsourced feedback which can warn of traffic problems. Google's Android mobile system has hundreds of milllions of users, and also offers free navigation. But Waze users specifically choose to use the app, making them more loyal and their data more valuable.Google said in a blogpost about the buyout that Waze will "operate separately for now".The largest rival to Google in the mobile space may be Apple, which last year removed Google as the default mapping app from its iPhone, replacing it with its own iOS 6 Maps app. Apple says it has hundreds of millions of iPhone users worldwide, 93% of whom are using iOS 6. But it is unclear how many use the iOS 6 Maps app for navigation, after it was widely criticised on release. Apple buys some traffic data from Waze for use in the app.Consumer Watchdog is concerned that Google and Waze will merge their operations, which "will allow Google access to even more data about online activity in a way that will increase its dominant position on the internet". It pointed to the fact that the FTC's approval of Google's DoubleClick display businessacquisitionin 2008 "tipped Google to a search advertising monopoly" – which the FTC is now investigating.
Rovio Entertainment is working on a new Angry Birds game calledAngry Birds Go!which is due for release later in 2013.The Finnish firm has launched a website for the new game with a (very) brief teaser on its likely content: an animation of a bird being fired along a track. A hint that Angry Birds Go! could be a Temple Run-style endless runner game, perhaps."Those birds and piggies are getting ready for their most thrilling and action-packed game yet,"explains a post on Rovio's blog."All your favorite characters are returning for a brand new title that will bring you closer to Piggy Island than ever before. It's Angry Birds, but not as you know it!"Angry Birds Go! will be the seventh game in Rovio's series, following the original Angry Birds, Angry Birds Seasons, Angry Birds Rio, Angry Birds Space, Angry Birds Star Wars and Angry Birds Friends.Rovio hasn't announced what platforms Angry Birds Go! will be released for. The first four games were mobile titles, while Angry Birds Friends launched as a Facebook web game before crossing to mobile.The Angry Birds gamesattracted 263m monthly active players in December 2012, and helped Rovio generate €152.2m (£129m) of revenues in 2012, posting a net profit after tax of €55.5m (£47m).45% of those revenues came from consumer products – sales of plush toys and other merchandise. By March 2013, the Angry Birds games had been downloaded more than 1.7bn times, making it the most popular mobile games franchise ever.Roviolaunched its Angry Birds Toons series of cartoonsin March 2013, distributing them through its own apps, as well as through broadcasters and technology partners like Samsung and Roku. The company is alsoworking on an Angry Birds moviefor release in 2016.However, not everything is rosy for Rovio. The company's financial success has been put in the shade by free-to-play mobile games publishers like Supercell, GungHo and King, whose Clash of Clans, Puzzle &amp; Dragons and Candy Crush Saga games respectively have been much more lucrative for their creators.Supercell generated $179m of revenues in the first quarter of 2013, while GungHo made $113m in the month of April alone. All eyes wil be on Rovio to see firstly whether Angry Birds Go! will be a free-to-play title, and secondly whether it can rival those other companies' hits for revenues on the app stores.This article was changed on 13 June 2013 after the omission of Angry Birds Rio in the list of previous Rovio games.
Are you ready to join the future? That seems to be the subtext of every tech presentation of the 21st century, but for Apple, acknowledged leaders in the field, there has been a nagging feeling that its users were already there, waiting for it to&nbsp;catch up. At itsWorldwide Developers Conferencepresentation of itsnew iOS7 user interfaceon Tuesday, Apple finally cottoned on, by cutting ties with the design principle that has so often held it back: skeuomorphism.Loosely speaking, skeuomorphism means "making stuff look as if it is made of something else". In this context, it is the logic that dictates that Apple'siBooks appresembles a cheap pine bookshelf, for example, and its Notes app resembles a yellow legal pad with lines and a margin – of the type last seen in about 1978.Look closely, and skeuomorphism is all over Apple and other user interfaces – the little shadows cast by windows, the highlights on virtual buttons designed to make them look shiny, like real buttons. Originally this was to help us neanderthals make sense of the dazzling new technology before us, as in: "Oh, I get it. That looks like a button, so I'm meant to push it." But Apple got skeuomorphism-drunk, plastering the screens of its futuristically minimal devices with incongruous faux wood, leather and green baize. It got ugly.Steve Jobswas allegedly a fan of skeuomorphism, as was iOS creatorScott Forstall; Apple's design chiefJony Ivewasn't, and legions of fans sided with him in what became an intense "skeuomorphic v flat"debate. Following Forstall's departure last year, the flatties seem to have won the day. Instead of faux textures, iOS7, which is to be released in the autumn, boasts clean, simple, graphic, unashamedly two-dimensional interfaces that bring to mind a Swiss railway station, say, or aMicrosoft Windows phone. The Swissness is&nbsp;accentuated by a new ultra-skinny hipster-friendlyHelvetica Neue Ultra Light typeface(one graphic designer I tested it on immediately said, "hairdressers"). But rather than old-school flatness, iOS7 gives youlayersof flatness that float on top of one another. Some are translucent, so you can see a blur of what's underneath. There is also a fancy quasi-holographic effect when you turn on the device, suggesting your screen icons are hovering above the wallpaper.So at last, skeuomorphism is dead, and human evolution has reached the stage where we recognise buttons on phones, even if they don't look like buttons. But iOS7 also points to a future where information is routinely presented three-dimensionally. One day, the idea of interacting with stuff on a flat screen will seem hopelessly antiquated, when we are all able to surf information telepathically thanks to Apple's new, intelligent hair gel – which will come in a bottle resembling an iPhone.
Tonight on EToo Live, we have interviews with lots of the developers who showed their games at theEToo eventin London today. We'll be talking to New Star Soccer creator Simon Read, Redshirt designer Mitu Khandaker and Dave Green from Bafta. We'll also be trying to Occulus Rift with Born Ready Games and their game, Strike Force Zero!
At a nondescript factory nestled in an industrial Brooklyn waterfront, dozens of tech reporters, industry insiders and 3D printing enthusiasts last Friday filed in to attend the grand opening of the manufacturing headquarters of the best-known name in 3D printing.MakerBot are touting the new factory as the leader in what CEO Bre Pettis said would be the "beginning of the next industrial revolution". That new revolution apparently begins with at-home production of useful missing parts, like shower rings, and glorified tchotchkes, like a trio of inch-tall plastic apples that were on display at the opening."The first industrial revolution was all about creating machines and factories where people could go – kind of like here, actually – and work," Pettis told the Guardian. "Now what's interesting is that we've created something that's a factory on your desktop."Pettis said MakerBot's biggest customers are engineers, industrial designers and architects, who use the printers for personal and professional reasons. Parents, teachers and "people who like to make things" have also purchased the printers, he said.Makerbot workers, working. Stopping now to play with things.vine.co/v/bL5zlx3UuuA&mdash; Amanda Holpuch (@holpuch)June 7, 2013The company currently sells three iterations of 3D printers which can produce any plastic object users might desire. MakerBot'sThingiverse.comwebsite has digital designs for more than 100,000 objects, developed by users and available for download by other users.Following the Sandy Hook school shooting in December 2012,MakerBot cracked down on designsthat can be used to produce guns. These designs had always been banned, but are now more stringently enforced with a button that allows users to report inappropriate content.Pettis said this helped remove all plans for guns from the site. "We make MakerBots with the intention that they'll be used for creative and positive uses," Pettis said. "We are doing our part to make the world we want to live in."He did not comment on the ability of users to generate designs for deadly weapons without the help of Thingiverse, but experts suggest it is a possibility.The group Defense Distributed posted instructions to make a 3D printed gun online after MakerBot took them down from Thingiverse. TheUS State Department then blockedDefense Distributed from posting the instructions after the company's creatorCody Wilsonsuccessfully fired a gun made on the Stratasys Dimension SST 3D printer in a video.TechCrunch saidthat the Makerbot 3D printers can easily match the thickness of that printer and predicted someone would attempt to make it on a MakerBot printer. The files are off the site but were shared across the internet through pirating sites.The new MakerBot facility – and the company's decision to concentrate its operations in Brooklyn – has received considerable support from the city government. New York City's chief digital officer Rachel Sterne Haot praised MakerBot for basing the company's organization and production in Brooklyn."MakerBot is the future of manufacturing, the future of New York," said Sterne Hoat, who stressed the value of the company creating jobs. She also predicted the factory opening would lead to the revitalization of the surrounding area, which counts other warehouses, big-box retailers and a self-proclaimed "world-class cabaret," as neighbors.According to Sterne Haot, nearly 1,000 tech companies manufacture their products in New York. She hopes to make the city the global capital for 3D printing.When explaining MakerBot's decision to manufacture its printers in the New York City borough of Brooklyn, Pettis cited extensive travel time to and from potential production sites abroad, increasing wages in some Asian countries, and rising fuel costs, which would make the shipment of completed printers significantly expensive."But also Brooklyn is just the best place in the world," Pettis said, which drew cheers from the audience. These printers, he added, are "made with Brooklyn pride."
"The chicest thing," said fashion designerPhoebe Philorecently,"is when you don't exist on Google. God, I would love to be that person!"Philo, creative director of Céline, is not that person. As the London Evening Standard put it: "Unfortunately for the famously publicity-shy London designer – Paris born, Harrow-on-the-Hill raised – who has reinvented the way modern women dress, privacy may well continue to be a luxury." Nobody who is oxymoronically described as "famously publicity-shy" will ever be unGoogleable. And if you're not unGoogleable then, if Philo is right, you can never be truly chic, even if you were born in Paris. And if you're not truly chic, then you might as well die – at least if you're in fashion.If she truly wanted to disappear herself from Google, Philo could start by changing her superb name to something less diverting. Prize-winning novelist AM Homes is an outlier in this respect. Google "am homes" and you're in a world of blah US real estate rather than cutting-edge literature. But then Homeshas thought a lot about privacy, having written a play about the most famously private person in recent history, JD Salinger, and had him threaten to sue her as a result.And Homes isn't the only one to make herself difficult to detect online.UnGoogleable bandsare 10 a penny. The New York-based band !!! (known verbally as "chick chick chick" or "bang bang bang" – apparently "Exclamation point, exclamation point, exclamation point" proved too verbose for their meagre fanbase)must drive their business manager nuts. As must the band Merchandise, whose name – one might think – is a nominalist satire of commodification by the music industry. Nice work, Brad, Con, John and Rick.Phoebe Philo: anonymity would be helped by a less distinctive name. Photograph: Gareth CattermoleIf Philo renamed herself online as Google Maps or @, she might make herself more chic.Welcome to anonymity chic – the antidote to an online world of exhibitionism. But let's not go crazy: anonymity may be chic, but it is no business model. For years XXX Porn Site, my confusingly named alt-folk combo, has remained undiscovered. There are several bands called Girls (at least one of them including, confusingly, dudes) and each one has worried – after a period of chic iconoclasm – that such a putatively cool name means no one can find them online.But still, maybe we should all embrace anonymity, given this week'srevelations that technology giants cooperated in Prism, a top-secret system at the US National Security Agency that collects emails, documents, photos and other material for secret service agents to review. It has also been a week in whichLindsay Mills, girlfriend of NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, has posted on her blog (entitled: "Adventures of a world-traveling, pole-dancing super hero" with many photos showing her performing with the Waikiki Acrobatic Troupe) her misery that her fugitive boyfriend has fled to Hong Kong. Only a cynic would suggest that this blog post might help the Waikiki Acrobating Troupe veteran's career at this – serious face –difficult time. Better the dignity of silent anonymity than using the internet for that.Furthermore, as social media diminishes us with not just information overload but the 24/7 servitude of liking, friending and status updating, this going under the radar reminds us that we might benefit from withdrawing the labour on which the founders of Facebook, Twitter and Instagram have built their billions. "Today our intense cultivation of a singular self is tied up in the drive to constantly produce and update," argues Geert Lovink, research professor of interactive media at the Hogeschool van Amsterdam and author of Networks Without a Cause: A Critique of Social Media. "You have to tweet, be on Facebook, answer emails," says Lovink. "So the time pressure on people to remain present and keep up their presence is a very heavy load that leads to what some call the psychopathology of online."Internet evangelists such asClay ShirkyandCharles Leadbeaterhoped for something very different from this pathologised reality. In Shirky's Here Comes Everybody and Leadbeater's We-Think,both published in 2008, the nascent social media were to echo the anti-authoritarian, democratising tendencies of the 60s counterculture. Both men revelled in the fact that new web-based social tools helped single mothers looking online for social networks and pro-democracy campaigners in Belarus. Neither sufficiently realised that these tools could just as readily be co-opted by The Man. Or, if you prefer,Mark Zuckerberg.Not that Zuckerberg is the devil in this story. Social media have changed the way we interact with other people in line with what the sociologist Zygmunt Bauman wrote inLiquid Love. For us "liquid moderns", who have lost faith in the future, cannot commit to relationships and have few kinship ties, Zuckerberg created a new way of belonging, one in which we use our wits to create provisional bonds loose enough to stop suffocation, but tight enough to give a needed sense of security now that the traditional sources of solace (family, career, loving relationships) are less reliable than ever.Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive officer and founder of Facebook: created a new way of belonging. Photograph: BloombergAs Malcolm Gladwell wrote in Small Change:Why the revolution will not be tweeted,this new sociability was something of a boon. "There is strength in weak ties ... Our acquaintances – not our friends – are our greatest source of new ideas and information. The internet lets us exploit the power of these kinds of distant connections with marvellous efficiency. It's terrific at the diffusion of innovation, interdisciplinary collaboration, seamlessly matching up buyers and sellers, and the logistical functions of the dating world." But for Gladwell, weak ties like this were no panacea: "The evangelists of social media don't understand this distinction; they seem to believe that a Facebook friend is the same as a real friend and that signing up for a donor registry in Silicon Valley today is activism in the same sense as sitting at a segregated lunch counter in Greensboro in 1960."The dream of online anonymity revives an old romantic hope – that we might disappear ourselves, like Salinger, from an unfeeling world that is doomed to intrude upon and misconstrues our authentic selves in equal measure. Better anonymity than the lie-dream of new sociability. Only in private can we truly be ourselves. Viewed thus, the internet is less a tool than an onerous machine for hype and lies, when all these bands and fashion desginers want is to let their artistic genius express itself silently, anonymously – without numpties sicking up opinions on their oeuvre.The internet, at worst, disconnects us from ourselves, cutting us off from what really matters in life. It's an old theme, this notion of industrial and post-industrial society imposing false consciousness on the innocent, and one that is given a new resonance in the information age where the online clamour for attention makes us dream of cancelling our broadband contract and going to live in the woods on berries. Hence, the popularity ofSylvain Tesson's memoir Consolations of the Forest, about a man who decides to live like a hermit in Siberia for six months. It speaks to our desire to escape civilisation – at least for a while. (Six months is about enough. After that, any sentient being would go postal. After six months we can return, post our pictures on Instagram, change our Facebook status, watch what we recorded on our hard drive and get our agent to sell our memoir.)This dream of going anonymous overlaps with another paean to social disconnection. In her bookQuiet, Susan Cain rails against our excessive and misguided respect for extroverts. Before the industrial revolution, she writes, American self-help books extolled character. Nowadays, personality is venerated. That cult of personality is enabled by social media, where extrovert self-presentation is what gets you friended and followed. The noisome extroverts yucking up their nothingy conversations on buses while the rest of us try to get to grips with early Wittgenstein (why haven't introverts invented a volume control for extroverts if they are, as Cain suggests, so clever?) have their parallel on Twitter. After Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World that Can't Stop Talking, which was, in Jon Ronson's description,"the Female Eunuch for anxious nerds", we need another book: Unembraceable You: The Pleasures of Disconnecting from an Online World Gone Nuts – a God Delusion for recovering geeks.But the dream of anonymity is not just about conquering addiction, nor about silencing cyberspace's extroverts, but also about eluding the tentacles of power before they disappear into your proverbial underpants with malice aforethought. In cyberspace, our every keystroke is monitorable, tradable, if not traded, by corporations and exchangeable, if not exchanged, by security agencies.Hard to Google: Nic Offer of the band !!!  Photograph: Startraks Photo/Rex FeaturesThis totalitarian vision of how the internet works may seem fanciful, but it was once envisaged as a good thing. In the 1930s, HG Wells wrote of a "world brain" through which "the whole human memory can be ... made accessible to every individual". Today, perhaps we have that world brain, and it is called Google.Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, professor of internet governance and regulation at the University of Oxford's Internet Institute, sounds an Orwellian note about this: "Quite literally, Google knows more about us than we can remember ourselves." No wonder some dream of slipping under Google's radar.In the 19th century, Jeremy Bentham envisaged a prison called a panopticon in which guards could watch prisoners without them knowing whether they were being watched. In the 20th century, Michel Foucault argued that the model of the panopticon was used more abstractly to exercise control over society. In the 21st century, Mayer-Schönberger argues that the panopticon now extends across time and cyberspace, making us act as if we are watched even if we are not.In his bookDelete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age, Mayer-Schönberger points out that the digital revolution makes it is easier to keep everything – the drunken email you sent your boss, the wacky photo you put on Facebook – rather than go through the palaver of deciding what to consign to oblivion. Though, really, we should do that hard work – this at least was the point of the professor's book. We must all erase our traces or face the consequences.What is most striking about what Phoebe Philo says about the desirability of online anonymity is that she couches it in terms of the fashionista's holy grail – chic. If she's right, and I think she may well be, this means we need a revolution in our thinking not just about social media, but about economics.Ever since Thorsten Veblen wroteThe Theory of the Leisured Classin 1899, economic status has been signaled by conspicuous consumption and grandstanding leisure. That's why you moored your yacht off Rhodes and invitedPeter Mandelson and George Osborneover to stay, thus proving that not only were you a Russian billionaire but you knew how to flaunt that status to best effect. Status on social media was demonstrated similarly by conspicuous consumption's online counterpart: conspicuous presence. Status-seeking cybernauts sought more Twitter followers than Justin Bieber, Lady Gaga and Barack Obama combined. Zuckerberg facilitated an egalitarian revolution whereby high status could be demonstrated by those without money: social capital, unlike real capital, transcended monetary wealth.But anonymity chic means we need to rethink economics in light of the collapse of the social networking model of human worth. Anonymity chic confounds the idea that the more overbearing your online presence, the higher your status. Rather, in the new economy of self-presentation, oversupply of yourself reduces your market value. To be chic, by contrast, involves withholding yourself – andin extremismaking yourself anonymous, invisible, unavailable to the masses.Online status didn't used to be like this. If you were Stephen Fry, you checked into your St Petersburg hotel room and tweeted the view of the Neva before unpacking your toothbrush. You made an investment, surrendering your privacy in return for the status boost of being followed by strangers. Philo reverses this economics: what was once high status became vulgar self-delusion and self-betrayal.But there is a philosophical paradox in the anonymity chic. If to be chic is to be anonymous, how will anyone know that you're chic? How can you prove your status while not expressing it? To be chic minimally requires being seen or at least noticed.Most of those who want anonymity don't seek to be chic. Rather, they sound like backwoods libertarians – the kind of people who hate government, think taxes are unconscionable, the National Grid Hitlerian, and that with every keystroke you die a little (think:Ron Swanson in Parks and Recreation). For example, one of the many anonymous personswho list ways to fly under the radar of online surveillanceexplains how to go about it: "If you are going to be using the internet in your secret lifestyle, you should do everything you can to secure yourself online. This means using PGP (encryption software) when emailing people (and using an email account that can not be traced to you directly), and, most importantly, it means saying nothing online that you would not be prepared to see on the front page of the newspaper."If only thewoman who gloatingly tweeted that she'd knocked over a cyclisthad read it. But it's also bad advice, since it suggests that there is such a thing as a secret lifestyle, unGoogleable and pure, untarnished by the grubby accommodations of living in society. Geert Lovink thinks such advice is a delusion: "You should not promote anonymity as a solution – then you're fooling yourself and others. It is always possible for any authority to track you down. There's no such thing as absolute anonymity."What then should we do to resist information overload, cyber slavery, toxic trolling, intolerable corporate and state snooping apart from becoming anonymous? Lovink counsels self-mastery, and learning how to reduce the internet's impact on our lives. There is, he says, a parallel with other technologies. "We are no longer impressed by vacuum cleaners and refrigerators." he says. "They don't foreground themselves so much." The internet needs to be similarly disenchanted. Perhaps, but that all sounds nebulous – and certainly not as chic as making oneself unGoogleable.• This article was amended on 14 June 2013. The original said "We must all kick over our traces…"
"I couldn't sleep last night."Whether Final Fantasy producer Shinji Hashimoto's insomnia ahead of the first day of the E3 video game conference in Los Angeles is down to excitement or terror is unclear. The news that Japanese mega-dev Square Enix's next mainline Final Fantasy title – the 15th in the long-running series – will be a rebranded version of seemingly dead-in-the-water side project Final Fantasy XIII Versus has been met with considerable consternation by fans.The game, a pet project from character designer turned keeper-of-all-things-Final-Fantasy, Tetsuya Nomura, has been in development for more than seven years – testing Super Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto's oft-repeated maxim that "a delayed game is eventually good" to breaking point. But the controversy over the troubled title's promotion to become the next instalment in the company's most valuable franchise is a style concern as much as anything.Launched in 1986, the original Final Fantasy popularised the Japanese role-playing game – an eastern take on the Dungeons and Dragons boardgames of the 70s – first among the Japanese game-playing public and, following the high profile launch of the seventh game in the series, around the world. Each game presents a new planet, an unfamiliar clutch of characters and a different take on the game's core rules and systems, loosely tied together with a series of recurring themes and motifs. Each new release has leapfrogged the previous one in terms of visual fidelity and technological showboating but the underlying systems have evolved at a far slower rate, leading many to claim the series' design had stagnated.As such, Final Fantasy XV is an attempt to answer these criticisms with an action-oriented play style that appears to have entirely dropped the turn-based battle system and other trappings of its Dungeons and Dragons-inspired past. While Square-Enix has been happy to explore new design territory under the Final Fantasy branding in the past (Final Fantasy Tactics was a deep and thoughtful strategy game, while Final Fantasy Dissidia is a series of fighting games) this is the first time it's risked alienating its fans with a disruptive mainline title. Perhaps for that reason the company calls a press briefing titled "The Future of Final Fantasy" three hours before the E3 conference opens in a nearby hotel."We have to be flexible to attract more fans," says the besuited Hashimoto, the epitome of the sombre Japanese executive, making clear the company's thinking behind the switch. "I want you to understand Final Fantasy is always evolving." "Adapt or fail" appears to be the logic as both the 13th and 14th games in the series failed to meet commercial or critical expectations. Even so, it will be difficult for the company to slip from the perception that Final Fantasy XV is damaged goods, a problematic project that Square Enix has attempted to solve with a simple rebrand. But for series fans – of which there remain a great many – it also appears like evidence that Square is turning its back on the genre in which it made its name and fortune in favour of mainstream action games.Hashimoto offers no straightforward answer to the concern. "As you are aware, the Final Fantasy series has different game system for every new title. While Final Fantasy XV is an action-packed title, that doesn't mean next game will follow a similar path. And I can't comment on future titles. But I do believe it's possible to make a multimillion-yen project in either style."Neither will Hashimoto speak to the difficulties of converting an early PlayStation 3 project into a PlayStation 4 title. "I'm not able to discuss this," he says, simply reiterating that the game is made in DirectX 11, so will port without difficulty across the next-generation consoles, including the Xbox One. It's too soon to say that Final Fantasy is a series in crisis. But few would dispute it has something of an identity crisis, one seeded by the departure of its creator Hironobu Sakaguchi in 2003 following the box office failure of another company pet project, Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within, a film that lost the company more than $50m.Earlier this year Naoki Yoshida, producer and director of Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn, a reboot of the troubled MMO Final Fantasy XIV, said: "It may sound crazy but Square Enix will never give up on the Final Fantasy series." Not crazy at all. Final Fantasy remains the beating heart of a company that would not exist without its decades of commercial success. But will Square Enix give up on the Japanese RPG? That, for the first time, appears to be a distinct possibility.
Apple's WWDC announcements – and particularly the unveiling of iOS 7 – have already reverberated around the tech industry. Here's your guide to what has happened, and what it means.• iTunes Radio could make Apple (and labels) quite a bit of moneyThere are 575 million iTunes accounts (most with credit cards) and Tim Cook said "iTunes in the cloud" has 300 million users. If that's the same as iTunes Match (where you can download songs to up to five devices using the same iCloud ID), that's a hell of a lot of people who are listening to their music on multiple devices. (Even if he actually meant devices rather than users, it's still 60 million.)Even if just one-third of 300 million people upgrade their version of iTunes to take advantage of iTunes Radio (which is free if you pay for iTunes Match; ad-supported otherwise) then Apple will be paying out large sums of money.The standard streaming rate is 0.085p per track played. Apple has probably organised a lower price. But for the sake of argument, if 100m people listen to 200 songs per month, equivalent to 10 hours – the ceiling that Spotify presently puts on free listening, that's £8.5m per month going to the labels. Essentially, it's free money for them. Apple can sell ads against it; you can debate whether it will manage to sell that much advertising. At the worst, it could kick-start the iAds mobile advertising business by giving it a new source of inventory (the space ads are sold into).But iTunes Radio will also offer one-click purchasing of songs and that's where the advantage comes. Apple is reckoned to keep between 4p and 12p per song sold. That means it only needs to make about one sale per 50 listens, and it's breaking even (ignoring streaming costs). If Genius, which has been going for five years, is any good at all, it should be finding songs that you'll want to listen to – and even buy – all over the place. If Apple has negotiated a lower rate, and keeps more money from each song sale, then the number of "sales per listens" needed to break even falls further.iTunes Radio: the translucency effect makes it look blurred – but note the 'Buy' buttonSo it might be free and ad-supported, but it's got a potentially big financial upside, both for labels and Apple. And users get free ad-supported music. (The devil might be in how much advertising has to be tolerated in those 10 hours. For free accounts, Spotify plays one 30-second advert per 20 minutes, plus displaying adverts on its app.)An interesting contrast is that Google's streaming music service will be paid for. Why? I suspect it's because Google simply doesn't have the scale that Apple does in terms of Genius data or potential users. Making its service paid-for ensures that it only gets those who find it valuable, not those who just find it convenient, and so increases its chance of keeping within break-even.• Maps: an app and some feedbackApple Maps are coming to the desktop as an app in Mac OSX 10.9 ("Mavericks"). Sources tell me that Apple is acutely aware of the annoyance Maps has caused, and of the extra annoyance (asenunciated by people like former Apple staffer Daniel Jalkut) caused when suggested changes don't seem to get fixed. An improvement to the feedback process is in the works.Maps is also getting some of the intelligence that Google Now and Windows (phone and desktop) have – such as pointing out that you have to leave a certain amount of time to reach your next appointment. Apple has a lot to prove here, but the incorporation of its Maps app into the forthcoming "Mavericks" desktop OS is further demonstration that it's trying to winkle Google out of the default position it holds in many places. (Default location searches on Mac OSX presently offer Google Maps.)• iOS 7: the "supergroup" of mobile operating systemsRemember when big rock bands used to form "supergroups" composed of the singer from one band, the bassist from another, the guitarist from somewhere else and a drummer, with the notion that the sum of these exalted parts would be better than the rest? That's something like what iOS 7 is. It's taken lots of ideas from other operating systems – Android, Windows Phone, webOS – and synthesised them into what was already there in iOS. (So mathematically it's also a supergroup.)Lots of people who have only seen photos of iOS 7 think that it's "flat". (That was my initial reaction when it was being shown on stage.) In fact, it's not. I used an iPhone running iOS 7 briefly on Monday, and while the icons themselves give the impression of living in a single plane – very much like Windows Phone – there are other layers present too. The wallpaper behind the icons has a parallax effect, soif you move the phone it seems to have depth. (It can be turned off. A fun version would be a parallax effect that makes the phone seem deeper than it actually is.)There are then at least two other layers – Notification Centre (which swipes down from the top) and Control Centre (which swipes up from the bottom). Control Centre has translucency overlaying what's underneath it, while the keyboard in some apps (such as iMessage) also seems to have an element of translucency.According to Jonathan Ive, who has driven the team to do the redesign, "these planes, combined with new approaches to animation and motion, create a sense of depth and vitality … Even the simple act of changing your wallpaper has a very noticeable effect on the way your iPhone looks and feels across the entire system." Using translucency, he says, "gives you a sense of context".Here's what's been "borrowed":iOS 7's Control Centre swipes up from the bottom of the screen, with a translucency effect and quick access to essential controls•Control Centrecontains ideas that will be instantly familiar to any Android user – a shortcut to common functions such as turning wireless or Bluetooth off/on, enabling/disabling Airplane mode, setting Do Not Disturb, changing brightness, "AirDrop", AirPlay, and more. It's strikingly done. Android has had something like this for a long time, but Control Centre is clean and well-organised in a way that lots of Android implementations really aren't. (Compare the Samsung Galaxy S4's version, for example, which combines notifications with controls. It's overloaded by contrast.iOS 7's Notifications are now available in the lock screen (if you want)•Notification Centreis now available from the lock screen. This is just like Windows Phone, though with more detail. That might be a security hazard; no doubt it's configurable what shows, or whether you get it in the lock screen at all.iOS 7: pick an app to kill from the horizontal scrolling list, like Palm's webOS, and flick it upwards to kill it....iOS 7 multitasking: ..and the app goes upwards and vanishes.• Themultitasking interface– double-clicking on the home button – brings up the apps in a horizontal scrolling list (so, unlike Android's vertical scrolling list). You can dismiss an app – ie kill it – by swiping it upwards. Yup,exactly like the much-missed webOS. Apple's also promising better control of multitasking.• The"back" gesturein Mail (which lets you go straight back from a message to the mailbox by "sliding" the screen to the right - pulling the left edge across) is very reminiscent of BB10's "peek" to its Hub. It's not exactly the same, because it's not system-wide, but it does emphasis how many gestures there will be in iOS 7.• Does AirDrop presage mobile payments? Perhaps"AirDrop" is Apple's wireless response to Samsung's physical NFC "bump". The idea is that if you want to transfer a picture or other asset to someone nearby, you go to Control Centre, activate AirDrop, and it will find fellow iOS 7 users nearby, to whom you can (with their permission) send the file. No passwords or codes, and multiple sends are possible. Craig Federighi, Apple's software chief, took some delight in explaining this, saying "you won't have to go around bumping your phone against each other one."iOS 7 brings AirDrop to mobile - allowing peer-to-peer file exchange, and perhaps mobile payments too?It certainly looks very neat (it seems to workby using supersonic tones – honestcorrection: itcreates a peer-to-peer Wi-Fi/Bluetooth network), and a good solution to a perennial problem which most people solve by email (clunky) or picture messaging (pricey). But there are also hints that Apple is looking at using AirDrop, or some element of it, for wireless mobile payments. Cook pointed out that there are now 575 million iTunes accounts, "most of which have credit cards – that's more accounts with credit cards than any store on the internet that we're aware of".The expectation has been growing that Apple will do something with mobile payments – last year you could hear the air going out of the mobile payment business when theiPhone 5 didn't include NFC. This week, a newly filed Apple patentemergedwhich suggests that it could offer "iWallet" as part of iTunes accounts.• Skeuomorphism is deadAnd it has a flat unshaded translucent stake through its heart. The Safari icon no longer looks like a "real" compass. The Game Centre doesn't have a green felt effect. The News-stand icon doesn't look like a bookshelf (which never made sense anyway.) The Compass icon doesn't look like a compass. We didn't see what Find My Friends, which in the current iOS has an abominable faux-stitched leather appearance, looks like, but no design could be worse.Personally, I'm happy to see the back of skeuomorphism. It was nice while it lasted, but had outstayed its welcome by about 2010, and under Scott Forstall (fired in October) it was starting to metastatise: the "shredder" when you deleted a pass in the Passbook app was truly horrible.• Less phone theft? Maybe"Activation Lock" will make it impossible to reformat or reuse a phone if it has been remotely wiped, unless the Apple ID that was used to wipe it is entered. It's Apple's response to the growing trend of smartphone thefts.• Apple is merging mobile and desktopMac OS X 10.9 ("Mavericks") borrows a fair number of elements from mobile (such as Maps), and there's increasingly tighter integration between the two – although no merging of the user interface. Apple is trying to make the three platforms – phone, tablet and PC – work together seamlessly without taking Microsoft's path of forcing the desktop OS onto the tablet.Like Google, Apple thinks tablets are more like phones than like PCs. And while Google is trying to do the same integration of desktop and mobile, Apple looks to be ahead. There'smore detail about Mavericks on Apple's site. Note how AirDrop has moved from being a desktop feature (where it started) to mobile (where it's potentially much, much more useful), iMessage is on both, Maps is on both. It's a shift towards feature parity but not user interface parity.• its iWork office suite is now cross-platformNobody's ever going to mistake the iWork suite (for spreadsheet/presentation/document creation) for Microsoft Office, and it doesn't (yet?) have the multiple ownership and simultaneous editing of Google Docs.It's cheaper than Office and more stylish than Google Docs, but doesn't look essential. Being able to run on Windows 8 in an HTML5-capable browser is useful, but doesn't feel like a game-changer. Still, if Microsoft won't bring Office to the iPad, Apple can bring iWork to Windows. The last time Apple ported an app to Windows was Safari (not a great success); the time before, it was iTunes (a huge success). So, flip a coin. (It's pretty likely to come up Safari.)• Apple is, after all, bullishAfter weeks of being under attack over tax, not having invented Google Glass and not introducing low-cost iPhones, Apple showed its bullish side. "Can't innovate my ass," said Phil Schiller, the marketing chief, when he was showing off the design of the new Mac Pro desktop. (It's tiny, and will probably get mistaken for a large ashtray or a small urn by some office cleaners.)Tim Cook did some fancy numerology to argue that iOS 6 is the world's most-used mobile operating system. The logic goes thus: Apple has sold more than 600m iOS devices in all; 93% of current iOS users are on iOS 6.For Android,Google's platform statsshow that the most-used version is Gingerbread (36.5% of all installs). Googlesaid at I/Othat 900m Android devices have been activated. (That's up by an amazing 500m in a single year.) If you take 36.5% of the 900m, it's less (probably) than 93% of however many active iOS devices there are. (Cook didn't specify.)Cook also drew attention to how much money developers get from writing apps for iOS (five times more than for Android, he said – though Horace Dediu of Asymco, sitting beside me, pointed out that Google has never said how much money Google Play generates). And there were the statistics about the amount of time spent using iPhone versus using Android phones. Apple is sensitive to the idea that Android is "winning" in anything other than the numbers war. WWDC was its response.Now it has to make good on the other promises about innovation – whether in phones, or TV, or other services. And iOS 7 isn't finished; it wasn't even shown running on an iPad. There's still some way to go.Updated:added mention about similarity of Mail gesture to BB10 "peek"; corrected explanation of AirDrop.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIs the new Apple iOS 7 look an improvement? &gt;&gt; QuoraDo pitch in. One important point to bear in mind: seeing a flat picture on the web doesn't do justice to the 3D presence of the software. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Samsung Galaxy S4 update will let you install apps to SD card &gt;&gt; CNET UKNick Hide:A new update for the Galaxy S4 that reportedly begins rolling out today will let users install apps to their microSD card. Samsung was heavily criticised when it quickly emerged you couldn't do that on its latest superphone, and left users with only 8.5GB of usuable space.The update is beginning to be rolled out today in Germany, according to Samsung gossip site SamMobile, and will be available via the Kies PC software or over the air."Samsung UK will announce software updates for the Galaxy S4 in due course," a company spokesperson told me.(Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)How OS X "Mavericks" works its power-saving magic &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaNate Anderson:Timer Coalescing attempts to enforce some order on all this chaos. While on battery power, Mavericks will routinely scan all upcoming timers that apps have set and then apply a gentle nudge to line up any timers that will fire close to each other in time. This "coalescing" behavior means that the disk and CPU can awaken, perform timer-related tasks for multiple apps at once, and then return to sleep or idle for a longer period of time before the next round of timers fire.Apple has never guaranteed developers that timers will run at exact times, either, so this isn't necessarily a break with convention. Apple currently tells developers that "because of the various input sources a typical run loop manages, the effective resolution of the time interval for a timer is limited to on the order of 50-100 milliseconds," and it notes that busy apps may have their timers affected even more.Isn't that going to mess with music apps, which rely on timing precision that's more granular than that? (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Tim Cook is a great CEO &gt;&gt; stratecheryBen Thompson was once an intern (along with a few hundred others) at Apple:Tim Cook, at least to my young, rather unjaded eyes, was Apple. He spoke to me – and to every person in the room – as if I were the only person in the world, and that he truly wanted me to understand what made Apple unique. Oh sure, the words were there – he spoke about Apple's focus, and willingness to say "no," and about design – but it was the way in which he said it that made you believe. For me anyway, his reality distortion field was far more powerful than Jobs'.It was obvious that Cook understood Apple, loved Apple, and was clearly the right man to make the decisions necessary to preserve Apple.Decisions like firing Scott Forstall.Forstall spoke to the interns as well. It was an incredibly impressive talk, and an incredibly disturbing one. Forstall was clearly the smartest person in the room; what was disturbing was that he obviously knew it, and wanted us all to know it as well.2 When the news broke about his firing, I was totally shocked, yet totally unsurprised.Inside the NSA's Ultra-Secret China Hacking Group &gt;&gt; Foreign PolicyMatthew Aid:According to a number of confidential sources, a highly secretive unit of the National Security Agency (NSA), the U.S. government's huge electronic eavesdropping organization, called the Office of Tailored Access Operations, or TAO, has successfully penetrated Chinese computer and telecommunications systems for almost 15 years, generating some of the best and most reliable intelligence information about what is going on inside the People's Republic of China.Hidden away inside the massive NSA headquarters complex at Fort Meade, Maryland, in a large suite of offices segregated from the rest of the agency, TAO is a mystery to many NSA employees.iOS 7: Apple's war against jailbreaking now makes perfect sense &gt;&gt; ZDNetAdrian Kingsley-Hughes:Today at the WWDC 2013 keynote speech, Apple unveiled a new iOS 7 feature designed to combat iPhone theft, and suddenly Apple has a good reason to battle against jailbreaking.The new feature is called Activation Lock, and what this does is prevent a thief from bypassing the iPhone's Find My iPhone and lockscreen passcode by wiping the handset. Even after being wiped, the handset needs the owner's Apple ID in order to be used again…While I've been a fan of users having the ability to jailbreak their devices – devices that they after all have paid for and own – Apple's announcement of Activation Lock has caused me to change my stance.Apple's dislike of jailbreaking also stems from the fact that doing so means exploiting security holes. Activation Lock might encrypt the device (it's not clear yet) so jailbreaking might not solve it anyway.Designers Complaining &gt;&gt; TumblrWhat's that you say? Apple has another three months or so for tweaking before it releases the final version of iOS 7? But it showed it off on Monday!Excitement ebbing on WP8, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesInternational smartphone vendors other than Nokia have become less interested in adopting Microsoft Windows Phone 8 (WP8) platform mainly because WP8 has had a global smartphone market share of 3%, far short of the originally expected 10%, and Nokia has dominated the global market segment of WP8 smartphones by occupying over 70% of sales, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers.Acer, Asus and ZTE have all put off Windows Phone launches, apparently. Nokia's just doing too well.Windows Phone statistics report for June 2013 &gt;&gt; AdDuplex BlogIt is time for a new instalment of our Windows Phone statistics report. Is Windows Phone 7 still relevant? Did Lumia 520 take the charts by storm? What new devices to expect soon? Read on for all of this and more.TL:DR Nokia dominates with about 83% of installations, HTC has about 10-13%. Data presented from the US, Germany, Italy, France, India, Australia and China, but weirdly not the UK.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday. Oh and don't forget to watch theEToo London feedtonight from 7pm!
Google and Facebook have called for the US authorities to allow them to fully disclose the number of secret requests they receive to hand over users' data.The Silicon Valley companies, with rivals including Apple, have been left reeling after the disclosure by the Guardian and Washington Post of theundercover National Security Agency (NSA) operation Prism, which claimed "direct" access to the tech giants' servers.In a letter from Google to the US attorney general, Eric Holder,also published on its corporate blog, the company once again said allegations that the US government had "unfettered access to our users' data are simply untrue". But, the letter added, the fact that Google was not allowed to disclose requests made for information under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (Fisa) "fuel[s] that speculation".Fisa requests come with gag orders, meaning Google, Facebook and other tech companies cannot say whether they have received them.David Drummond, Google's chief legal officer, wrote in the letter to Holder: "We therefore ask you to help make it possible for Google to publish in our transparency report aggregate numbers of national security requests, including Fisa disclosures – in terms of both the number we receive and their scope."Google's numbers would clearly show that our compliance with these requests falls far short of the claims being made. Google has nothing to hide."A statement from Facebook's general counsel, Ted Ullyot, followed. He said the company "would welcome the opportunity to provide a transparency report that allows us to share with those who use Facebook around the world a complete picture of the government requests we receive, and how we respond."We urge the United States government to help make that possible by allowing companies to include information about the size and scope of national security requests we receive, and look forward to publishing a report that includes that information".The letter and statement come days after Google and Facebookcategorically denied knowingly participating in Prism. Internal NSA documents state that Prism involves "collection directly from the servers of these US service providers: Microsoft, Yahoo, Google, Facebook, PalTalk, AOL, Skype, YouTube, Apple".Drummond and Google co-founder Larry Page said the company provided data to the government "only in accordance with the law". They also said that no "back door" to Google's information had been set up and that they had never heard of Prism until approached by the Guardian last week.Mark Zuckerberg, the founder and chief executive of Facebook, described the press reports about Prism as "outrageous".
Google announced on Tuesday it had bought Waze, a much fought-over Israeli social mapping company for an as yet unconfirmed $1.3bn.Both Apple and Facebook have reportedly been courting the startup that updates its service in real time by incorporating users' driving times and other feedback on accidents and traffic jams.In ablog post on TuesdayGoogle said it plans to enhance Google Maps with Waze's traffic updates features, while improving Waze with Google's search capabilities."We've all been there: stuck in traffic, frustrated that you chose the wrong route on the drive to work. But imagine if you could see real-time traffic updates from friends and fellow travelers ahead of you, calling out 'fender bender ... totally stuck in left lane!' and showing faster routes that others are taking," Brian McClendon, Google vice president, wrote."The Waze community and its dedicated team have created a great source of timely road corrections and updates."McClendon said the Waze product development team will remain in Israel and operate separately for now. The value of the deal has yet to be disclosed but at $1.3bn it is expected to be Google's fourth largest by dollar value.The search giant announced a major overhaul of its mapping products at its recent IO13 developer's conference in San Francisco and has been incorporating much more personal information into maps. McClendon, who heads Google's maps division,has been developing ways to personalise maps for each user.Waze, a five-year-old company, was founded by Uri Levine, software engineer Ehud Shabtai, and Amir Shinar and originally called Linqmap.The free service has been growing rapidly. According to the company over 20m people were using the service as of June 2012, twice the number of people using the service six months previously. Waze claims users have driven over 3.2bn miles using the service.
It's the second night ofEToo London, the indie gaming event co-organised by Guardian games correspondent Keith Stuart. It's a kind of unofficial indie companion piece to the major E3 event taking place this week in Los Angeles. Through the day, indie developers are showing off their games in Soho's game-themed Loading Bar; then, every night from 7pm, we're livestreaming an interview and analysis show dicussing E3 topics as well as meeting indie developers and some special guests.Tonight we're talking to Miles Jacobson, MD of Sports Interactive, the creators of Football Manager. We also have Tony Learner from Popcap, SFB Games, The Bumpkin Brothers and Bafta award-winners Fireproof Games and Mike Bithell! Tune in from 7pm!
Whichever way you look at it, the Wii U hasn't been a success – and it has failed to sell due to a glaring lack of compelling, exclusive games. Which is an absolute travesty when you consider Nintendo is the custodian of some of the most loved franchises in the history of video games and numbers the revered Shigeru Miyamoto among its ranks. However, things are about to take a turn for the better, as far as Nintendo-heads are concerned, with a string of blockbusting releases for the Wii U.Alas, it doesn't look as though a full-blown new Zelda title is among those. However, Mario Kart 8, Super Mario 3D World, Pikmin 3, Donkey Kong Country Tropical Freeze and Bayonetta 2 are on their way, and we managed to get an exclusive hands-on preview of them all.Mario Kart 8If only Mario Kart 8 had been a Wii U launch title, Nintendo might not have had to cope with the ignominy of the recent months of unbearably sluggish sales. And the bad news is that it won't be ready for this Christmas – it's mooted for a spring 2014 launch date. However, it will still have been worth the wait.Nintendo-deniers tend to carp that every new version of Mario Kart is the same as the last one, except with a few esoteric features added (such as hang-gliders for extended jumping last time out). But the rest of us know how joyous, anarchic and addictive its gameplay is, and Mario Kart 8 has demonstrably made a bigger leap than any of its predecessors.For starters, it looks fantastic – properly 3D, smooth and crisp, and running at a sumptuous 60fps.And it has a big new twist: antigravity. The new tracks twist around so that you often find yourself upside-down and sideways – indeed, you often find yourself unable to say which way is up.But when you escape the bounds of normal gravity, your wheels fold up and you find yourself at the helm of a hover-kart. You can take short-cuts up and along walls, and we drove around a track which was partly submerged under water.You can select control methods – either conventional, using the Gamepad's joystick and buttons, or using the Gamepad's motion-sensing to steer as if using the Mario Kart Wheel. The hang-gliders have been retained, there are new power-ups (such as a familiar fire-flower), and you can play as Waluigi or Toadette. 12 people can play online or four in split-screen mode, and you can record and share your best moves via Mario Kart TV.Super Mario 3D WorldAs the name suggests, this is a new Mario game in the vein of Super Mario Galaxy. So you can expect classic platforming which is endlessly inventive and thoroughly endearing. One key new feature is the Cat Mario power-up, which gives the moustachioed plumber the ability to eliminate enemies with a scratch-move and lets him climb up rock-faces using his claws. Cutely, he could also climb up the poles marking the ends of levels.We played through one level with clever assemblages of transparent tubes around which enemies revolved – you had to pick which exits to take in order to avoid them and get to where you wanted to be. Super Mario 3D World is also the first game in the franchise to support online play – up to four people can tackle levels co-operatively. This can sometimes get a tad confusing, but at least players can share power-ups with others. You can also play as Princess Peach or Toad. Super Mario World 3D will come out in December and is a must-buy for any Nintendo fan-boy.Donkey Kong Country Tropical FreezeAs with Donkey Kong Country on the Wii, Retro Studios is once again channelling the spirit of the golden days of Rare Software, with the first Wii U slab of banana-fuelled, agreeably challenging platform mayhem.There's a madcap storyline – Donkey Kong's tropical idyll has been invaded by interlopers from the frozen north, including Vikings, penguins and the like. While it's still essentially a side-scroller, there are some sequences where Retro Studios employs what it calls a dynamic camera, which sees you moving into and out of the screen (we played one barrel-shooting sequence which was immeasurably improved by the use of such clever perspectives).Proper HD graphics give Tropical Freeze a lush look, and there are all manner of new tricks, such as platforms that act as trampolines when you ground-pound them, and handles which must be pulled up to unveil new platforms. And Donkey Kong also now has a surprisingly balletic series of underwater moves. Two people can play together (the rarely seen Dixie Kong is a playable character), and connoisseurs of platform games will love it.Pikmin 3The third instalment of the impossibly cute and genuinely surreal game involving getting hordes of plant-like creatures with different abilities to do your bidding will be the next major game to appear for the Wii U, and looks set to provide a pretty meaty experience.We played a multiplayer mode called Mission (there's another one called Bingo Battle) – our mission was to collect as many fruit dotted around a stage (along with gold) in 10 minutes.Thus, Mission mode is a great way of honing your Pikmin-corralling skills, as there's no time to hang around. As ever, you can instruct Pikmin to tear down banks and build bridges, and throw them to inaccessible areas, but some new ones had more refined skills, such as pink Pikmin which could fly objects around and pull up obstructions like bamboo gates giving other Pikmin access. Cute as ever, but also surprisingly strategic, Pikmin 3 lets up to three explorers collaborate.Bayonetta 2The most atypical game we played was Platinum Games' second outing for the leather-clad, impossibly long-legged witch-type with the vaguely erotic moves (including the dubiously named Umbra Climax).For those who played the insanely surreal original, this surprising Wii U exclusive essentially offers more of the same, with impossibly, sometimes bewilderingly fast-paced action that delivers deep satisfaction when you pull off special moves.As before, Bayonetta can sometimes dispatch enemies using conjured-up magic items – which this time around include a guillotine. Those with an aversion to button-pressing can use the touch-screen to control Bayonetta, too, although we can't for the life us see why you would want to. Alas, Bayonetta also won't be ready until 2014. One to hide from the kids and pull out when they've gone to bed.
In the end it was like the climax of a Rocky film. Two tired, ageing pugilists, circling each other in the ring, before one spots the other's weakness and pummels it, bringing the exhausted opponent to his knees.Jack Tretton, the president of Sony Computer Entertainment America, delivered his final crushing blows with the relish of a true showman: PlayStation 4 will not limit the exchange or selling on of its games and it will not require a daily internet connection. Then Andrew House tag-teamed in to finish off:PS4 will be $100 cheaper than Xbox One. Microsoft has twisted itself into tortuous circles attempting to explain the labyrinthine restrictions it will place on the pre-owned games market; Sony sought to pulverise that business model. Tretton's assurances on sharing and selling games roused the loudest cheers of the day in Los Angeles – which in many ways is a damning indictment of far more than Microsoft's DRM policies.Xbox One thrills – and spillsRyse: Son of Rome: beachhead battler. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesMicrosoft got in the first dig, however, beginning its own conference with a trailer forMetal Gear Solid V, the latest in a series of titles once inextricably linked with PlayStation. After this, a couple of new franchises – the long-awaited Crytek battlerRyse: Sons of Rome, the trailer for which managed to re-depict the Normandy beach landings as a battle of the ancient world. There was also Insomniac'sSunset Overdrive, an effervescent and highly stylised open-world shooter that appears to channel Crackdown, Borderlands and Jet Set Radio into one brash blast-'em-up.Project Sparklooks like an intriguing game builder allowing users to create luscious RPG worlds with a simple Kinect interface. Lots of people namechecked LittleBigPlanet, but to me, the obvious inspiration is Hapti Co's PC title GameGlobe, which provides a very similar toolset.Remedy Entertainment'sQuantum Break, about a man named Jack Joyce who can somehow stop time and must use this power to save the world, drew some interest from the E3 crowds, but there's still confusion about how it ties in with the concurrent live-action TV series.Dead Rising 3got a lot of big cheers, and this gritty take on the undead-splattering series looks to have become a sort of Grand Theft Zombie, with the lead character driving hot cars over swarms of drooling monsters.Quantum Break: TV tie-inBut there were plenty of chinks. Phil Harrison spoke about Microsoft's record with independent games, but then showed just two of note:Minecraft, which hardly counts any more due to its profound global success, and the intriguingBelow, a new "roguelike" RPG hackathon from Sword and Sworcery developer Capybara. Beyond glimpses of Panzer Dragoon updateCrimson Dragonand Swery65's episodic mysteryD4, there was the inevitableBattlefield 4, the dark and broodingWitcher 3and the shooter everyone wants to see, Respawn'sTitanfall. This mechs-vs-foot solders epic drew some whoops with its robotic destruction; and scenes of pilots ejecting from their cyber-tanks and blasting enemies in mid-flight – Robotech meets the rocket jump.Then the price: £429/$499 and the release date of November. It's expensive – especially for a machine architecture that essentially mimics a gaming PC; you could build your own comparable rig for not a huge amount more. But then, Xbox One comes with its hugely promising cloud computing infrastructure and its seamless online services, and most people don't want a bulky desktop PC next to their living room television, which is where Xbox One wants to plonk itself.Electronic Arts: from plants to Star WarsAfter this, the two third-party publisher conferences felt like the calm between two storms. Electronic Arts started on an unexpected curveball: the bright and playfulPlants vs Zombies: Garden Warfare, a third-person shooter that takes the opponents of the popular tower defence game into an action setting. Here we stumbled on one of the first themes of the night: colourful, stylised action titles that hark back to the glory days of Rare or the Jak and Daxter era – PlayStation 4 launch titleKnackand a few of the PS4 indie titles are in the same sort of space.The Crew: open world racing gameTitanfallshowed up again, this time with a gameplay demo that showed the interplay between foot soldiers and mechs, the former using the verticality of buildings to compete against hulling metal foe. ThenNeed For Speed Rivalsrocketed onto the screen, bringing with it the second theme of the night – open-world racers that blur the lines between co-op, multiplayer and single-player. It would later be followed by Sony'sDriveCluband Ubisoft's multi-terrain giant,The Crew. All are taking on the expansive driving genre introduced by Test Drive Unlimited and reworking it for next-gen hardware, but right now it's difficult to tease out the individual quirks amid all that brushed aluminium and lasciviously winking lens flare.There was a huge segment on the EA Sports titles.NBA Live 14,Madden 14andFifa 14all look super sharp and authentic, powered by the studio's Ignite engine which seeks to bring true procedural animation and supportive intelligence to players and therefore (in theory) a more creative and supple sporting experience. Producers came on stage to talk about the huge number of calculations that AI players were making each minute; buzzwords such as "pro-instincts" and "precision movement" got belted into the auditorium to the delight of the target audience. All solid stuff from the publisher's reliable cash cows. The UFC segment, though, was a surreal love-in between EA and the sport's mouthpiece, Dana White. "Fighting was the first sport on Earth," enthused White at one point, making mankind's bloody ascent from the apes sound like a bitching subscription TV event. We are promised "full-body deformation" from the character models. Lovely.Dana White: 'Fighting was the first sport on Earth.' Photograph: Jon Kopaloff/Getty ImagesAlthough a big 64-player demo ofBattlefieldwas nice (culminating in several players parachuting from a collapsing skyscraper – the next generation is all aboutscale), the big cheers of the conference were about the return of two much-loved franchises. EA Dice showed the merest glimpse of itsStar Wars: Battlefrontreboot, with an AT-AT foot coming down near a swooping snow speeder. For those who don't remember the mid-2000s series, it was essentially a multiplayer-focused battle conquest game set over a series of familiar Star Wars set-pieces: Battlefield 1942 in space, essentially. The crowd lapped it up. And then the much-rumouredMirror's Edge 2, looking stately, sparse and sterile as ever – all in a good way.Ubisoft: from Splinter Cell to The DivisionUbisoft usually provides the surreal fever dream of the E3 conference day, but its showing this year felt a little more measured and conservative. Beginning with Jerry Cantrell of Alice in Chains jamming along to Rocksmith, we moved on to another ageing male trouble-maker, Sam Fisher, inSplinter Cell Blacklist– a macho fest enlivened by the host, actor Aisha Tyler, who was funny, enthusiastic and towered over most of the development staff.After showings of familiar and already much-anticipated stuff such asWatch Dogs,Assassin's Creed IV,South Park: the Stick of TruthandMighty Quest for Epic Loot, we gotThe Crew, a cross-America racing title with seamless player collaboration and competition and lots of levelling up (read our preview here). Elsewhere, a brief mention ofTrials Fusion(for PC and console) andTrials Frontier(for mobile devices),Just Dance 2014(hypnotic colours) andRabbids Invasion, an "interactive TV show" based on the popular cartoon-like critters.But the big reveal was Tom Clancy'sThe Division, an apocalyptic online action RPG, set after the collapse of civilisation – thanks to a virus spread seemingly on bank notes. Developed for next-gen consoles by Ubisoft Massive, it's apparently an open-world adventure (open worlds are another big thing), in which the player's squad must survive the gang-infested city streets to bring some order back. It was a stately and intriguing, though fairly conventional end to a press event that felt satisfying rather than leap-out-of-your-seat exciting.PS4: killer blows to Xbox One?Sony started somewhat badly, with a interminable meander through Vita and PS3 titles. Then, however, the PlayStation 4 design was revealed: it's another reasonably large box, this time working a combination matt and shiny surface and a rakish slant. It is a sort of fashionable love child of the PS2 and Xbox One. There was a tremor of excitement, quelled slightly by some subsequent stuff on movie and video-on-demand deals – the perennial buzz kill of the modern console press event.Transistor: sci-fi action RPGThen Shuhei Yoshida, the affable head of Sony Worldwide Studios, came on stage. He showed Ready At Dawn's steampunk shooter,The Order: 1886and he confirmedKillzone: Shadowfall,KnackandDriveclubas PS4 launch titles. This was followed by Sony's first jab at Microsoft, a rip-roaring slalom though a host of Playstation 4 indie titles including aTransistor, a lovely new sci-fi RPG from Super Giant Games, the creator of Bastion. ThenDon't Starve, a randomly generated adventure from Shank creator Klei Entertainment and retro shooter,Mercenary Kingsfrom Tribute Games. And they kept coming … the hilariousOctodad: Dadliest Catch, the chilling psychological horror gameDaylight, which again, uses procedural generation to create new environments (procedural content isanothernext-gen theme); andGalak-Zfrom 17bit Studios, described as an AI and physics-driven open-world action game.Daylight: uses procedural generation to create new environmentsThis was an exciting romp through the PS4 indie universe and a true indication of Sony's oft-heralded openness to smaller studios. The company also made sure to point out that developers will be able to self-publish on PS4, an emancipating feature that Xbox One will apparently not allow.And after a lingering look at the graphically stunningAssassin's Creed IV, it was left to Tretton and House to deliver those killer blows to the Xbox One infrastructure. The deafening roar that went up when the pre-owned games announcement was made must have reverberated all the way to Redmond.Riding with the chaosReally, this day was only ever going to be about the next-gen showdown – it was not an E3 conference schedule filled to the brim with massive, crowd-thrilling new IPs. That makes sense: you don't want to put up too many fresh multimillion-dollar franchises in the midst of a console war; the collateral damage here is apathy. You have to ride with the chaos. Some news sites are already saying that Sony "won" E3 – but the event hasn't even started, and Microsoft will have to work out how to turn this PR setback around. Perhaps, though, the corporation was too busy watching its new rival Apple, courting developers at its WWDC. It covets Apple's understanding of consumer electronics, tech culture and entertainment ubiquity. And while it is watching, Sony has snuck up and seemingly stolen back the hardcore gamers.The console pugilists are still on their feet in the ring, but one has its eye off the fight – guard down, unsteady. The crowd is baying.
UK intelligence agencies made thousands of requests for information on private communications via Microsoft products last year, with demands for Skype call information outnumbering those made by US agencies.In 2012, the UK made 1,268 requests to Skype for information such as the names of callers, their address, email account details and telephone numbers dialled. This was a quarter of all requests received by the Microsoft-owned internet call service from governments around the world. The requests could have come from British police and intelligence agencies, such as GCHQ.The US made 1,154 requests, while German and French intelligence agencies were among the top five heaviest users of backdoor access to Skype data, along with Taiwan. Germany made 686 requests and France made 402.Microsoft received more than 75,000 snooping orders in 2012, affecting 137,000 user accounts, according to its firstlaw enforcement requests report, the publication of which in March was not widely reported.The UK was among the top three most active nations in requesting data from Microsoft, from products including Hotmail and Outlook email services, SkyDrive and Office 365 – which store files such as documents, videos and photos on Microsoft's servers and allow users to fetch files stored on their own computers from remote locations – and the Xbox Live service, which gamers often use to chat online.The UK made 9,226 requests on 14,301 Microsoft accounts, though not all of these are separate individuals, as some users have multiple Microsoft accounts. Only the US and Turkey made more requests, at just over 11,000 and 11,400 respectively.Skype became part of Prism, the internet intelligence system set up by America's National Security Agency, in February 2011, according to leaked documents obtained by the Guardian, just three months before Microsoft announced it intended to buy the video-calling company.Following the takeover by Microsoft in October 2011, Skype made big changes to simplify and centralise its network. "Supernodes", which act as directories of Skype users and help route calls, were transferred from Skype's own data centres and storage rented from other companies including Amazon, on to Microsoft's data centres.Crucially, Skype also stopped its previous use of private computers as supernodes, according to security researcher Kostya Kortchinsky, andreduced the total nodes in use from 48,000 to 10,000.At the same time, Microsoft drew attention for filing a US patent application entitled "legal intercept", which described a method of snooping on internet calls.Skype denied the changes were prompted by government pressure, saying the supernodes were not set up to monitor or record calls, and that all its calls were encrypted.But security experts, including Ravi Mandalia,raised  concerns. "Microsoft will be owning the keys used for encryption and thus these man-in-the-middle agents (servers) can be easily used to decrypt the data if need be," Mandalia wrote at the time. "This effectively means that your Skype calls may not be secure anymore when it comes to eavesdropping and your privacy may be at risk."Microsoft is left to make its own decisions about which information requests to comply with.According to Microsoft's chief lawyer, general counsel Brad Smith, who wrote on the subject in March, information requests for the parent company are processed via the US and Ireland, while Skype takes requests from its headquarters in Luxembourg.Both companies said they required an official signed document compliant with local laws before releasing information. They are answerable to law enforcement agencies in the US, Ireland and Luxembourg. In the US, a subpoena is required before turning over non-content records, such as a subscriber's address, and a court order or warrant is required before producing content.However, when a user is thought likely to harm themselves or others, or if they are involved with indecent images of children, Microsoft can bypass these official channels by reporting what it describes as "limited information about a user" without a legal request.According to Skype, none of the information it has handed over so far has included the content of calls, although experts say the new network architecture could make content snooping easier.The UK received no content data from Microsoft directly. However, five requests from Ireland resulted in content being handed over. In the US, 14% of requests – 1,544 – resulted in content being shared with intelligence agencies. But more than 7,000 British requests resulted in data being shared, including names, addresses and browsing history showing a list of websites visited by a Microsoft customer.Google's six-monthly transparency report, the next instalment of which is expected in July, shows the UK made 2,883 requests from the internet search group during 2012. According to the most recent figures, 70% of requests resulted in some form of data being shared with UK agencies.
An unexpectedly popular release in 2011, followed by a sequel that improved on the original, Activision'sSkylandersshowed that a game aimed at children but made with the depth and sophistication of its adult contemporaries could be commercially effective. The toy-game crossover is adored by kids – 6.2m of theSkylandersfigureswere sold in the UK last year– and parents will know how strongly the concept of seeing the toys come to life on screen appeals to children's imaginations.The latest iteration,Swap Force(out this autumn), on its first public airing looks unlikely to see a drop in youthful enthusiasm. The "swap" of the title allows the top and bottom halves of the figures to be interchanged to create new powers that can be used in unique ways within the game. This feature will have immediate appeal, encouraging experimentation in what is already an imaginative title. The mixing and matching is a clever and fun dynamic that works well physically with the toys and in the game as both a means to progress and for the simple pleasure of just seeing what happens.Sixteen new Swap Force Skylanders will be released and, if all are collected (with a spot of parental largesse), will boast 256 different combinations. The game will also support all previous characters, although the technology of the interchangeable toys will require a new Portal of Power – the interactive hardware between toy and console – to operate.David Nathanielsz, executive producer of the game for developer Vicarious Visions, explains the thinking behind the game's new direction. "TheSwap Forcecharacters came out of that desire to make sure the toy experience was new and fresh for kids," he says. "So that not only when you play the video game but also when you're in your bedroom and you're just playing with the toys, you can have new interaction – you can mix and match and have imaginative play with the toy outside of the video game. But then, when you get out the Portal of Power and you play, there is also innovation in the game."The brand has been a resounding success for Activision, reportedly generating $1bn for the company between its launch in October 2011 and February 2013. But aside from the obvious commercial appeal of creating new characters, there is also some genuinely innovative thought here, specifically aimed at what appeals to young, exploratory minds. It's a far cry from the usual sequel trick of changing the colour scheme of the environment and bolting on a few new powers.But then Activision isn't afraid of doing things differently. The publisher was already bucking the industry trend by creating a children's game at a time when the smart money was heading elsewhere. Eric Hirshberg, Activision's CEO, believes it was a brave decision but one vindicated by the unique appeal of the game. "All the obstacles on paper would have guided you to not make it," he says. "It was a kids' game, the Wii was in decline, other companies were getting out of kids' games, toy manufacturing was not our core competency… And a three-year development time for a children's game – that was very unusual. But we knew we had something magic. I've yet to meet the kid who sees a toy come to life in our game and whose eyes don't pop out of their head."That sort of reaction in play-testing vindicated Activison's decision long before the game itself became a hit, and the resulting toy-game crossover has become an example of the blurring of boundaries in entertainment media. "Look atSkylanders, just as a toy line, outsellingTransformersandStar Warstoys," says Hirshberg. "That's pretty remarkable. Kids today are not growing up thinking of the differences between movies and games – games are just part of their daily lives and how they consume entertainment."Hirshberg will, of course, be cheered that they have chosen to do so in the case ofSkylandersin such large numbers. Yet it would be churlish in this climate to deny the spoils to a publisher that has been willing to take a chance and then see it through with such care and attention. Activison will expect similar success with what looks to be an equally well-worked sequel later this year.
London-based mobile games startupBrainbowhas more than 1m people playing its6 Numbersgame, eight weeks after it launched for iOS.The maths-based puzzle game is essentially a mobile reworking of the numbers round in TV show Countdown, tasking players with reaching a target total by adding, subtracting, multiplying and dividing six other numbers. Brainbow says that in the UK, people are typically playing 6 Numbers for 22-31 minutes a day.At a time when lucrative mobile games like Candy Crush Saga, Clash of Clans and Puzzle &amp; Dragons are hogging the headlines, the growth of 6 Numbers is distinctly under the industry's radar, but Brainbow has bigger ambitions.The company's founding team has experience at Amazon, Google, Playfish, EA and the academic world, and is pitching itself as an "edugaming" startup that "turns knowledge into games". Brain-training, as Nintendo's Dr Kawashima character would call it."6 Numbers is becoming a phenomenon," says chief operating officer Sagi Shorrer. "We've had 1m downloads, and active users in the hundreds of thousands. And it's the number one puzzle game in many countries around the world."Brainbow raised $1.2m in seed funding from investors including Initial Capital, DN Capital, London Venture Partners and Lifeline Ventures , although the company's first two games: 6 Numbers and Brainbow Numbers, were developed before the funding arrived, to prove the company's mettle and test demand."6 Numbers was a teaser to test the market," says Shorrer. "We got the funding after the success, because we wanted to show there was a market for the product, and to check how people want to consume knowledge."Chief product officer Xavier Louis says that the funding is being used to build a full team at Brainbow to work on a more ambitious game to be released this summer, which will use the lessons learned from the two bootstrapped titles.Brainbow's investors mark the company out as worth watching, with portfolios that include Supercell, Shazam and Unity Technologies, and several well-connected super-angel investors also on board.These investors, and Brainbow, are looking beyond maths. "We want to replicate what we learn in maths for other categories. We believe any knowledge can be turned into games, so we're not going to stop at maths and brain training," says Louis."We've seen Angry Birds doing something great by taking games into the entertainment sector. There's no reason why Brainbow can't do the same thing for the knowledge category. We think we can bring knowledge to the masses by providing the right kind of experiences: free-to-play and social."The free-to-play aspect is important: Shorrer says that Brainbow intends to avoid the pitfall of charging a dollar per game download for games that people may play for a year or longer, expecting fresh puzzles as they go.The exact details of what features Brainbow will charge for while not alienating its regular players remain under wraps, although 6 Numbers offers clues with its in-app purchases for new level packs and virtual coins – the latter can be spent on hints when stuck.In the meantime, Brainbow is continuing to build its team, poaching former colleagues from larger companies to join their cause."These people have lived in big companies, but they see we have a mission. There's a purpose here: we turn knowledge into games," says Shorrer. "And that mission is combined with mobile, games, and data. They see the combination, and that we're doing fascinating things."
Google. Apple. Facebook. Microsoft: they are the brands that want the world to trust them with personal information, emails, photos, documents – yet they are now facing a battle to maintain that trust after disclosures that the US government was given access to their customers' data online via the Prism programme operated by the NSA.The companies involved – Microsoft, Yahoo, Google, Facebook, PalTalk, AOL, Skype, YouTube, Apple – vigorously deny giving the Obama administration backdoor access to users' internet information, but the potential damage to their brand reputation has left the companies floundering for a way to respond.Viktor Mayer-Schonberger, professor of internet governance and regulation at the Oxford Internet Institute, believes there could be serious consequences for the collective reputations of all internet companies who have meticulously built their trade on trust.He cites Amazon – not one of the companies involved in Prism – as a case in point when the company took the side of consumers after publishers protested about bad reviews. "It may have dissuaded someone to buy a book, but it instilled trust in Amazon which was far more important to it long-term," said Mayer-Schonberger. "If you violate that trust, it is difficult to re-establish. Even if it turned out to be a hoax, trust has been destroyed because everyone is talking about it."He added: "These companies depend on their users being sufficiently trusting to give them personal data. Many of us are perfectly fine for these companies to use this information for their own commercial benefit, to place more relevant adverts on the right hand side, but we do not want it passed on to the government or to tax authorities for instance."Greg Nojeim, senior counsel at Centre for Democracy and Technology in New York said that for Google – a company which has Don't be Evil as an informal company slogan and has pioneered online openess, "more transparency would be helpful". He said: "An important step would be for these companies to exert even more pressure; pressure on the intelligence authorities to disclose more information about intelligence related surveillance that they are compelled to conduct."Inhis statement following the Prism revelations, Google CEO Larry Page indicated this was the tack his company would be taking to protect its brand reputation. "The level of secrecy around the current legal procedures undermines the freedoms we all cherish," he said.Civil liberty activists have also been alarmed. In the UK, the US surveillance, even of high level data, has raised questions about breaches of domestic data protection laws.
To a backdrop of the biggest cheers heard on the first day of E3 2013, Sony adopted an unexpectedly aggressive approach with the PlayStation 4 which will, in equal measure, please hardcore gamers and leave Microsoft wondering how they got themselves into such a tangle over their attempts to kill off the second-hand games market.At the Japanese company's typically bombastic E3 press conference – the last act of the traditional day of press conferences prior to the show's proper opening – we learned that the PlayStation 4 will go on sale before the end of the year at a cost of £349 (significantly less than the Xbox One's £429 RRP), and that it will completely eschew any of the Draconian digital rights management (DRM) measures which Microsoft has mooted for the Xbox One, leaving PS4 owners just as free to sell or redistribute second-hand games as PS3 owners are now.We also now know what the PS4 looks like – pleasant enough, if unremarkably boxy, and surprisingly small. Games-wise, the PS4 certainly has plenty of support: according to Sony Computer Entertainment America CEO Jack Tretton, there are currently over 140 games in development for it, of which 100 will launch in the first year of its existence – around 40 will be PS4 exclusives.A question-mark still remains as to how many games will be available at launch — and that's one area in which the Xbox One may well have the upper hand, as Microsoft showed a slightly more compelling portfolio of full-blown exclusive games at its press conference earlier in the day –  unsurprisingly, given that developer kits for the Xbox One have been with developers longer than their PS 4 counterparts.Despite that, Sony clearly has a much stronger line-up of smaller (and invariably quirkier) download games from indie developers in the pipeline for the PS4 than Microsoft does for the Xbox One.The PS4's top gamesShuhei Yoshida, president of Sony Worldwide Studios, assumed the task of unveiling the big guns which, Sony hopes, will persuade punters to buy PlayStation 4s this Christmas. He kicked off by unveiling The Order: 1886, developed by Ready At Dawn (previously best known for two PSP versions of the God Of War franchise). A steampunk effort set in an alternate Victorian London, it looked intriguingly atmospheric.Yoshida also showed new snippets of the games highlighted at the PS4's reveal: Killzone: Shadow Fall, racing effort Drive Club, cute platform effort Knack and InFamous: Second Son – the latter looked pretty stunning. It's debatable, though, whether any of those count as console-sellers. It appears that we will have to wait a while for Sony's killer IPs, like Uncharted, God Of War, LiitleBigPlanet and Shadow of the Colossus, to make it to the new console.But that shouldn't require too much patience, thanks to ample support from third parties. Ubisoft again showed its hugely impressive Watch Dogs and the pirate-centric Assassin's Creed: Black Flag.Square Enix impressed with a demo of Final Fantasy Versus XIII, and announced that Final Fantasy XV will be coming to the PS4, along with Kingdom Hearts III and the MMO Final Fantasy XIV (which will also be playable on the PS3).Sony teased a Mad Max game, to be published by Warner Bros. Warner Bros# Batman: Arkham Origins also impressed. As at the PS4 reveal, Electronic Arts was absent (even though at its own press conference it confirmed that FIFA 14 will come to the PS4 as well as the Xbox One), but 2K showed a glimpse of NBA 2K14.Sony also announced a "partnership" – currently nebulous but potentially significant – with Bethesda Softworks, the first fruit of which will be a PS4 version of its forthcoming MMO, The Elder Scrolls Online.But the most appealing and exciting game on display was one that will also ship for the Xbox One: Bungie's Destiny. Sony's press conference did at least boast the first Destiny gameplay demo, and the cross between a first-person shooter and MMO (with conspicuous hints of an RPG thrown in) looked innovative and seductively playable.Not just about the big gamesAmid the social networking-driven controversy about its antipathy towards second-hand games, Microsoft faced a separate, less justified accusation of not supporting indie developers. Which certainly isn't a charge you can level at Sony – in recent years, it has conspicuously championed indies (winning a hatful of Baftas for Journey and The Unfinished Swan in the process). And it unveiled an incredibly long list of download indie games under development for the PS4, which will help plug any gaps in the console's launch window games line-up.Those included Transistor, from Bastion developer Supergiant Games, which combined isometric and side-scrolling views; Don't Starve, from Clay Entertainment of Shank fame; Secret Ponchos from Switchblade Monkeys; 17-Bit's open-world retro shooter Galak-Z; Ragtag Studio's zombie sneak-em-up Ray's the Dead; a remake of the much-loved Abe's Oddysee entitled "New 'n' Tasty; and a bizarre effort called Octodad.Sony has been quick to cotton onto the desire among indie developers to innovate and take risks, and that should be a driving force behind the PlayStation 4.Prioritising gamers rather than dogmaAfter Microsoft unleashed a Twitter-storm when it revealed its intentions to kill the second-hand games market in interviews after the Xbox One reveal, then created further confusion with apparent backtracking over whether Kinect would be used as a means of facially recognising users authorised to play its games, and suggested that gamers would at least have to log onto the internet once a day, Sony was expected to follow suit with some form of control over used games being sold on, albeit less harsh and more understandable. The argument went that surely Microsoft would never have taken that particular step without some inkling that Sony would, to an extent, follow suit.But Sony gleefully applied the skewer to Microsoft's discomfort (after Microsoft carefully avoided the subject and didn't even mention Kinect at its press conference).Jack Tretton raised the biggest cheer of E3 so far when he announced: "The PlayStation 4 won't impose any new restrictions on you. The PS4 supports used games – we believe in the model that people embrace today with the PS3. In addition, it doesn't need to be connected: if you enjoy playing single-player games offline, the PS4 won't require you to check in online."At the end of the press conference, Andrew House added a final barb: "Concepts like true consumer ownership and consumer trust are central to everything we do."Those seeking evidence for such assertions could point to the announcement that the popular PlayStation Plus subscription programme, which brings benefits such as discounted and even free games, plus cloud saves, will carry over from the pS3 to the PS4 as is, and will give PS4 owners immediate access to Drive Club PS Plus Edition when the console launches, plus three free download games – Don't Starve, Outlast and Secret Ponchos – in the three months after launch. But the PS4's streaming PS3 backwards-compatibility programme, powered by the Gaikai technology that Sony bought last year, won't be ready until 2014.Microsoft will undoubtedly do some hard thinking about just how determined it really is to outlaw second-hand games, and will fight back in the run-up to the Xbox One's launch. Plus it will make a lot of noise about the quality of its launch-window games portfolio. But by positioning itself as the gamer's friend and asserting that the consumer is still king, even in this connected era, Sony has given the PlayStation 4 the clear upper hand over its deadly rival at this point in the proceedings.
"Parents are going to love this," said Apple's software and services boss Eddy Cue, as he announced the upcoming addition of a Kids category to the company's App Store as part of itsiOS 7 software update.He quickly moved on to the bigger news about iTunes Radio, but for parents and children's app developers alike, the Kids category may have been the most significant announcement of Apple's WWDC keynote session.The company'siOS 7 webpagefleshes the news out, a little. "Now parents and teachers can quickly find apps that are perfect for children. Just visit the new Kids category for a curated selection of age-appropriate apps," it explains.Cue also said during the keynote that parents will be able to search for children's apps by age-range within the category, although it is unclear for now whether Apple's curators will take charge of sorting apps into these age ranges, or whether it will be left to developers at the submission stage.Currently, all iOS apps are assigned an age rating – 4+, 9+, 12+ or 17+ – but a more granular system will be used for the Kids category, judging by the brief demo shown by Cue at WWDC.On a pure discovery level, the new category and search features are welcome news for parents and developers. Currently, children's iOS apps are scattered between the Education, Entertainment, Games and Books categories on the App Store.Apple's editorial staff have created a number of parent-focused promotions around specific themes, and children's apps are often featured in the New &amp; Noteworthy section of the App Store homepage. But the new Kids category is a step on from that.Creating a separate App Store category for kids' apps may have ramifications beyond discovery, though. It could enable Apple to set specific rules for children's apps, such as a maximum limit on the size of individual in-app purchases (i.e.lower than £69.99), and stronger guidance on how analytics and in-app ads are used and explained to parents.What Apple hasn't announced as part of iOS 7 are any device-specific features aimed at children and parents. For example, there's no Kids Mode switch or setting to lock apps like Mail, Safari and Facebook while a child is using the device.Microsoft is the innovator here withWindows Phone 8's Kid's Cornerfeature, which made its debut in 2012. It was a savvy recognition of the growing number of parents whose children are using apps on their smartphones.What Windows Phone is lacking, though, is the quantity and quality of children's apps to capitalise on this feature. iOS has both, with the majority of kid-app developers still releasing on the App Store first, and often exclusively.That's changing slowly – popular children's apps firmToca Boca recently launched its first Android appfor example – but given iOS' status as the first call for many new children's apps, the App Store's new Kids category will be welcomed by developers.Now, their attention will turn to Apple's submission guidelines, to see how recent media coverage of kids overspending on in-app purchases – and keen interest from regulators in the matter – will influence the "curated selection" of apps in the Kids category.
Microsoft has received something of a critical mauling recently, from both industry pundits and gamers alike. Following its unveiling of the next-generation Xbox One at its central HQ in Redmond, Washington last month, the software giant has been slated for sending messages that were mixed and vague at best and not what people wanted to hear at worst.This was mainly because Microsoft focused on making a big deal out of the Xbox One's streaming media functions and its tech specs for most of the reveal. To be frank, the developer seemed more inclined to show off how its console could replace your smart TV and your set-top box than it did to show any new games at all. The reason for this, according to Microsoft's VP of Interactive Entertainment, Chris Lewis, was that the Xbox team wanted to keep its powder dry for E3."It's always tempting to try and say everything all at once, but we felt their was certain logic to us unveiling at the Redmond HQ first – since it's our home," he says. "But [E3] is a more logical place to devote the content to our all-important games line-up. Games define us and have since the first Xbox."In a way, Microsoft has been paying for being transparent. It's true not every piece of news it released was well received, but it was being rather upfront about its tech and policies. It even went as far as to clarify its positions in a rather lengthy blogpost sent out to subscribers. There's been outrage, sure, but at the time of the Xbox One keynote, Sony had yet to tackle many of the issues Microsoft had spoken up about and had made quite a bit of mileage out of not saying much at all."I think what we found was that our open approach with our partners and consumers has served us well in the past," says Lewis. "Our consumers have always been able to rely on us to tell them about being straightforward [about] what's coming and when it's coming.""I think we move away from that policy at our peril," he adds So its E3 keynote was Microsoft's big chance to bring its new console's launch back on track and silence the naysayers, who, despite all the negativity in the last month, actually wanted to be proven wrong. As the lights went down in the Galen Center in downtown LA, there was a palpable sense of giddy anticipation in the room.For the most part, Microsoft didn't disappoint. It came out of the corner swinging, unveiling 13 brand new exclusive titles aimed squarely at core gamers, but which also cast a wide net in terms of taste. Yes, established franchises made an appearance and yes, there were streams of gunplay for shooter fans to lap up. The new iterations of both Forza and Halo were shown off and the racket from the gunplay in Respawn's new IP Titanfall and DICE's Battlefield 4 was quite overpowering – at least, in the case of BF4, when someone finally turned up the audio.But there were also a collection of oddities; among them was a dungeon crawler with beautifully minimalist visuals called Below, a mind-bending games/TV show crossover called Quantum Break and an RPG world building game aimed at the whole family called Project Spark.The goofy, hyper-violent Sunset Overdrive came on like the juiced up illegitimate offspring of Brink, Crackdown and Tex Avery, and D4, the new IP from Deadly Premonition creator Swery65 offered up cel-shaded scenes that were by turns disturbing and intriguing.Most surprisingly, the Kinect sword and sandals hack and slash, Ryse, made a return and, thanks to the fact that developer Crytek has tossed Kinect and given the visuals a polish, it didn't look half bad.Microsoft even managed a sly poke in Sony's eye by opening its keynote with the latest instalment in the Metal Gear Solid series – a franchise that was, at one time, a PlayStation exclusive – and having Hideo Kojima himself say some nice things about their new console.The message was quite simple and direct. It was basically Microsoft tapping up the hardcore. "Gamers," it was saying, "we haven't forgotten you. We want your business and we're prepared to back up that desire by offering you great games to play that you won't find on any other platform."The audience reacted positively throughout – members even chuckled and provided their own sound effects for the trailer of Crimson Dragon when the sound cut out during its screening. Most games were warmly applauded and in the instant in the Halo title where a hooded figure's cowl was thrown back to reveal Master Chief, the whoops from the audience raised the roof.It wasn't all smooth sailing, however; when the Xbox One's retail price of £429 (and $499 in the USA) was announced, an angry murmur rippled through the crowd. This is understandable, as in the last month Microsoft has put it to players that they'll have to take onboard a new attitude towards game ownership and prepare themselves for the notion – and possibly the practice – of consoles that have to always be online. Is a £400-plus retail tag too big an ask on top of that, I ask Lewis."We've always been focused on offering great value," he says. "Talking about the UK specifically – our performance there, right from the first console has increased. We now enjoy a wonderful market share and we have a very technically savvy user base."If you look at what the Xbox One offers in terms of entertainment with games, music, chat channels, browsing, trending – just as a portfolio of an entertainment experience is phenomenal, he says. "So we're confident we're offering great value for money."Only time will tell whether consumers agree with Lewis and Microsoft and we'll have to wait until November to find out. In the meantime, it looks like developers and third-party publishers are set to have their moment in the sun in E3 as they roll out the next generation of video games. And you hear that sound in the distance? That's the sound of critics' and gamers' knives being sharpened all over again …
Apple has unveiled iTunes Radio, an online streaming music radio service which could have up to 300 million users within a year, directly challenging a similar service from Google as well as smaller companies such as Sweden'sSpotify, US-based Pandora and British-basedLast.fm.The company also showed off new iPhone software and new computers in a riposte to critics who have complained that its pace of innovation has slowed."Can't innovate any more my ass," said marketing chief Phil Schiller, announcing a forthcoming Mac Pro desktop computer which will be assembled in the US.The new music service will be available free to hundreds of millions of iPhone and iPad users from this autumn when new software for the devices, called iOS 7, is released.Chief executive Tim Cook was bullish over the position of the iPhone, amid complaints that the company has lost ground to Google's Android mobile software.He pointed to Google statistics showing that the most-used version of Android dates from autumn 2010 to claim that iOS 6, released with the iPhone 5 last year, is the world's most-used mobile operating system.He called the upcoming iOS 7 software "the biggest change to iOS [the software powering the iPhone] since the iPhone".The software uses subtle 3D effects and adds elements such as wireless filesharing between phones as the feature race intensifies.Cook also pointed out that there are already 300 million users of its iTunes service. That means it could steamroller its smaller rivals once it is released beyond the US.Eddy Cue, the software and services chief who inked the rights deals in the US with the major labels including Sony just before the weekend, said it would be available in the US from the autumn, and "other countries will be added over time".That will rely on contracts being drawn up with other music labels and publishers in other countries, but Apple has previously shown its ability to persuade record labels to join in with it – stretching back a decade to the launch of its iTunes Music Store in 2003.Spotify, launched in 2006, has more than six million paying subscribers, while Pandora, started in 2005, has 200 million registered users who use its service for free. Last.fm, owned by CBS, has struggled to make a profit.Apple's stations will be powered by its Genius service, introduced in 2008, which scans users' music libraries to find songs they typically play or own. That gives the company a huge lead in data about user preferences over its smaller rivals.While Spotify has the lead for now in offering offline playlists and social elements, Apple's service is effectively cheaper – with no limits announced on listening time per month, unlike Spotify which has cut back on free listening per month due to the licensing costs associated with songs.Apple will aim to cover those costs by selling ads, though people who pay the annual $29 (£19) fee for its cloud music storage service will get an ad-free version.Oleg Fomenko, chief executive and founder of the mobile music discovery serviceBloom.fm, said: "Apple's vast user-base will undoubtedly guarantee healthy traffic, and as such the service will be an attractive proposition for advertisers, but will this create significant and sustainable revenue for rights holders and artists?"We've heard talk of the major labels securing attractive deals and healthy revenue shares from Apple but the standalone viability of an ad-funded model still remains to be proven."
A couple of the next-big-IPs for the upcoming generation of consoles are "persistent world" games. Counting both Bungie's Destiny and (from the sounds of things) Respawn's Titanfall among their number, these are titles containing vast gaming worlds that are both lasting and dynamic, and which offer myriad activities for players to enjoy. They're essentially the same size of the worlds present in MMO games, but they don't require a subscription fee and they're built from the ground up to be shared multiplayer experiences.With The Crew, Ubisoft just became the latest publisher to throw its hat into the persistent world ring. Developed by Ivory Tower and Ubisoft Reflections, The Crew puts players behind the wheels of numerous automobile dream machines and then cuts them loose on a gargantuan map of the USA.The size of the game's environment is the first asset that smacks players in the gob; apparently around 5,000sq km in size, The Crew's map features full open-world cities – we're told the city of New York alone is the size of Liberty City from GTA IV – and all of the back-roads, mountain passes, arid deserts and lush woodland that exist in between them.It's not to a life-size scale, obviously, although the developers claim if you fancy a drive from New York to Los Angeles it'll take you a good few hours. The guiding principle with regards to the game's massive world was "if you can see it, you should be able to drive to it."The second blow the game delivers is in the form of its stunning visuals. Driving games such as Forza and Gran Turismo aren't exactly slouches in the eye-candy department, but The Crew is on another level altogether.The frame rate is as smooth as butter, but it's the level detail that looks like it's spilled from a car manufacturer's EPK that ultimately arrests one's eyes. Sun bounces off muscle car bonnets and players can catch the reflection of cityscapes in the glossed paintwork of a Lambourghini. Each city also feels unique and distinct; New York's mixes multi-lane wide roads and narrow streets residing below towering skyscrapers that point accusingly at an overcast sky, while Miami is a sun-kissed playground of beaches, bridges and boulevards.So The Crew looks fantastic, it offers a ton of space to run around in and, as one might expect, its map is filled to bursting with race events. As you'd also expect from a game of this type, The Crew is an arcade racer with an RPG aspect bolted to it, which allows players to unlock new cars, racing features and automobile customisation options for every task they complete. Customisation, by the way, isn't limited to paint jobs and huge fenders, players can split cars into 19 component parts and create tricked out racers using a variety of engines, wheel-bases and racing foils.But what really sells The Crew is the ease with which players can pair up to wreak mayhem on its roads. At its core, The Crew has been built to allow players to team up with friends or complete strangers on the fly. As they barrel through the world's map, they'll inevitably encounter other drivers and synching their game with them is done with the touch of a button. Players can add up to four members to their crew and they can then engage in team battles of both the co-op and the competitive variety.In the demo I was privy to, I witnessed four 'raid' cars – that's off-road vehicles outfitted with armour – battle each other to cause the most damage to a Humvee the team were trying to run off the road. The winner was awarded XP, a leaderboard medal and some extra armour plating for their car. We were shown the beginning of a competitive race in which four supercars went head to head with four muscle cars tricked out with N0S but nothing more substantial than the set-up was witnessed.Given the size and scope of The Crew's environment, Ubisoft has tweaked the gameplay to cut through tedium and resolve potentially malignant emergent gameplay. For example, if you're a sod who plans to ruin a co-op mission from the outside, tough; Ubisoft says that the moment the players activate a co-op mission, they're effectively locked off from any other player running rampant through The Crew's persistent world. Not only that, they can fast-travel away from any annoying pillocks who decide to play The Crew primarily as a way to cause grief to other players. Given the size of the game's map, this feature is an absolute boon for those who simply want to carve through the game's content.The game's matchmaking algorithm also works hard to suggest team-mates (and opponents) who aren't already online friends by region, language, skill level and preferred style of play. This means there's less chance of muscle car aficionados being paired up with the Nissan Skyline drifter crowd.There is, however, a catch: players need to be connected online at all times in order for the game to work. This doesn't mean it can't be played solo, it just means it won't work without an internet connection. While this may sound offputting to some players, it's also what seems to be on the cards for the future of gaming.In the end, The Crew's hardest ask is maybe its 'always-online' requirement as it looks to be simply the next stage in evolution of the open-world arcade racer. This is Need For Speed: Most Wanted going widescreen. It'll only fail if players aren't connected in sufficient numbers to help it sell by the truckload.
