Three million. That is the number of levels created by players for the originalLittleBigPlanetsince its release two years ago. Not all of them are any good, of course, and a depressing proportion involve crudely drawn genitalia, but it's still some achievement. Designed to channel creativity rather than bloodlust for a change,LittleBigPlanetwas like nothing else. It looked like a patchwork quilt, played like a sort of syrupyMarioand had charming narration by Stephen Fry. But has Sackboy done enough to make the numbers add up the second time around?It's immediately noticeable thatLittleBigPlanet 2is very different. There's so much to do now beyond running and jumping and it's transformed the nature and lifespan of the game. There are new tools – hats that shoot cake, a grapple hook, even controllable robots. It morphs effortlessly from platformer to top-down shooter to racer to puzzler, and although it doesn't always get everything absolutely right, its ability to change at a moment's notice never ceases to amaze. At its best, it really is fantastic.This is illustrated to great effect in the hands-on DIY department. The problem with the originalLittleBigPlanet's level creator was that it required players to work around its foibles in order to fashion what was actually wanted.LittleBigPlanet&nbsp;2works with you instead. Thanks to the valuable lessons learned from thousands of players, developer Media Molecule now knows people want to build giant calculators or musical trucks or elaborate marriage-proposal levels and has made it far easier for them to do so. AI-powered robots, vehicle templates and much more make it possible to create little games in themselves rather than just shonky recreations of level 1-1 fromSuper Mario Bros.Whether you dabble in these creative aspects or not,LittleBigPlanet&nbsp;2is still an important game. Despite the underlying platforming problems – Sackboy's floaty jumps, the occasionally sticky scenery – the single-player adventure has enough charm and replayability to keep anyone busy for a while and with the addition of friends it becomes one of the best shared experiences in gaming. It could benefit from more team-oriented puzzles, but, as with its predecessor, the most exciting thing aboutLittleBigPlanet 2isn't the game as it stands today, but what will become of it once those much-improved creative tools are let loose upon the imaginations of gamers across the world.
Putting you in control of a microscopic vehicle injected into the arteries of an infected body,MicroBotoffers a strange spin on the decades-old genre that is the top-down 2D shooter. The vehicle in question, which swims through the internal gloop of the unspecified host body that contains the main game's 20&nbsp;levels, sports two customisable robotic tentacles with which to fend off the aggressive infection.Attaching guns, blades and other weaponry to the appendages, swim your way through the body, battling the currents that flow through the veins as armed micro-organisms attack from all sides, hounding the ship with projectiles and charging in for close combat. Fortunately the ability to fire in all directions without changing trajectory makes this seemingly impossible scenario survivable.It's a very simple game to learn, and defined by a strange slowness atypical of the genre and somewhat fitting for the eerie setting. Although lacking the frantic energy that makes its contemporaries so engaging, the methodical pace allows it to stand out as a title that is, unusually, alternately unnerving and relaxing. And, while it will feel rather slow for seasoned shooter fans,MicroBotis certainly worth a try if you're overwhelmed by the intensity of its infamous genre-mateGeometry Wars.
Battlefield: Bad Company 2stood out as one of the premier shooters of 2010, its release early in the year overshadowed toward the end by the Sturm und Drang ofCOD: Black OpsandMedal of Honor, so it's good to see  the title given another lease of life at the beginning of 2011 in the form of this Vietnam upgrade.Rather than a simple add-on pack, with extra maps and weapons,B:BC2 Vietnamraises the bar further with improved gut-wrenching visuals, stunning surround sound and a classic 60s soundtrack to immerse you in the action. The same four classes of squad-based team play remain, with Soldiers, Medics, Engineers and Snipers offering laugh-out-loud banter between characters, but there are also six new vehicles and 15 new weapons with which to play.The four new sprawling multiplayer maps are sublime, requiring awareness of your surroundings and with frequent bottlenecks leading to intense firefights, although annoyingly, it still lacks an online co-op mode. Most significantly, however, the Vietnam maps encourage close combat, in contrast toB:BC2's sniper-friendly terrain. There are still opportunities to snipe, but with destructible trees, barricades and buildings, the chance to get up close and personal only heightens the tension and enjoyment.Vietnamsuffers from the familiar graphical glitches of the original and online stats can still occasionally go awol, but this is a marvellous addition to a brilliant game.
Extra downloadable content has swiftly become the norm for modern game releases, acting both to extend their lifespan and as a cash cow for developers. Intriguingly, these two recent releases lie at either end of the spectrum.Star Wars: The Force Unleashed&nbsp;2took barely six hours to complete, so charging 79p (PS3) for the extra hour's content of DLC inEndorfeels a bit like selling a shirt, then demanding extra for the collar. To be fair, it is cheap and the "What if?" scenario, placing evil protagonist Starkiller into the original trilogy of films to slay Leia, Han Solo et al is briefly entertaining – it just grates that you have to pay at all.In contrast,Case Westis a stand-alone release – there's no need to ownDead Rising 2(Capcom, PS3, 360, PC, cert 18) for this DLC uniting protagonists from the two main games, Chuck Greene and the eponymous Frank West in three missions of co-op fun.The lack of an offline multiplayer option is a shame. Although the computer controlled sidekick works well, online is best, allowing for the creative collaborative slaughter of the shuffling hordes with whatever instruments of death come to hand. Both players have to stay in the same area, but as the sections explored are large and chock full of brain-eaters this isn't a problem.Gameplay remains largely unchanged, although not having to escort survivors all the way back to a safe house is a welcome development. It's an encouraging sneak at what may be to come from a sequel, and priced sensibly at around £7 worth of points.
Christopher Baker spent Boxing Day as a VJ – video jockey – for a warehouse party in Liverpool. Among the items being used was a Microsoft Kinect controller, normally used to play Xbox 360 games such asKinectimalsorKinect Sports. But Baker wasn't playing games: the system was rigged up to a computer running software to interpret the movement data being gathered by the system. The software Baker had written monitored how the clubbers were moving and used that to affect the sound, creating a feedback loop between dancers and sound. "It was popular with the clubbers because they could interact directly with the sound and were immersed in the experience," he says.Baker, who works at Apposing, a mobile app development company based in Liverpool, is one among hundreds of people who have embraced the Kinect not for its potential in gaming (though that is substantial), but because, unusually for an Xbox accessory, its outputs can be put to different – and in some cases revolutionary – uses. In fact, the Kinect may turn out to be the device that ushers in an age of smart machines that can be rigged together and react to humans in useful ways.Even on its own, the Kinect is an impressive piece of technology. As Microsoft's tagline goes: "You are the controller." It uses an infrared sensor with cameras to sense the movements of players in front of it. Stand in front of a Kinect linked to an Xbox 360, wave your hand and a hand icon on the screen moves too. Start playing a game and it will know if you've jumped for a spike shot in beach volleyball, hit a topspin or slice shot in table tennis or thrown a jab in boxing. No wires, nothing – the machine knows. It's an experience that is at first strange and then exhilarating.This has made the £130 Kinect an incredible success story. It has sold 8&nbsp;million units worldwide since its release in November, making it the fastest-selling consumer electronics item ever, faster than the iPad (the previous record-holder) and its predecessor, the DVD player. There's also plenty of potential for the number to grow: 50 million Xbox 360s have been sold worldwide and the Kinect will work on every one of them. Microsoft's ambitions go beyond even that: it seems that some future PC games will be controllable by it. And there are around a billion PCs on the planet.For Microsoft, best known for its Windows and Office products, which generate billions of dollars of profit every year, the success of Kinect will be a welcome relief. Its entertainment &amp; devices division (E&amp;D), which makes the Xbox, had to take a $1bn write-off to manufacturing failures of the Xbox 360 and has barely bumped along in profit while sales of the console trailed Nintendo's cheaper, simpler Wii for years. But Kinect's appearance has come as E&amp;D's profitability has solidified, even if, at $382m in the most recent quarter, it is only a 10th of that from Windows or Office. It could, in fact, turn it into a new leg of profits for Microsoft.The Kinect solves a problem that has troubled computing experts for years: how to give machines useful vision. Ron Forbes of Microsoft's interactive entertainment business says it needed a different approach: "We knew early on [in the Kinect's development] that we had to invent a new way of approaching this problem, one that works like the human brain does." The infrared projector and sensor incorporated into the front of the device turn the world into shades of black (far away) and white (close), which it scans at 30 frames per second and analyses to find the moving parts of the image, by comparing differences between frames. These data are fed into a system tuned to recognise parts of the human body, guessing what moving part is a hand or foot or leg and estimating the movements of each.The data are then fitted around a schema of a 20-joint skeleton (hands, wrists, elbows, shoulders, feet, ankles, knees, hips, plus two points in the lower back, and the neck and head), allowing you and a partner to be tracked in 3D, across a range of 1 to 3.5 metres, and an angle of 57 degrees horizontally and 43 degrees vertically. The Kinect also has a microphone array so it can react to voice commands.Games designers have built sports, fitness and dance games where gestures decide what happens, but it's the "hacks", not the games, that have people like Baker so excited. The open-source software developed to interpret Kinect output – to a standard USB plug – has already been used for dozens of projects: a team at a US university has createda miniature helicopter that flies itselfand avoids obstacles; another has made a "virtual piano" on the floor (you play it with your feet); the multiplayer role-playing gameWorld of Warcraftcan now be playedsimply by using gestures, thanks to the University of Southern California's Institute for Creative Technologies, which has written a special software "toolkit". The institute has bigger plans for the future: medical games to help people regain the use of their limbs after a stroke, indoor exercise games and so on.Even more impressive is the work done by a team at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), which amplified the hand detectionto recognise hands and fingersand then linked it to a program for scrolling pictures, giving something of the feeling ofMinority Report, the film in which Tom Cruise waved computer files and videos around in his search for crime suspects. Watching theMIT videois eerie if you have seen the film – it's as though the future is unfolding before your eyes.Yet at first Microsoft seemed unwilling to let people dig under the surface of its software. At the launch on 4 November, it told the news site CNet: "Microsoft does not condone the modification of its products… with Kinect, Microsoft built in numerous hardware and software safeguards designed to reduce the chances of product tampering. Microsoft will continue to make advances in these types of safeguards and work closely with law enforcement and product safety groups to keep Kinect tamper-resistant."That didn't prevent two developers and a Google engineer putting up a $4,000 bounty for anyone who could write software that would work independently of the Xbox and so let it be used for more than just games. As they pointed out, people had done much the same with Nintendo's Wii, which uses the widely available Bluetooth communications standard, to create some interesting hacks.Within a fortnight,  Alex Kipman, the Xbox's "director of incubation", was insisting the Kinect was open by design and that Microsoft was excited about the idea of people designing new applications for it; the company seems to have initially misunderstood what sort of hacking was going on and thought that people were opening up the innards of the machine to get at its proprietary (and highly valuable) chips and software, rather than simply playing around with its output.At that, the floodgates opened. By 14 December, there were "official" open-source drivers – the essential software that lets a computer understand what the stream of incoming data refers to – and the list of hacks is growing almost by the hour.Baker, who has a longstanding interest in graphic design and motion graphics, is thrilled at its potential: "What would have once taken weeks of careful editing can now be generated live with software that costs the user little more than some of their own time and its patient application."And the future? The sky's the limit, Baker suggests. "Gestural interface will change the way we use information devices for the young, old and disabled and allow interactivity to take place in locations where it would once have been impossible."There remain plenty of new areas that the Kinect could be used in. Microsoft is still keeping its voice detection system under wraps – this seems to be done inside the Xbox 360 – which has dismayed hackers who want to get closer to it.The most encouraging thing about the Kinect for the wider use of computing is that it is not the result of a surge in computer processing power. The Xbox 360 first appeared in late 2005 and that's "veteran" by today's computing standards. Microsoft says the processing required for Kinect takes less than 10% of the Xbox's computing power. This means that running the Kinect takes comparatively little computing power by modern standards, so its technology could be incorporated into machines of the future, which would be able to recognise us (and identify us by the distances between our joints), watch us moving around and react appropriately.Imagine an old people's home where Kinects could spot someone falling over or someone who hadn't moved for a long time. Or perhaps a door-opening system that would react to your gestures to open it: as it recognises an individual's unique 20-joint shape, only the right person making the right gesture gets in.The possibilities are endless. And for Microsoft, it's all profit.
ilomilo, Xbox Live ArcadeIlo and Milo are two stuffed toys that you must reunite to complete each level. Achieving that involves navigating 3D mazes of cubes suspended in space, which you can traverse on any surface, switching between perpendicular planes using strategically positioned scraps of red carpet. Further complexity is supplied by portable blocks that flip you over 180˚, springs, expanding bridges, lifts and switches. Each level also contains three "safkas" – miniature creatures that unlock bonus levels if you can find enough of them. The quality of its puzzles goes a long way towards making amends, progressing from welcoming to mind-bendingly difficult in a subtle way which means that you barely notice puzzles are suddenly taking half an hour each rather than a couple of minutes. If you can put up with saccharine cuteness being rammed down your gizzard foie gras-style, ilomilo is a solid puzzle game.SouthEnd Interactive, 800 Microsoft Points (£6.80)World Of Goo, iPadWorld Of Goo.In World Of Goo, your job is to direct a seething mass of blobs into an exit pipe. To do it, you tease the blobs into a wobbling structure of goo that lets their fellow blobs flow home. Progress is hampered by gravity and numerous obstacles, demanding escalating levels of invention and precision when it comes to turning the ever-mobile blobs into a solid enough tower to gain their freedom. Having achieved iconic status on PC and later on Wii, it's a staggering achievement that the iPad iteration of World Of Goo feels like the best of the lot. Being able to drag the goo directly with your fingers makes the necessary fine adjustment second nature, so that when your quivering edifice collapses into itself for the 15th time, it always feels like your fault rather than a problem with the controls. While undoubtedly brilliant in previous incarnations, World Of Goo on iPad  is pretty much perfect.2D Boy, £5.99Games news: ToyletsToylets.Between the internet, mobile telephony and TV, it's possible to endure relatively few moments in life when you're not being actively entertained. Getting rid of those last fleeting media-free black spots is an important focus for science and Sega's most recent announcement presages the closing of one such gap. Using specially designed pressure-sensitive urinals with LCD screens, Toylets will make interactive entertainment out of peeing. Controlled by direction and flow rate, games include Mannekin Pis that benchmarks the power of your golden shower, the self explanatory Graffiti Eraser, Milk From Nose, which transposes the strength of your stream into a jet of nasal milk directed at opponents representing previous users of the urinal and The North Wind And Her, where urinary pressure is translated into a breeze, gently lifting the skirt of an anime maiden.
Someone Else Will Put It BackEver been shopping in a supermarket and dumped a packet of biscuits in the freezer cabinet or some bananas in the pet food aisle? Of course you have. Do you remember why? Probably not. Here, the moments when people unthinkingly discard a random item from their supermarket trolleys are dissected in search of meaning. "Do you ever wonder what makes someone dump a bag of popcorn in with the diced beef?" they ask. "Or swap a six pack of Fanta for some bleach?" The discovery of an Inception DVD misfiled alongside some beef jerky is explained thus: "It takes ages to sit through and is incredibly difficult to swallow, and as for the beef jerky …"Herb LesterHerb Lester. Photograph: Garson ByerHerb Lester Associates' main activity is making beautiful maps of overlooked aspects of London and beyond, and in doing so they have incorporated into their business plan wandering around forgotten streets looking for interesting stuff. To this end their meanderings take them reporting on a button badge museum in Chicago, the beautiful Victorian Govanhill Baths in Glasgow and a taxidermy exhibition in Paris, as well as specialist and stylish shops like John Simons. Elsewhere they reveal a wonderful selection of found ephemera including a 1968 "good girl guide".Blog roll: LondonSpitalfields Life.Spitalfields LifeVintage crime mingles with modern street life, local characters, photography and news. Wonderful.Fresh Eyes On LondonDaily photoblog with a keen eye for the beautiful and bizarre.Tired Of London, Tired Of LifeOne thing to do every day that'll stop you getting tired of the big smoke.London ReconnectionsTransport projects around London, aerial shots and the blockade of Blackfriars.853Latest news from south-east London, home of father time and spectacular water leaks.One Bus At A Time"The ladies who bus" are travelling on every bus in London from start to end.What we learned on the web this weekBeard hat.If youcan't grow a beard, wear a beard hatRich peopleare different to you and meNapoleon didn'thave a Napoleon complexHow tomake a decent cup of teaWhere tosend a message to future youWomen findsalad hystericalThe 100greatest movie insultsToilet paperhoarding is so coolThe poetryof menswearWhat makesAngry Birds addictive
'Less emissions, more emotions", says Seat about its&nbsp;expanding Ecomotive series. Shouldn't that be fewer&nbsp;emissions? And&nbsp;we'll see about those emotions; I'm&nbsp;feeling only mild indifference. Sometimes marketing people should shut up and stop pretending people are going to fall passionately in love with their cars, especially if&nbsp;the car is as unlovable as this one. Instead they should concentrate on&nbsp;the reasons you might buy them.Which in this case are those fewer emissions: 99g/km, in fact, which means your tax disc is free. And you're allowed to feel slightly smug about yourself – in the way that drivers of Toyota Priuses (Prii?) do,&nbsp;but this smugness comes cheaper, because this car costs less than aPrius.It hardly uses any diesel: 74mpg is the official combined figure, but&nbsp;I&nbsp;think I did better than that. I&nbsp;drove from London to Staffordshire and back, and it cost me about&nbsp;7p. It's got one of those functions that tells you how many&nbsp;miles per gallon you're doing, and it's hard not to become obsessed: 74, 86, 200... 200&nbsp;miles per gallon! OK, so I'm going downhill, with the wind behind me, and&nbsp;so slowly I've brought the M1 to&nbsp;a standstill. But, hey, I'm saving the planet. Well, destroying it more gently. And somewhere, much farther north, the polar bears should&nbsp;be dancing for joy.All cars should have massive mpg displays, by law. Or, better still, they should tell you how much money you're spending per mile, because for most people saving a bit of cash is an even bigger incentive than saving the world. We'd be cutting our emissions, as well as being richer and happier (maybe there is a little bit of emotion involved after all). So many problems solved in one&nbsp;masterstroke.What's it like to drive? Well, the&nbsp;Leon Ecomotive couldn't really&nbsp;be any less interesting. Put&nbsp;your foot down and nothing happens. There's no perceptible increase in speed until Birmingham (if you're coming from London). Take your foot off, and it very slowly&nbsp;slows down again, because of&nbsp;its aerodynamics and its low resistance tyres and what have you. Actually its low down-ness and slippery shape do give it an almost&nbsp;sporty look, but I have driven&nbsp;canal boats that are more exciting, honestly.That really doesn't matter, though, because that's not what this car is about. It's about that number – the mpg one. And the free tax. At those things, it's brilliant. All it needs is a&nbsp;brilliant slogan. Here's one: "Less&nbsp;emissions, fewer money." They can have that, on me.Seat Leon EcomotivePrice£16,840Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.5 secondsAverage consumption74.3mpgCO2 emissions99g/kmEco rating9/10Bound forGreenland
Photo bySham Hardyon Flickr.Some rights reservedWindows Phone 7 has failed to set LG's world alight - although the company still has high hopes for Microsoft's new mobile operating system.Microsoft has said that it sold 1.5m of the phones into retail channels, but how many of those have emerged into users' hands is a different matter which hasn't been vouchsafed. Estimates back in November, a month after launch,based on Facebook connectionssuggested 117,000 handsets actually in use.Steve Ballmer in hisCES speechnotably did give sales figures for the Xbox Kinect - a staggering 8m sold in 50 days - but none for Windows Phone 7.Now LG has added to the voices who think WP7 could do better: "From an industry perspective we had a high expectation, but from a consumer point of view the visibility is less than we expected," James Choi, marketing strategy and planning team director of LG Electronicstold Pocket Lintat CES.But he still has high hopes: "What we feel is that some people believe that some operating systems, mainly Google, are extremely complicated for them. But Windows Phone 7 is very intuitive and easy to use... For tech guys like us it might be a little bit boring after a week or two, but there are certain segments that it really appeals to. We strongly feel that it has a strong potential even though the first push wasn't what everyone expected."Interestingly, LG wants to persist with WP7 because it doesn't want its portfolio overbalanced with Android phones - something that operators feel too, because they don't necessarily want only to be offering Android handsets.Don't though think that a slow start means WP7 is dead in the water. Microsoft certainly has the patience and the cash to keep pushing it for a long time yet. The question is what constitutes "success" for WP7 - what market share, what number of handsets? - and what is acceptable; and also what measures would be taken if WP7 sales fall below targets.MeanwhileBusiness Insider has been wrangling some graphsand numbers to look at which platform the booming growth of Android has actually hurt. Turns out that according to their numbers (interlaced withsome from Horace Dedlu at Asymco) the real loser in the US from Android's growth isn't the iPhone, which has been seeing steady growth in subscriptions (only on AT&amp;T, of course, which limits its ability to command market share; the addition of Verizon will surely make a difference there).Instead, it's RIM, which has been seeing its subscriptions flatline since June and turn downwards since September through to November. (Remember, this is for the US.) Interesting to note too that the growth of iPhone subscriptions at AT&amp;T outstrips that of Android subscriptions at AT&amp;T. One feels a hint there that people shopping for new smartphones at Verizon are either looking for a renewal of their RIM contract, or else jumping from a BlackBerry to a nice touchscreen Android phone. In which case, the addition of the iPhone to Verizon is going to hurt RIM even more.Now, RIM has recently been putting out its roadmap for the year ahead, which seems to have pushed its shares up to an eight-month high. But others who are delving into its numbers see less good things ahead.Mobileopportunity has avery subtle analysis of what's happening to RIM's business:"Since fiscal 2003 (when it turned profitable), RIM has grown from $500m revenue to over $15 billion. That's 30X growth in eight years. The BlackBerry subscriber base has grown from 500,000 people to about 50 million. Throughout that period, the company's net income has hovered at between 15% and 22% of revenue."This is one of the most impressive business success stories of the last decade, and most CEOs in any industry would kill to have that sort of results. Considering how much turmoil there is in the smartphone market, RIM's senior managers must feel extremely proud of their success, and more than a bit bewildered that people keep criticizing them."OK. So why are you criticising them? Because, he says, you have to look past those. And if you look at thenet new subscribers per quarter, you find it peaking two quarters ago, and heading down (which would agree with that Verizon data from Business Insider); and the graph for "new subscribers added per unit sold" is heading downwards too - the latter meaning that RIM isn't recruiting new users anything like as well as it did. And graphs and surveys keep suggesting that people who are looking to buy a new smartphone aren't, on the whole, thinking of getting a RIM.All signs of concern for RIM.
Given the growth in mobile and tablet gaming over the past year, it is no surprise that gaming's royalty has joined the party too. Big brands such as Fifa and Assassin's Creed are already represented on the iPad, and now Lara Croft has joined them.Guardian of Light originally appeared on the Xbox 360 and PS3, and this iPad conversion does a solid job of replicating those – at least initially. It helps that the game is less graphically ambitious than the recent Tomb Raider games. From an isometric viewpoint, the iPad graphics do a good job of depicting the atmospheric locales of the game – even if, understandably, they fall short of the more powerful home console versions.The plot is typical sub-Indiana Jones nonsense – something about demons, mirrors and treasure – but it does set up a vital gameplay element: co-op play. Unlike the traditional solitary Tomb Raider games, Guardian of Light is built for two players and co-op is key. The puzzles usually need two players to solve – though, in a nice touch, they change if you are playing solo – and there are some decent head scratchers later in the game.Equipment is cleverly used as well. Lara can use her grappling hook while her colleague, Totec, uses his spear. On the consoles the two-player action made the game, but connectivity can be an issue on the iPad. Crashing can be a problem, but when the game works, playing with two player is definitely the way to go.The controls use the increasingly common twin controller approach. While this makes sense on an Xbox 360 pad, it is far less responsive on an iPad. The controls generally lack the accuracy you need, especially later in the game when the enemies come thick and fast. The jump and evade buttons are often tricky to reach in fast situations and the whole thing feels more cumbersome than it should. There are other issues, too. Grappling – a key part of the game – is unnecessarily fiddly, while even the basic shooting can be erratic.This is a shame as the core of the game is well worth playing. The puzzles work well while the combat is actually far more satisfying than the standard Tomb Raider games. Scoring becomes addictive thanks to the nicely sized levels, and as a reinvention of the classic Tomb Raider games, Guardian of Light is a success.Well, on the Xbox 360 and PS3 anyway. The cumbersome controls make the iPad version less essential and given the quality of the game on other formats this can only feel like a missed opportunity.• Game reviewed on iPad
PlayStation space marines, you can cancel your defection to a rival console planet: Mass Effect has come to PS3. This re-release of the previously Xbox and PC-only RPG comes ahead of the multi-platform arrival of Mass Effect 3 this winter, which means that Sony types have got most of the year to get the hang of being Commander Shepard on a universe-saving mission.Reckon that's enough time? Wait until you've tried the game: deep like a black hole and with a similarly powerful gravitational hold on you, Mass Effect 2 is the kind of life-devouring entity that Shepard would usually be trying to dispatch from the nearest airlock.Mass Effect 2 launches mid-action, with a breath-catchingly dramatic disaster on the SSV Normandy. It looks terrific – there's a noticeble step up in the quality of the graphics from Xbox to PS3 – and the game almost immediately gives you a perfect sci-fi moment. As Shepard heads to the bridge to rescue the pilot, Joker, you enter an area where the hull has been breached and the Normandy is open to space. Stars shine hard through the vacuum, the sound drops back to Shepard's ragged breathing, and there's no doubt at all that this is about you facing off against the vastness and emptiness of space.Actually, it's not quite true that ME2 starts mid-action: to help out newcomers to the series, there's a DLC section that lets you make some of the choices that would have formed your character in the first Mass Effect. PC and Xbox players had the option to import the Shepard they made and nurtured in the first game (ME is big on customisation and permanence), so the DLC is some compensation for that.But even if you choose to skip it and head straight to the main story, you'll still get to fiddle around with your Shepard's abilities and appearance until you make something you're happy with (or, possibly, something that looks so unsettlingly like yourself that you have to go back and start all over again). Shep can be male or female, a crack soldier or a biotics (that's psychic powers) expert, a war hero or a fractured sole survivor of a previous campaign – it's all up to you, and as you proceed through the story, you'll make more choices that contribute to your "Paragon" or "Renegade" status and influence the way other characters react to you.The DLC also gives you the chance to bone up on the story, so newcomers don't need to spendalltheir in-game conversations for the first two hours flicking the dialogue options to "investigate" and getting the other characters to give you some exposition. (Short story: all organic life in the universe is under threat from something called the Reapers, and Shepard has been resurrected by human supremacist group Cerberus to lead the world-saving effort. How much faith you put in a group that's official considered a terrorist outfit, and its sinister leader the Illusive Man, is entirely your decision.)Not that you'll ever regret stopping to chat. Mass Effect 2 is populated with some of the most engaging, well-acted space people you could hope to meet, and the script has been carefully designed to make clunking non-sequiturs a vanishingly rare occurrence. As you tour planets and space stations, assembling a crack team of galaxy saviours and meeting all manner of strange and sometimes sexy aliens, you'll also find endless sidequests and subplots to get drawn into. Even if you don't choose to take most of them on, their very existence helps to bolster the idea of the Mass Effect world as a functioning universe.Because that's what makes Mass Effect 2 great. Not the outstanding action, the compelling story, the huge depth of interaction, or any of the other ways in which the game demonstrates its outrageous surfeit of quality. It's because this is a game so coherent, you start to believe that you could actually live in it. Which is a good thing, because you'll almost certainly end up doing so.• Game reviewed on PS3
I need powerful (quadcore?) but ultraportable laptop with great battery life within the $1,000 price range. I am doing more video news these days, and need a machine that can handle the editing better on the go. People have suggested the MacBook Pro, but I'm a PC girl and that just makes me shudder! Any recommendations?Sylvie BarakAs I'm sure you know, this is not an easy one. Ultraportables with long battery life tend to have relatively slow processors that don't consume much power, while quadcore laptops intended for video editing and gaming tend to be heavy and have little in the way of battery life. Machines that are both ultraportable and powerful can be expensive, like the Sony Vaio Z series (the VPC-Z11Z9E/B costs £2,250). You will have to compromise somewhere, and it may turn out to be balancing battery life and your budget.On the good side, Intel's latest Core microprocessors deliver significant advances in the processing power that you need for video editing, and better integrated graphics. The Core i5 and Core i7 versions will automatically overclock themselves to tackle processor-intensive jobs, a feature Intel calls Turbo Boost. There have been further improvements in the Sandy Bridge versions that Intel launched at this month's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.These second-generation Core iX chips have much improved on-chipHD Graphics 3000graphics and – perhaps even better, from your point of view –Quick Sync Video. Intel claims that this built-in hardware acceleration doubles the speed at which HD videos can be converted for handheld devices, when compared with first-generation Core chips. If you want to convert video files for uploading to YouTube and similar services, Quick Sync Video should be a boon. It could therefore be worth hanging on for an affordable laptop with a Sandy Bridge Core i5.The current PC that I think comes closest to what you want is the ultraportable Toshiba Portégé R700, which is available in numerous models at fairly low starting prices. The US website lists the Portégé R705-P40 with a 2.66/3.2GHz Core i5-460M (for mobile) processor at $929.99, and it's frankly not worth paying the extra for a 520M or 560M. That gets you a PC with a matt 13.3in screen, 4GB of memory, 500GB hard drive, DVD SuperMulti drive, and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium. Weight is about 3.2 pounds and quoted battery life is "up to 8 hours" for a 6-cell battery, though 9-cell versions are available. It also stays amazingly cool when in use. The drawbacks are the speed of the hard drive (5400RPM) and the lack of a separate graphics chip.Models in the UK catalogue could be less attractive because here Toshiba offers mostly cheaper Core i3 processors, skimps on memory (often fitting 2GB instead of 4GB), and installs 32-bit instead of 64-bit Windows 7. The company tells me that you can install the 64-bit version free by using the key on the PC, whereas you couldn't downgrade from 64-bit to 32-bit. Either way, a Portégé R700-183 with a 2.66/3.2GHz Core i5-560M, 2GB of memory and 320GB (7200RPM) hard drive lists at £1,009. You can shop around for the best spec for your budget and needs.Hewlett-Packard's 14.1in brushed aluminium dm4-1050ea is also worth a look. It has a slightly slower 2.26GHz Core i5-430M processor and 3GB or 4GB of memory, SuperMulti DVD, and a 320GB hard drive. It weighs a fraction under 2kg and offers about 6.5 hours of battery life. The appeal is that it's solidly made and looks good value at about £600. The American version, the dm4-1060us, goes for about $725.Another alternative is the strikingly curvy Samsung SF310-S03UK, which costs from about £750. This has a 13.3in screen, 2.53GHz Core i5-460M processor, 4GB of memory, SuperMulti DVD and a 320GB (5400RPM) hard drive. It's slightly heavier than the HP at 2.06kg, and the battery life is quoted as "up to five hours", but it includes an Nvidia GeForce 310M graphics chip. At CES, Samsung also showed a next generation model targeted at the latest MacBook Airs. The Samsung ZX310 will offer Sandy Bridge versions of the Core i5 and i7 chips, 128GB and 256GB SSD drives, and long battery life in a 1.3kg package for prices yet to be announced.These Core i5 machines cost less than even the cheapest 13.3in MacBook Pros, which have old 2.4GHz or 2.66GHz Core 2 Duo processors for £1,020 and £1,276 respectively, though you can also get a white plastic MacBook at £867 with 2GB, or £949 with 4GB. You're not giving up anything in terms of hard drive speed – the Macs have 250GB and 350GB 5400RPM drives – and, at 2.04kg, the Macs are no lighter. Screen resolutions are similar: the Macs offer a native 1280 x 800 pixels compared with 1366 x 768 on the PCs.However, the Macs have integrated Nvidia GeForce 320M graphics (integrated because they share main memory) instead of Intel HD graphics, and the 320M can fully decode H.264, VC-1, MPEG-2, and MPEG-4 video; you'd need a Sandy Bridge processor to get similar integrated graphics performance. You are also losing some battery life – Mac OS X is more power-efficient than Windows 7, and the 13.3in Macs run for up to 10 hours – and a FireWire port.I'd probably go for the cheap option, the £600-ish HP dm4. But if you're willing to spend £1,000/$1,000, the Toshiba Portégé R700 gives you the performance of a fast Core i5 in a much lighter machine with Mac-like battery life (8-9 hours). Either way, you won't have to give up Windows.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?TV-B-Gone. It's a wonderful little device that has one button – which, when pressed, will turn off any television within 15 metres. It's ideal when you're sitting in an empty pub and a television is blaring adverts too loudly. A simple device that brings peace.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Last week. To turn off a TV.What additional features would you add if you could?It would be nice if the company expanded their repertoire a bit. "People-who-speak-on-cellphones-in-shops-B-Gone" would be swell. Not to mention "Taxes-B-Gone".Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No.What always frustrates you about technology in general?All that damned convenience.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I have a love/hate relationship with just about all technology in my life. My first typewriter in particular. I had a helluva time putting new ribbon on it.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Wait until the next version comes out – the price drops, and they usually work out some of the kinks.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Both, at various times in my life. Recently I was directing an episode of Glee and I lost my cellphone – and I didn't have time to buy a new one for three weeks. Well, the first few days I was anxious as hell, suffered the delirium tremens, didn't think I could make it through, etc. Then something kind of curious happened – I began to feel great. REALLY great. Completely untethered, almost giddy. I hadn't had that feeling since I learned to ride a bike when I was a kid – it was fantastic. Later that week,my Twitter accountsuddenly and inexplicably erased all of my incredibly interesting posts. I took this as a sign, and decided to leave the luddites behind and rejoin the modern age once more. But I'm still thoughtful about the whole experience.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Either my car or my piano, they were both pretty pricey.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. I've been on them for 13 years and never had a virus.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do still buy them, although it's silly. A DVD store near me went out of business last year, so I scooped up a lot of older and foreign films. CDs not so much, I download those. My last purchase was You're Not Listening, by the Rescues.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Let's not kid ourselves here, robots already run most of our world. We'll be their butlers soon enough.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The emerging nanotechnology that's able to deliver treatment to (and trigger the death of) the malignant cancer cells in your body while leaving the healthy cells untouched.•Eric Stoltz stars in the TV series Caprica, season one of which is out now on DVD
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Not unlimited. Then again - 10GB? Photo bySam Felderon Flickr.Some rights reservedWe did ask (quite firmly, we thought) for an interview with an executive at T-Mobile on Thursday, following the fiasco of the previous three days. That was after it hadunilaterally cappedallits smartphone customers' data allowances at 500MB, despite selling Android phones with inclusive 3GB contracts, andthen reversed itwhen it realised it would be illegal (and after getting some phone calls from powerful organisations).The upshot: existing customers get the same contract; new and upgrading customers get the 500MB limit. Note that if you exceed that limit, youdon'tget charged extra, unlike the other big operators.We did ask, but we didn't get. However we did get a conversation with a chief spokesman for T-Mobile, who answered our questions about how, exactly, you can be able to access email and web when you've exceeded your 500MB limit.Q:So how does it work, then? You're not allowing "downloads" or "streaming" but you are allowing "browsing". How? So many websites include video or audio.A:T-Mobile has a very sophisticated network management tool which can identify what sort of content is on the site. [After you exceed your 500MB limit] you'll be able to see text on a site, but not anything that requires streaming or downloading.Q:Say you're looking at YouTube after exceeding your limit. Will you be able to see content?A:That would count as streaming, so, no.Q:How about Flash games such as Farmville?A:Those would count as streaming [files], so, no, you won't be able to view those if you go over your cap.Q:How about email? How can it be that you can "access" email if you've gone over your cap? Email involves attachments quite often. How does that work?A:You'll be able to view the body of the emails, but not the attachments, not download the attachments.Q:But... what's the dividing line? An email with an attachment just has aMIME divider, surely, and then it's text. It's all text. How does it know when to stop downloading?A:well, if an attachment is 1MB..Q:But you can get quite small attachments. How does it know?A:I'm not certain.We'll see if it's possible to get someone from an executive position at T-Mobile onto the podcast to talk about this. Our impression was that they spent a lot of Thursday pointing fingers at each other in a boardroom.One comment: despite all the annoyance and heat around this topic, the T-Mobile deal - where youdon't get charged extraif you go over your allowance - strikes me asa good deal. (Disclosure: I'm not with T-Mobile. I am with Orange, though approaching the end of a non-data contract.)On other networks which restrict your data (ie everyone but 3 and GiffGaf), you can get walloped if you go over the limit.On T-Mobile, if you exceed the limit, you just can't do very much - but it won't cost you extra. You can read the body of emails, and you can send "basic" emails (we're guessing that means no attachments - what about a very very very long email though?) In straitened times, that sounds good.One other point: until the changes come in on 1 February, you could still get an Android phone with a 3GB data allowance, and will count as an "existing customer". Again, that's a pretty good deal in data terms.Here's the text that T-Mobile sent to us to back up its changes."Our approach to limiting usage to key services once a FUP amount is reached is in place to ensure a continuity in service performance for the masses, rather than allocating high capacity to a small number of users.""Overall our approach is to provide fair access to the masses, and as more and more customers are using data we want to protect the service experience ""T-Mobile Data Management information:""T-Mobile operates advanced data management technology which allows us to offer our customers unlimited use of specific data services such as internet browsing (text and image based) and email, which form the core elements of customer usage. The technology works by identifying and separating the different types of traffic going over the mobile network.""By separating lower bandwidth traffic (such as basic emailing, browsing and in-application updating) from higher bandwidth (such as video streaming, audio streaming, peer-to-peer file sharing, file downloading), we are able to apply selective restrictions, should a Fair Usage Policy amount be reached. This ensures we can maintain a well performing data network for as many people as possible at any one time. Customers do only experience those usage restrictions for the remainder of the relevant calendar month."In-browser video and audio streaming, such as iPlayer, YouTube or Flash videos and advertisements, is still identified as high bandwidth, data intensive traffic, and is therefore restricted if the FUP amount is reached. Once the FUP is reached, customers will still be able to access basic text and image based web pages, but embedded content such as video and audio will not be accessible.""Customers are notified by SMS when they reach 80% of their FUP amount and again when they reach 100%.""This functionality means that our customers can always browse text and image based websites and send or receive basic emails. We will never cut them off from communicating with friends and family online and will never charge run-on rates for internet use.""Activities restricted after the FUP amount has been reached are, for example: Audio and video streaming; Downloading; Filesharing; Uploading."Downloading apps will depend on the app itself. Apps already downloaded to a phone will generally still work even if a customer has exceeded their FUP amount. Apps that stream video or audio will not fully work, however.We'll await further developments. Meanwhile, are you sticking with T-Mobile? Leaving? Joining? Do let us know.
On 15 June 2009, while thousands of Iranians were streaming on to the streets of Tehran to protest against the disputed results of the presidential election, Jared Cohen, an official in the US state department, quietly sent an email to Twitter. Despite coming from the youngest member of America's foreign policy arm – Cohen was just 27 at the time – it was surprisingly serious. Cohen wrote that, in the view of the Obama administration, Twitter was playing a crucial role in Iran as a way for protesters to communicate. He implored the social networking site to&nbsp;delay routine maintenance work it&nbsp;had planned for the following day that would have brought down all its&nbsp;feeds in Iran and possibly disrupted the organisation of the protests. Twitter complied, putting off the maintenance for 24 hours, thus allowing the flow of tweets to continue uninterrputed. The demonstrations grew and grew.At face value the exchange was harmless – an example of government and business working together to forward America's interests abroad. But in the eyes of one scholar, this apparently benign interaction was to&nbsp;have powerfu, unforeseen consequences. In Evgeny Morozov's analysis, Cohen's email set a dangerous precedent, convincing the Iranian leadership, and many other authoritarian regimes around the world, that the US government was in cahoots with Silicon Valley and that the internet was being turned into an extension of politics by other means.Morozov, a visiting scholar at Stanford University in Palo Alto, followed the fallout in Iran, Russia, China and elsewhere, and was alarmed by what he saw. "The email was taken as evidence that the US government was behind the protests, and that in turn was used to portray all Twitter users in Iran as agents of the west. People who were blogging about cappuccinos found themselves transformed into Lech Walesa."Digital retribution was swift. The jails began to fill.Morozov is fast becoming a leading voice of what might be called the cyber-sceptic school of internet studies, at a time when such views are becoming more fashionable. After so many grand predictions have been made about the world-changing potential of Twitter and Facebook, the backlash has set in, with pundits now questioning whether the web is all it's cracked up to be. Take Zadie Smith, for example, who recently wondered aloud in the New York Review of Books whether social networking is creating a generation of People 2.0, or Malcolm Gladwell who cited Morozov in a New Yorker article in October that cast doubt on Twitter and Facebook as instruments of genuine change.Morozov's status in this burgeoning camp of sceptics can only be enhanced by his new book, The Net Delusion, which chronicles what he sees as the inflated hopes invested by the west in the internet and the damage that has been caused as a result. Yet he cuts an&nbsp;unlikely figure for someone playing a central role in an increasingly vital debate about the place of social media around the globe.For a start, there's his age. At 26, he's even younger than Cohen was when he fired off that fateful email. And then there's his background. Far from the twin Meccas of new technology – northern California and New York – Morozov hails from a small potassium-mining town in Belarus. His parents worked for the mining company, as did everybody else in Soligorsk (which translates as "mountains of salt"). "I&nbsp;know more about potassium than I&nbsp;like to admit," he says.But it's precisely his decidedly old world, highly ungeeky, roots that make Morozov a credible observer of the west's uses, and abuses, of the internet. They give him an affinity with those who live under authoritarian regimes, having grown up in Belarus, which  Condoleezza Rice once described as the last outpost of tyranny in Europe.As we sit and talk in a cafe near Capitol Hill in Washington, Morozov admits rather sheepishly that in the beginning he was himself a passionate believer in the democratising potential of the web. After school, he moved to Bulgaria with the benefit of a grant from George Soros's Open Society Institute and then worked for an NGO in Berlin. He even become one of the&nbsp;first to use the term "Twitter revolution" at the time of the protests in Moldova in April 2009."It was hard not to be infected by a&nbsp;sense of optimism and excitement about the freedom agenda that was around at that time. I genuinely thought it was making a difference.  Democracy appeared to be advancing and marching, and the web 2.0 seemed to be part of it, bringing people on to the streets."The doubts set in, tentatively at first, with Moldova. After the protests ended, it transpired that there hadn't been that many Twitter users in the country, and that other forms of  communication – including the good old telephone – had been just as important.Then when Tehran erupted, Morozov had a deepening sense that the claims being made for the internet as a pro-democracy force were being wildly exaggerated. In his book, he points his finger at those he accuses of hype, or as&nbsp;he puts it "cyber-utopianism" such as New York University's Clay Shirky –&nbsp;"this is it, the big one, the first revolution transformed by social media" – Mark Pfeifle, a former George Bush adviser who tried to get Twitter nominated for the Nobel peace prize, and our friend Cohen again, who called Facebook "one of the most organic tools for democracy the world has ever seen". The Guardian also gets a name-check, with Morozov referring to an op-ed that proposed to "bomb Iran with broadband".The more he looked into it, the more he came to the conclusion that western views of social networking were hopelessly naive and out of kilter with the realities on the ground. "Because of cyber-utopian ideas, for the past 10 years the west has failed to think about how to use the internet to its best advantage," he says. "Instead of really thinking about how to address these issues, we have spent too much time extolling the power of Silicon Valley to conquer authoritarianism simply by opening offices in Vietnam or China."That failure has allowed authoritarian governments to develop their own presence on the web, to powerful effect. Initially, the techniques used were blunt and unsophisticated, such as the Chinese government's decision simply to turn off the internet for 10 months in 2009 amid the growing unrest in Xinjiang. But over time dictators and oligarchs have become adept at fine-tuning their methods. "Western analysts have underestimated the degree of customisation that censorship now takes. It was thought it&nbsp;would be a matter of banning the internet, but now you can ban from it only those people who have human rights activists as their Facebook friends or have downloaded at least five New York Times articles. It's this kind of customisation that allows economies to keep growing while making sure that their opponents only have access to the domestic internet and not the global one."Morozov deploys a host of examples to make the point that anti-democratic forces are becoming savvy at manipulating the web. Take Konstantin Rykov, who in the late 90s was in the vanguard of Russian internet entertainment-slash-porn having been one of the founders of a website with the suggestive name fuck.ru. Now he is an internet adviser to the Kremlin, and spends his energies putting out pro-Putin propoganda.Or Hugo Chavez, one of America's most devoted irritants, who responded to the Venezuelan opposition's use of Twitter by setting up his own Twitter account, which in less than a month acquired 500,000 followers. Or China again, which has created a mammoth network of pro-government internet commentators, known as the Fifty-Cent Party after the amount they earn for each favourable post. One estimate puts their number at 280,000. Or, for&nbsp;that matter, Iran, which saw a 200-fold&nbsp;increase in the number of pro-government tweets once the so-called "Twitter revolution" began.Morozov ridicules the inadequacy of the west's approach to the internet, but he reserves his greatest scorn not for Washington's incompetence – though he suggests there is plenty of that – but for its hypocrisy. While Hillary Clinton at the state department was busily promoting the cause of "information freedom" around the world, as she did in a much-vaunted speech last January, domestically the US government has been scuttling in the reverse direction."The director of the FBI has been visiting Silicon Valley companies asking them to build backdoors so that it can spy on what is being said online. The Department of Commerce is going after piracy. At home the American government wants anything but internet freedom," he says.And then, along came WikiLeaks, putting an end to any lingering uncertainties about the US government's true intentions. Not only did Washington's response to the embassy cables blow asunder any claims it had to be a supporter of "information freedom" – Morozov doesn't expect Clinton to give another speech on the subject for quite a while – but it also reinforced the over-cosy relationship between government and Silicon Valley when Amazon, Paypal and other firms heeded the government's calls and sent WikiLeaks into the wilderness.Like Cohen's original email, Morozov believes, there will be consequences to such actions. "More and more governments will now see American technology as political – as putting the interests of the US ahead of&nbsp;any others."There is a personal danger involved in sounding the alarm on the direction of the internet, as Morozov does. For one so young, isn't he running the risk of sounding like one of those crusty old&nbsp;refuseniks who just don't get the&nbsp;internet?"There is currently a popular discourse that bashes the internet for destroying culture or privacy, and I'm often lumped in with that, which I don't enjoy. But people who know me&nbsp;and my work, know that I'm very much involved in trying to understand how to use the internet to promote democracy. I haven't given up on technology, but I do believe it needs to&nbsp;be done differently."
Online retailer Amazon is to build its largest UK distribution centre near Edinburgh and hire another 750 staff after getting £2.5m in state support from Scottish Enterprise.The company is to open a "fulfilment" centre next to the M90 near Dunfermline in Fife, which at 1m square feet is roughly the size of 14 football pitches, and replaces an existing but smaller distribution warehouse nearby.Amazon said it would also expand its warehouse at Gourock, west of Glasgow, where it will hire another 200 staff, and promised that it may take on up to 1,500 temporary staff for busy periods.The investment was welcomed by Alex Salmond, the first minister, and local politicians as a much needed boost to the Scottish economy, which has been hit by a series of factory closures balanced out by some expansion in other industries, including call centres and distribution.Salmond said it was "a strong reflection on the success of its current operations and the skills of the local workforce. These new jobs are a welcome boost to the economy and a demonstration of Amazon's commitment to doing business in Scotland."Amazon, which made worldwide profits of $384m (£242m) last year, up by 71% on the previous year, was given a regional assistance grant of £2m and a training grant of £500,000 by Scottish Enterprise, supported by its inward investment arm Scottish Development International.Allan Lyall, vice-president of European operations at Amazon, said: "Our decision to base this major expansion in Scotland, against stiff international competition, is due not only to the excellent local workforce but to the impressive professionalism of Scottish Development International."He added that the expansion would allow Amazon to transfer its workforce from its existing distribution centre near Glenrothes, also in Fife. That building, currently leased by Amazon, has been bought by Fife council to be converted into a depot.Michael Moore, secretary of state for Scotland, said it was "a great boost for these areas and for the Scottish economy as a whole. Amazon is the latest company to realise that, whether you are a foreign or domestic company, Scotland is a good place to invest. The UK government is committed to growing the economy to take advantage of future investment opportunities."Major retailers have been rapidly expanding their warehousing and distribution centres along central Scotland's motorway network, but controversy has marred previous regional assistance grants recipients in Scotland who have closed factories soon after their grants expired. Recently saved from closure, the Skykon wind turbine factory in Campbeltown is fighting for survival after getting £2.4m of a £9.2m grant.
Sony is suing a group of hackers who worked outhow to break the PlayStation 3's firmware systemso that it could be made to run any applications.The hack could have allowed any sort of program or game – including pirated ones – to run on the console. Sony argues in its lawsuit that that constitutes computer fraud and copyright infringement – and accuses those involved of "distributing software, tools and instructions ... that circumvent the technological protection measures in the PS3 system and facilitate the counterfeiting of video games."But one of the hackers caught up in the controversy, George Hotz,told the BBCthat he was "comfortable" that Sony's action would fail. "I'm a firm believer in digital rights," he said. "I would expect a company that prides itself on intellectual property to be well-versed in the provisions of the law, so I am disappointed in Sony's current action."Hotz, 21, said he had consulted a lawyer and that he felt confident that the action had no basis.Hotz's role was to figure out how to break the firmware and, apparently, to demonstrate it on YouTube and discuss it on Twitter.His defence will probably rest on recent cases which have shown that "jailbreaking" items for "fair use" is legitimate under US law. Alandmark case last Julyallowed such jailbreaking – which gives people full access to the file system of the device – under "fair use", for personal use, criticism or satire. That, for instance, allows people to jailbreak Apple's iPhone and use it on other networks.Hotz has previously "jailbroken" – broken the security on – Apple's iPhone. He is named along with more than 100 people who belong to a hacking group called Fail0verflow (of which he is not himself a member). That group demonstrated last December that they had worked out how to break through the PS3's security system, using what they called "simple algebra".Legitimate games and movies will only play on the PS3 because the discs provide a password or signature "key" to the encryption system, which recognises them as authorised products. But with the key – essentially a long sequence of numbers – Fail0verflow coders would be able to compile their own custom firmware and then build applications that could run on any system.However, they did not actually reveal the key at the presentation, at the Chaos Communications hackers conference in Berlin.Even so, Sony is going after them. Thecourt filing, in the Northern District of California, seeks restitution under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA).Sony says it has sold "over 41m PS3 systems worldwide since its launch" – a data point that may be found useful.For an action to succeed under the DMCA, any protection system doesn't have to be uncrackable, or state-of-the-art; all that's required is for the company employing it to show that they have made an effort, and that it is non-trivial to crack.It will be interesting to see how Hotz's defence and that for the Fail0verflow team plays out: Hotz, being in the US, might have a trickier time of it if he did distribute tools that are shown to break the DMCA. By contrast the Fail0verflow team may have it easier, since they demonstrated the existence of a weakness, but did not actively pursue it. But DMCA lawsuits are notoriously complex.A couple of areas look less solid for Sony: its claims that the Hotz and the rest broke the PlayStation Network's terms of service agreement, that they interfered with the experience of other PSN members, and that they were trespassing on Sony's "right" to own the PS3.You can see the document in the embed below:.
Ten years ago,Jimmy Walestyped "Hello world" into a wiki, andWikipediawas born. Like all new enterprises, nobody knew exactly what to make of it and its goal – to create an online encyclopedia that anyone could edit. In fact, in its early years Wikipedia's philosophy of openness made it an easy target for jokes and criticism –Stephen Colbert famously exhortedhis viewers to vandalise it for fun, and teachers, journalists, and other cultural gatekeepers routinely warned the public it couldn't be trusted.And it's true that in its early days, Wikipedia wasn't very good. Which is only reasonable: it started from nothing, and building an encyclopedia takes time. But Wikipedia gets more credible, and more trusted, every day. In the decade since its launch, Wikipedia has grown to be bigger and more comprehensive than any print information resource, and it's become an indispensable part of our daily lives, with more than 400 million regular readers.When Wikipedia started back in January 2001, it was an experiment. Nobody really thought a wide-open collaborative model could succeed. But it did succeed, and in the years since, its premise been validated again and again: everyone has at least a few crumbs of information, and lots are willing to bring theirs to the common table. Totally ordinary people are willing to help and share with each other, just for fun, out of basic kindness, and to experience the joy of collaboration.That's why so many people – readers, donors andcultural critics– say that Wikipedia represents the fulfilment of the original promise of the internet: that it's a kind of poster child for onlinecollaboration in the public interest. Because back when the internet started, we figured it would be full of stuff like Wikipedia. Turns out we were mostly wrong: if you take a look at the world's most popular websites, it's hard not to notice that Wikipedia's the only site in the top 25 whose primary purpose is to provide a non-commercial public service.This shouldn't surprise anyone who's familiar with the history of communications. The telephone, the radio, television: throughout history, new inventions in communications technology have inspired us to imagine a world in which ordinary people communicate freely and without barriers, talking and learning and sharing. That's the dream. The reality, though, is that the development of new technologies is inevitably influenced, often destructively, by a combination of commercial and monopolistic interests.So, maybe Wikipedia's significance lies in its singularity. In saying that, I don't mean to suggest that Wikipedia's the only site providing an important public service. There are lots of popular sites creating social value in a commercialised context, and there are lots of non-profits doing incredible work online. The internet is hardly a wasteland, as then FCC chairNewton Minow so memorably described TV back in 1961. It's the opposite: the internet has made more information available to more people than ever before in human history. We're living in a golden age.Even so, I sometimes wonder if the power of Wikipedia to join people together in a vast social enterprise was just an aberration. I fear that the conditions that gave rise to it may be disappearing; I'm not sure they still exist, or will exist 10 years from today. Because, increasingly, we're seeing national governments restricting what their citizens can do online – not just in countries like China, Burma and Syria, but in the United Kingdom, Australia, Germany and many other parts of the world. Technology firms, with almost no accountability or oversight, are starting to make important decisions that restrict our access to information: last year, Amazon and Apple shut down their distribution of WikiLeaks material, and PayPal stopped processing donations aimed at supporting it. And the fate of network neutrality (the concept that aims to keep the internet open and free) is under attack everywhere, particularly in the mobile space, and I'm continually surprised by how few Americans seem to understand the issue and why it matters. AsTim Berners-Lee, inventor of the world wide web, said a few months ago: "Why should you care? Because the web is yours. It is a public resource on which you, your business, your community and your government depend."So 10 years later, what has Wikipedia taught us? That people want to help each other, and enjoy helping each other, and are willing to work long hours, for free, to do it. That millions of ordinary people can successfully build a repository of knowledge that's bigger and better than anything the world has ever seen before. And that the conditions that have made that possible are worth defending, both for the future success of Wikipedia and more broadly, for the whole of the internet.
Photo byQole Pejorianon Flickr.Some rights reservedWho's eating all the netbook sales? The latest numbers from Gartner say that worldwide PC shipments grew by 3.1% in year-on-year terms, to 93.48m in the fourth quarter of 2010 (compared with 90.65m in the same period in 2009) – but that is below its earlier forecasts of 4.8% growth.For the full year, PC shipments were up a healthy 13.8% on 2009, to 350.9m units, from 308.34m. The numbers do not include media tablets such as Apple's iPad or Samsung's Galaxy Tab.But two significant trends emerged: sales in the US, the most mature PC market, fell by 6.6% in the fourth quarter to 19.08m; and netbook makers, especially Acer, were hard hit by the dropoff in sales of that category. Yet that's better than Gartner had expected: it thought sales in the US would fall by 10%, but purchases by businesses seem to have lifted the numbers."Overall, holiday PC sales were weak in many key regions due to the intensifying competition in consumer spending. Media tablets, such as the iPad, as well as other consumer electronic (CE) devices, such as game consoles, all competed against PCs," said Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst at Gartner. "US holiday sales were not fantastic for most PC vendors, but the professional market did show healthy growth during the quarter. Media tablets undoubtedly intensified the competition in the consumer market."She said that tablets "do not replace primary PCs, but they are viewed as good enough devices for these who want to have a second and third connected device for content consumption usage. Mini-notebook shipments were hit the most by the success of media tablets."One question that seems worth raising at that point: when are companies like Gartner and IDC going to start counting sales of media tablets, and how are they going to categorise them? The expectation is that they're going to start selling by the truckload in 2011 – not that they didn't in 2010: we can think of one company which, if its tablet sales had been taken into account as a "PC" – or PC equivalent, might have been at least in third place, and possibly higher in that quarterly figure.In fact, there's a strong argument to be made that the "decline" in US sales is a trick of the measurement light: that in fact sales of tablets more than made up the missing 1m or so that made it seem to shrink. The fault is not in the stars, dear Brutus; it's in our analytics systems.Kitagawa's conclusion: "The bright side of the PC market during the fourth quarter of 2010 was a steady growth in the professional market driven by replacement purchases. For all 2010, the results indicate the PC market recovered from the recession, as it returned to double-digit growth, compared to low single-digit growth in 2009. However, the PC market will face challenges going forward with more intensified competition among consumer spending."Let's break it down a little. The largest region by sales is still EMEA – Europe, the Middle East and Africa – which saw fourth-quarter sales of 32m units, up 6.2%; next largest is Asia and the Pacific region, up 4.1% with 27.9m; then North America, at 19.1m, down 6.6%; and finally Latin America, which had the largest growth of all, at 15%, to 8.9m. (Of course those don't cover equal populations, or areas, or economic outputs; they're geographically convenient.)The growth patterns there suggest that the opportunities for computer-makers lie in EMEA and Asia, and that the US is dwindling in importance for primary PCs. (But note the comment above about tablets, where the US is clearly a market teeming with would-be early adopters.) However, year-on-year PC sales growth in the EMEA region at 13.3% was actually slower than overall growth in sales – suggesting that Asia is beginning to dominate for sales.The message for the netbook makers, notably Acer, from the fourth quarter isn't encouraging. Their segment is tailing off fast: in the US, Acer (which is strong in netbooks) saw its sales drop 30.4% to 2.12m units; Dell (which makes a fair few netbooks too) saw its US sales fall 6.1%, to 4.21m.Lenovo meanwhile barnstormed both the professional and consumer market around the world, leading to its growth – the largest among any of the main PC makers.For the entire year, the largest vendors worldwide were:• HP (62.7m, a 17.9% share, growth of 6.5%)• Acer (45.2m, 12.9%, up 13.8%)• Dell (42.1m, 12.0%, 12.8% growth)• Lenovo (33.9m, 9.7%, up 37.3%)• Toshiba (19.0m, 5.4%, up 22.7%)• Everyone else (147.7m, 42.1, up 13.8%)Of interest: Acer's growth for the year exactly matches that overall, but its dropoff in the fourth quarter suggests an early surge that has faded.But it's the lack of measurement of the tablet market – even if small at the moment – which makes these numbers very slightly misleading. It's making the US look as though it's dwindling, where in fact it's going through a change in use.Worldwide PC growth for 2010Company2010 Shipments2010 Market Share (%)2009 Shipments2009 Market Share (%)2010-2009 Growth (%)HP62,768,54717.958,942,53019.16.5Acer Group45,265,67812.939,783,93312.913.8Dell42,123,6801237,353,77412.112.8Lenovo33,965,8129.724,735,404837.3Toshiba19,011,7525.415,499,805522.7Others147,768,65342.1132,026,22642.811.9Total350,904,121100308,341,67310013.8source: GartnerAnd here are the numbers for EMEA for the fourth quarter.Europe, Middle East, Africa PC sales: fourth quarter 2010Company4Q10 Shipments4Q10 Market Share (%)4Q09 Shipments4Q09 Market Share (%)4Q10-4Q09 Growth (%)Hewlett-Packard6.48320.36.01219.97.8Acer6.42620.15.86219.49.6Dell Inc.3.0369.52.719911.7ASUS2.25072.5118.3-10.4Lenovo1.7885.61.3644.531.1Others12.02737.611.68638.82.9Total32.01010030.1541006.2EMEAsource: Gartner
Facebook, Google and Yahoo are switching their websites to new internet addresses in a 24-hour bid to raise awareness of the critical shortage of capacity.The three internet giants, which together attract more than 1bn visits a day, will transfer their sites to the next generation of internet addresses on 8 June, as experts warn than online capacity is running dangerously low.Vint Cerf, a vice-president at Google and the man dubbed "the godfather of the net", said the transition to new address space is "one of the most important steps to protect the internet as we know it".Most of the net in Europe is based on internet protocol (IP) addresses standardised in 1996, known as IPv4. But experts warn that this space could be exhausted in a matter of months, meaning that the internet will simply stop expanding. The next generation of internet addresses, IPv6, has 4bn times more space than the current network.Jonathan Heiliger, vice-president of technical operations at Facebook, said the 24-hour test in June was a "crucial step" in ensuring the internet remains on a level playing field for communication. Internet users whose service providers are not IPv6 compatible might not be able to reach sites that have switched from IPv4, and vice versa."In the short history of the internet, the transition to IPv6 is one of the most important steps we will take together to protect the internet as we know it," Cerf said yesterday. "It's as if the internet was originally designed with a limited number of telephone numbers, and we're soon going to run out."In November, Cerf warned that the issue was a "serious boundary" to the growth of the medium and that it represents one of the "biggest set of changes in the history of the internet".Content delivery networks Akamai – which delivers a quarter of all internet traffic – and Limelight Networks will join Facebook, Google and Yahoo in the 24-hour trial. Both YouTube and the international Google homepage, Google.com, will transition to IPv6 for the test period.The technology giant has providedan IPv6 versionof its search site since early 2008; Facebookhas done sosince mid-2009.Leslie Daigle, the chief technology officer of the Internet Society, said 2011 is a "pivotal" year in the roll-out of IPv6 and that the trial was an "important milestone".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Despite the fixed time schedule, and the fact I never got near winning anything, I did enjoy1vs100 on Xbox Live. In hindsight it was probably the concept and the potential that were most interesting, but the online game show experience was one that I felt should have been developed even further.Microsoft didn't agree, and canned the project last year. Those few months of trivia-based gaming seemingly haven't gone to waste though, with  Microsoft using the 1vs100 experience to develop Full House Poker.More details about Full House Poker – first seen at CES – havebeen coming through. The service – due out this spring – will offer TV-style live poker events with season-long tournaments and more traditional Texas Hold Em' matchups with up to 30 opponents (artificial or real players). Whether you will actually want to sit and watch the top players compete is one thing but at least the use of avatars will make for a vaguely amusing spectacle. Professionals will be playing too as Kotaku report:The game includes a number of professionals. If you take them down you win their shirt. The game is packed with all sorts of rewards waiting to be unlocked. There are dozens of customizable tables, chairs and card decks, player titles, locations and even in-game avatar costumes. My favorite unlockable, though, are the neat chip tricks. As you play you'll earn the ability to spin a chip on your fingertip, or roll one across your knuckles. All said, there are more than 150 rewards to unlock. Unfortunately, they all stay in the game.Given that the game is played for virtual chips only, you can imagine it appealing to the more casual poker player. Having said that, I remember thinking that 1vs100 would attract a more casual Xbox competitor, only to find that trivia was as much a battleground as Halo.Anyway, what do you think? Will this kind of TV-style online poker catch on in Xbox Live? Also, anyone else here miss 1vs100 as well?
T-Mobile  today was forced into a humiliating climbdown as it reversed its plans to cut data allowances for all its users from a maximum of 3GB to 500MB a month. But it warned that the revised plans would apply to any new customers and those upgrading their phones, though not to existing customers.The reverse came after protests, threats of legal and regulatory action and a day of dithering by the company, which had initially put out the statement announcing the unilateral change in a posting on its company website on Monday.But late on Wednesday the vice-president of T-Mobile UK, Lysa Hardy, said: "On Monday 10 January 2011 we announced that, in line with the rest of the industry, T-Mobile would be reducing its fair use policy (FUP) for data usage to 500MB a month for all mobile phone customers."Following a further review of our this policy, these changes will now be introduced from 1 February, to new and upgrading customers only – not existing customers. There will be no change to the data packages for existing customers for the duration of their contract and we apologise for any confusion caused. The revision to the FUP is designed to ensure an improved quality of service for all mobile internet users."The decision was welcomed by campaigners who had been outraged by the company's earlier announcement and the offhand tone of its comments – in which it suggests that people who want to download or watch video clips should "save that stuff for your home broadband". It also suggested that once people hit the 500MB limit, they would be allowed to read email and do web browsing – but not other activities. However, critics pointed out that "web browsing" includes access to the BBC's iPlayer, for its streaming video service, and many other sites, such as Amazon, which offers music downloads.T-Mobile said it is still trying to work out what its position will be regarding Flash-based content available through web browsers, such as the hugely popular Farmville game. "There are grey areas," said a T-Mobile spokesman. "We are trying to iron those out."Kenton Price, a developer for the Android platform at Little Fluffy Toys Lrd who wrote the Cycle Hire widget, said: "I'm absolutely delighted to have been a part of the consumer outrage that caused T-Mobile to completely capitulate on their plans to destroy existing users' contracts."He added that the decision could actually cause a sales spike for the company: "If I've understood their statement correctly, the bizarre oxymoron in the room is that if you now go and get a phone from T-Mobile before 31 January, you'll have a 3GB data plan for the life of your contract. This could actually cause a sales spike for them until the end of the month. Which, even more bizarrely, I'd support."T-Mobile's initial plan would have amounted to unilaterally changing the terms of many users' contracts – amounting to what is termed "material detriment" – and the plans to bring it in on 1 February would not have allowed the 30 days' notice required in T-Mobile's own contract. That would constitute a breach – meaning that people could end the contract without penalty. It is unclear whether they could have retained smartphones obtained through a pay-monthly contract.The main networks in the UK have all downgraded the amount of data they allow smartphone users to download in a month from "unlimited" amounts to 500MB, though 3 and the "virtual network" GiffGaff allow unlimited data. T-Mobile insists it will still allow data access beyond the 500MB limit – but says that will be limited to web and email. That, though, raises the question of whether all web-accessible services, which include streaming music and video, fall under its "web" definition.
The Mac App Store. Photo byjedidukeon Flickr.Some rights reservedMicrosoft has raised objections to Apple's attempt to trademark the phrase App Store. In the(PDF) complaint to the US patent office– filed by the people who brought you Windows&trade; – it says that "Microsoft opposes Apple's Application Serial No. 77/525433 for APP STORE on the grounds that 'app store' is generic for retail store services featuring apps and unregistrable for ancillary services such as searching for and downloading apps from such stores".The reasons are straightforward: trademarks shouldn't be given on phrases or words that are "generic"in that sector. (Otherwise we'd long since have been getting into similar arguments about the whole Apple&trade; business.)As Microsoft points out in its filing:• "'App' is a common generic name for the goods offered at Apple's store, as shown in dictionary definitions and by widespread use by Apple and others."• "'Store' is generic for the 'retail store services' for which Apple seeks registration, and indeed, Apple refers to its 'App Store' as a store."So, it concludes: "These facts alone establish genericness as a matter of law under the cases holding that a generic product name followed by 'store' is generic for retail store services featuring the product."It is somewhat tortuous, as legal letters disputing stuff tends to be. But they've found a noted technology chief executive bandying the phrase around. Here's what he said: "In addition to Google's own app marketplace, Amazon, Verizon and Vodafone have all announced that they are creating their own app stores for Android. There will be at least four app stores on Android which customers must search through to find the app they want and developers will need to work to distribute their apps and get paid."Who said that? Er, Steve Jobs, inApple's fourth-quarter earnings call.It's all to be decided by the USPTO. While we can't say it's the most exciting thing to cross our radar all day; only the most amusing, given that Windows&trade; stuff. Why does it matter? what Apple is looking for is the ability to call it the App Store&trade;. Android's is called the Marketplace. Nokia's is the Ovi Store. RIM's (for BlackBerry) is calledApp World, the "official store for BlackBerry Apps". The one on Windows Phone 7 is called ... ah,it doesn't have a name.Possibly that's the hassle: Microsoft wants to be able to call its, er, app store the Windows Phone 7 App Store, but, of course, if Apple were to win the trademark, then it could shoo people (such as Microsoft) away from using the term. None of which would prevent Steve Jobs using it about others' ones generically, unless he wanted to sue himself, which would be interesting to watch.Another point: trademarks aren't like patents. You don't have to prove that you're the first to be using the phrase or word (else Windows wouldn't have that &trade;). Read up on the differenceshere, and note that the main point of a trademark is that it is:a word, name, symbol or device which is used in trade with goods to indicate the source of the goods and to distinguish them from the goods of others. A servicemark is the same as a trademark except that it identifies and distinguishes the source of a service rather than a product. The terms "trademark" and "mark" are commonly used to refer to both trademarks and servicemarks.Trademark rights may be used to prevent others from using a confusingly similar mark, but not to prevent others from making the same goods or from selling the same goods or services under a clearly different mark. Trademarks which are used in interstate or foreign commerce may be registered with the Patent and Trademark Office.Bonus link:Groucho Marx's response to Warner Brothers over its legal threatsabout the Marx Brothers' plans to make a film called "A Night In Casablanca", five years after Warner Bros had released the film Casablanca starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman. Sample content: "I just don't understand your attitude. Even if you plan on releasing your picture, I am sure that the average movie fan could learn in time to distinguish between Ingrid Bergman and Harpo. I don't know whether I could, but I certainly would like to try."
Smartphone users on T-Mobile's network are threatening to cancel their contracts and leave after the network told them that their data plans will be uniformly capped at 500MB a month on 1 February – a reduction in some cases of 83% from the 3GB that some Android phones were allowed.Update:T-Mobile hassubsequently saidthat the 500MB limit will "be introduced for new and upgrading customers only - not existing customers".The decision,announced at the start of this week, has provoked outrage among users of handsets who say that the company is arbitrarily restricting their ability to access the internet from their mobiles without giving the 30 days' notice its own contracts oblige it to.Legal experts say that could mean that customers can walk away from the contracts without penalty, although it is not clear whether they would be able to keep the expensive smartphones for which they signed up.Ceri Stanaway of Which? magazine, for the Consumers' Association, said: "Many people will have joined T-Mobile specifically for its generous data allowance. If T-Mobile insists on applying the new fair usage caps to existing customers, it will have to give 30 days written notice as per the terms and conditions in its contracts. If T-Mobile is going to move the goalposts like this, then those customers who are going to be worse off should be given the option of walking away from their contract."T-Mobile appeared to be confused itself over the reasoning for the move, promising early on Wednesday that it would "clarify" its announcement, but failing to issue a press release to its own deadlines. Spokespeople for the company would not comment on the reasoning while awaiting the release's approval by UK executives.The company seems to be concerned that people are using its mobile internet service to download music and video, but has not said so explicitly. Instead, it has angered users by suggesting in an apparently dismissing tone that "if you want to download, stream and watch video clips, save that stuff for your home broadband".It also tries to redefine the "internet" – suggesting that: "Browsing means looking at websites and checking email, but not watching videos, downloading files or playing games."Ofcom said that if T-Mobile decided that its change of terms had caused "material detriment" to customers then it had to tell those customers and allow them to terminate the contracts without penalty. If customers are unhappy with the decision, they can take it to an ombudsman via Ofcom.The move has also led some critics to suggest that T-Mobile is destroying the idea of net neutrality, as its restrictions mean cutting off access to content such as the BBC's iPlayer, music streaming services such as Spotify and we7, and downloads of files such as music bought from Amazon.T-Mobile says the change is part of an alteration of its "fair use policy" for data and insists that "We never charge our customers more than they expect for their mobile internet in the UK" and that "you'll always be able to browse the internet".But, it adds, "our Mobile Broadband and internet on your phone service is best used for browsing which means looking at your favorite websites like Facebook, Twitter, Gmail, BBC News and more, checking your email and looking for information, but not watching videos or downloading files".The announcement has appalled people like Kenton Price of Kenton Price of Little Fluffy Toys Ltd, a mobile app developer who developed the Cycle Hire Widget app which lets people using Android phones find bikes for hire in London. "We've been sending customers to T-Mobile for years because of the 3GB data allowance you get with an Android contract. Last month I noticed that if you go indirectly, you only get 1GB – I'm sure they changed that slyly at some point. Our personal and corporate contracts are both direct, so we currently have 3GB on each."But now, he said, he is "deeply embarrassed" to have been directing people to it.The average useronly uses 200MB a month, T-Mobile says. But Price says: "The data we use is kinda irrelevant. If I have 800 texts in my price plan, and I use 150 a month, T-Mobile can't suddenly reduce them to 200 and tell me it won't affect me and if I want 800 again then I can buy them back for £15 a month. Of course it affects me. I see friends on Vodafone contracts with 500MB terrified to use their data allowance for fear of going over. That's theentirereason I'm with T-Mobile, and theentirereason I have been recommending it to others."The move fits into a pattern by a number of mobile operators to drastically limit the amount of data that smartphone users can download in a monthly period. Last June, Orange – which is now part of the "Everything Everywhere" merged company with T-Mobile – said that it was cutting its data allowance for customers to 500MB a month, arguing that 97% of customers used less than that amount, and that the average amount used was 200MB.Vodafone and O2 also introduced explicit caps or reduced existing limits.The smallest UK operator, 3, followed suit, but subsequently introduced truly unlimited data for many customers in December. Another "virtual" network operator, GiffGaff, says it operates a truly unlimited data policy, except that it does not allow "tethering" – where phones are used to provide internet connections for other computers.
If a picture tells a thousand words, there are few images that explain the impact of the Haitian earthquake disaster better than the satellite view of the Pétionville golf course.Within days of the disaster, Haiti's only golf course – and a rare pocket of wealth in the poorest country in the Western hemisphere – had been filled with makeshift tents that became home to an estimated 55,000 people. The transformation of Pétionville was documented thoroughly on Google Maps, which uses satellite imagery provided by GeoEye.The day after the disaster, GeoEye's planes captured the state of the course – which already showed people starting to set up makeshift homes on the camp. Google followed up with higher resolution imagery in the weeks after the disaster; all these layers can be viewed on Google Earth's "time" layer, which scrolls back from today to before the earthquake.Google sent asmall teamto work in Haiti in the aftermath of the disaster under the auspices of its charitable wing, Google.org. They helped bring in hardware to get Haiti's internet infrastructure back online, and created a landing page on Google.org for news and resources on the relief effort. But the system of organising information to help track down lost friends and relatives was split between 14 different sites."In the aftermath of 9/11, the person-finding tool was a wall of faces," said Prem Ramaswami, who led the Crisis Response project. "After Katrina, there was a recognition of the need to standardise the way to report and send out alerts for missing people, so after Haiti we developedPFIF(People Finder Interchange Format)."From that database format, volunteers from Google developed a simple, unbranded person finder tool in three days – and the public and relief workers built up 50,000 records on missing people.One month later and the same tool was used after the earthquake in Chile that killed more than 500 people, and in the first 12 hours the web-based app had seen 1m page views. After one day, 77,000 records were posted and 64% of those had supplemental notes about sightings or advice posted by other members of the public.Crowdsourcing siteUshahidi- whose founder Ory Okolloh wasrecently hired by Googleto manage its Africa policy – was also active in Haiti, setting up theshortcode 4636, in collaboration with several other organisations, so that people could text for help. More than 150 people's lives were saved through the system after texting details of their location. Despite its poverty, Haiti has mobile penetration of around 35%, and some Haitians carry two handsets because the country's rival networks aren't well integrated, Ramaswami explained.Another Google database project wasResource Finder, which listed and located different types of medical centre on a map. Oxfam also created a Google Map to document their work in Port-au-Prince, with films documenting their work trying toprevent more outbreaks of cholera, photos of theirdistributioncentres and blog posts explainingresettlement."The 82nd Airborne was using Google Maps because it's a tool they know and understand," said Ramaswami. "We just wanted to find something Google could do, to use its strengths to help the NGOs. Ushahidi, Doctors Without Borders and lots of other organisations were doing amazing things on the ground, and we wanted to use engineering to solve problems."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
You may have noticed our link in the Tuesday's Newsbucket to ZDNet's piece on T-Mobile cutting its data allowance - foreveryT-Mobile smartphone customer,unilaterally(any lawyers with smartphones on T-Mobile? Care to examine the Ts&amp;Cs?), to 500MB per month.For most people that will be enough. But regardless of that, the posting that introduced it suggests that T-Mobile is actively trying to foment confusion about the difference between the web, internet, browsing, video and, well, data.Here's thepost(which doesn't have comments open - how odd), with our comments."Changes to Mobile Internet fair use policies"Hmm, we're already not liking this one. How often does this presage "lots more data for everyone! Yay!""T-Mobile is the only operator to give customers the Mobile Internet for a fixed price. We never charge our customers more than they expect for their Mobile Internet in the UK. "The mobile internet? Which is the same as the internet, yes? We haven't seen anyone defining it differently. Though stay tuned.."Therefore you'll never need to worry about how many emails you've sent, how long you've been online or the data/GBs""the data/GBs" - oh, not the data per gigabytes, but the "data, or gigabytes". OK, so: you'll never need to worry about how much data you've used? That sounds great! But wait - why then is this post headed "changes"?"Browsing means looking at websites and checking email, but not watching videos, downloading files or playing games. We've got a fair use policy but ours means that you'll always be able to browse the internet, it's only when you go over the fair use amount that you won't be able to download, stream and watch video clips."Pardon?I mean, really,what??Browsing doesn't mean watching videos? You'd best tell YouTube. It doesn't mean downloading files? What the hell have I been doing with my email all this time? It doesn't mean playing games? What on earth have people been doing in Farmville all this time?Seriously, this is an attempt to redefine commonly understood ways in a manner that would leave the history-rewriting characters in 1984 looking at each other and raising their eyebrows appreciatively.It seems that what T-Mobile is trying to say is that it's setting a fair use limit. But the second part - "you'll always be able to browse" and the third - "it's only when you go over the fair use amount that you won't be able to download, stream and watch video clips" - that it becomes absurd. So YouTube will stop working? A site like The Guardian, which has a mixture of video and audio and text and Flash ads and all sorts on its front page - will that work, or not? (Yes, we do intend to follow this up on Wednesday with T-Mobile, but it's the sort of thing that should have been clarified by whoever was overseeing the drafting of this post.)"So what's changing? - From 1st February 2011 we will be aligning our fair use policies so our mobile internet service will have fair use of 500MB."In some cases, theprevious value was 3GB.This compares to...oh, there wasn't a specific value givenbefore: "For Internet on your phone, the Fair Use Policy varies according to tariff. Your terms and conditions will state what it is.""What does this mean? - We'll always let you email and browse the internet and you'll never pay more than you agree to. We do have a fair use policy but ours is there to make sure we deliver the best service possible to all our customers.  This means that you'll always be able to browse the internet."Where "browse" has taken on an entirely new meaning so that it should really be Browse&trade;."So remember our Mobile Broadband and internet on your phone service is best used for browsing which means looking at your favorite websites like Facebook, Twitter, Gmail, BBC News and more, checking your email and looking for information, but not watching videos or downloading files. "Wait - Facebook, the site with all the photos that download onto your phone? Gmail, where all my documents that I read come to? BBC News, which has a few videos?And what the hell is thisnot watching videos or downloading files? Basically, you want to take us back to the text-only web? To Lynx?"If you want to download, stream and watch video clips, save that stuff for your home broadband."Nice - the sort of jolly offhanded remark that has people reaching for their contract renewal date and calling up alternative network tariffs with a "hey, and save your breath trying to get me to sign up again" sort of smile.Notably, 3 has recently said it will offer all-you-can-eat service. I wonder if many T-Mobile users will head over there.Not surprisingly, the T-Mobile forums are alight on this one. Here's one asking "what's the difference between browsing and downloading?"Oh - update: Which? suspects that T-Mobile has breached the contract. Users do too - ithasn't given 30 days' notice.Stay tuned for more tomorrow.
WhileSuper Mario Galaxy 2andDonkey Kong Returnsgot the critics purring, when it came to Wii games in 2010 the biggest seller in the UK wasJust Dance 2.The dance title –sitting in second place on the UK games chart this week– has now sold 5m copies worldwide. Publisher Ubisoft was admittedly surprised by the success of the original, but in hindsight Just Dance was perfect for the Wii audience. Simple to pick up – mimic the onscreen moves – but with enough skill required to keep you coming back, the game felt like the perfect mix of Singstar showmanship and Wii Sports accessibility.My experience this Christmas only confirmed the game's appeal. Super Mario Galaxy 2 andGoldenEye 007were left gathering dust as Just Dance 2 – andthe Micheal Jackson game– hogged the festive limelight. Singstar Dance is a shinier sexier take on the Just Dance idea, while Kinect efforts like Dance Central take things further, but for now at least you can see Just Dance 3 and maybe 4 replicating the success.Nintendo US boss Reggie Fils-Aime was keen to highlight a relatively rare third party publishing success on the Wii:The strong performance of Just Dance 2 is a perfect example of the potential that can be achieved by an independent publisher like Ubisoft in delivering irresistible content for the Wii systemJust Dance 2 sells 5m copies then. What do you think? Worthy of the sales? Or not even on your radar?
Three bumper investment stories surfaced today: Groupon, Square and Bump – in varying degrees of magnitude.Groupon, the deal-of-the-day site, closed the last major chunk of a $950m (£608m) funding round last night. This round was first revealed just after Groupon rejected a $5.3bn acquisition by Google in November; in December it became clear the company had decided that being bought wasn't the only option for raising money in a company with an astonishing perceived value.Groupon is only two years old but has revenues rumoured to bearound $800m a year. Some have speculated that Groupon has the potential to build out revenues locally, as Google did with advertising, though Groupon's offers are more limited. But its investors clearly think the financials add up to something very big. Turning down that Google deal means less chance of thebusiness being held up by anti-trust checks, and Google doesn't need Groupon to roll out a deals site anyway.Half of the funding round closed in December, after that Google deal collapsed. Thislatest roundincludes Andreessen Horowitz, Greylock Partners, Silver Lake, Technology Crossover Ventures, Battery Ventures, Kleiner Perkins Caulfield &amp; Byers, Mail.Ru Group (the same firm that just invested in that crazy Goldman Sachs/Facebook deal) and Maverick Capital. That's a lot of suits.Groupon's press release was headed "Groupon raises, like, a billion dollars", so they clearly don't take themselves too seriously, whatever the price tag. That investment will be used for international expansion, new technology and as liquidity (that's like fancy cashback) for employees and early investors.SquareFounded by Twitter's Jack Dorsey, Square has attracted plenty of curiosity from very early on. In keeping with the very "bubbly" tech scene of late, Square has seen its perceived valuation rocket from $45m when it received $10m in funding from Khosla Ventures in late 2009 to this latest round – a $27.5m round led by Sequoia that values Square at $240m. Square is a mobile payment service; users get a small reader box than connects through mobile and turns those phones into credit card scanners. The reader and software is free but users pay a percentage of the transaction to Square, and the service targets small retailers who suffer from charges imposed by credit cards.BumpIt had a good boost at SXSW last year with a captive audience; it's a contacts app that "flicks" your contacts through the air to another phone if you have the Bump app enabled, and if you bump the phones together. Bump announced $16m in series B funding from Andreessen Horowitz and Sequoia last night. Bump currently has an iPhone app and an Android app, and claims 25 million users. Anything that goes even a tiny way towards tackling "the business card problem" has to be a good thing, though getting critical mass is the challenge here. That's when deep-geek events like SXSW come in – these tools get hothoused, as Twitter did.
Today MySpace is implementing a significant organisational restructuring that will result in a 47% staff reduction across all divisions globally that impact about 500 employees.MySpace Inc will be entering into strategic local partnerships in the UK, Germany and Australia to manage advertising sales and content. In the UK, MySpace will enter into a strategic alliance with .Fox Networks, with whom we have successfully partnered with in many international territories. Details about Australia and Germany are currently being finalised. MySpace will retain a core, dedicated international team to work with partners in order to ensure users, content partners and advertisers continue to be served.With MySpace's recent relaunch as an entertainment destination for Gen Y, we introduced a much tighter focus, a significantly streamlined product and an updated technology platform. Today's tough but necessary changes were taken in order to provide the company with a clear path for sustained growth and profitability. These changes were purely driven by issues related to our legacy business and in no way reflect the performance of the new MySpace. We are also committed to rebuilding the company with an entrepreneurial culture and an emphasis on technical innovation. The new organisational structure will enable us to move more nimbly, develop products more quickly, and attain more flexibility on the financial side.While it's still early days, the new MySpace is trending positively and the good news is we have already seen an uptick in returning and new users. Since the worldwide rollout of the new MySpace, there have been more than 3.3m new profiles created. We also introduced Topic Pages, which connect users to entertainment-focused content from news sites and blogs all over the web. Over 134,000 topic pages have been created since the introduction of the new MySpace. There has also been a boost in viral activities, with over 10m social actions and 90m "follows" within the Hubs and Topics categories. In addition, we are seeing Curators driving a lot of the engagement on our site. Users who "friend" one of our Curators increased their frequency of visits by 35%. Lastly, we have already seen a rise of 4% in mobile users just between November to December, now totalling over 22 million.
MySpace today confirmed it is cutting 500 jobs – nearly half its remaining staff – and handing over responsibility for UK advertising and sponsorship sales to sister News Corporation company Fox Networks.It is understood that there will be significant job losses at the News Corp-owned social networking website's London office, as 47% of all staff globally are cut.MySpace has about 1,060 staff, with some 100 working for its international business in the UK, Germany and Australia and the rest in the US.As part of the restructuring in London, responsibility for MySpace ad and sponsorship sales will pass to Fox Networks, the online division of Fox International Channels.Some MySpace UK commercial staff are expected to transfer to Fox Networks, while others are likely to move to posts with MySpace International.The MySpace chief executive, Mike Jones, said the "tough but necessary changes" would provide the company "with a clear path to sustained growth and profitability".Jones said the cuts did not reflect the performance of the "new MySpace", referring to the operation's most recent relaunch in October, but was "purely driven by issues relating to our legacy business"."We are also committed to rebuilding the company with an entrepreneurial culture and an emphasis on technical innovation. The new organisational structure will enable us to move more nimbly, develop products more quickly, and attain more flexibility on the financial side," he added. "While it's still early days, the new MySpace is trending positively and the good news is we have already seen an uptick in returning and new users."Jones said that outside the US MySpace would retain "a core, dedicated international team to work with partners in order to ensure users, content partners and advertisers continue to be served".MySpace was acquired for $580m (£360m) in 2005 by News Corp, which was keen to make it big in the burgeoning social space. But its success proved to be shortlived.Although News Corp today insisted that the swathe of job cuts "in no way" reflected the performance of its repositioning as a "social entertainment" site, MySpace's parent company has been running out of patience with it for some time.Swingeing cuts were made to the MySpace workforcein June 2009, with 420 jobs axed in the US – about 30% of the company's American staff –  and about a third of the overseas workforce, totalling some 720. At least four of its international offices were closed.But the ailing site has never shown signs of returning to its previous heights. Chase Carey, News Corp's president, in November admitted that the once-booming social network was "a problem" for the company. Hinting that more cuts were ahead, Carey said its losses were "neither acceptable or sustainable" as they widened to $156m (£97m).Speculation that MySpace was set for a sale has intensified since the October redesign and when Carey one month later said the site had quarters rather than years to turn around its fortunes. The CNBC business networkreported earlier this monththat a sale of the social network was on the cards for mid-2011, despite the predicted job cuts.The rise of Facebook made the once-dominant MySpace look even more stagnant. Facebook overtook MySpace as the leading social network in the US back in May 2009, and last month attracted more than triple the number of global unique visitors, 154 million, according to the latest figures from metrics firm comScore.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
This week we're sweeping up after the remains of the bigest consumer electronics event in the world. Charles Arthur reviews the CES 2011, gathering some reaction to the news that Microsoft Windows will run on ARM chips He also talks to the British tablet maufacturer that's put Windows 7 on a tablet, follows Sony it they plunges deep into 3D, goes retro for the return of Asteroids, and gets sci-fi with mind-controlled TV.Aleks Krotoski and Jemima Kiss also look at the technology headlines and trends of the past week, including analysis of the fallout of the latest information injunction brought to Google and Twitter by the US government in the wake of the Wikileaks scandals.Plus we'll be laying the foundations for wars in the mobile phone space, as Ofcom gives the OK for the merging of spectrum for data. And finally, Apple's new Mac Apps store launches, but pirates are quick to circumvent restrictions and copy software illegally.Don't forget to ...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow our team on thisTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
There's optimism but a lack of confidence in the news industry when it comes toexploiting the iPad, as I wrote yesterday. Conde Nast is doing selectively ambitious projects, and a handful of titles are carefully pushing out sensitively planned apps - aware of the scrutiny of developing for this high-profile platform. (And yes,Samsung Galaxy Tab, and others, will have their day.)Beyond the traditional media industry, there have been few innovative models for iPad news apps.Flipboardis the highest profile, making a magazine from your feeds. LikewisePulsefamously attracted theireof the New York Times because of its use of feeds. And then there are the advanced reader tools likeInstapaperandInterrupt!onandReeder, all a new generation of RSS tools.Matt Webb at design agencyBergwas part of the team that worked on a brief fromBonnier, the Swedish media group, to explore reading experiences on touchscreen devices in late 2009. That was clearly quite prescient, because Berg then adapted that work - a publishing platform calledMag+, - for the iPad when it launched in April, subsequently building an iPad version ofPopular Science.There are now five titles on the Mag+ platform, all published every month through the App Store. With that perspective developing for the iPad and working with a traditional publisher, what's Webb's view on how to approach a publishing strategy for iPad?"Here's how I'd frame the challenge," he said. "We're in an era where newspapers and magazines have dominated by distribution - that means getting in front of people at WHSmith's where they compete with other magazines and newspapers."Now they could be competing with five minutes of a delightful game, a blockbusting TV show, an expert in New York fashion on a custom blog or their own baby photos. That competition is actually between magazines and newspapers and a complex set of different feelings and experiences that are provoked in people."You don't win by using a different cover or a splashy headline, but what will win - and this is still an experience - but long-form journalism, really big pictures because they throw RGB and light out onto people's faces, and doing things with friends. Facebook represents the transformation of the web as we figure out what to do with all that. So what you end up with is a really nice period of experimentation."Webb points out that this crisis in the dynamics of the publishing industry has happened to others, too. New tools bridge the space between individuals and big companies."There used to be a big gap between the music industry and bands in pubs, and between newspapers and fanzines. But the internet allows a new middle ground for people that are passionate and happen to be good... Economic production and distribution has changed. So it's not how we present the newspaper or magazine - it's other people doing something similar from home or as a small hobby, a distributed collection.If those kind of 'attention economics' seem too much of a challenge - the outlook is ultimately positive. Newspapers ultimately resolved the challenge of blogging byincorporatingblogs into their publications. The call now is for publishers to step up and properly explore the app as a publishing model, as well as what the demands of a tablet mean.
The console as karaoke idea gets a scaling down – in several senses – with the release of Just SING! That's their block capitals and exclamation marks, by the way; it's highly unlikely that anyone else will get that excited about this generally satisfactorily executed but very limited title.As the name suggests, Just Sing offers a pretty standard package of options for this genre. Practice is pretty self explanatory, ditto Multiplayer, and it's the latter that's probably going to see the most action post-pub and on holiday. Sadly, there's only an hour or so of entertainment here before you're forced to repeat the 18 songs available – although, on the plus side, there's decent variety within that 18: The Commodores' Easy, Gloria Gaynor's I Will Survive (and Never Can Say Goodbye), through to Lady Gaga, Maroon 5 and Amy Winehouse. The fun tweaks aren't bad either. On the DSi you can have your own face appear on video screens behind your avatar, record and, should you be so inclined, upload your cover versions.For solo play, other than the practice mode, your main activity is going to be Story. Here you get to create your avatar, a budding young singer – male or female – who's carving out a career singing, err, 18 songs on the local cabaret circuit. You start with a tryout spot and, as you score the relevant number of points, you move on to bigger and better venues. And get to sing the same songs time and time again, a problem even more evident in this mode as you'll only get a selection of three songs with each "booking".However, you shouldn't panic if the songs on offer are out of your vocal range or for the other gender as the game is so forgiving it's unlikely you won't score the minimum required. Having scored 55,000 more points than I needed for my cover of the Sugababes (ask nicely, ply me with beer, I'll sing it for you sometime) it was a little disappointing to discover that I could still qualify by singing a monotone version of the Muppets' Mahna Mahna instead of Push The Button.While there's some joy to be had testing the game's forgiving nature – squealing "It's only me" in a poor Harry Enfield impression will also get you through, ditto an entire range of Little Britain catchphrases – it's not exactly what you'd call a challenge. Watching your avatar do the same blooming dance routine to every song, regardless of tempo also grates after the third time.It's a shame because portable holiday karaoke no doubt has appeal in certain quarters, and the game's interface – your avatar's computer desktop, with new bookings popping up in your email – is a tidy idea. You even get spam messages, which is quite amusing until you realise that little quirk is probably the reason why there isn't a 19th song. A moderate try, but minimal fun.• Game reviewed on Nintendo DSi
While North and South Korea consider the possibility of reopening cross-border talks, the two countries' hackers are conducting a proxy war in cyberspace.In recent days hackers from the South have poked fun at the Kim dynasty, rulers of North Korea for more than 60 years, and their Northern counterparts retaliated by temporarily disabling a popular South Korean website suspected of being behind the attacks.Pyongyang reportedly warned of "grave consequences" for South Korean hackers found to have tarnished the name of the Kim family.Users of the South'sdcinside.comwebsite claimed responsibility for hacking into Pyongyang's official Twitter account,@uriminzok, and its official website,uriminzokkiri.com. They posted messages denigrating the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, and his youngest son and heir apparent, Kim Jong-un.The Pyongyang regime launched Twitter and YouTube accounts last summer in an attempt to harness the propaganda potential of cyberspace, although very few North Koreans have access to the internet. The Twitter account now has more than 11,000 followers, although it has been inactive for the past three days.One tweet posted by hackers urged the North Korean military to "point guns towards traitor Kim Jong-il wasting fortunes on nuclear and missile weapons instead of feeding his people".On Uriminzokkiri, hackers called for an uprising against the ruling dynasty. "Let's create a new world by driving out rebels Kim Jong-il and his son Kim Jong-un!" they said.The first letters of an apparently adulatory 12-line acrostic sent to the North's website spelled out derogatory remarks about the ruling family.The hackers' coup de grace came when theyposted a videoon the regime's YouTube account to coincide with Kim Jong-un's birthday on Saturday. The short animated film shows the younger Kim driving a sports car along a railway track laden with birthday gifts, mowing down his impoverished countrymen along the way.The Seoul-based Free North Korea Radio said North Korean officials had questioned the operators of Uriminzokkiri, based in the Chinese city of Shenyang, over their failure to prevent the attacks.Much of the disruption has emanated from South Korea, but the North reportedly employs a team of expert hackers who are thought to have disabled dozens of South Korean and US websites in July 2009.North Korean hackers are thought to have retaliated in the latest cyber exchange, temporarily paralysing dcinside.com through a DDOS (distributed denial of service) attack.Yesterday the site marked its return to service by issuing a challenge to the Pyongyang leadership: "Come out, Jong-il and Jong-un! Let's fight!"The propaganda wars are not confined to private citizens: theKorea Timesreported plans to launch propaganda audio and video webcasts targeting the few North Koreans with access to the internet.Not all South Koreans support the online onslaught against the North. A 54-year-old man allegedly violated the South's strict national security laws by posting about 100 messages in praise of the North Korean regime on his blog and Twitter account. He also accused Seoul and Washington of fabricatingthe March sinking of a South Korean warshipand said Pyongyang had been provoked intoattacking Yeonpyeong island in November.The justice ministry in Seoul has threatened to punish South Koreans who try to connect with North Koreans via Twitter's reply and retweet functions. South Koreans are banned from unauthourised communication with North Koreans, and offenders face a prison term.
Now that we're all getting comfortable with the notion of reading books on digital displays, it's little surprise that developers are starting to explore the interactive possibilities of electronic novels. In fact, simple interactive fiction has been available on the iPod since the very beginning, with a community of writers using the HTML functionality in the device's Notes application to create "choose your own adventure" stories.Since then, the actual Choose Your Own Adventure Company, which now owns the rights to the classic interactive children's novels, hasported a couple of old favouritesto iPhone. Meanwhile,Edward Packard, the original author and creator of the CYOA series, has a new brand name,U-Venturesand is adapting and updating many of his old titles for iOS platforms.Fans of the eighties interactive novels will no doubt recall the more elaborate and involving works by Ian Livingstone and Steve Jackson. TheirFighting Fantasyseries merged interactive fiction with RPG elements, adding dice-driven combat and simple character inventories to the mix. Canadian developerBig Blue Bubblehas made a reasonable job of porting several titles includingDeathtrap DungeonandThe Warlock of Firetop Mountainto iPhone, whileBright AIis working through conversions of Jackson's own Sorcery! series.My favourite examples so far though are the iPad and iPhone-compatible Gamebook Adventures, a series of lovingly crafted and extremely well-written interactive fantasy novels from Australian developerTin Man Games.All set within the same Tolkienesque kingdom, the series kicks off withAn Assassin in Orlandes, in which the player must discover why a sinister killer is targeting the city's noblemen. There are fights in dank graveyards, labyrinthine sewer systems and looming gothic buildings, all using a simple dice-throwing mechanism that pitches the player's stats against the competitors. It's surprisingly engrossing stuff, the economically written narrative packing in masses of detail, while rattling out a pacy, involving story.I also like the sepia-tinged pages, the basic but elegant illustrations, and the rattle the dice make as they bounce about the screen. The provision of three different game modes, designed to suit interactive fiction veterans as well as newcomers, is another nice touch, as is the bookmarking feature which lets you save key pages as you go along. The fourth title,Revenant Rising, was released at the end of 2010, and further instalments are expected this year.Meanwhile, there are also a couple of handy apps that let you discover and download a wealth of free interactive novels and text adventures.Twistyis a free app for Android phones which emulates theZ-machine, a virtual platform designed by adventure game pioneer, Infocom, to run classic text adventures such as Zork and Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy. There's a similar app for iOS platforms calledFrotz. You can find out more atthis wiki.The Kindle, Amazon's highly-successful ebook reader, has also seen plenty of interactive applications and novels.Choice of Broadsides, an entirely text-based interactive story byChoice of Games, has just been released on the platform and was givenan honourable mentionin the 2011 IGF award nominations.Interestingly, the developer has made its scripting language, ChoiceScript, available for free on the web, and will host titles created by users, sharing any download revenue with them. It's not the only DIY interactive fiction option for handheld devices – there's alsoiStoryfor the iPhone, which boastsa community of authors, although the app itself is not enormously user-friendly and hasn't been updated for over a year.I'd love to see more of this sort of user-generated content entering the ebook space. All the current devices have connectivity features, meaning communities of keen writers could share their work. There's also room for a Consequences/Exquisite Corpse-style shared narrative app, in which groups of smartphone owners could take it in turns to update a single work – in this way the interactive element is the creative process itself.For now, it's just fun to re-discover the concept of interactive novels; their limitations and quirks, their conventions and narrative tactics. There's just one problem – very few of the above apps allow you to re-trace your route through the pages or to re-roll the dice. Like the computer game versions of family favourites such as Monopoly and Scrabble, this represents the removal of tactile, emergent player activities, it is the prescriptive victory of the ruleset over the player. In other words, it means I can't cheat.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Ireland's main opposition party's website has been hacked into by a group which has recently come to prominence for attacks on companies related to the WikiLeaks controversy.Up to 2,000 people's personal details were compromised in the attack by the hackers, known as Anonymous, Fine Gael said. The American internet firmElectionMall, which reported the cyber attack to US authorities, has informed the party that the FBI is now involved in the investigation.A statement from Fine Gael confirmed that its site,Finegael.comhad been compromised by the Anonymous group, which has backedWikiLeaksand its founder Julian Assange against attempts by the United States government to stop the leaking of sensitive American diplomatic cables. Anonymous has launched attacks on the websites of companies such as Visa, Mastercard and Amazon over allegations that they acted against WikiLeaks.Fine Gael has contacted the office of the data protection commissioner Billy Hawkes following the website attack, which is investigating.It also contacted the Garda computer crime unit in relation to the incident. In a statement, Fine Gael said it had this morning emailed all of those affected to notify them.There appears to be no obvious reason why Anonymous have targeted Fine Gael, the party most likely to be the major force in a new coalition following this year's Irish general election which will be held in March.
A dramatic fall in the levels of emails advertising Viagra products and herbal medicines has caused aprecipitous drop in global spam levels– but today the unsolicited messages showed the first signs of a huge comeback.Pharmaceutical promotions usually account for around 64% of all email spam globally – around 60bn messages a day. This fell to as low as 0.1% over the Christmas period, accounting for a comparatively tiny 70m emails. "It's a drop in the ocean compared [to previous spam levels]," said Paul Wood, a senior analyst at cyber security firm Symantec.The volume of total email spam dropped to its lowest point in two years last month, from 200bn a day in August to around 30bn daily at the end of December.But today that figure rebounded sharply to 70bn emails, in the first sign of a resurgence since spam levels flatlined two weeks ago.The vast majority of spam is sent by networks of virus-infected computers, known as botnets. The botnet responsible for just under half of all spam, known as Rustock, ceased activity on Christmas day, sending pharmaceutical spam into a nosedive.Percentage of spam produced from the Rustock botnet.However, overnight Rustock activity soared, prompting security experts to predict that spam levels in the next 24 hours could increase exponentially. Yesterday, Rustock accounted for 1.5% of all global spam, while this afternoon that figure stands at 30% and is rising all the time."This is a marked increase. It's still not the same as spam levels before Christmas but its a sign that, for whatever reason, Rustock had simply gone quiet," Wood told the Guardian."It is very unusual that they would go quiet of their own accord – which is why this stands out much more than previous occasions – but there must be a reason for it, which I suspect we'll get a sense of it in due course."Rustock and other botnets are connected to the recently closed site Spamit.com, which was credited with propping up a large amount of global spam.Those running spam campaigns, the most popular of which is unsolicited Viagra advertising, can measure the success of their campaigns via Spamit and then get paid on the basis of its performance.Accurate figures for the monetary value of the global spam industry are hard to come by, but some court documents from previous prosecutions have cited a "conservative" figure of $100bn (£64bn) a year, according to Wood.Targeting unwitting internet users through their email inbox is the primary route for spammers. But increasingly fraudsters are moving to social networks such as Twitter and Facebook.Hundreds of Twitter users found themselvesinadvertently tweeting advertising for an acai berry dietlast month, as hackers broke into the accounts of users whose password had been exposed by an attack on the Gawker websites.Social networks are easy targets for spammers due to the ease of setting up a plausible-looking profile and hiding malicious links using popular URL shorteners, such as bit.ly.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 8 JanuaryPositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (35)Wii (8)DS (6)152 (4)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)133 (2)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (35)Wii (10)PC (3)94 (3)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (46)Wii (5)PC (1)85 (13)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)586 (5)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)87 (7)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)78 (9)Fallout: New Vegas(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (35)PC (9)129 (8)The Sims 3(12+)Xbox 360 (26)PC (24)PS3 (20)DS (19)2410 (6)Kinect Sports(12+)Xbox 360 (100)9UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
The British games industry bodyUKIEand chart compiler GfK Chart-Track have revealed the country's top selling games of 2010. The number one seller in the all-formats chart won't come as a great surprise to anyone reading this, but what of the rest of the list, and how about the individual top five charts for the PS3, Xbox, Wii, PC, Nintendo DS and PSP?To make this more exciting, formulate your own predictions before reading any further. And let us know how many of these gamesyoubought..2010 All Formats Chart1. Call of Duty: Black Ops2. FIFA 113. Just Dance4. Red Dead Redemption5. Wii Fit Plus6. Just Dance 27. Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood8. Wii Sports Resort9. Halo: Reach10. Battlefield: Bad Company 2An impressive showing from Ubisoft with 20% of the chart taken up by the company's popular dancing sim and a healthy seventh position for Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood. EA will be pleased with the performance of its annual soccer kickabout.2010 Nintendo Wii Chart1. Just Dance2. Wii Fit Plus3. Just Dance 24. Wii Sports Resort5. New Super Mario Bros WiiNo Super Mario Galaxy 2?!2010 Sony PlayStation 3 Chart1. Call Of Duty: Black Ops2. FIFA 113. Gran Turismo 54. Red Dead Redemption5. Assassins Creed: BrotherhoodA reasonably predictable list.2010 XBox 360 Chart1. Call Of Duty: Black Ops2. FIFA 113. Halo: Reach4. Red Dead Redemption5. Assassin's Creed: BrotherhoodShould Microsoft have hoped for better with Halo: Reach?2010 Nintendo DS Chart1. Professor Layton And The Lost Future2. New Super Mario Bros3. Art Academy4. Pokemon Soulsilver5. Mario Kart DSQuite an achievment for Mario Kart, originally released back in 2005. Is that a testament to the game's lasting quality or a daming indictment of the machine's piracy-ravaged release schedule?2010 Sony PSP Chart1. FIFA 112. LittleBigPlanet3. Gran Turismo4. Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines5. Fifa 102010 PC Chart1. Football Manager 20112. Football Manager 20103. The Sims 34. World of Warcraft: Cataclysm5. Starcraft II: Wings of LibertyAfter all these years, Sports Interactive is still turning thousands of PC owners a year into stat-obsessed footie management fanatics. And you can see our interview with company's MD, MIles Jacobson,here.
BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion is to implement internet pornography filters in Indonesia after being threatened with a blackout for its 2 million users in the country.RIM today said it would apply an internet censor in the country "as soon as possible" after Indonesian communications minister Tifatul Sembiring warned that BlackBerry internet access would be "shut down" if it failed to comply.It is the first time that the Canadian company has agreed to filter the internet on its high-security BlackBerry phones.Indonesia, which is the world's most populous muslim nation, recently stepped up its internet crackdown with demands for all telecoms companies to block access to adult material.Sembiring has given RIM a two-week deadline to block access to porn sites. RIM has also been ordered to set up a server in the country, which will bring all transmitted user messages under local jurisdictions, as opposed to the current situation where the majority of servers are based in the west."We have repeatedly asked them to do it and we have given them some time," hetold the Jakarta Globeat the weekend. "If they keep delaying, we will shut down their operation here because they fail to comply with our laws."Ministry spokesman Gatot Dewa Brataconfirmed to news agency AFPthat BlackBerry users would not be able to browse the internet on their device unless RIM installed its censor."Research In Motion confirms that it shares minister Tifatul Sembiring's sense of urgency on this matter and it is fully committed to working with Indonesia's carriers to put in place a prompt, compliant filtering solution for BlackBerry subscribers in Indonesia as soon as possible," RIM said in a statement.Responding to RIM's statement of intent, Sembiringtold Reuters: "So, do it."Most other telecoms companies in the country are understood to have already implemented internet filters, blocking access to adult material for the country's 40 million internet users.The clampdown stems from Indonesia's anti-porn bill, passed in 2008 by conservative Islamic parties tocurb the tideof a perceived increasing immorality in Indonesian society.The Indonesian ultimatum marks the latest development in RIM'sthree-year struggle in Asia and the Middle East, as heightened security fears have prompted government concerns in several countries over BlackBerry encryption of emails and messages.
Nintendo has revealed the Japanese launch date for its forthcoming 3DS handheld games console, which provides a stereoscopic 3D effect without the need for special glasses. The machine will debut on February 26 in Japan, with US and Europe following in March. Nintendo is holding a press event in Amsterdam on February 19 at which it is expected to reveal further details of the European arrival. Company CEO Satoru Iwata hasstatedthat he expects to sell 4m units worldwide by the end of March 2011.At its Nintendo World event in Tokyo this weekend, the company has also provided the Japanese 3DS launch line-up. The first games owners will be playing on their new systems will be:Battle of the Giants: Dinosaurs 3DNintendogs and CatsProfessor Layton and the Mask of MiraclePuzzle Bobble 3DSamurai Warriors: ChronicleSuper Street Fighter IV 3D EditionRidge Racer 3DWinning Eleven Soccer 3DThe more hyped in-house titles and big conversions of hit console titles are following later, with Resident Evil 3D, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D and Pilot Wings Resort coming in the spring and the likes of Metal Gear Solid and Star Fox listed vaguely for "2011".The system specificationshave also been released. Apparently, battery life will be in the region of three to five hours while playing 3D titles, and five to eight hours while playing a standard 2D Nintendo DS or DSi title. This is around a third of the playing time users can expect from a DS.The Nintendo 3DS uses a "parallax barrier" screen, developed by consumer electronics giant Sharp, to provide a glasses-free 3D effect. Users are able to use a sliding controller to lesson or accentuate the "depth" of the image on the 800x240 pixel LCD display. As with the DS, there are two screens, the lower of which is touch sensitive. The console also has tilt sensors to allow for motion controls. The price point has been previously announced at ¥25,000 – just over £190.
What's been your proudest achievement at Sports Interactive?I think it's got to be the move from working on the Championship Manager franchise to Football Manager. We'd had a lot of success over the decade we worked on CM and had helped build up the brand to the stage it was – and now we were going to attempt to rival our own reputation.A lot of thought and preparation was put in well before the split, during the split, and after the split to make sure that as many people as possible knew what happened, and we even released another game in the CM series after our contract ended to ensure that those plans could be realised.In the end, it worked out pretty well, and I have to thank everyone who worked with us at SEGA for making sure that this happened so well, and so quickly – we had a very long term plan, which ended up happening a lot quicker than expected.Conversely, looking back have there been any missteps you've overseen with regards to the Football Manager series? Features that haven't worked?Not really in the FM series. There have been features that could have been better with hindsight, but then we've improved them as we've gone along.CM4 was a big misstep though. It had far too many bugs in it when it came out, was overly hyped, and simply not good enough despite the amazing review scores.At the time of release, we really did think it was a great game, but one of the problems was that we'd been working such long hours that looking back, we weren't in a place to judge as we were blinded by working on it for so long. We won't make that mistake again.You've been with Sports Interactive 15 years now - could you summarise the different roles you've taken on, and what things you were responsible for in different Champmans/Football Managers?For 7 years of the 15, I was very much part-time, and was very happy in my other career in the music industry. During that period, I'd started as an offsite beta tester, sending in feedback via fax (e-mail wasn't widely used in those days, despite it only being 15 years ago), then a Watford researcher, then England head researcher and UK head researcher.I was also involved during the latter stages of that period as a business advisor, then "manager" of the studio (like a band manager or film agent), before being asked to become managing director of the studio at a time when Paul Collyer was living in Sweden, and Oliver Collyer was leaving the studio to go travelling (before coming back).With the extra responsibilities it started getting busier and busier until it was taking up much more of my time than the music side of things, and needed even more, so I decided to shut down the other businesses and move full time at the studio.How has the company changed over 15 years?15 years ago there were seven of us. Now there are 70 full time, with more than 50 contractors, and over 1,000 researchers and translators around the world. The game was in four languages back then if I recall correctly, whereas we'll be in 19 languages with the next FM. We were working on one game on one platform, compared to four titles on PC, Mac, PSP, iPod/iPhone and more platforms to come, including two MMO's.The studio has built very organically over this time period though. We went through a couple of years of rapid growth, but have slowed down now. Unless one of our prototypes goes into production, in which case we'll be growing by another 10 or so.Another change has been that we aren't all based in the studio now. 15 years ago, the dev team all worked in the office as there was no other way to do it. Nowadays we've got full time members of the team working in 7 different countries, including one in Australia. We want to keep the team together, and have done pretty well with that so far, with only a dozen or so people leaving in the 18 years the studio has been going.What's your view of the UK games industry at the moment? Would you ever move SI to another country?We've had the chance to move many times, having been offered all kinds of incentives and tax breaks from countries and cities around the world. However, we don't want to move. We're happy in the UK, and in London. It allows members of the team to live outside the capital but easily travel in, and has a good transport network for those that live abroad.The problem the UK games development scene has at the moment is very much the brain drain of people abroad to work with foreign studios. Many cities in Canada offer great benefits to studios out there, as does France, so the UK is no longer an obvious place to set up a big new studio.However, what's great to see is the amount of talent who are setting up smaller studios over here at the moment which remind me of us all those years ago. Some, like Media Molecule, have gone through massive early growth, but it was needed to be making the brilliant Little Big Planet games and they are now part of Sony, but still based in London, Mind Candy who are behind the Moshi Monsters online game, or Jagex who likely have way more people in their team than us nowadays, but started very small a few years ago on their Runescape phenomena.There are also loads of new studios forming all the time, many starting off in the app space, some on indie PC titles or social networking titles, others on XBLA and PSN titles, and it's really encouraging to see. I'm expecting big things from Hand Circus (the people behind the Rolando games) and Inensu who were formed by Paulinha Bozek, previously a very important part of the Singstar project, but there are dozens of new studios all doing really good stuff.There are, however, very few "blockbuster" studios left in the UK now, despite the country producing some of the best coders, artists, designers, producers and directors working globally. If we want that investment to return or, in some cases, stay, similar tax breaks are going to be a necessity to be able to compete, and I'm very disappointed that they were reversed.What goals do you set yourself for the future of Football Manager?To ensure that the game is not only the best sports management game on the market at any time, but also that the series improves with each iteration, becomes more user friendly without alienating our current customers, and even more realistic. We also want to make further in-roads in the football world, as the brand itself is becoming more and more recognised by the football industry.What we will not do, at any time, is rest on our laurels or get complacent. It's not in our nature.SI have had some success with baseball and ice hockey sims. Are you keen on turning your attentions to any other sports?No – and I wouldn't say that our baseball or hockey sims were successful either! We took on too much at a time when we weren't ready to do so, and whilst they were both great games (and Out of the Park Baseball still is, with the original team working on that splitting away from SI to continue with it) they were not as successful as they should have been. Although that was certainly not helped by piracy in one of our key markets with our hockey game, which made it less desired by retail at a time when the digital download market was nowhere near as mature as it is now.Do you see the OBE for yourself and the MBEs for the Collyer brothers last year as a sign of growing acceptance of video games by the establishment?I hope so – it's frustrating to still be in the stage of the industry still being blamed for lots of things in the same way as rock and roll was, or even the waltz back in the day. It is still the case for many publications and commentators that "games are evil", but it's just another form of entertainment, and I don't personally get the difference between violent films, books, music or games. If one of them is bad, all of them should be. Which would mean most Shakespeare books wouldn't be able to be taught in schools anymore.At least the Guardian now have gaming in the G2 section but it's not the same with most mainstream media. Slowly, it's changing, and if our awards can help that change happen a little bit quicker, then that's great.The government does recognise gaming, as did the previous government as they've seen tax revenues from the industry go up. But there's still a lot of work to do there, in the business world, and in education – working in games is still not seen as a careers choice by many schools, which is sad and something we need to change, particularly to help ensure that people get the relevant skills they need, such as maths, physics, art and animation.Who do you support? Aren't you tempted to make them slightly better in the code? I always remember Everton doing suspiciously well in nineties Champmans ...I'm a Watford supporter, and am allowed nowhere near their data, apart from financial. I used to be their researcher and, if anything, I'd make their players worse rather than better so as to deflect any accusations of bias. As for Everton, Ov and Paul didn't ever do the Everton research as far as I know, although they might have tweaked some things in code without any of the rest of us knowing!Are you able to watch football anymore without thinking about tactics engines?I am capable of it, but I do find myself analysing things much more nowadays than I used to. Part of it comes from the extra access we've been afforded over the last few years, whether that be the conversations I have with managers, chairmen, chief execs, scouts, coaches and the like, or attending training sessions and pre-match meetings.However, some teams play such free flowing attractive football that all of that thought process goes out of the window, and I'm able to just enjoy it. It really can be a beautiful game.Do you think there will still be a similar edition of Football Manager in 15 years time? If not what changes do you expect?I really do hope so, but that will be for the public to decide, not me. If we start making bad games, then I doubt we'd get to continue.As for changes, gameplay wise I wouldn't tell you even if we'd planned that far ahead, rather than the two to three years we plan ahead at the moment, as we wouldn't want any of our ideas to be nicked!Commercially, I think digital distribution will continue its rise, but who knows what platforms games will be on by then? Technology is changing so quickly at the moment, and we constantly have to adapt to that, which certainly keeps things interesting.For how long do you think you'll still release a boxed product? And are we likely to see another Football Manager console release?I don't think boxed will die for a long time. Again, it's going to be a customer decision. Whilst customers want boxes, we'll release our games in them.With consoles, we'll return to them if we think we have the right game or idea for them, and can get a control system that works well.With our previous forays they were a pain to control, and also there were issues with the in-depth gameplay as taking over a computer screen for a good few hours session is very different to taking over the TV in the living room. We look at it a few times a year though and I do feel we're making headway, but there's nothing in production currently.Do you still play Football Manager at all in a non-professional capacity? What about other games? Do you own a console?I do get to play FM for a few months a year as a consumer, and am currently loving my Watford career game. Am in 2024/25, we've won the Premier division for the last 5 seasons, but I can't seem to beat the Euro Cup. Have lost in 2 finals. It was a slow growth, but when you want to take a smaller team to the top, patience is very important. For 8 months of the year though I'm more in "directing" mode to try and ensure that the game is as good as it can be, and that the things that we're adding feel right.I own all the current consoles and do play lots of other games. I don't get time to play everything, and there are certain genres of game that I don't like or play, but will often watch other people playing them instead, so it's both research as well as some fun.Do you remember the first time you played Championship Manager? And how you got on?I started with the first CM on the Atari ST as I bought any football management games that came out. I was amazed by the depth and continuity of the game, and it was obvious how much passion had gone into it. It was much harder than other management games on the market, but still quite easy, so I did pretty well.Then I got to be an early tester on CM2, including having to buy a PC on hire purchase to be able to test it, and remember just being amazed from the moment I put the disc into the drive and struggled to find issues to point out or ideas. Ov and Paul must have liked something about my feedback though.What's your favourite Champman/Football Manager memory, as a player?My favourite memories are always those of players who don't exist in real life being generated by the game, spotting them as kids, and turning them into world superstars. It hardly ever happens though!Football Manager 2011 is available on PC and Mac while Football Manager Handheld 2011 is available on PSP, iPhone and iPod Touch.
The stands have been broken down, the sun has set in Las Vegas, and the Consumer Electronics show is over - having attracted around 140,000 visitors, up around 40% on last year. It really is big: split among three halls, and spilling over into multiple hotels, with 1.5m square feet of exhibits, 2,500 exhibitors (of whom 1,200 came from outside the US), with 20,000 products launched.So here's the wrap-up. What are the topics? They fall pretty neatly into a few categories.TabletsWhat a lot of tablets. Around 80 were launched, almost all of them running Android. Motorola wowed the show by announcing its 10-inch (1280x800) Xoom, which will run Android 3.0 (aka "Honeycomb"). You couldn't actuallyseeit running Honeycomb, though; all the stand had was a sort of video demonstration running on the device. Battery life? Price? Ship date? "Competitive", "competitive" and "aiming for Q1".Presumably it can't determine the battery life or shipping date because that depends on Google getting the software ready, and to announce the price would offer a hostage to fortune at the hands of all the rivals. The Xoom does look very nice, though, and Honeycomb looks like an OS that has tablets in mind; it's not just a blown-up phone interface. I was less convinced by RIM's PlayBook: I simply couldn't see what it would do especially for a business that couldn't be done cheaper and leveraging the Android developer community on Android. That's going to be a tough sell for RIM, I think. HP's forthcoming tablet, meanwhile, is a completely unknown quantity, but the challenge will be the same: getting the developers on board.Asus also said it would ship a Honeycomb tablet, but didn't even waggle that under our noses; I'd suspect that Motorola is slightly better favoured by Google on this.The absence: tablets running Windows 7. I did find one (the iTablet from AHX Global, which is a British company) which said that Windows 7 interest was actually greater than for its Android tablet. Then again, the 80-1 interest might indicate that there were other Android tablets; with so many, you'd be hard-pressed to pick one over the others without a detailed review.And Steve Ballmer did not do the much-expected relaunch of Windows 7 for tablets. The announcement that the next version of Windows (dubbed Windows 8 by the press and analysts, though Microsoft treated the idea of naming it at all as toxic) would run on both Intel's x86 and ARM's RISC architecture. That's a huge move, but it also means that with at least 18 months before you see WindowsNext, other tablet companies will have a chance to go after that market and possible saturate it.What's not entirely clear, even yet, is what Microsoft is aiming at. To unify the codebase? Possibly, suggested Ron Burk, former editor of Windows Developer's Journal: it might not be such a split for the Windows/Intel monopoly as people have been making out. His suggestion: it's a play for the embedded market, offering developers who have written for the desktop the chance to access that space without having to go through too much pain. Except, as he pointed out to me in an email, "there's no great value to be had from trying to claim you can take applications designed for 1600x1200 screens, keyboards, and mice, and run their binaries unchanged on a cellphone. You have to redesign your UI (at a minimum) for the mobile device anyway, so the fact that you have to set the compiler flag for "ARM" is the least of your worries. If you want the flood of apps to Windows phones that the iPhone has seen, you really want tap the large number of Windows desktop developers that have never written a Windows CE program in their lives."Which still leaves Microsoft outside the tablet market looking in - and Intel too, because it's got nothing to offer to the tablet market as it is now shaping up. Windows tablets will barely grow in absolute numbers for 2010 (from the 1m-odd they sold to niches in 2009), even as the sector has exploded.Intel: unhappy. Netbooks: unhappierAnd Intel was offended by Microsoft's non-move at tablets:CNet reportedan Intel executive saying "Hey, we tried to get [Microsoft] to do a tablet OS (operating system) for a long time. Us, and others like Dell." That from Tom Kilroy, senior vice president and general manager of Intel's Sales and Marketing Group. And I've heard the same from a separate, unconnected source: there is real irritation within Intel, and within Dell, at the fact that Microsoft seems to have promised to go big on tablets, but then done nothing that would push them along to the wider market. That has hurt the hardware partners - and those are expensive mistakes on both sides.For instance, there were plenty of netbooks on show at CES - but it's hard not to feel that the steam has gone out of that market. Quite aside from Apple's iPad (which will have had a Christmas boost from all the phone operators suddenly offering it with 3G plans - funny, that), Samsung is reporting that it has sold 1.5m of its Galaxy Tab tablets, which I find remarkable given that its performance (especially on Flash) really isn't that good; there are better and cheaper options out there if you want a 7-inch Android 2.x tablet, such as the Viewsonic: seemy review comparing them.So what will tablets do to the netbook market? Is every tablet sold going to be sold along with a new netbook? Will people who presently don't have a netbook wait and buy one of those first, andthenget a tablet later? I suspect not - I think tablets and netbooks are in a zero-sum game, given their very similar pricing. Given the choice, you'll buy one or the other. They're additive to your desktop or laptop - but they're mutually exclusive.(Please don't protest that you can't see the point of a tablet. Nobody is forcingyouto buy one. But clearly people are doing so.)However, for Microsoft, it's not a zero-sum game. Every Android tablet or iPad sold represents lost revenue, whether through a Windows licence on a netbook, or an Office licence, or simply the chance for people writing Windows software to benefit. Microsoft offers no software for the iPad, and nothing for Android tablets. For Windows developers, and also for Windows Phone developers, that's lost money. Why would you spend time developing for Windows Phone (which runs on ARM, so could run on an ARM-based tablet) when you could develop for Android first, and make some cash there?Windows Phone 7: the problem's in the nameGordon Kelly, a British freelance journalist, pointed out to me the problem with Windows Phone 7: the name. If Android were called "Google Phone OS", you'd feel a bit odd about having it on a tablet; for the marketing team, it confuses the message. "Android" doesn't say anything about the device. (Apple of course barely acknowledges that its deviceshavean OS.)However, the branding problem is acute with trying to run Windows Phone 7 on a tablet - even if the Windows division were to allow it, which it seems not to want to do. The logic behind the latter thing is that a Windows licence generates about $40, while a Windows Phone licence generates about $5. Sensible then not to license WP7 on tablets? Except if you don't sell any of them, your revenue is $40 x 0. Compare that to the revenues from tablets: imagine if those 1.5m Galaxy Tabs were running WP7. It's better than the nothing Microsoft gets now.But the branding problem is a hassle too: if it were called something portmanteau like "Windows Portable" (because Windows Mobile is tainted), that would make it usable on a tablet without giving the marketing people migraines.There doesn't seem to be a simple solution for Microsoft. In the meantime, even if tablets kill off netbooks and then die themselves in a year or two, and a different form factor takes over, it will still have been a victory for Apple and Android, and a rout for Microsoft. We'll watch and compare PC sales this year with the forecasts made last year with a lot of interest.3D! It's 3D!Yes, 3D TV is still happening. Sony, Samsung, LG and others are pretty sure they can persuade us to dump our HD sets and buy a new one requiring strange heavy glasses (or possibly not - Sony has a 3D TV thatdoesn'tneed glasses waiting in the wings) some time in the next five years. And if you thought your front room was dominated by your TV now, here's the next bit: 3D TVs are only available in 40-inch sizes and up. Aesthetically, you've got to have a really big room or the thing's in your lap.Two questions arise: can a 3D TV work as a 2D set? (Yes.) Is this something that consumers are banging on the manufacturers' doors and demanding? (No.) Then again, people don't know what they want until you offer it, as HDTV showed - though many people still aren't getting the benefit of that.Sony is betting big on this - 3Dcamcordersandcameras, and3D computers, quite beside the TVs. The problem is that 3D TV still just feels like multiple flat planes sliding around in front of you.If we accept that 3D will become popular then it won't take long to become a commodity, meaning Sony's investment will be hard to recoup. For Howard Stringer, Sony's chief executive, 3D might be what makes or breaks him: there have been mumblings about whether other parts of the executivocracy in Sony want him out. So if you want him to stay, buy a 3D TV.Smart TV (aka Google's revenge)Rumours that Google TV would be absent from CESturned out to be wrong: instead it's undergone something of a rebranding as "smart TV", which gets away from the G-word, and focusses on the internet element. Certainly it has potential, being app-based (Android and Linux again: a missed revenue opportunity for Microsoft, again); what will be key will be how much access content owners such as TV stations and film streaming companies such as Netflix allow, or (in the latter case) are allowed to allow. One of the companies showing off products was Logitech; I'm bringing back one of its Revue boxes (for smart TV) so we'll put it through its paces and see how it goes.Apple: missing, but presentApple is, in case you hadn't noticed, a consumer electronics company. However, it wasn't at this, the biggest consumer electronics show in the world - possibly the universe. Las Vegas is too loud, and anyway it wouldn't have anything to show. Yet it's fascinating to note that everywhere you turned, there were accessories for iPhone and iPads; there were so many exhibitors trying to show off iPad-related stuff (such as cases and screen covers; not what you'd call essential by any stretch of the imagination) that some company has got a nice job making iPad shells - just the metal back cover and a cardboard block with a picture of the home screen in the front. In fact sometimes it felt like 19,000 of the new products being launched were add-ons for iPa/o/phone/d/s. Actually, not so much iPods: those are now reckoned to be a dead market.The size of that hardware ecosystem should be making Microsoft pause a bit. It's interesting too (asGriffin Technology, one of the longest-running accessory companies told us) that the best-selling Android tablet accessories are for the Samsung Galaxy Tab: proof that it's not necessarily the best that emerges from such races.Another little piece of anecdotal evidence came from walking around the show: a surprisingly large number of people (and this is a trade show, so these are buyers for retailers and/or distributors) were sporting iPads or Apple computers. Again, the sort of thing Microsoft might feel a bit itchy about.Overall? The scene is set for a fascinating battle this year between Android Honeycomb-based tablets and the iPad 2 (which we can reasonably expect will offer front and rear cameras); and to find out whether smart internet-connected TVs are going to enhance our lives, or whether we'll be fighting for the remote as one person tries to tweet and the other tries to change the channel. And 3D TV? Until they can ensure they'll work in screens of 32 inches or less, it's going to remain a niche.Also MIAOh, and one last thing: atyour request, I headed over to the Nokia stand to find out about MeeGo devices, and I tried to find Notion Ink to ask about the Adam e-reader. Struck out on both: Nokia was only talking about its Qt software, and Notion Ink wasn't distributing; it seems to be saving money on a stand by demonstrating it only to a selected few. We weren't among them. If they're in money-saving mode, that might not be the greatest news. Perhaps we'll know for sure in a year.And for now - CES is officially closed. Thanks for all the comments and reading.
Mine was centred on the iPad with the likes of Lara Croft Guardian of Light and Dungeon Hunter 2 proving - once again - that tablet gaming has the depth of more traditional consoles. The latter is the better suited to the fomat though - the controls for Lara are just too fiddly. International Cricket 2010 also got a celebratory outing on the 360 too. But what about you? How was your weekend gaming?
