Name:Yik Yak.Age:One year old.Appearance:Loaded.How much are we talking?Figures vary, but somewhere in the low hundreds of millions of dollars.That’s one wealthy baby.It would be, if it were a baby.What is it, then?It’s an anonymous messaging app.I’m going to ask you again, but this time I want an actual answer: what is it?Think of it as an anonymous Twitter, but with added GPS.That’s not helping.OK. Yik Yak users can post anonymously, but their participation is restricted to a community within a 1.5 mile radius. Also, you are allowed 200 characters instead of 140.Who came up with that idea?Two American students, Tyler Droll and Brooks Buffington.Very funny. What are their real names?Those are their real names.Blimey. Anyway, Yik Yak sounds useless and stupid.Investors don’t think so. Sequoia Capital is the biggest of a group of backers pouring $62m (£39.5m) into Yik Yak, in the third funding round of the first year of its existence.But who on earth would want to post anonymously on some jumped-up bulletin board limited to people in your immediate vicinity?Kids on 1,500 college campuses across the United States. Also, high school kids.If you ask me, it’s a recipe for cyberbullying.It is: people have used it to post threats, taunts and misogynist comments. That’s why its use in high schools is blocked by “geofencing” – anyone within a proscribed area is prevented from accessing the app.So it’s mostly for harassing fellow undergraduates. Does it have any other uses?Yik Yak is hoping to expand beyond its core demographic – surprisingly moronic college students – to grown-up city-dwellers.I suppose that, in terms of publicity, the controversy doesn’t hurt.Cyberbullying isn’t the only controversy. A former fraternity brother of Droll and Buffington is suing them, claiming to be a co-founder and seeking a third of the company.The story would make a great movie, but you’d have to give the characters more realistic names, like Winklevoss.It’s been done, I think.Do say:“You suck! From someone nearby.”Don’t say:“Arggh – maths test tomorrow. Maybe the school will burn down!”
The latest alleged hack of the PlayStation Network (PSN) and Windows Live was a hoax, Sony and Microsoft have confirmed.Hacking group DerpTrollingclaimed to have stolen 7m accounts, and allegedly leaked more than 5,500 usernames for the PSN, Windows Live and 2K Games via the anonymous text sharing site Pastebin. Both the hack and the leak now appear to be fake.“We have investigated the claims that our network was breached and have found no evidence that there was any intrusion into our network,” said a Sony spokesperson in a statement.Microsoft confirmed the same to the Guardian. “We immediately investigated reports regarding some Microsoft accounts, including Windows Live and Hotmail, and can confirm that no Microsoft site or service was compromised,” said a spokesperson.A history of trollingActive since 2011, DerpTrolling has previously been linked to attacks on League of Legends, Quake Live and Blizzard Entertainment’s Battle.net, which underpins the multiplayer online game, World of Warcraft. However, thePSN hackwas quickly identified as a potential hoax by security experts.“Looking through the list, there’s certainly an awful lot of crossover with data from previous breaches, in particularthe Adobe one,” Rik Ferguson, vice president of security research at Trend Micro, explained to the Guardian at the time. “The random sample cross-referencing I have done certainly shows that the majority of data listed here has shown up already in previous breaches with very few exceptions which seem to appear only in this particular paste.”Both Sony and Microsoft confirmed that they were actively looking at the hoax and any future intrusion attempts to monitor for fraud and account compromise.A hack of the PSN would have been the third intrusion into the service since a major attack in 2011, which saw 77m accounts stolen and the online gaming service taken offline for 24 days. In this case, however, it appears that DerpTrolling has lived up to the second half of its name.•Now e-cigarettes can give you malware•Grand Theft Auto 5: does it really look best on PlayStation 4?
Regin is the latest malicious softwareto be uncovered by security researchers, though its purpose is unknown, as are its operators. But experts have told the Guardian it was likely spawned in the labs of a western intelligence agency.None of the targets of the Regin hackers reside on British soil, nor do any live in the US. Most victims are based in Russia and Saudi Arabia - 28% and 24% respectively.Ireland had the third highest number of targets - 9% of overall detected infections. The infections lists doesn’t include any “five eyes” countries - Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the UK and the US.“We believe Regin is not coming from the usual suspects. We don’t think Regin was made by Russia or China,” Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer at F-Secure, told the Guardian. His company first spied Regin hiding on a Windows server inside a customer’s IT infrastructure in Northern Europe.Only a handful of countries are thought capable of creating something as complex as Regin. If China and Russia are ruled out, that would leave the US, UK or Israel as the most likely candidates.“here are no other countries I can think of,” said F-Secure researcher Sean Sullivan, when the Guardian put this suggestion to him.Candid Wueest, threat researcher at Symantec, which published a report on Regin over the weekend, said that the suggestion that a western state was behind the attacks was “probable”, adding “your assumptions are plausible”.However, the inclusion of some English language in the Regin malware’s command and control communications, including repeated use of the word “shit” in data validation commands, was not a “smoking gun” pointing to an English-speaking country, according to Wueest.Russian security firm Kaspersky Lab has named one victim of the malware: Belgian cryptographer Jean Jacques Quisquater. This year, he discovered he’d been hit by malware during an investigation into an allegedGCHQ attack on Belgium ISP Belgacom, a source told Belgian paperDe Standaard.The security firm also discovered a “mind-blowing” attack on an unnamed country in the Middle East. “In this specific country, all the victims we identified communicate with each other, forming a peer-to-peer network. The P2P network includes the president’s office, a research center, educational institution network and a bank,” claimed ablog post from Kaspersky Lab.Regin isn’t after intellectual property, nor is it designed to cause destruction like the infamous Stuxnet worm. It is solely designed to watch over just a handful of targets, with only around 100 infections uncovered globally since it emerged in 2008, according to Wueest.The target list not only includes government bodies, but small businesses, academics and individuals. The malware’s creators are particularly interested in the telecoms industry too: no surprise given that’s where everyone’s traffic passes through.It appears the attackers are using typical techniques that users should be aware of. Targets may be tricked into visiting spoofed versions of well known websites and the threat may be installed through a web browser or by exploiting an application, according toSymantec’s white paper on Regin.“On one computer, log files show that Regin originated from Yahoo! Instant Messenger through an unconfirmed exploit. On one computer, log files show that Regin originated from Yahoo! Instant Messenger through an unconfirmed exploit.”Whoever is behind the malware has access to considerable coding and cryptographic talent. Regin is being compared to Stuxnet – which was believed to be the work of the US and Israel after it hit Iran – and Flame, another highly sophisticated cyber espionage campaign thought to have been crafted in the US.“As we’ve been following and analyzing Regin, the complexity and the level of sophistication in the attacks has become very evident. We would place Regin in the category of highly sophisticated governmental espionage campaigns,” said Hypponen.The malware should have been difficult to detect over the years, thoughMicrosoft picked up on it in 2011. That’s because its only visible component is a driver - the code that provides a software interface to hardware. All its other pieces are encrypted and hidden away in different segments of a computer’s file system.After it has completed its multi-phase attack, Regin starts its surreptitious work, capturing screenshots, taking control of the mouse’s point-and-click functions, stealing passwords, monitoring the victim’s web activity and retrieving deleted files.It’s a highly customisable piece of work too: one Regin sample was designed to collect administration traffic for mobile base stations, while another was created for grabbing email from Exchange databases.Experts told the Guardian that most users shouldn’t have to worry about Regin, as it appears to be part of a targeted operation, not blanket surveillance. However, most security firms will now be adding Regin to their list of detected malware in an effort to block it.•‘State-sponsored’ Russian hacker group linked to cyber attacks
Like most families, the one I grew up in is dysfunctional. Take the relationship I have with my brother: our shared history is one of lies, deceit and broken promises. Time and time again, we have exploited each other’s weaknesses in the way only siblings know how. Even the brief periods of uneasy peace have ended with terrible acts of betrayal, often committed against our own father. And yet, this Christmas, we will once again sit down to play Risk.This turn-based board game is a long way from the MB Games image of children sporting bowl haircuts and corduroy gathered around a knackered donkey.Risk is played on a global map that has been carved up into territories. Players roll dice to determine the outcome of skirmishes, the ultimate goal being world domination.But Risk is about much more than pushing little plastic men around a map. The real action happens around the table, rather than on the board, as players practice diplomacy, make and break alliances, develop vendettas and pull off hustles. In other words, it’s great practice for family life.As, indeed, are most board games. They teach useful lessons about taking turns and handling defeat. They provide an outlet for tension and rivalry. They require family members to sit down and interact with each other – increasingly important in a world where we spend much of our time in separate rooms, triple-screening and arguing over Skype about whose turn it is to change the toilet roll. But perhaps best of all, they remind us how to play.This is a skill that gets neglected in many households (including my own) because there’s just so much other stuff to do. Playing games can feel like a waste of time when there’s still laundry to be washed, dinner to be cooked and, let’s be honest, that hilariousBeach Boys shredsomeone just posted on Facebook to check out.Often, though, it’s not just about time. After a hectic day of work and childcare, I don’t have enough brainpower to come up with funny names for all 78 Playmobil pirates. I can barely muster the creative energy to construct a cheese sandwich, let alone a Lego dinosaur palace complete with conservatory and helipad.Once again, this is where board games can help. Or in my case, as the mum of a three-year-old, the kind of card games that come in primary coloured boxes and have straightforward names like Monster Bingo and Post Box Game.The big favourite in our house is Greedy Gorilla. It’s supposed to teach kids about opting for balanced meals instead of junk food. My son couldn’t give a monkey’s about all that, but he thinks the way the gorilla burps when you post the cards through his mouth is the funniest thing he’s ever seen.My own sense of humour is more sophisticated, hence I can easily spend half an hour watching that Beach Boys video on repeat. But I like Greedy Gorilla because it provides a framework for play. When I’m exhausted and out of ideas, it’s great to have a structured activity to turn to. And on the really bad days, the fact it involves sitting down is a huge bonus.Playing Greedy Gorilla doesn’t just teach my son useful skills like matching shapes and waiting his turn. It flexes my own mental muscles, reminding me how important playful family interaction is and how much fun it can be. Sometimes I don’t even mind letting him win.I look forward to playing other games with him as he gets older, perhaps ones that don’t involve so much belching. His new sibling is arriving in February and I hope they will grow up enjoying board games as part of their shared childhood, using them to learn about the world and each other. And only occasionally smashing each other over the head with the Monopoly bank.As for my brother and I, we’ll be playing Risk Legacy this Christmas. It’s a modern reimagining of the original, involving complex campaigns and rules that evolve as you play. I’m sure it’ll be the same old story, though - he’ll construct an elaborate ruse, swearing he can be trusted this time, after 30 years of treachery. My dad will fall for it, my brother will win and I’ll be furious with the pair of them.The ensuing enmity will hang around like the smell of a primate’s burp for the rest of Boxing Day. I can’t wait.
Children and adults alike aren’t just playing Minecraft in their millions: they’re watching YouTube videos made using Minecraft – and those videos are racking up billions of views.Now online video firm Octoly haspublished a reportaiming to quantify that, claiming that by June 2014, Minecraft videos had been watched 30.8 billion times, with only 183 million of those views coming from the channel of Mojang, the game’s publisher.That’s nearly three times the total views for videos about Grand Theft Auto, which Octoly estimated was the second most popular gaming brand on YouTube with nearly 12 billion views, ahead of Call of Duty (10.2 billion), Angry Birds (six billion) and Halo (4.8 billion).The company claims that since June, Minecraft videos have been watched another 16 billion times, taking its total to 47 billion views. “In June, our Octoly360 system found 81,000 separate YouTube creators talking about Minecraft,” explained Octoly.“Today there are 147,000 creator channels with Minecraft videos, almost double.”Minecraft being so far ahead of rival brands will not come as a surprise to anyone who’s been following the game and/or the evolution of YouTube over the last couple of years.In achart of the top 100 YouTube channelsin September 2014 published by industry site Tubefilter, using data from analytics firm OpenSlate, child-friendly Minecraft channelStampywas the third biggest channel in the world with 189.6 million views that month.Also popular that month were channels with a heavy or total Minecraft focus includingVegetta(eighth in the world with 164 million views in September) andThe Diamond Minecart(10th with 161.8 million).Mojang has supported its YouTube community since the early days of Minecraft, avoiding copyright arguments with video creators, and taking a hands-off approach to the content of their videos.“We have a whole slew of people who are making their entire living just off making videos about Minecraft. Just the economics of that – how many people are making a living off this one IP – is pretty awesome,” Mojang’s chief operating officer Vu Buitold the Guardianin October.“That doesn’t take anything away from us, and I would say it actually adds value to Minecraft, to have people who are extremely talented and creative doing things. We’ve essentially outsourced YouTube videos to a community of millions of people, and what they come up with is more creative than anything we could make ourselves.”YouTube is a big part of the reason why Minecraft is such a strong, well-loved gaming brand in 2014 – and it’s also a notable factor inMicrosoft’s decision to buy Mojang for $2.5bnthis summer.Microsoft isn’t just buying a popular game that’s sold more than 54m copies across computer, console and mobile: it’s buying one of the world’s biggest television brands. Despite the fact that it’s huge popularity is online, rather than on traditional television.•Mojang talks Minecraft: movies, books and YouTube•Top 100 YouTube games channels: 4.4bn views in September
Remember Sweet Peach? The “personalised probiotic supplement”announcedjust last week, which was supposed to make vaginas smell like peach?Well, it turns out the supplement all about “personal empowerment”, which aims to prevent yeast infections and UTIs, isn’t quite what it seems.Presented at the Demo conference in San Jose, California,Austen Heinz, CEO of Cambrian Genomics, and biotech entrepreneurGilad Gometold an audience:“The idea we’re pushing is to do sequencing and synthesis as a way of restoring it [the vagina] to natural health. The company is being seen as wanting to smell like peach. But the vagina produces smells like any other microbiome.“We think people should have control over their microbes and code, so if they want to add that function [fragrance] to any of their microbes, then that should be up to them.”Austen Heinz speaks about Sweet Peach, from 8m32s.However, it turns out that the inventor of the product isneitherHeinz nor Gome, but the 20-year-old self-described “ultra-feminist”Audrey Hutchinson, the CEO of Sweet Peach Probiotics.Clarifying things somewhat, Hutchinson said: “I don’t think women should have vaginas that smell like peaches or anything like that.”Inc.comalso reports that while Heinz owns 10% of Hutchinson’s company, Gome has no part whatsoever.Heinz said Gome might have started talking about Hutchinson’s company because he “got excited”.A screengrab from the Sweet Peach presentation.Photograph: YouTube screengrab/Cambrian GeneticsPreviously, in an interview withMotherboard– and again, despite having no involvement with Sweet Peach – Gome had described the product as being able to “make her vagina smell like roses and taste like Diet Coke.”Hutchinson says she is furious about her product being misrepresented, telling Inc.com she vomited twice when reading the bad press around Sweet Peach.The supplement will actually be personalised according to individuals. A sample of the “vaginal biocrome” (the makeup and ecology of microorganisms in the vagina) will be sent for analysis. Sweet Peach will then supply a course of supplements designed to balance the pH levels of the vagina, allowing “good” microbes to thrive, therefore reducing the risk of yeast infections and UTIs with the aim of optimal vaginal health.Heinz said his company, Cambrian Genomics, might have lost funding after its association with Sweet Peach and the backlash against it, reporting that his lawyer said he “looks like Bill Cosby right now”.Meanwhile, Heinz’s other company – which Gomeisinvolved with – called Petomics, aims to make cat and dog poo “smell like bananas”.Hope that clears things up.•Forget London v Silicon Valley - tech is now international, startups told
No matter what rules the federal communications commission implements on net neutrality, it can expect to face down lawsuits from the major internet service providers, according to its chairman Tom Wheeler.Speaking to reporters, Wheeler accepted that lawsuits were inevitable, but said that it was worth moving ahead with implementation in a more cautious manner.“Look, the big dogs are going to sue, regardless of what comes out,” he said. “We need to make sure we have sustainable rules. That starts with making sure we have addressed the multiplicity of issues that come along and are likely to be raised.”“I want to move forward on open-internet rules with dispatch,” he added. “I also want to have open internet rules that are sustained. And that’s the process we’re going through.”President Obama’s net-neutrality proposals, laid out in early November, called for the “strongest possible rules” to ensure access to the internet becomes a protected resource. Calling an open internet “essential to the American economy, and increasingly to our very way of life”, he asked the FCC to regulate it as a “common carrier”, preventing ISPs from giving privileged connections to paying customers.The major cable companies, speaking through their industry body the National Cable and Telecommunications Association,said they were “stunned”by Obama’s proposals, which were “extreme” in comparison to the “longstanding, bipartisan policy of lightly regulating the internet”.AT&amp;T explicitly threatened a lawsuit the same day, saying that “if the FCC puts such rules in place, we would expect to participate in a legal challenge to such action.”Until Obama’s intervention,the FCC had been planning to hold a vote in Decemberon whether to impose mild regulation supporting net neutrality. The proposals, which were intended to be a compromise between the interests of the ISPs and web firms, have now been put on hold, and the vote delayed to 2015.Net neutrality: cable companies ‘stunned’ by Obama’s ‘extreme’ proposals
Google appears to have agreed to increase its efforts to remove online links to malicious articles that made false allegations about an international businessman.Settlement of what would have been a test case defining the US firm’s global responsibilities was announced at the high court in London on Monday.The case was brought by the former Morgan Stanley banker Daniel Hegglin against the international arm of the search engine company after allegations were circulated across 4,000 websites in what was described by his lawyers as an extreme example of internet trolling.Hegglin said he had been wrongly described as a murderer, Ku Klux Klan sympathiser and paedophile in multiple online postings. The case was an attempt to force Google to block the “vile and abusive” material from appearing in search results.Details of the settlement were not revealed but an agreed statement was read out in court.“The settlement includes significant efforts on Google’s part to remove the abusive material from Google-hosted websites and from its search results,” said Hegglin’s barrister, Hugh Tomlinson QC.“Mr Hegglin will now concentrate his energies on bringing the persons responsible for this campaign of harassment to justice.”On behalf of Google, Anthony White QC said: “Google provides search services to millions of people and cannot be responsible for policing internet content. It will, however, continue to apply its procedures that have been developed to assist with the removal of content which breaches local applicable laws.”A Google spokesperson said: “We have reached a mutually acceptable agreement,” but declined to comment further on the settlement.Google had requested that Hegglin submit links to the relevant pages to have them removed from search results under its “right to be forgotten” system. But Tomlinson said Hegglin’s case did not fall under that system: “It’s about the circulation of abusive material”.Hegglin, who became aware of the abuse in 2011, says there are more than 3,600 websites containing untrue material about him. He claims to have already submitted a list of links to Google, but that more have appeared, turning it into a “game of whack-a-mole”.Hegglin, who was previously based in London but is now a Hong Kong resident, claims that while Google did not produce the material, it had propagated it through the search engine. He sought a British court order to force Google to take steps to prevent the posts appearing in searches made in England and Wales.The “right to be forgotten” system allows people to apply to have outdated material about them removed from search results. Hegglin’s case was about a form of abuse made possible by anyone being able to post malicious material anonymously online.• European parliament set to call for break-up of Google in antitrust case
Anonymous messaging appYik Yakhas become a hit on college campuses across the US since its launch a year ago. Now it is raising a $62m funding round from high-profile Silicon Valley venture capital firms.Sequoia Capital, which also invested in messaging app WhatsApp before it was bought for $19bn by Facebook, is leading the roundaccording to the Wall Street Journal, which claims Yik Yak is valued “in the low hundreds of millions of dollars”.Yik Yak pitches itself as “like a local bulletin board for your area”, with people able to anonymously post messages, browse those of other users nearby, and vote them up or down to help them find (or deny them) a wider audience.Founded by two graduates of Furman University in South Carolina, Tyler Droll and Brooks Buffington, the app has spread quickly across the US through its adoption by college students: a path trodden by social network Facebook and dating app Tinder before it.“We identified a need to create conversations and build communities without prerequisites such as prior relationships or connections,” Yik Yak’s founderstold the Guardian in October.“Yik Yak is the only way to create a localised social forum without prior relationships or friendships for the purpose of delivering relevant, timely content to hyper-local areas of people.”Yik Yak had 100,000 usersin February 2014, three months after its launch, although the company has not released an update on that figure since, beyond saying it is used on around 1,500 college campuses in the US.The new $62m funding round follows $11.5m of funding across two rounds earlier in 2014. Its rise has come alongside the growth of similarly-anonymous apps like Secret and Whisper, although like those apps, Yik Yak has sparked controversy along the way.It’s beencalled “the new home of cyberbullying”after complaints that pre-college students were using it to post abuse about one another anonymously; beendescribed as “a platform for hate speech or harassment”in a resolution passed by the student government association at Emory University in Atlanta; and wasused to threaten a “Virginia Tech part 2” attackon Towson University near Baltimore, leading to the arrest of a student there.For its part, Yik Yak has introduced a feature forhigh schools to set up geofences to block students from using iton their premises, and compiled rules that include not bullying or specifically targeting other “yakkers”; a zero-tolerance policy on posting people’s private information, and a reporting feature for offensive messages that can lead to account suspensions.“We recognise that with any social app or network, there is the likelihood for misuse from a small group of users, so the company has put specific algorithms in place to prevent this from happening,” Droll and Buffington told the Guardian.For their part, Yik Yak’s founders have ambitions for their app to become a source of breaking news for its users, havingintroduced a feature called Peekin October that enables any user to choose a location and see a feed of messages from that place.“Until now, the only way to monitor local events or breaking news is by following reporters or trusting that people using a hashtag are actually in the area,” said Droll at the time.“Yik Yak’s new feature is the first tool that gives individuals the ability to monitor conversations in real-time, adding another layer to news tracking that supplements on-the-ground reporting and overcomes other social networks’ limitations,” added Buffington.Real-time conversation is one thing, but verifying its trustworthiness often quite another, especially when the people involved in that conversation are anonymous. That’s a challenge shared by Secret, Whisper and more established platforms like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Vine and Instagram.While Yik Yak’s $62m will mainly be spent on scaling for growth and exploring ways to make money, investing in privacy features, improving those misuse algorithms and tools to establish the credibility of yakkers as news sources will also be important.•Authenticity vs. authority: social media, journalism and wars
Band Aid 30’s Do They Know It’s Christmas? topped the UK singles chart with 312,000 sales in its first week, butBob Geldof is worried about how much money that will bring into help the charity appeal.Why? Because those 312,000 sales were downloads on the iTunes and Google Play stores, selling for 99p each rather than the £3.50 charged for the original Band Aid single in 1984.“We need to sell 300% more than we did than [in 1984] to even begin to make up the cash figure. That worries me,”Geldof told BBC Radio 1, before encouraging fans to delete and “download again” if they’d bought the new single.That won’t do much good, for modern music download stores let people re-download their previous purchases for free. But Geldof’s comments do raise a wider question: in 2014, is a song still an effective way to raise money for a charitable cause?Actually, the answer is probably still yes, but not necessarily by selling it.Watch the Band Aid 30 video on YouTube, and you might notice the “Download on iTunes NOW” link that remains on-screen throughout:Meanwhile, an “i” icon at the top left of the screen pops up a little carousel directing viewers to iTunes and Google Play to buy, or to theofficial Band Aid donations website.The description for the video has iTunes and Google Play first, then the link to the donations site, and a reminder that people can also text AID to the shortcode 70060 to donate £5.It’s surprising that the latter isn’t more to the fore in the campaign, especially given the way the standard price for a single has dropped from £3.50 or greater to 99p in the digital age.312,000 sales of the Band Aid 30 single would be equalled by just over 61,000 people sending a text message, and YouTube is an ideal platform to grab maximum online attention for this kind of campaign, then nudge them to donate.A song – particularly one with a video full of stars – is still a great vehicle for this, and the inclusion in this year’s supergroup of YouTubers Zoella, Alfie Deyes and Joe Sugg shows that the Band Aid organisation aren’t strangers to the idea of“the attention economy”.Standalone videos posted on YouTube by those three alone with a call to donate could be a powerful way to drive Band Aid 30 donations beyond past campaigns’ records, and that’s without suggesting similar videos (or even just tweets) from participating artists like One Direction, Ed Sheeran and Olly Murs.Other possible solutions to the headache of 99p downloads: make an EP with outtakes and spoken-word tracks with artists talking about what the Band Aid 30 campaign means to them, and sell it for £3.50; bring streaming services like Spotify on board from the start rather thanleaving them until the new yearas they may be able to drive donations rather than cannibalise sales; sit down with Twitter and Facebook to figure out how to use their features to drive donations; gather thetop Minecraft YouTubersand some music stars for a Twitch live-stream with a strong call for donations; act on the tough realisation that for many people, virtual currency in mobile games has more value than music nowadays, and work with some top app developers.(Apple has justkicked off a campaign for AIDS charity Redusing that last strategy. A fortnight’s percentage of in-app purchases of virtual items in games like Clash of Clans, Puzzle &amp; Dragons and Kim Kardashian: Hollywood alone is going to yield a heap of most-definitely-not-virtual cash.)This isn’t to suggest that Band Aid 30 isn’t accepting direct donations or telling people how to make them (it is, on both counts) or that it’s so stuck behind the times of the modern music industry that it’s not taking advantage of new platforms (it is, sort of).It’s more that it’s not worth Bob Geldof wasting energy worrying about 99p downloads, when there are more positive ways of fundraising that Band Aid can and does use. The way people value recorded music may have changed since 1984, but their willingness to give more than a quid for an important cause when made aware of it is much less in doubt.And for all the criticism, Do They Know It’s Christmas? remains a powerful awareness raiser, whether it’s Band Aid 30 that your £5 is going to, or another charity tackling the Ebola crisis.•Band Aid clinches No 1 spot
In the absence of split-screen platforming competitors,Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gothamextends, rather than develops, the well-worn series. An impressive cast of DC Comics superheroes run, jump, smash, fetch-quest and wisecrack their way through Lego puzzles, but it is hard not have a sense of deja vu. However, younger players will lap it up. Cooperative play is perfect for families, as is the endless stream of things to collect, unlock and discover. Impressively, everything in the game is “built” from genuine Lego bricks so children can recreate the on-screen action on the carpet if they wish.Multiple-ability suits for key characters, an impressive range of worlds to visit and lashings of DC Comics fan service, complete with an Adam West-voiced 1960s Batman, provide further novelty in this latest retread of the highly successful format.
Amazon already has a streaming video service under its Prime banner, including a growing number of original shows like Alpha House and The After. But now there are reports that it’s planning to go further.This,from the New York Post:“Amazon boss Jeff Bezos is primed and ready for a fresh assault on the streaming-video space.The e-commerce giant will roll out a new ad-supported streaming offering early next year that will be separate from its $99-a-year Prime membership, which includes a video service, sources said.”The report stresses that this new service will compete with Netflix and Hulu, so it sounds like it’s TV and possibly films, rather than a shortform competitor to YouTube of the kind that Yahoo is rumoured to be launching soon.The report also suggests that more than 25m people are already watching Prime Video, although this being Amazon, it hasn’t announced any official figures, while the ratings for its individual shows remain as mysterious as those on Netflix.Does Amazon have a shot at launching an ad-supported video service? What kind of programmes would you like to see it commissioning if it really does want to take on Netflix? Will Amazon be prepared to give up the kind of data advertisers are looking for? The comments section is open for your thoughts.What else is on the tech radar today? Here are some links:Twine, the video game technology for allThe New York Times has a good piece about Twine, the tool for creating text adventures that was used for Zoe Quinn’s Depression Quest, among others. “While roughly 75 percent of developers at traditional video-game companies are male, many of the most prominent Twine developers are women, making games whose purpose is to explore personal perspectives and issues of identity, sexuality and trauma that mainstream games rarely touch on.”The oral history of the poop emoji“I would reject the notion that it has one meaning. It’s a symbol in context, sort of like memes. You can do all kinds of funny things with it and use it with skill, but I guess the most common use is probably “that’s unfortunate, and I would like to punctuate my comment with a reiteration that I am displeased at what has just been expressed.” It’s the anti-like.”Uber rival Lyft changes its privacy policyUber is facing questions about its “God View” and how it uses people’s ride data – and not just journalists – but its rivals are taking the opportunity to tweak their own privacy policies. Lyft, for example, with “new technical restrictions on access to user data” to ensure employees only access the customer data needed to do their jobs.Minecraft fan videos reach 31bn YouTube viewsReel SEO has a report digging into the details of Minecraft fandom on YouTube, estimating that 31bn views have been notched up by fan-created videos of the game. That’s 99.4% of all Minecraft videos on YouTube, since Mojang’s official channel had around 183m views at the time the study was commissioned.Tech journalism and Silicon ValleyFinally from Emily Bell, formerly of the Guardian and now director at the TOW Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia Journalism School, a rousing call to arms: “Cover technology as a human rights and political issue as if it were Parliament. Maybe even with more verve and clarity ­ were that possible. It is just as interesting and about ten thousand times more important.”What have you been reading this morning? The comments section is open for your links, as well as your thoughts on the stories above.
The rerelease of discs bursting with the entire remastered main canon of a renowned game series in HD is a fairly common concept in modern gaming, butHalo: The Master Chief Collectionis far from an ordinary compilation.It brings together the four core games from the acclaimed sci-fi shooter series, each of which has undergone various applications of spit and polish, withHalo 2enjoying the most impressive reworking. The four titles’ single-player campaigns alone offer a hefty experience that shows one of the most influential game series of all time evolve with, and spearhead, the progression of the first-person shooter.ButThe Master Chief Collectionalso presents more than 100 online multiplayer maps from across the quartet of games. However, on launch, there have been substantial problems with multiplayer access, itself the reason for delaying this review. At the time of writing, they are partly resolved and should be fully solved in the near future.What does work right now is the compendium boosting the games to 60 frames per second, meaning significant improvements to fluidity of game play, and there’s access to the comingHalo 5beta and theHalo Nightfallseries. Ostensibly another collection of bundled rereleases, then, and with a multiplayer start that was far from graceful, but the size, scope and design elegance of the package are what really set it apart and present a weighty slab of modern video game history.
Following adventures in the new world and on the high seas,Unitymarks a return to the familiar forAssassin’s Creed– a bustling city steeped in history, culture and handily placed wall protrusions. The series’ leap to more capable hardware also brings with it plenty of welcome additions, most obviously its ability to present an enormous increase in population, which really bring the chaos of the French revolution to life.Assassination missions offer numerous inventive ways to dispatch targets while encouraging patience and keen observation skills. The expansive drop-in multiplayer mode is woven seamlessly into the adventure too, featuring unique side stories that feed into the grand, big-picture, alternative history tale.Equally, the late 18th-century Parisian architecture is a breathtaking sight to behold, presented on a vast scale and, as is usual for the series, fully interactive, from cellar to steeple. All of which comes at a price, however. The game engine is crippled by this ambition and suffers from numerous glitches and an unstable frame rate that smacks of an unfinished product.The new “free-run down” mechanic fails to work as intuitively as might be expected too. An exceptionally ambitious title, then, that aims high, but that feels like it’s a few patches away from really hitting its mark.
It's Monday!
Amazon is to open another base in London with a 46,000 sq ft fashion photography studio in Shoreditch next year.The internet retailer said the studio would be one of the largest of its kind in Europe and would provide images for its fashion business across the continent.Amazon is renting the premises in railway arches by Hoxton station from Transport for London, with which it recently launched aclick-and-collect service at tube stations.More than 1m fashion items were sold in a week on Amazon.co.uk in the runup to Christmas last year. The site started selling clothing in 2008 but this year has ramped up its interest in the sector.Sergio Bucher, vice-president of Amazon Fashion EU, said: “Fashion is one of the fastest growing businesses for Amazon across Europe and the creation of this new studio illustrates both our ambitions in this area and our dedication to providing a first-class customer experience.”The studio, slightly larger than the one serving the US market that Amazon opened in New York in 2013, is planned to open by next summer, with 35 new permanent staff. Amazon said it expected to create more jobs in the capital, with about 2,000 employees based in London across the studio and three offices next year. That number is expected to increase to 5,000 in 2017 when Amazon opens an office in Shoreditch.Despite its growing presence in London, The company is expected to continue its tax arrangements that last year allowed it to designate£4.3bn in UK salesas being made through its company in Luxembourg. Amazon’s UK business paid £4.2m in tax last year, reporting sales of £449m. TfL said the rental revenue would be reinvested in the transport network.
Angry Birds, Clash of Clans, Monument Valley and Kim Kardashian: Hollywood are among the iOS apps taking part in Apple’s latest fundraising drive for Aids charity Red.25 apps are involved in thetwo-week campaign, with each offering exclusive Red-themed content, and donating all sales and in-app purchases to the charity.Angry Birds will have a new Mighty Feathers power-up and bonus level; Clash of Clans will be selling special-edition Red gems, with players able to show a Red badge on their town hall; Monument Valley is selling a new Red-branded chapter; while Kardashian’s game will sell Red-branded Beats headphones as a virtual item.The promotion is dominated by games, the most lucrative category on Apple’s App Store, with Bubble Witch Saga 2, CSR Racing, Cut the Rope 2, Despicable Me: Minion Rush, FarmVille 2, FIFA 15, Frozen Free Fall, Heads Up, Puzzle &amp; Dragons, Rayman Fiesta Run, Sims FreePlay and Threes also included.Apple’s GarageBand music app is also part of the promotion with a new collection of audio loops, alongside Clear, Djay 2, The Human Body, Kitchen Stories Cookbook, Over, Paper, Star Walk 2 and Toca Town.Apple will also donate a portion of sales at its retail and online stores to Red on 28 November and 1 December – the popular “Black Friday” and “Cyber Monday” shopping days in the US, although they’re catching on elsewhere in the world. 1 December is also this year’sWorld Aids Day.“For eight years, our customers have been helping fight Aids in Africa by funding life-saving treatments which are having a profoundly positive impact,” said Apple chief executive Tim Cook in a statement.“This year we are launching our biggest fundraising push yet with the participation of Apple’s retail and online stores, and some of the brightest minds in the App Store are lending their talents to the effort as well.”Apple has releaseda series of products under the Red brandduring that eight years, while its design boss Jony Ive curated an auction with Marc Newson in November 2013 thatraised $26.2m for the charity.“Apple isn’t just in the fight to end AIDS. They are setting a new bar for business, giving $75 million and counting to the Global Fund as part of their partnership with Red,” said U2 frontman Bono, who co-founded the charity.The new campaign is the first time Apple has enlisted iOS app developers into its fundraising efforts. iPhone and iPad ownersspent more than $10bn (£6.1bn) on apps and in-app purchasesin 2013.•Stranded on the planet of the apps
Liberal Democrats and civil liberties campaigners have welcomed new measures requiring internet service providers to keep data that identifies online users, but said it must not be seen as a way of reviving the “snooper’s charter”.The Tory MP and civil liberties campaigner David Davis MP said the measure to link subscribers’ data to specific smartphones, laptops or other devices through their internet protocol (IP) addresses was a sensible change, but that it should not be used as a “stepping stone back to the old snooper’s charter”.The new law will also allow the police to force internet firms to hand over data showing who is using a computer or smartphone at any particular time.The Lib Dems also welcomed the move, saying Nick Clegg had repeatedly pressed the home secretary, Theresa May, to introduce proposals to match IP addresses with subscribers’ data since he blocked the introduction of the “snooper’s charter”.“It is good news that the Home Office has finally got round to producing proposals on this after being repeatedly asked by Nick Clegg. This is exactly the kind of thing that we need to take action on, rather than proposing an unnecessary, unworkable and disproportionate snooper’s charter. There is absolutely no chance of that illiberal bill coming back under the coalition government. It’s dead and buried.”The draft communications data bill would have required internet service providers to store data tracking users’ online activity for 12 months and make it available to the police and security services.The joint parliamentary committee that strongly criticised the “snooper’s charter” recommended linking subscribers’ data to IP addresses. The MPs and peers said the data would make it possible to trace who was using a particular IP address at a given point of time.Individual devices do not have their own IP addresses, but are assigned one each time they go online. The same addresses may be used by different devices at different times. As such, the police struggle to prove a link between something that has happened online, such as accessing child abuse images, and a particular individual.Davis told The Andrew Marr Show on BBC1: “It’s a stepping stone back to the old snooper’s charter, the thing that parliament roundly threw out about a year and half ago, two years ago, because they weren’t convinced that this was necessary.“Now this technical change is okay, it’s sensible, but the home secretary has said in effect that she sees it as a route back into the whole snooper’s charter and, frankly, I think she’s going to have real trouble.”May confirmed the new requirements would be included in an anti-terrorism and security bill due to be published on Wednesday.The legislation will also include David Cameron’s more controversial plans to ban British citizens who are identified as terror suspects from the country for up to two years, give police wider powers to seize the passports of suspected jihadis leaving the country, and deny landing rights in Britain to airlines that fail to supply passenger lists in advance.The bill also contains changes to the terrorism prevention and investigation measures that are used to monitor terror suspects in Britain, including the introduction of a power to order a suspect to live in another part of the country. The threshold of proof required to exercise such measures will be raised, and the bill will also establish a narrower definition of terrorism in an effort to ensure the new powers do not target innocent people.May said the bill was needed to counter the “increased threat” Britain faces.Asked on The Andrew Marr show whether the measure to link web users and their devices to IP addresses was a step back towards the snooper’s charter, she said: “This is a step but it doesn’t go all the way to ensuring that we can identify all the people we will need to … The National Crime Agency … will still not be able to identify everybody who is accessing illegal content on the internet.”
Poking among the gadgets and gizmos atMarionville Models, the last shop in Edinburgh before the airport, you’ll find a generic type of man. Middle-aged, scuffed at the edges, grey-haired, anoraked – but with boyhood alive in his eyes in this treasure cave. He is pretty much me.Like blokes in “adult books” shops, when those still existed, we try to ignore each other. You recognise the taint of solitary obsession. But conversation starts, mainly about gimbals and yaw. After I admit to crashing my borrowed DJI Phantom 2 two seconds into its maiden flight, the other droners (yes, that is a word) open up. I clearly pose very little status challenge.If you ever got a balsa-wood aeroplane kit in your Christmas stocking and wound its rubber-band-driven propeller until it broke you will understand how men – and they usually are men – may end up a Richard Branson or a Howard Hughes. We may just spend more money in the model shop. This year it’s going onUnmanned Aerial Vehicles(UAVs), the serious droners’ name for a drone.In Marionville Models, assistant Kevin recalibrates my machine’s compass while answering nonstop phone calls. These are all from men who want to buy drones. Two women do come in, to ask if they could buy something that their dad could use to fly his camera. Pretty soon Kevin is halfway to selling them a £2,700 DJI Spreading Wings, an octocopter or eight-engined drone with the looks of a toxic flying spider. It is capable of carrying a digital SLR camera. One like this is used by a Marionville customer who’s also into falconry. The dronefilms the birds in action while flying preyto them, suspended on a string.Sky’s the limit: the bestselling DJI Phantom 2 can carry a GoPro video camera with a motor drive. It costs from £700.Photograph: Martin Hunter/ObserverKeith shows me his hexcopter, which is just being fine-tuned by Riccardo, Marionville’s owner. With six rotors and a remote-controlled GoPro camera it has cost him a little under £2,000. “I’m planning to use it for business,” Keith says. “I work on the rigs, using an ROV [remotely operated vehicle] underwater, so it’s pretty much the same sort of thing. Same controls.” What business? “Oh, building-trade stuff – inspecting gutters, roofs, chimneys. A lot cheaper to hire me and the DJI than three men and scaffolding.”“But, you’re going to have some fun with it, as well?” “Oh aye,” says Keith. “I’ll be having a play with it.” The light of boyhood is on in his eyes, too.Drones – remote-controlled flying objects with cameras – are likely to be this Christmas’s big present for boys, big and small, and next year’s biggest suburban annoyance. For £50 you can now buy a reasonably stable and efficient hovering flying machine that will take video of your neighbours in their garden – or through their bedroom window. These are small enough to fit into your hand.There are drawbacks, of course. When my daughter and I first launched the HubSan X4 (£48, fromRC Geeks) in our kitchen it inflicted an interesting wound on her finger and then flew behind the kitchen sink. Not many 10-year-olds can go to school and boast that they have been lacerated by a quadcopter, though the numbers are surely rising. More troubling was the hour we had to spend drilling a hole through the back of the kitchen unit to retrieve the tiny thing.No doubt the British army has similar problems with the “nano-drones” it uses in combat. They are the same size as the HubSan and they do pretty much the same things – fly round corners, film things, fall down and get lost if there’s any wind. The big difference is that the army’s Black Hornets cost £125,000 each. They should have triedMaplin.Drones exercising Alex Renton’s Jack Russell and DaughterA few hours later, my daughter was exercising the dog with the HubSan, flying it backwards and forwards across an Edinburgh park. The drone’s eye view of the Jack Russell attacking it – other park-users will sympathise – is hilarious stuff, like a shark coming up to grab a swimmer. The daughter is convinced it can make it on Harry Hill’sYou’ve Been Framed. There it may join such treasures as the drone that got into trouble while filming awedding and gave the bride a black eye.With a bigger budget, droning may get more grown-up. For under £300, you can buy an AR Parrot that will fly further and higher, and stream video footage by Wi-Fi to a smartphone or tablet. You download an app that shows you the drone’s view and a couple of on-screen joy sticks that you control with your thumbs. I was given one last Christmas, it also comes with a useful polystyrene propeller guard that the dog can bite. For about £650 there is the DJI Phantom Vision, with a 14-megapixel still and video camera: nearly broadcast quality.It will stay in the air for 25 minutes, tolerating wind that would confound all but the sturdiest umbrella. It uses in-built GPS to fly around and over, say, the Queen’s palace at Holyrood. (At this point the Civil Aviation Authority starts to take an interest – more on that later.) Most important, if it goes out of range it will return home by itself. YouTube is full of cheeky and eye-popping footage taken by Phantoms. The most impressive yet to appear featuresfilm from inside an erupting volcano in Iceland. The drone survived but the GoPro camera attached to it melted.An IS video image of Kobane, taken by a drone.Photograph: AFPThe GoPro, a matchbox-sized HD video camera used by extreme-sports people, was carried into the volcano by a DJI Phantom 2. These sturdy Japanese quadcopters are doing for drone-flying what the Amstrad 8256 and Apple II did for home computing. Starting at £700, Phantom 2s are top of the Christmas- present want-lists of most of the outdoor photographers and aeronautics geeks in the land. China-based DJI won’t release sales figures, though it says it has gone from 50 staff to 2,500 in the past five years. In November, Marionville was selling 10 of its quad or hexcopters a week and Riccardo says the rise of the drones has all but saved his business.The DJI Phantoms are currently the most popular recreational drone in the world – so big in the United States that this summer the National Parks Service (NPS) issued a temporary ban on them and all unmanned aircraft at the parks and monuments it polices. In the States there’s a fad for “dronies” – aerial shots of yourself, posed somewhere cool. So many Phantom 2s have been videoing the great presidential faces of Mount Rushmore that one droner said a queueing system had to be started, to prevent collisions.In an editorial, theNew York Timeswelcomed the NPS’s stop to the “gnatlike advance of aeronautics” quoting John Muir, the “great evangelist” of America’s wilderness: “The gross heathenism of civilisation has generally destroyed nature.” The ban is only temporary because the freedom to pester nature and the wilderness by remote control is something no legislator can see a way of outlawing.In 2006 Frank Wang, a 26-year-old Chinese electronics engineer, started DJI. A remote-controlled helicopter enthusiast since childhood, Wang thought he could do better than make toys “that were hard to control and easy to crash”. At the same time the key component, a lithium rechargeable battery, was getting cheaper – the price has dropped 40% this decade. From his Hangzhou apartment, Wang designed parts and kits for UAVs and then, in early 2013, launched the first Phantom. This would not only carry a camera capable of professional-quality images, it would also survive a crash and, if it lost its owner’s signal, return to where it had started. Before this, camera-carrying drones were the stuff of electronics home-build projects and military surveillance.Miami Athletics, using drones to capture scenes from their workouts.Photograph: API came across drones for non-geeks first in 2011. Journalist friends in Asia and the Middle East reported photographers using them during urban rioting in the Arab Spring and in Thailand – as much to find out what was going on behind police lines and in no-go zones as for getting footage. That seemed a good idea. The same year I worked in Beirut for an NGO trying to help doctors and journalists operate in Syria’s civil war. During the bitter fighting in Homs, I spent time on the phone to military attachés in different embassies, trying to find out whose surveillance drones were hovering over the Baba Amr suburb.It was an important question. The humanitarian workers on the ground wanted to know if the eyes in the sky were friendly, or likely to be directing fire at attempts to move casualties. The answer I got was that nearly everyone – the Israelis, Americans, Syrians, Russians and Iranians – was flying unmanned aerial-surveillance aircraft over the city.It seems a good principle that when governments have machinery that can gather information, journalists should have it, too. (Though as early as 2010 a $25,000 drone was used to get images of a Paris Hilton beach party in the south of France.) Faine Greenwood, a journalist based in Phnom Penh, uses a Phantom 2 for her work. She has also helped assess different drones for theHumanitarian UAV Network, a group that wants to develop the machines for emergency aid work, including delivery of supplies and medicines.Greenwood, whose Masters thesis was on “drone culture”, has likened the ever-dropping price of UAV tech to “the peace dividend of the mobile phone wars”. She says: “They will provide us with a cheap, easy-to-use and incredibly versatile way of gathering data, from perspectives humans have rarely had much access to before.” The extraordinarydrone footage of nighttime Hong Kong, giving a unique idea of the scale of October’s democracy protests, shows how technology can challenge a state that doesn’t allow freedom of speech or reporting.Many, of course, don’t see a human-rights benefit around drones. They are just another hi-tech pest. But drones are so useful that cracks in this stance are inevitable. The RSPB has already used one to check whether a marsh harrier had laid eggs in its remote nest. So far, talk of non-military drone delivery systems has not gone further than Amazon’s joke that it might start with UAVs if the traffic gets worse, and the Las Vegas hotel that delivers cocktails from bar to poolside by Phantom. But that is going to change. Drones are taking off, like it or not.As with internet misbehaviour and legal highs, legislation is not keeping up with the advance of technology. I can’t fly my rebooted DJI Phantom 2 from the pavement outside Marionville Models because we’re within the four-mile exclusion zone around Edinburgh airport. Local wisdom says the police will spot any incursion. But I can do pretty much anything else I like with it, because there’s not really anyone to stop me. Last winter a sperm whale was stranded, dead, on a beach in the Firth of Forth – crowds gathered and the police rather officiously kept us back. So I flew my drone out over their heads to have a look at it and take some pictures.That, the Civil Aviation Authority tells me, was illegal. It is their job to police manmade objects in the UK’s airspace, whether over your back garden or Heathrow. The law, a spokesman explains, is clear. No UAVs can be flown within 50m of a person, vehicle or building – unless those are “under your control”. So what about the back garden of my terraced house? “We would expect you to have told your neighbour. It’s not permitted if you’re within 50m of your neighbour’s house.”There’s more. No flight is allowed within 150m of any congested area, which rules out half of Hyde Park. Also, you have to be in line of sight of the UAV at all times – which means it should be no more than 120m above you and 500m away. This is despite the fact that the cheaper models now give you real-time views from the drone’s camera, and control via GPS makes long flights out of sight ordinary – just like the drones the RAF is using to bomb Isis in Syria.Breaking these rules is a criminal offence, but so far there have been only two convictions, both this year. One was for flying a drone over Alton Towers too close to the rides – a guilty plea and a £300 fine. In the other a TV shop owner in Barrow-in-Furness was fined £800 for flying the drone within 50m of a road bridge and near a BAE nuclear submarine site, an offence in itself. The villain, Robert Knowles, called his conviction “ridiculous”, saying that the drone had only got to these places because it had crashed and floated there down the river.No UAV, furthermore, can be used for paid commercial activity without a certificate of competence, after a training course, and permission from the CAA. That, of course, turns nearly all the drone users who hire themselves out to builders and architects in Marionville Models and around the country into law breakers. Arguably, it would nab the BBC natural history unit – regular drone users, too. But the CAA has exempted them.“We’re not naive,” sighs the CAA spokesman, “but we think the rules are proportionate and sensible. The Phantom 2 weighs 3kg: flying at 200ft, the remote goes, it drops out of the sky, that could hurt someone.” And, in case any droner is wondering, the CAA does monitor YouTube. That’s how they got the guy from Alton Towers.In order to photograph the fleet of drones acquired for this article, theObserverplayed it strictly by the book. The notion of drone-flying a Hibernian FC flag across Hearts of Midlothian’s ground midmatch, emulating a stunt pulled by an Albanian fan at a Serbia-Albania match in Belgrade two months ago, was abandoned. Instead we borrowed a country house on a secluded estate in East Lothian. On a golden November day, the drones danced around the neo-classical stonework, putting up pigeons that then tried to attack them. There were no accidents, because we had obtained the services of a competent pilot, Ian McKean.Ian bought a Phantom 2 Vision earlier this year for TipTop Gardens, his landscape gardening business. “It’s really useful for surveying a property from above, getting pictures so you can then show a client where a bed is going to be.” He doesn’t charge for that service, so no CAA permission is needed.But what about the fun, I wondered, looking for the boy-gleam in his eye. “Oh, I’ve got a project filming the changing seasons in the woods around my house. And there’s a friend who’s organising motocross events, and wants that filmed.” I can see there’s something else: an even more pleasing notion. Ian grins, the smile of a man who once loved a balsa-wood aeroplane. “My friend is a sheep farmer and we think we might use it for rounding up the animals.I’ve seen that on YouTube.”The DJI Phantom 2 Vision was lent byrcgeeks.co.uk(01737 457 404). Including a motorised gimbal for a GoPro camera, it sells for £707.50. Marionville Models, 42 Turnhouse Road, Edinburgh (marionvillemodels.com; 0131 317 7010) sells drones and offers generous human help to those who can’t fly them very well.UAVs: a buyer’s guide(in order of size)Hubsan X4Four engines, 20 minutes’ flight time. Best of the many nano-drones, equipped with video camera and memory. Use for snooping indoors and outdoors, harassing pets. Will fit through letter box. From £35.Parrot AR Drone 2.0Four engines, 30 minutes’ flight time, max speed 25mph. Controlled via Wi-Fi from smartphone, tablet or head-set. Low-res video or stills can be stored on board or streamed back. From £220.DJI S1000Spreading wings. Eight engines, 15 minutes’ flight time, max speed 45mph. Retractable landing gear. For professional still and video photography. From £2,800.RAF MQ9 ReaperOne engine, 14 hours’ flight time, max speed 300mph. Cameras and up to four Hellfire air-to-ground missiles. Few legal restrictions as long as only non-UK citizens are killed. From £8m.
You know the problem: you’re sitting there reading an email from a friend on your smartphone or tablet and there is a link in the message to what looks like an interesting website. So you tap on it and the web page begins to load. And then suddenly up pops a dialogue box with text that looks like an escapee from the MySpace museum saying something like: “Hey! Why not download our cool new App?”, an invitation helpfully translatedby the wonderful XKCD siteas: “Want to visit an incomplete version of our website where you can’t zoom?”Welcome to appworld. Personally, I blame Steve Jobs. He understood that since smartphones were really small computers then they could also run programs. So he set up the Apple’s app store to make this happen, and in the process ensured that the firm took 30% of everything sold on it.It was significant also that on the day that Jobs revealed this insight to the world, standing next to him on the stage was John Doerr, one of Silicon Valley’s smartest investors, who was there to announce the setting up of a $100m investment fund for app developers.Which is how we got to where we are now – awash with smartphone and tablet apps, more than 90% of which are crap. Currently, there are about 1.3m Android apps and Apple’s app store hosts 1.2m of the things. (Just to put that in perspective, the corresponding figures for Windows, Amazon and BlackBerry phones are 300,000, 240,000 and 130,000 respectively.)The result is that everyone and his or her dog now has more apps than they know what to do with. I’ve seen people with 10 screenfuls of apps on their iPads, so many that they have given up swiping to try to locate one and go straight to “search” instead. I think of myself as a discriminating consumer of technology, but inspection of my iPhone tells a different story. I have 86 of the damn things and when I sat down to work out how many of them I had used in the last 14 days the number turned out to be a rather embarrassing 16.That doesn’t mean that all of the others are useless, just that they are only useful occasionally. The excellentCollins-Robert Concise French Dictionarygenerally comes into its own only in the summer.Birds of Britain and Irelandis generally launched only when we’re in north Norfolk, just as the London tube app is called on only in London. But, even so, the sobering conclusion is that only a third of the apps on my phone are really, really useful.If you’re an optimist, the fact that there are 1.3m apps out there provides a delightful affirmation of human ingenuity and creativity: all those programmers, each imbued with a great idea, beavering away writing code. The reality, alas, is more mundane and varied. There are indeed some creative programmers producing elegant, witty or ingenious apps. But there are also a lot of people producing unscrupulous or misleading programs, the full horrors of which are evident only after the hapless smartphone user has downloaded them. I remember, for example, being encouraged (ie conned) by my grandson into downloading a “free” app featuring a charming kitten, only to discover that if one wanted to clothe this animal in some daft costume or other then one had to shell out a tidy sum for each costume. Thus one entered the shady underworld of “in-app purchases”. With “free” apps, you get what you don’t pay for.Even when you do pay for an app, there’s often no way of knowing whether you’ve been conned until after you’ve downloaded and run the thing. Which is a bit like having to wait until you’ve arrived home from the market to discover that that exotic new drink you’ve excitedly purchased is actually made from distilled camel urine.But the most pernicious peddlers of apps are not the small guys but the publishing conglomerates whose apps are essentially crippled, disconnected mini-websites designed to make sure that users are corralled in ways that suit their publishers. These outfits are also among the most assiduous disseminators of“the web is dead” memefor the simple reason that they wish it were dead.As Jeff Attwood, a great blogger, puts it: “The tablet and phone app ecosystem is slowly, painstakingly reinventing everything I hated about the computer software industry before the web blew it all up.” Which is why we need it rather more than we need smartphone apps.
A former Amazon employee embroiled in a legal battle with the online retailer is set to go on hunger strike in an attempt to force the company to change business practices which he calls “deceptive and fraudulent”.Kivin Vargheseplans to start his vigil on Tuesday outside Amazon’s headquarters in Seattle in order to raise awareness of what he alleges are poor business practices and employee treatment by the company.“I think if Amazon customers took a few minutes to look at this and see how Amazon treats employees they’d be shocked,” he said. “My goal with stepping it up with a hunger protest is really to drive more awareness of their practices and really what happens when people buy from Amazon. Every dollar that is spent at Amazon is going to fund this bad behaviour.”Varghese is in the midst of a court case with the company, in which he claims wrongful discharge after he worked on an advertising platform for Amazon’s Kindle Fire tablet. Amazon has called for the claims to be dismissed, stating incourt documentsthat Varghese was an “underperforming employee who had a difference of opinion with his employer”.Varghese, who plans to only drink water during his protest, is calling for the company to add three items to its 14 leadership principles. He wants Amazon to commit to better treatment of employees, improve ethical standards and “make decisions that are better for our environment”.He is also asking for customers to boycott Amazon on Black Friday and Cyber Monday, the two major US shopping days that fall after the Thanksgiving holiday, and wants workers to strike or take sick days in protest at conditions.A self-portrait taken by Kivin Varghese, outside Amazon headquarters in Seattle.Photograph: Kivin Varghese“What I’m really trying to accomplish is a much more thorough and accountable effort to get Amazon to pay attention to employee treatment,” he said. “Not only employee treatment in Seattle but more importantly employees who are toiling away at these fulfillment and cost centres across the country.”The protest coincides with anti-Amazon action in the UK. The group Amazon Anonymous is encouraging consumers to avoid using the company during December, in an attempt to “disrupt their business”. The group is criticising the company’s tax practices and calling for it to “pay its workers a living wage”.When asked for comment, Amazon stated that the company does not give any on active litigation.Amazon has just announced a “long-term commitment to achieve 100% renewable energy usage” for its global infrastructure footprint.
You’re Ajay, arriving in the fictitious Himalayan kingdom of Kyrat with your dead mum’s ashes. You discover a people living in fear of psychotic gun runner, Pagan Min, and that you’re the son of a legendary local freedom fighter. That’s all it takes to kickstart your campaign of Rambo-style regime change. As in Far Cry 3, there are rickety towers to scale that unlock new areas of the map, outposts to subdue, and the need to stalk animals and people through jungle, water and villages. This outing adds majestic mountain scenery and a grappling hook to help navigate it, as well as numerous gyrocopters and hang gliders ready to be stolen as you crisscross its precipitous passes and peaks. You can also change the course of the story depending on which of two rival faction leaders’ missions you choose to undertake. Like Assassin’s Creed, there’s a strong sense of deja vu, but this is so taut and well constructed it’s easier to forgive. Far Cry 4 is raucous, violent and insanely good fun.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKAssassin’s Creed: Unity; PS4, Xbox One, PCLike a blade-packing, French revolution-era Spider-Man – with a slightly looser moral compass – Unity’s hero takes to the rooftops of Paris administering pointy justice with the game’s lightly refreshed combat system. Parkour and climbing have also been overhauled, although the differences are mostly cosmetic. There are sections in Versailles andbelle époqueParis, but most of your time is spent in the 18th-century version of France’s capital, the city so vast and beautifully rendered you’ll find yourself just gazing out at its endlessness. Sadly, this scale and the large crowds filling the streets cause plenty of technical problems: your hero falling through the ground into a bottomless white abyss, or point-blank refusing to get his sword out when you try to attack someone. The real issue, though, is the profusion of inconsequential distractions, the map drowning in a sea of virtually indecipherable icons, the story lost among the sideshows. Assassin’s Creed is a franchise crying out for reinvention.Ubisoft, £39.99 to £44.99
Games just released includeWatch Dogs(Wii U), Ubisoft’s open-world hack-and-shoot-‘em up, which is now available for Nintendo’s console;Sonic Boom: Rise Of Lyric(Wii U) continues Sonic’s tradition of mediocrity, its boring combat and uneven difficulty conspiring to turn ordinary into godawful;Sonic Boom: Shattered Crystal(3DS) proves just as inadequate;Minecraft: PS Vita Edition(Vita) brings the game which has been rightly touted as the 21st century’s answer to Lego to Sony’s high-powered handheld; the competent and dramatically inclinedMiddle-earth: Shadow Of Mordor(Xbox 360, PS3) makes its way to last-generation consoles; andEscape Dead Island(Xbox 360, PS3, PC) is a cut-price spinoff from the inexplicably popular Dead Island series, dropping the silly weapons and co-op gameplay in favour of stealth, evasion and retro cel-shaded graphics.
I am standing in an underground car park, contemplating the Kia Soul. I pace about and size it up, view it from every angle, and still I cannot shake the thought of how unbefittingly it is named. One thing it doesn’t have is soul.The story runs that the Soul began when a member of Kia’s design team in California was sent to Korea to help conjure up a new vehicle. Riveted by a TV programme about wild boar, he duly drew a sketch of a boar wearing a backpack, which in turn led to the idea of a rectangular car with a sloping roof. It would be the perfect marriage of “strength and capability” that would appeal to “hip urban youths”.What stands before me in the car park, in a blistering shade of Heinz tomato soup, looks more like a hybrid of a Playmobil fire truck and a Royal Mail van. It’s very tall and boxy and basic-looking, and there isn’t a hint of swine about it.The original Kia, launched in 2008, sold well in the US, but miserably in Europe. This new version looks to address this discrepancy. It has better suspension and improved steering, and its famously noisy cabin has been hushed by greater sound insulation. It’s also a little longer, wider, sturdier in the frame. More unwisely, it has acquired an outlandish number of black trims – all over the back, around the wheel arches and the sills, like the contrast piping on a cheap sofa.Inside, it’s a little less abrasive to the eye and comfortably furnished, with a large amount of headroom and upper body space – so much that it feels oddly airy at first. But it’s heavy – 1.5 tonnes, it was never going to tread lightly. That extra chunkiness makes it less economical, too: with the top-end petrol version, running costs can be comparable to a full-sized SUV, and then there’s the added tax brought by its startlingly hefty CO2 emissions. As we scuttle around in it later, I’m surprised by how little it leans for such a lofty car, but also how jumpy it feels over potholes and, despite its improvements in sound insulation, how noisy it remains. Truthfully, I’m a little embarrassed by its lumbering hulk. At traffic lights, I want to mouth through the window to anyone alongside me: “I did not buy this car.”Who would buy this car? Maybe someone very tall and broad-shouldered who needs a lot of boot space and has a thing for wild boar. It might appeal to the older or more cautious driver – reassured by its heaviness and perfectly content with its pootling demeanour. But certainly no hip urban youth, and no one with even a hint of soul.Kia SoulPriceFrom £17,500Top speed112mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption56.5mpgCO2 emissions132g/kmEco rating3/10Cool rating4/10On the stereoSex MachinebyJames Brown– proper soul• Follow Laura onTwitter
The European parliament is reportedly poised to call for a break-up of Google in a drastic escalation of Europe’s long-running antitrust case against the tech giant.A draft motion seen by theFinancial Times, and expected to be agreed next week, calls for the “unbundling [of] search engines from other commercial services” as a potential solution to Google’s dominance of the search market in Europe.The European Commission has been investigating concerns that Google has abused its dominant position in search since 2010 and the dispute has become increasingly bitter. In September the EU’s incoming digital commissioner Günther Oettinger warned that any settlement with Google could “cement its strength in the market rather than diluting it”.German, French and Spanish politicians have attacked the company over a variety of issues including revelations from National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden and “right to be forgotten” legislation that allows people to delete information from search results.Joaquín Almunia, then the EU’s competition commissioner, rejected Google’s third attempt to settle the antitrust case in September after political support for the deal collapsed. He reopened the inquiry after“very, very negative”comments from complainants.His successor, Margrethe Vestager, has told the European Parliament she will “need some time to decide on the next steps” in the case.Sigmar Gabriel, Germany’s economy minister and vice-chancellor, suggested a break-up of the company in May but suggested regulation was a better move. “We must give serious thought to the possibility of ‘unbundling’ the internet market, in a similar way to the electricity and gas networks,”Gabriel wrotein an op-ed published in German daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.The case against Google is being backed by rival Microsoft, which faced its own antitrust suits in the 1990s, German publisher Axel Springer and a host of smaller rivals that claim Google is squeezing them out of the market.“We are afraid of Google,” Mathias Döpfner, chief executive of Axel Springer wrote inan open letterto Eric Schmidt, Google’s executive chairman. “I must state this very clearly and frankly, because few of my colleagues dare do so publicly.” He pointed out that Google a 91.2% share of the search-engine market in Germany. He called for restrictions on the company and warned Schmidt the company could “win yourself to death”.Oettinger has already made suggested remedies for Google’s alleged dominance including mandated changes to search results. A public call for a break-up would be the most far-reaching action proposed to date. But the European parliament lacks the authority to force a break-up of a company and any such proposal would meet stiff opposition from Google and the US.Google was not immediately available for comment.
One of New York’s largest taxi driver groups has called for rival Uber to have its license suspended after reports that it has been abusing access to data about its passengers’ rides.The move, the latest in a bitter feud between the tech firm and traditional cabs, follows a Buzzfeed report that New York general manager Josh Mohrer had used the company’s “God’s View” technology to track the movements of one of its reporters.Uber’s God’s View tool allows Uber employees to track people’s use of the service, showing when and where they traveled. The company is now investigating Mohrer and has said such access goes against its privacy policy.In a letter to Taxi &amp; Limousine Commission (TLC) chairwoman Meera Joshi, Tweeps Phillips, executive director of the Committee for Taxi Safety, wrote she was “horrified but not surprised” by the news.“We are calling upon the TLC to immediately begin an official investigation into Uber’s usage of passenger data and the “God View” technology. We also ask that their license be suspended until the riding public can be assured that their privacy and data are safe,” she wrote.The move follows a report that Mohrer told Buzzfeed reporter Johana Bhuiyan he had been tracking her Uber vehicle as she made her way to his office for an interview. Mohrer also emailed Bhuiyan logs of her Uber rides to answer questions she brought up in the interview. Mohrer did not ask for Bhuiyan’s permission before accessing that information, BuzzFeed reported.That revelation followed a report from BuzzFeed editorBen Smith reportedthat one of Uber’s top executives had suggested hiring a team of investigators to dig into the personal lives of journalists who criticised the company.Chief operating officer Emil Michael singled out Sarah Lacy, the founder of tech site PandoDaily, who has written a series of critical articles about the company. He said the investigators could prove “a particular and very specific claim about her personal life”.Uber chief executive Travis Kalanick and Michael have bothapologised for the remarks. Michael remains with the company.“The Taxi &amp; Limousine Commission has a duty to protect the public from unsavory businesses and their shady practices,” wrote Phillips.New York’s powerful taxi lobby has been at war with Uber since its launch. Asked about this week’s public relations disaster earlier this week Joshi described them as“growing pains”.Phillips said she had great respect for Joshi but it was “pretty ridiculous” to describe Uber’s issues as “growing pains”.“It’s pretty egregious that they are threatening people with the use of their data. It’s something that the TLC should be concerned about,” she said. She said any other taxi service caught doing similar things would be heavily fined and could have its license revoked. “So why is it that Uber can do this?” she said.Uber declined to comment.
Hackers are claiming to have broken into the Sony PlayStation Network (PSN), Microsoft Windows Live and 2K Games to leak over 5,500 usernames and passwords.The hacking group called DerpTrolling claim, on Twitter and the anonymous text sharing site Pastebin, to have broken into Sony’s PSN, Microsoft’s Windows Live and 2K Games Studios and stolen millions of usernames and passwords.A hack of the PSN would be the third intrusion into the service sincea major attack in 2011, which saw 77m accounts stolen and the online gaming service taken offline for 24 days.“Dear Internet, the following is a very small portion of Lord Gaben and the rest of his crews glorious raids across the high seas of the Internet,” the Derp hacking group said in an alleged data dump of over 2,100 PSN, 1,400 Windows Live and 2,000 2K account. “Let this be a warning to all. Nothing is safe from Derp.”The hackers claim to have 7m more account details in their possession. They also claimed responsibility for the distributed denial of service attack on Blizzard Entertainment’s World of Warcraft servers.‘Culled and assembled from previously leaked data’Security experts have poured doubt on the validity of the hack suggesting that DerpTrolling could be living up to its name.“Looking through the list, there’s certainly an awful lot of crossover with data from previous breaches, in particular the Adobe one,” explained Rik Ferguson, vice president of security research at Trend Micro. “The random sample cross-referencing I have done certainly show that the majority of data listed here has shown up already in previous breaches with a very few exceptions which seem to appear only in this particular paste.”The Guardian was unable to verify the leaked details, while various users have reported that the leaked email address and passwords are not valid, although this could be because the passwords have been reset by the services.“The possibility exists that all this data comes from various new hacks of course, but on balance right now I’m coming down on the side of them having been culled and assembled from previously leaked data,” Ferguson said. “Of course only the services affected can give us a definitive answer, or Derp release evidence of the hack that goes beyond simple account lists.”Microsoft said in a statement: “We are investigating this issue and will take the necessary steps to protect customers as needed.”Sony, 2K Games have not responded to request for comment.Users are advised to change their passwords as a precaution and to look out for suspicious activity on their Windows Live, PSN and 2K Games accounts.•Why did Lulzsec and Anonymous hack games companies?•What to do if your email gets hacked - and how to prevent it
E-cigarettes may be better for your health than normal ones, but spare a thought for your poor computer – electronic cigarettes have become the latest vector for malicious software, according to online reports.Many e-cigarettes can be charged over USB, either with a special cable, or by plugging the cigarette itself directly into a USB port. That might be a USB port plugged into a wall socket or the port on a computer – but, if so, that means that a cheap e-cigarette from an untrustworthy supplier gains physical access to a device.A report on social news site Reddit suggests that at least one “vaper” has suffered the downside of trusting their cigarette manufacturer. “One particular executive had a malware infection on his computer from which the source could not be determined,”the user writes. “After all traditional means of infection were covered, IT started looking into other possibilities.“The made in China e-cigarette had malware hardcoded into the charger, and when plugged into a computer’s USB port the malware phoned home and infected the system.”Rik Ferguson, a security consultant for Trend Micro, says the story is entirely plausible. “Production line malware has been around for a few years, infecting photo frames, MP3 players and more,” he says. In 2008, for instance,a photo frame produced by Samsungshipped with malware on the product’s install disc.Even more concerning is a recent proof-of-concept attack called “BadUSB”, which involves reprogramming USB devices at the hardware level. “Very widely spread USB controller chips, including those in thumb drives, have no protection from such reprogramming,”says Berlin-based firm SRLabs, which released the code.Combine the two, says Ferguson, “and a very strong case can be made for enterprises disabling USB ports, or at least using device management to allow only authorised devices.“For consumers it’s a case of running up-to-date anti-malware for the production line stuff and only using trusted devices to counter the threat.”Dave Goss, of London’s Vape Emporium, says that vapers can remain safe by buying from respected manufacturers such as Aspire, KangerTech and Innokin, and by checking for “scratch checkers” on the box, which mark out authentic goods from counterfeits.“Any electrical device that uses a USB charger could be targeted in this way, and just about every one of these electrical devices will come from China,” he adds.In early November, figures obtained by the Press Association revealed that e-cigarettes and related equipment, such as chargers, were involved in more than 100 fires in less than two years.
Four UK residents have been arrested and a search warrant issued for another as part of a European-wide crackdown on malware that silently hoovers up people’s data and watches them over their webcams.Two men aged 33 and one 30-year-old woman were arrested in Leeds, and a 20-year-old man was apprehended in Chatham, Kent. A search warrant was executed on a 19-year-old man from Liverpool who was brought in for questioning, the National Crime Agency (NCA) said.Another 11 were arrested in Estonia, France, Romania, Latvia, Italy and Norway, in an operation led by Europol.All are suspected of using remote access trojans (RATs) to spy on victims’ digital lives. RATs are typically used for stealing logins to web accounts or to gain access to cameras either for their own viewing or to sell to others.Yesterday UK privacy regulator, the Information Commissioner’s Office, warned about aRussian site that offered feeds of people’s webcams.“The illegal use of remote access Trojans is a significant cybercrime threat, demanding this kind of strong, coordinated response from international to local UK level,” said Andy Archibald, deputy director of the NCA’s national cybercrime unit.“Suspected users of RATs are continuing to find that, despite having no physical contact or interaction with their victims, they can still be identified, tracked down and arrested by the NCA and its partners.”Europol’s European cybercrime centre (EC3) helped the FBI in leading another major anti-RAT operation earlier this year, when it announced arrests in aninvestigation into the Blackshades RAT, which infected as many as 500,000 computers. More than 100 arrests were made globally.“Today an alliance of EU law enforcement agencies joined forces to send a strong signal to the criminals using this toxic RAT malware and, at the same time, engage with the predominantly younger individuals involved, to discourage them from pursuing this criminal path,” added Troels Oerting, head of the EC3.“Crimes committed online are sometimes perceived to be ‘less serious’ by these young offenders as they cannot physically see the victim or the effects of their crimes. Of course this is simply not the case and their criminal activities will not be tolerated in cyberspace.”
BonoBono.Photograph: Jamie DMJWhat is it of?Bono, theleader of the free worldlead singer of the rock group U2, who’s had a spot of bother with accidents and downloads recently. He also NEVER takes his sunglasses off.Use it to say“Currently feeling as smug as someone who thinks they can save the world by forcibly ramming their album on to everyone’s iTunes.”Grumpy catGrumpy cat.Photograph: Jamie DMJWhat is it of?Grumpy cat is the world’s grumpiest cat! It’s also the basis for a large amount of social media jokes, exchanges and subsequent merchandise sales.Use it to say“I never want to see another lame internet meme as long as I live.”TrollTroll.Photograph: Jamie DMJWhat is it of?A popular 1970s toy (which had a bit of bump back to popularity in the 00s). Also the name for an internet user who chooses to deliberately anger and antagonise others.Use it to say“I didn’t really mean that, I was just trying to get a rise. Please don’t send me to prison.”HipsterHipster.Photograph: Jamie DMJWhat is it of?With a big beard, wire-rim glasses and a plaid shirt, the hipster may look like a 19th-century lumber worker but is most likely to be employed by an internet marketing agency making grumpy cat gifs. With their earnings they choose to buy consumer goods that are often artisanal and always overpriced.Use it to say“Excuse me, does your kobe burger come with tempura pickles?”No wifiNo wifi.Photograph: Jamie DMJWhat is it of?It’s the sign for a wireless signal, with a big red line through it that means no. Like, duhUse it to say“At my nan’s house. Send me a telegram.”MovemberMovember.Photograph: Jamie DMJWhat is it of?Every November, men solicit sponsorship money from their friends in exchange for allowing their upper lips to do what comes naturally, grow a moustache. The results are not always successfulUse it to say“Please don’t be rude to me. It’s for charity.”Shower cryShower cry.Photograph: Jamie DMJWhat is it of?The most private cry of all. When you’re too upset to hold it all in, but don’t want anyone to know and want the tears to be indistinguishable from tap water.Tobias used to do this on Arrested Development.Use it to say“No one understands me! And not only that, I’ve run out of Radox and I’m having to use my flatmate’s medicated shampoo.”Norovirus.Photograph: Guardian GuideWhat is it of?Sometimes known as the Winter Vomiting Bug, usually by those who haven’t got it and therefore aren’t spending their entire time vomiting, it’s a blight on this time of year.Use it to say“It’s coming out both ends at the moment, so probably best we reschedule that date until I’ve got the energy to disinfect my bathroom.”Kim KardashianKim Kardashian.Photograph: Jamie DMJWhat is it of?You know who she is.Use it to say“This might not break the internet but it will almost certainly give you intense pain in the lower lumbar region.”
Messaging apps are massive. WhatsApp has more than 600 million active users, while its stablemate Facebook Messenger has more than 500 million. Chinese rival WeChat – known as Weixin in its homeland – has another 468 million.And those are just the 900lb gorillas of the messaging world. Snapchat, Viber, KakaoTalk, Line, Kik, Tango, BBM and others have eight or nine-figure active user totals, while Apple’s iMessage serves iOS users.Meanwhile, new apps like current US college buzz Yik Yak or recent novelty-buzz Yo are popping up all the time with new spins on messaging.So how will these apps evolve? Beyond adding in features like voice calls and video chat, four main paths are emerging, although they’re by no means mutually exclusive: privacy, payments, media and ads, with the latter including advertising.The messaging apps share some simple goals: they want to attract more users, retain the loyalty of the ones they have already, and find ways to make money that don’t conflict with the first two aims. Here’s a snapshot of how they’re approaching this.Privacy and encryptionUntil now, there have been two distinct classes of messaging apps: the big, mainstream ones, and the group focusing specifically on encryption and privacy, including TextSecure, Telegram, Hemlis, Threema, Wickr and others.That may be changing, with the biggest signpost beingWhatsApp’s recent addition of end-to-end encryption to its Android appwith iOS to follow. It’s working with the company behind TextSecure, Open Whisper Systems, which described the partnership as “the largest deployment of end-to-end encrypted communication in history”.The aim with this technology is to reassure users that even if the provider of their messaging app wanted to share their messages with intelligence agencies, they wouldn’t be able to. That’s a point Apple has made about its iMessages system too.“If the government laid a subpoena to get iMessages, we can’t provide it. It’s encrypted and we don’t have a key,”said CEO Tim Cookin a September interview. However, researchers havechallenged the company’s claims.This is the other important trend around privacy and messaging apps: not just that the big ones are paying more attention to it, but that they’ll be facing scrutiny to check if their claims are true.That’s already happened in the case of Viber, with security a key feature in its app. In April, researchers suggested that it wastransmitting images and video without encryption, including storing them online afterwards. The companymoved quickly to fix the vulnerability.Even the WhatsApp announcement, which came with a respected partner, sparked questions about how the metadata from messages – who contacted whom and where – might be dealt with by Facebook. Bodies like the Electronic Frontier Foundation are already active in this debate, as itsSecure Messaging Scorecardshows.Payments and shoppingChatting to friends and swapping photos and videos are the core of messaging apps, but payments – whether to those friends or to companies selling products and services – is one of the new frontiers.Snapchat got in early recently when it launchedSnapcash, a partnership with payments firm Square that will enable people to register their debit cards with the latter company, then send cash to friends’ bank accounts within the app.It’s limited to users over 18 in the US for now, with Snapchat’s historical association with racy snaps sparking predictable ‘pay-for-porn’ comments about Snapcash’s likely use. But the new feature could also be a key part of Snapchat’s work with brands and advertising – more on that later.Facebook is also going to make payments a key part of Facebook Messenger sooner rather than later. The social network hired former PayPal president David Marcus in June to become head of its messaging products.“I’m looking forward to getting my hands dirty again attempting to build something new and meaningful at scale,”he wrote at the time. In October,leaked screenshotssuggested that this new and meaningful thing would be the ability to register credit and debit cards with Facebook, then send money to friends through Messenger.In China, messaging and payments coming together is older news. WeChat has been exploring commerce since 2013, when itadded the ability to link bank accountsto the app in China, so that users could buy products from e-commerce sites who had profiles on the service.It has also been helping people send money to one another, withmillions swapping “red envelopes”to celebrate the Spring Festival holiday. Meanwhile, in Japan, Line has itsLine Mall– a standalone app that’s more of an eBay-style service connecting sellers and buyers.Expect a flurry of partnerships between messaging and payment companies in the coming months – US appDasher recently struck a deal with Venmoalong these lines – and perhaps some experiments with integrating bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies into messaging apps too.BuzzFeed is working with WeChat.Media partnershipsOne of the big trends around messaging apps is the perception that for young people in particular, these are becoming their main social networks: even if they still have Facebook profiles, it’s WhatsApp and Snapchat (in the west) where they’re spending their time.This in turn is fuelling efforts to investigate whether those people will also want to get their media through these apps. In Asia, mobile gaming and messaging already go hand-in-hand, with the games networks of Line and KakaoTalk in particular proving lucrative for those companies and their developer partners.In the west, Snapchat’s media ambitions are particularly interesting. The company has been working on a new section of its app that willdeliver “disappearing videos, news articles and advertisements”according to a Wall Street Journal scoop in August.“The product would let users read daily editions of publications as well as watch video clips of TV shows or movies by holding down a finger on the screen, like they do with photos and other messages on the app before disappearing,” claimed its report.It was followed up by aDigiday report in Novembershowing leaked mock-up images of the new feature, complete with media partners from Vice, BuzzFeed and ESPN to Spotify, Cosmopolitan and MailOnline. The sidebar of shame could soon be a messaging thread of shame.BuzzFeed is at the centre of this trend: it has alreadyannounced a partnership with WeChatto launch an official account sending people “the most viral things on the web that day”, having recruited a staffer tospecifically focus on integrations with messaging appsearlier in the year.“There are so many people using messaging apps — our theory is that large numbers of people will use them to communicate and share media in the future,” BuzzFeed’stold TechCrunch. “To get involved early and figure out how users share these things is really important for the future of BuzzFeed.”That’s the driver for all these companies: experimenting. Witness Spotify working with Tango, first onhelping people share music clips with friendswithin the latter’s app, then on a standalone musical photo-sharing app calledTango Music Pix.Individual public figures are also experimenting.Paul McCartney has more followers on Line than on Twitter, while Viber is trying to sign celebrities up to a new feature calledPublic Chats, andKik has been used by the likes of One Directionto communicate with fans.Kik’s new promoted chats feature.Photograph: PRAdvertisingBut then there’s advertising, which is underpinning the messaging apps’ moves into payments/commerce and media alike.Snapchat introduced its ads in October, with a blog post eager to reassure users that they wouldn’t be intrusive.“An advertisement will appear in your Recent Updates from time to time, and you can choose if you want to watch it. No biggie. It goes away after you view it or within 24 hours,” explained the company.“We won’t put advertisements in your personal communication – things like Snaps or Chats. That would be totally rude. We want to see if we can deliver an experience that’s fun and informative, the way ads used to be, before they got creepy and targeted.”Rival Kik, though, is exploring whether it IS possible to put advertising into people’s chats non-intrusively, witha feature called “promoted chats”that launched in November. Users who opt in may see sponsored messages pop up when they mention certain “trigger words” for the brands they follow.Some messaging apps remain resolutely anti-ads. “We do not believe in plastering our users with advertisements,”Viber’s boss Talmon Marco said in 2013, albeit with a quote that leaves the way open to un-plastered ads in the future.Meanwhile, WhatsApp CEO Jan Koum wrote a blog post titled“Why we don’t sell ads”in 2012, which set out his views in no uncertain terms: advertising as a distraction for engineers, as well as “the disruption of aesthetics, the insults to your intelligence and the interruption of your train of thought”.For now, that policy seems to be holding true, even under Facebook’s ownership. But one of the key trends around messaging in general over the next few years will be how WhatsApp’s rivals approach the sensitive area of brands and advertising without sending their users fleeing.•How secure is your favourite messaging app?
The hip-yet-troubled payments startup Square, launched by Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey, is launching its cash register app globally, five years after it started operating in the US.But while mobile payments startups based around the world may be sweating the entry of a trendy competitor with a bucket of venture capital cash, Square has a long way to go before it actually poses a threat to settled companies like Sweden’s iZettle or American giant Paypal.Announced at an event held by the Financial Times, Square’s global launch is only for its Square Register app, a business-focused product which lets small retail establishments use an Android or iOS tablet or phone as a cash register.“Think of Square Register as a control centre for your business,” runs the company’s pitch. “It replaces your clunky old cash register with powerful software to help you run things from top to bottom. Tools like inventory management, sales reports, and tax prep help you take care of the nuts and bolts. Then there are the exclusive features you won’t find elsewhere — robust analytics that help you better understand your business, digital receipts, and customer feedback. And no matter how big or small you are, it’s totally free.”But out of the box, the Square Register is far less capable in the company’s new locations than it is in their home turf. It can control a cash register and receipt printer, and pair up with a barcode scanner to easily tot-up sales. But notably absent is the core of Square’s business: card transactions.Companies that want to take card payments will have to use a whole separate solution; and while that may be a standalone card reader, in the sort of establishment considering a trendy app-based cash register, it’s more likely to be a fully app-based service, such as Sweden’s iZettle.Worse still, without card transactions on the table Square isn’t actually making any money from the companies who choose to use its app; even in the US, it’s limited to the ultra-slim margin of just 2.75% per swipe, the majority of which goes to the card companies.The core of the problem is that most of the world has moved on from the magnetic stripe technology at the heart of Square’s payment system, and it doesn’t yet have a replacement to roll out which is compatible with the widespread chip and pin system.Further complicating matters is the fact that Square’s first attempt to get on to consumers’ devices, Square Wallet, was quietly shut down in March, and the replacement, Square Order, is only available in two US cities.An innovative attempt at rehauling the shopping process, the app lets users in NYC and San Fransisco order and pay for their morning coffees (and more) in advance of arriving in participating stores, and then uses geolocation services to warn the cafe when they’re on their way to pick it up.Similarly absent is Square Cash, the company’s attempt to take on PayPal at person-to-person money transfer. The most obvious example of Square splashing its half-billion dollars of funding received from investors including Richard Branson, Marissa Meyer, and the government of Singapore, is that new users of Square Cash are simply given a dollar with no strings attached.In the medium term, that money could be put to use expanding globally, too. While Square needs to get its core services into the hands of merchants sooner rather than later, its cash pile is five times the size of iZettle, and it could comfortably undercut the Swedish firm if it decided to.But time is running out as the elephant in the room stomps closer: Apple Pay, already launched in the US, will surely follow Square to the global market – and, when it does, a lot could change in short order. It’s not necessarily a problem for Square or iZettle, and in some scenarios the two could even be symbiotic, letting businesses using the app-based registers take mobile payments with ease. But Square won’t want to take any chances.In its existing markets, the company simply hasn’t grown as fast as it needs to in order to justify the funding and valuations its attracted. It burned through $100m in 2013,according to the Wall Street Journal, and hasn’t scored a solid customer base outside of its home of San Francisco – even after it upped stakes and moved to New York. Going global could change all that, or it could prove to be the swansong of a company which made its move too soon.10 things you need to know about digital wallets
Paul McCartney has become one of the first music stars to embrace virtual reality with a free new app with a 360-degree recording of his concert in Candlestick Park, San Francisco, in August.Thefree appwill run on almost any of the larger 5in Android smartphones released in the last year or so, and usesGoogle’s Cardboardvirtual reality goggles that can be bought or made at home for under £10.The app displays a 360-degree view of McCartney’s pyrotechnic-filled performance of Live and Let Die from the front of the stage next the the piano, allowing viewers to look around them at McCartney, his band, the crowd and the stage as the concert plays out with 3D sound, which changes depending on what the viewer is looking at.‘Not often that one gets to experience history in the making’The app has been produced by California-based virtual reality content company Jaunt, which also produces content for the Oculus Rift headset and is staffed with former Google, Flipboard, Stanford and Caltech engineers. The company also has Peter Gotcher, chairman of Dolby, and Stuart Murphy, Sky’s director of entertainment, on its board.“It is not often that one gets to experience history in the making, and never do we get to truly relive moments of such significance,”wroteJaunt’s co-founder and chief executive Jens Christensen. “Feel as though you’re by Sir Paul’s side as he plays Live and Let Die – see it in 360-degree, stereoscopic 3D, hear it with ambisonic audio, and immerse yourself in cinematic VR. It’s like nothing you have seen, heard, or felt before.”Beck and the Who tooMcCartney isn’t the first to have one of his concerts turned into a virtual reality experience. Beck was featured covering David Bowie’s Sound and Vision in a similar fashion, with a 360-degree camera on stage. HisHello, Again concertwas turned into a non-3D interactive web experience but also into a stereoscopic performance for Facebook’s Oculus Rift headset.The Who recently announced that they were partnering with developer Immersive to create a new compilation album and tour, which creates a world full of familiar Who images with lyrics and virtual instruments hovering in the air as songs play. The app will be released in early 2015.But this is the first time such an experience from a high-profile artist has been distributed through a free smartphone app, making it available to many more than something designed for expensive Oculus Rift headsets.Google’s Cardboard, which was released in June at the company’sI/O developer eventhas lowered the bar to entry for virtual reality experiences, often costing under £10.Company’s including Volvo have used the home-made goggles powered by an Android smartphone for advertising and virtual ride experiences, while Jaunt is planning further virtual reality apps including horror and war movies, as well as short experiences.•What a virtual reality art show could say about the future of games•The Who to launch virtual reality app for Facebook’s Oculus Rift
A survey of Guardian readers working in the technology sector has revealed that almost three quarters of women respondents say the industry is sexist, with many more reporting they had been denied promotions and equal pay.Responses from people around the world found a significant disparity in the number of men and women working across the industry, with acute problems at higher career levels suggesting deep cultural and structural change is needed to modernise the industry.The survey was carried out online among a non-representative self-selected sample of 601 Guardian readers. Responses were received from multiple countries, 65%of respondents were women 33% were male, and 2% defined their gender as “other” and responses were collected between 13 October 2014 and 10 November 2014.A significant number of respondents reported zero women on executive boards, or just one or two on management boards. Many put their overall working environment at around 80-90% male.Women complained of being routinely overlooked for promotion as male colleagues “would not respect a female boss”, with some reporting that they felt patronised, undervalued and seen as less competent than male counterparts.They also reported that they were told to be careful about their ambition, or reprimanded for aggressiveness in instances of assertiveness.The average age of all respondents was 35 and they had spent 10 years working in the industry. The Guardian’s definition of the sector includes both companies that produce technology or those that provide technology services.COO of Facebook Sheryl Sandberg is probably one of the best known women in tech.Photograph: Andy Wong/APSame job, lower payMore than half of all respondents (52%) said they are aware of women being paid less than a man for doing the same job, with two thirds of women (63%) and a third of men (32%) reporting this.Women reported being paid less than male colleagues despite being in senior positions and in some cases managing higher-paid male colleagues.One 27-year-old online community manager said: “I was given no further opportunity to move up in the company I worked at – I moved up from assistant to manager in a couple of years. [I was] constantly belittled and under appreciated by management. When I handed in my notice, I was told there was no budget to give me a pay rise, yet the guy who replaced me (and had less experience) was offered £10k more.”Lipstick and lap-dancingBeyond structural gender disparities, many respondents complained of a “macho, misogynist culture”, with bosses organising events at strip clubs, and frequent commentary on women’s bodies the norm. That culture was reinforced elsewhere, with female staff told to smarten up, wear lipstick, and some required to attend trade shows where “booth babes” – scantily-clad models promoting products - were commonplace.Beyond explicit sexism, the survey showed that women in the sector are outnumbered. One 24-year-old coder said she was so outnumbered at a recent conference, and attracted so much unwanted attention, that she felt forced to hide away at lunchtime. “The gender split was 90% male, 10% female. I was hit on by almost every man I met, and felt like a novelty to the point where I ate lunch in a room on my own to avoid repeated awkward conversations.”A 27-year-old web developer said: “At one tech conference I was held up as a freak by the organiser for being a female developer. He [pointed out] that I was one of only 3% of female developers, then followed that with: ‘I’m not saying women should be 50% or anything’.”Common complaints are of female staff being routinely overlooked for promotion; talked down to; being undervalued; and generally thought of as less competent than male counterparts.Education and gender gapsMore thanhalf of respondents said the limited number of women studying science, technology, economics and maths (Stem) contributes to the male dominance of the sector – an opinion held by both men and women.Initiatives such asGirls Who Code,Rails Girlsand Stem ambassador schemes are helping young women become interested in technology, and though respondents reported just 10-20% women in their classes at university or college, there is hope that this will change.“These Silicon Valley guys are making the world that we live in – and they are making it in a particular kind of image,” said LSE sociology professor Judy Wajcman, who haswrittenextensively on feminism and gender parity in the tech industry.Wajcman argues that it is only particular areas of Stem subjects that have low numbers of women.“There is something about computing culture and engineering culture which seems to be a much harder thing to crack, “ she said. “We’ve been very unsuccessful in the last few years trying to get more women to do computing and maths and physics.“The figures in computing and engineering are woeful and I think that is to do with perceptions. The problem starts at school, and girls very quickly get sidetracked out of maths and physics.”Many respondents felt more girls needed to study Stem subjects at younger ages.Photograph: Purestock / Alamy/AlamyChildcare provisions – and some solutionsAdequate provision for childcare did, however, seem to be an area for optimism, with 78% of women with children saying their employer had been supportive, 36% very supportive and 42% partially so. Just 3% of women felt their workplace had been “not at all” supportive, and 17% said “not very”.While some did mention childcare and flexitime as an area to be improved – especially in countries such as the US where maternity leave is not mandatory – it is seen as less of a problem than the dominant male culture, which is viewed as the biggest deterrent to recruiting and maintaining women in the sector.Wajcman says that the positive figures on childcare are surprising, but warns that measures designed to help can often have the opposite effect.“Flexibility can be a real double-edged sword ... it can mean that you end up doing more hours and that you’re constantly available and always on call. Parents will absolutely say that flexibility is a fantastic thing for them – and it is, compared to no flexibility, but it doesn’t mean that they’re not still putting in horrendous hours.”Women on flexitime often find themselves doing more work not less.Photograph: Cultura Creative / Alamy/AlamyWajcman said that these are just some of the pressures that do force women out of the industry, which needs fundamental restructuring of the workplace and expectation of roles.“You don’t have to have continuously long hours; essentially male careers with the assumption that someone else is looking after the kids,” she said. “I think a lot of guys also feel critical of the dominant work culture, but it is taking a real long time to shift it.”A minorityof women and men report that while they are aware of sexism in the industry, they have not experienced or witnessed it themselves. Sevenpeople emailed directly to share positive experiences. But more men who responded than women who responded – 61% compared to 12% – identified sexism as a problem and expressed a desire to see things change.One 39-year-old male worker at an information security firm said: “I find women in my industry to be leaders of new ideas and equals in every way to men. I’m ashamed of being male sometimes for the way women are treated.”Some respondents say the solution is simple: “Men have to start listening to women,” said Natalie, a web developer. “I’ve supervised and worked closely with men who don’t seem to hear a word I say, until a man repeats the exact same thing and takes credit for it.”
Tate is launching a series of Minecraft maps inspired by paintings and sculptures in its collection of artworks, and will be making them available as free downloads for players of the game.TheTate Worldsproject launches on 24 November with two worlds based on paintings: André Derain’s The Pool of London and Christopher Nevinson’s Soul of the Soulless City.Over the next year, six more maps will be released as part of the project, including worlds based on John Singer Sargent’s Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose; Peter Blake’s The Toy Shop; John Martin’s The Destruction of Pompeii and Herculaneum; and Cornelia Parker’s, Cold Dark Matter: An Exploded View.This being Minecraft, players will be encouraged to play rather than simply view: Soul of the Soulless City will enable them to hop onto a New York train, build a skyscraper and explore the heights of the city.Tate worked with artist and producer Adam Clarke fromThe Common Peopleand MinecraftersDragnoz, Kupo, Featherblade and Tewkesape on the project.Christopher Wynne Nevinson, Soul of the Soulless City, 1920. Tate collection © Tate, and view of Tate Worlds: Soul of the Soulless City map in Minecraft.Tate is hoping that the maps will encourage more young Minecraft players to visit its galleries. “Minecraft is a wonderful game which embraces imagination and creativity,” said creative director Jane Burton.“It has captivated millions of children and young people across the world. In playfully reimagining art in Tate Worlds for Minecraft we hope to introduce a new generation to inspirational works from Tate’s collection.”Tate Worlds is just the latest creative project to use Minecraft in an inventive way. Mapping authority Ordnance Survey hasmade a scale model of Britainusing the game, while fans have used it to recreate movies includingSpirited AwayandStar Wars.Google hasreleased a Minecraft modpack to teach children about quantum computing, while startup ThoughtSTEM haslaunched an add-on called LearnToModthat aims to get children practising their programming skills by making their own mods.The Minecraft phenomenon persuadedMicrosoft to buy the game’s developer Mojangfor $2.5bn earlier this year, with work starting on an official movie with Warner Brothers thatMojang’s Vu Bui told the Guardianwill be “large-budget”.•Minecraft: a personal story
It's Friday.
Google hasannounced a new milestone for its Project Looninternet initiative, which is aiming to bring connectivity to remote parts of the world by beaming it from balloons floating in the stratosphere.“3 million kilometers is a long journey. That distance would take you around the earth 75 times, or get you to the moon and back nearly 4 times over,” explained a post on the project’s Google+ page.“It also happens to be the distance our Loon balloons have travelled through the stratosphere since the project began last year.”The post adds that Google’s balloons now last 10 times longer in the stratosphere than they did in 2013, with many keeping afloat for more than 100 days: “Our current record is 130 days!” And Google also says it now has the capacity to launch 20 of these balloons every day.Project Loon sits alongside other big-tech initiatives to spread internet access to new parts of the world.Remember Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s “we’ve been working on ways to beam internet to people from the sky”announcement, featuring “drones, satellites and lasers to deliver the internet to everyone” for example?Also see recent reports that Tesla and SpaceX founder Elon Musk isworking on his own “micro-satellites” planto deliver similar connectivity.The technology is undeniably impressive, as is the skill and effort going into it from the teams at Google, Facebook and other companies. But what are your views on the political and social implications around their mission?Should we be talking more about what Google balloons and Facebook drones and lasers mean for society, whether positive or negative? How should these initiatives be regulated (and by who) if at all? The comments section is open for your thoughts.What else is happening in the technology world? Today’s other links:Google and Rockstar settling patent litigationIs an end in sight to the patent wars around smartphones? Well, experience suggests not, but one of the more high-profile cases is being settled. Reuters reports that Google has agreed to settle litigation with Rockstar, the consortium that includes Apple, and which sued Google and several Android handset makers in 2013.Corning debuts Gorilla Glass 4Corning has been showing off its fourth-generation Gorilla Glass, showing how the screen material used by Samsung and (reportedly) Apple is evolving. The key claim: the company says phones suffering a “face drop” will now remain uncracked 80% of the time.Artist explores London’s CCTV networkJames Bridle has been trying to photograph CCTV cameras around London, for a project. He even got arrested – although note, it was a citizen’s arrest by a security guard from a hotel: when the police turned up, they let him go.What does the CIA think of Edward Snowden books?The intelligence agency has published a review of “Intelligence in Public Literature” by Hayden Peake, including his take on three books about Edward Snowden – including journalist Glenn Greenwald’s No Place to Hide. Sample sentence: “Greenwald’s often bitter ad hominem rationale for this is unlikely to be the last word on the subject”. *startled face*Opinion app makes podcasting easierReckon you could make the next Serial? Opinion is a clever new iPhone app that makes it easier to record and edit podcasts, and then upload them to SoundCloud. It could be useful for independent journalists and sites keen to do more with audio.All aboard the poo bus!A flippant title but this is really interesting: a bus launched by Wessex Water in Bristol that’s powered entirely by human and food waste: “a 40-seater shuttle capable of travelling up to 186 miles on a full tank of bio-methane gas, which is generated via a process called anaerobic digestion” as Engadget puts it.Telltale teaser for next Game of Thrones gameTelltale Games has done marvellous things with its games for The Walking Dead. Now it’s time to geek out over the trailer for its next project: a six-part episodic series based on Game of Thrones. I for one can’t wait for this:What else? The comments section is open for your links and responses to the stories above.
Driverless cars will need to be protected from hackers who could take control of vehicles to cause chaos on the roads, cyber security and transport experts have warned.While autonomous vehicles, such as Google’s self-driving car, could reduce road casualties by eliminating human error, they could also increase the risk of accidents amongst motorists who continue to use manual cars if they are allowed to mix on the same roads.Recent research conducted in driving simulators has shown that human drivers change their behaviour when using the same road as autonomous cars by copying the driving styles and leaving less space between the vehicle in front.While an autonomous vehicle equipped with sensors would be able to react almost instantaneously, reaction times in human drivers are slower.The warnings come as the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) publishes a report on autonomous vehicles and how they can be integrated onto British roads.It predicts that within 15 years there will be fully autonomous vehicles taking goods and people around Britain, bringing cheaper and safer mobility for passengers.Driverless cars could also lead to more people living in the countryside as the vehicles will make it easier to get around in rural locations without being able to drive.This could prove particularly beneficial for older people who retire to the countryside and find they can no longer drive themselves as they get older, yet still need to access shops and healthcare.The first driverless vehicles are expected to begin appearing on Britain’s roads from January next year under a series of trials to be conducted in three cities by the Department for Transport.However, Hugh Boyes, cyber security lead at the IET, said the reliability and security of software used in driverless cars will be a major issue for manufacturers and insurers.He said: “If the hacker community could start to target vehicles we can imagine a fair amount of chaos.“The motor industry is really strong on safety but if someone tries to interfere with the vehicle, tries to hack it and disrupt it, then these don’t fall under the typical safety issues.“Unfortunately living in the world today people do try to tamper with technology. The industry is only just starting to recognise this.”He also said that software would have to be reliable and bug free. “Recent reports analysing software show that 98% of applications have serious defects and in many cases there were 10-15 defects per application,” he said.“If ultimately you want to use autonomous vehicles, we need to make sure they don’t have a defect.”Earlier this yearVince Cable, the business secretary, announced that trials of driverless vehicles on public roads will begin in Britain in January 2015.In January Newcastle will also start trialling technology where traffic lights can communicate with vehicles to help traffic flow more smoothly.Major companies including Nissan and Volvo have already begun testing driverless cars in other countries whileGoogle’s own driverless car has clocked up more than1m miles on the open road.During that time Google has said its autonomous vehicle was only involved in one accident, which occurred when a human driver took control.Experts predict that using such vehicles can help improve road safety and allow busy road networks to cope with greater numbers of vehicles.Autonomous cars, fitted with radar systems, cameras and other sensors to detect their surroundings, will be able to drive closer together while those connected to central networks can be rerouted to ease congestion.According to Dr Nick Reed, principal human factors researcher at the Transport Research Laboratory in Crowthorne, Berkshire, 95% of the 1.2m annual deaths worldwide on the road involve human error. However, he warned that integrating human drivers and autonomous vehicles on the roads at the same time could present serious challenges.
My parents are in their mid-70s and over the past decade or so have become comfortable with email, Skype and general use of desktop computers. They are now keen to get to grips with mobile computing -- a tablet for emails and Skype when they travel and perhaps at home when they are less mobile. We have identified the iPad Air (Wi-Fi) as likely to provide the best balance between usefulness and cost for them.They are also keen to be able to use a smartphone to check bus and train times. My mum does quite a lot of texting on her current phone and they are not keen on fiddly touch screens. They will want something that they can get with a reasonably cheap contract to use by itself as well as acting as a hotspot for the iPad so they can use that on longer train journeys etc.MattThe first problem is that, as far as I know, nobody offers a smartphone that is suitable for seniors, except theFujitsu Stylistic S01. There’s nothing like theEmporia Clickor theDoro PhoneEasy 632, if you need that sort of thing. There are apps that simplify smartphones for seniors, includingDoro Experience, but I expect your parents can manage a standard smartphone. If so, it doesn’t really matter which one they buy. In fact, for ease of learning, it would be better to get the same kind of phone as the tablet.You haven’t mentioned a budget, but you will know that an all-Apple system is going to be the most expensive solution. The minimum price for a viable iPad Air 2 with Wi-Fi and 64GB of storage is£479(because 16GB isn’t really enough, given the increasing size of iOS, and you can’t add storage via the microSD slot that it lacks). An unlocked iPhone 6 with 64GB of storage would be another£619, bringing the total price to £1,098.If your parents don’t have much spare cash, they could get a pair of devices running Google Android or Microsoft Windows 8.1 for a third of the price. They wouldn’t have such high-resolution screens, and neither ecosystem can compete with Apple in offering such a large selection of high quality tablet-specific software. However, both can do what most people want most of the time.TetheringOn top of the hardware price, your parents may have to budget perhaps £15-£20 a month for voice and data services, but they can probably drop an existing phone contract that costs roughly as much, if not more. However, they will have to be careful with their choice of supplier. It’s not always clear which services allow “tethering” – ie using a smartphone to create a small Wi-Fi hotspot – and how much data is allowed. (See my earlier answer:Can I use a phone as a mobile Wi-Fi hotspot?)Mobile phone networks are having problems because they sold “unlimited” contracts, only to find people used them to watch movies on Netflix or chat for hours on Skype. In other words, they were consuming a month’s worth of the bandwidth normally needed for email, Facebook etc in two hours or less. Mobile phone bandwidth is expensive and the supply is finite, so contracts may now cap tethering use at 2GB a month, unless you pay extra. (Earlier this year, 3 was probably the last to go: it stopped unlimited tethering on new One Plan contracts and introduced a 2GB cap.)Suppliers may also “throttle” tethering at various times, according to the amount of bandwidth available. For example, 3 is explicit about the use of your “Personal Hotspot”. Its contracts allow tethering for up to 2GB of data, but traffic is “managed” at certain times, “for example, between 3pm and 12 midnight”, usingTrafficSense. “We just manage it at times when it affects other people trying to use our network,” says 3.Try to make tethering an explicit condition of the sale – get it in writing, if you can! – so that you can resort to the Sale of Goods Act if necessary.If tethering is important, the best deals are usually “sim only”, and according to an article at cable.co.uk --What’s the best mobile network provider for tethering?– 3 is Top Dog and the rest are also-rans. Its current deals, which have replaced One Plan, areAll-You-Can-Eat Data Plansthat start at £7 per month. There are AYCE deals at £10 a month (1GB of data and 600 minutes, or 2GB and 200 minutes), which may suit your parents. If you buy an iPhone 6 or 6 Plus, compare the options against the £15/month deals on Apple’s website.AlternativesOver the past couple of years, we’ve seen the mobile market move towards phablets with 5in and larger screens. This was led by Samsung and the Chinese Android handset suppliers, followed by Nokia with models such as the 5inLumia 930and 6inLumia 1320and1520.The iPhone 6 (4.7in screen) and iPhone 6 Plus (5.5in) are Apple’s response to this trend. Today, you can get Android phones with 7in screens, such as theStar UleFone U7, which is a bigger screen than some tablets.The question for your parents is whether a big-screen phone would mean they didn’t need a tablet at all, or if they did, would never need to take it out of range of their home Wi-Fi. A big-enough phone screen – which could well include the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus –would remove the need for tethering altogether.For completeness: the other alternative to tethering is to carry your own mobile hotspot, such a 3 Mifi. There are cases where a Mifi makes sense (I use one), but I don’t think it’s the right solution for your parents.Of course, if the UK were run by rational people, there would be very little need for tethering. All buses, trains and planes would offer fast, free 802.11 Wi-Fi, and this would provide a much bigger boost to national productivity than spending £50bn building a slightly faster railway line between London and Birmingham. There’s even a cheap way to provide city- or even county-wide wireless access using the 802.16 standard, otherwise known asWimax. However, this wouldn’t make pots of money for the mobile network carriers.
Bus drivers who shuttle employees of Facebook to and from its headquarters in Menlo Park, California, have voted to unionise.On Wednesday the 87 drivers, who work for Loop Transportation, a contractor, voted 43-28 to join the Teamsters.The International Brotherhood of Teamsters, founded in 2003, represents more than 1.4 million people in the US.It has nearly 188,500 likes on Facebook.Working conditions for Facebook’s bus drivers have drawn controversy. Drivers work 16-hour days and often sleep in their cars between split shifts, according toa press releasefrom the Teamsters.They have also complained about the pay disparity between them and the tech workers they chauffeur. Drivers at Loop Transportation –which has 109 likes on Facebook– earn between $17 and $25 an hour. The average Facebook software engineer earns more than $122,000 a year, according toGlassdoor.com.Drivers, Teamsters representatives and supporters held a rally outside the Facebook campus on Tuesday and delivered a petition of nearly 5,000 signatures to the company.Facebook refused to accept the petition, according to the Teamsters, though by Thursday a group entitled ‘Solidarity with Facebook Bus Drivers Union’ had 1,145 members on Facebook.“The only way that Loop will listen to us is with a union and a collective voice. I’m very relieved that we have that now,” said Demaurae Hooston, a driver, in a release.In a letter to Mark Zuckerberg in October, Rome Aloise, vice-president and secretary treasurer of Teamsters Local 853, compared the situation to “a time when noblemen were driven around in their coaches by their servants.”“Frankly, little has changed,” he said, “except the noblemen are your employees, and the servants are the bus drivers who carry them back and forth each day.”The drivers will become part of theLocal 853 chapter, which has 11,000 members in northern California – though it only has 162 members on Facebook.
Commenters on the discussion site Reddit pored over compromised security camera feeds linked from the Russian website Insecam, screenshotting and sharing pictures of naked or half-dressed women.The website, which has been live since September, is just the latest of a string of sites which exploit knowledge of default passwords to access supposedly private security camera feeds.When a link to Insecam was first posted on the social news site, alongside links to similar sites, Redditors initially responded that the concept was “just creepy”. One asked whether the site was even legal (it is not, according to the information commissioner’s office), and another said that on browsing through, they saw a lot of sleeping children, and “got creeped out”.But soon enough, other Redditors started posting screenshots and links to security cameras which were pointing at women unaware they were broadcasting themselves on the internet.“I found very nice apartment in Italy”, says one user, linking to a woman vacuuming in a revealing outfit. A few minutes later, another comments “she’s making the bed right now”.Other users post links to screenshots and feeds of women masturbating and getting undressed, as well as footage of trans sex workers in Thailand.“Is it more or less creepy that I prefer the old lady who just knits,” a user asks.The information commissioner, Christopher Graham,has condemned Insecam, and said that he wants “the Russians to take this down straight away … We now want to take very prompt action working with the Federal Trade Commission in the States to get this thing closed down.”But the FTC might have more pressing matters domestically, before it goes after Insecam: At least one similar website, discovered by the Guardian, is hosted in Phoenix, Arizona.Graham emphasised that, in the short term, it’s the camera operators who can help most. “The more important thing is to get the message out to consumers to take those security measures. If you don’t need remote access to a webcam then switch off that function altogether,” he said.Q&amp;A: Who is watching my home webcam?
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) chairman Tom Wheeler has a problem. By 2015, the regulator wants at least one city in every state to have super-fast internet. The companies that provide that service? Not so much.As he contends with calls from from no less than PresidentObama to mandate net neutrality, Wheeler is reviewing a challenge to state laws that have blocked municipalities from starting – or expanding – their own internet services. The attack is led by municipally owned internet service providers (ISPs)in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Wilson, North Carolina: cities with lightning-fast internet speeds of one gigabit a second, about 50 times better than the US average. Neighbors in rural counties want to sign up, and that’s where the trouble starts.Chattanooga’s EPB and Wilson’s Greenlight are challenging state laws similar to those that exist in 20 states that restrict or bar local governments from offering broadband, so setting precedent is one goal here. The bans have been lobbied for, furiously, by cable and telecoms firms that argue competition from public networks is unfair to private industry, while companies like Netflix have lobbied against them.Consumers are begging for the services. “We feel it’s as necessary as water,” John “Thunder” Thornton, the developer behind a 9,000-acre property near Chattanooga, recentlytold the Times Free Press.“If I could move our mountain and office to a location that was within EPB’s footprint, I would do it in a heartbeat, but we’re held hostage due to the current legislation.” Eighty-nine percent of those polled by the paper said EPB should expand its service.It’s not hard to see why. A dozen counties in eastern Tennessee have no access to broadband at all, and four more never get above 3mbps. Even where commercial operators have a presence, the EPB’s networks are faster. The population in rural Tennessee isn’t dense enough to quickly repay the kind of investment a commercial provider would need to make to lay fiber-optic cable for the first time. Though there are about 85,000 potential customers with no broadband access at all, they’re spread over a gigantic area. An additional 173,000 don’t get the web at “minimum speed targets being used by the FCC,” according to the EPB.“If they want us to come there,” the EPB’s Danna Bailey said, “they should be able to make that choice on the local level.”Incumbents disagree. AT&amp;T spokesman Michael Balmoris says municipal broadband is both doomed to failure and so successful it threatens private actors: “Although many GONs [government-operated networks] have failed, or at least failed to live up to expectations,” Balmoris wrote, “GONs can nonetheless discourage private sector investment because of understandable concerns by private sector entities of a non-level playing field.” Ultimately, telecoms know how to avoid competition: invest locally – in politicians.The state house of representatives in Tennessee, a 99-seat body (27 Democrats, one independent and 71 Republicans), has deep ties to AT&amp;T. Of the 99 members, 96 have accepted donations from the telecom ranging from $500 on the low end to $10,000 for the 61st district’s Charles Sargent Jr, first elected in 1997, who chairs the state’s ways and means committee.In Tennessee, no bill that would allow the EPB’s internet service to expand has ever made it to a vote. When such a bill was last up before the state house in 2011, representative Curry Todd (the recipient of $6,200 from AT&amp;T and $6,500 from Comcast in installments over the years) opined that municipal providers “are losing tremendous amounts of money” for taxpayers, citing Memphis Networkx, which ran into trouble in the early 2000s.A single thinktank, called the Coalition for the New Economy, has produced an influential body of writing from which Todd and others appear to be cribbing. The Coalition’s most widely quoted white paper (The Hidden Problems with Government-Owned Networks) lists damning factoids but omits some vital details – the EPB does indeed charge $350 for its 1gb-per-second service, but it also offers much lower rates. Other parts of the report don’t add up. It says the EPB owes more than it’s worth, citing a 2010 report that it says shows it “currently has $57m in notes payable to the EPB’s electric system and current assets of only $52.9m.” But the EPB’s own report says it had net assets of $264,069 in 2010 and $258,956 in 2012. And as of the 2014 annual report, net assets are listed as $288,189.Stop the Cap, a pro-municipal-broadband news site,accused the Coalition for the New Economy of being funded by AT&amp;T. Neither the Coalition nor the author of the report responded to requests for comment.Clearly, consumers want EPB and Greenlight, but that doesn’t mean that those companies’ challenges to the state will succeed. Two commissioners, Ajit Pai and Michael O’Reilly, favor conservative economic policy with minimal intervention; Jennifer Rosenworcel and Mignon Clyburn favor stricter rule-making.So the whole thing likely comes down to Wheeler. “[S]tate laws that directly conflict with critical federal laws and policy may be subject to preemption in appropriate circumstances,” Wheeler wrote Pennsylvania congressman Mike Doyle in August. “I recognize that federal preemption is not a step to be taken lightly without a careful consideration of all relevant legal and policy issues.”But President Obama didn’t buy it when cable companies pled unfair competition – will tacking “states’ rights” onto the argument make it more convincing?
Grand Theft Auto V has been finally been launched on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and fans have so far been thrilled with the visually overhauled version of 2013’s smash hit.Initial responses remarked on the parity between the consoles, with both machines benefiting from a generous visual overhaul. Increased texture detail, greater lighting intricacy, updated anti-aliasing (a method of smoothing outjagged edgesin computer graphics) – it’s all there on screen.But now it seems, differences are emerging. Gamers on the NeoGaf forum have beensharing comparative screenshots, apparently showing that the PlayStation 4 version has much more detailed foliage.Grand Theft Auto V – a comparison of foliage on the PS4 and Xbox One versions of the gamePhotograph: public domainPerformance videos are also appearing, telling a similar story: that the visuals are mostly comparable, until you get into rural landscapes.Some reports have attempted to suggest that there are major differences indraw distance– a term that describes how far into the distance a game renders graphical objects. Apparently, the PS4 provides much more detail toward the outer edges of the viewable environment – although it’s pretty hard to tell on the screens being produced.Digital Foundry, the performance analysis specialists that work with games site Eurogamer, have now started to pick up on the differences in floral performance - if that’s now a thing. The teamoriginally found a few lighting differences, with the PS4 version adding an extra lens flare effect, but one wander in the countryside later:Fromits report:Moving on again into the Paleto Forest - an area where we would expect to see a rich array of greenery, our sample clips show that the compromise is limited to plants and grass. More imposing environmental detail, like tree density for example, seems to be untouched on Xbox One. The PS4 advantage here is much more subtle - a few bonus plants and small grassy areas. Overall, this is the kind of effect where the PS4’s larger GPU and higher fill-rate come to the fore...So, should this affect your buying decision? Well, not unless you’re an incredibly enthusiastic botanist who has yet to commit to a new console and is dead-set on making that decision based on which version of GTA V is better for accurate grasses and shrubs. But it’s interesting to watch a graphics debate play out over GTA’s rural areas.Once upon a time, this series caused controversy over its depictions of sleazy sex and bludgeoning violence. Now we’re flicking between video feeds of flowers and trees. It’s progress of sorts.So what does this say about the graphics war between PS4 and Xbox One? While several major multiformat titles like Call of Duty: Ghosts and Tomb Raider, have run in higher HD resolutions on Sony’s machine, the differences appear to be narrowing.“In many ways, the two consoles are closer than ever – mostly because Microsoft’s biggest differentiator, the Kinect motion sensor, is no longer in the box.,” says Digital Foundry’s Rich Leadbetter. “I’d venture to say that from a gaming perspective, that’s pretty much dead in the water. At their core, the two consoles are remarkably similar: the same CPU architecture, the same graphics tech. There are far more similarities than there are differences. Xbox One has less graphics processing power and is considered more challenging to develop for, but things seem to be changing there.”Grand Theft Auto 5: a quick guide to PS4 and Xbox One versions
Firefox users in the US willno longer see Googlefrom December when searching on the browser, but will be offered Yahoo as their default search engine which outbid Google for the deal.It is not clear if Firefox was looking to end its 10-year-relationship with Google. But it is suspected that, because Firefox has been performing poorly on key mobile platforms, Google allowed itself to be outbid by rivals.A spokesman for Mozilla, which develops Firefox, told the Guardian that “In most European countries, including the UK, Firefox users will not see a change [from Google as the default search provider]. “In the US, Yahoo will become the default search, Baidu in China and Yandex in Russia.”The Google-Firefox deal, first made in 2004 and since renewed repeatedly, had for years been a relationship of mutual strengths: when Firefox was the principal alternative to Microsoft’s dominant Internet Explorer, Google was able to leverage its popularity to bring more people to its search engine.Such deals have a price: typically the browser maker gets a guaranteed income, and is paid a slice of the advertising revenue that the search engine gets from people who come via its default setting.Google paid $280m to be Firefox’s browserFor Mozilla, which develops Firefox, the income was important. Google’s payments made upabout 90% of Mozilla’s $311m revenues in 2012. Newer figures for 2013 may become available in the next few days.For Google, the payments were “traffic acquisition costs” (TAC) - what a search engine has to pay to get traffic to its site. Google’s TAC since itre-signed its deal with Mozilla in December 2011has totalled $33bn, because that includes not just payments to Mozilla, but also to Apple (for making Google the default search provider in Safari on iOS devices such as the iPhone and on the Mac) and to a multitude of other sites and services. As a proportion of revenues, Google’s TAC hovers around the 22%-23% mark.Being the default on Firefox was relatively cheap compared to Google’s other TAC; over the lifetime of the deal that has just expired, it cost Google about $300m per year - or $1bn over the life of the just-expired deal - even though Firefox drives about 100bn search requests worldwide each year. (On that basis, Google is paying about 0.3 cents per Firefox search.)Google surely could have outbid Yahoo to continue the deal - it’s rich enough.Firefox losing out on mobileSo why has it turned away from a deal that effectively gave it a monopoly of every non-Microsoft browser? Simply, because Firefox isn’t that important any more in a world where mobile browsing is an increasingly large part of online activity; and because Yahoo bid enough to claw back some relevance in its most important market, the US.Firefox’s falling importance is illustrated byStatcounter’s data for desktop browsing, which shows how Mozilla’s browser has fallen off in share of the desktop market - which is increasingly being eaten by Google’s own Chrome, launched in 2008.Top 5 desktop and console browsers, rated by StatCounterPhotograph: StatCounterTop 9 browsers from 2010 to 2014, according to StatCounterPhotograph: StatCounterBut the picture for Firefox is much worsewhen you include mobile browsing. By that measure, Firefoxsimply doesn’t have a presence in North AmericaorSouth AmericaorAsia.Top 9 mobile and tablet browsers 2010 to 2014, according to StatCounterPhotograph: StatCounterIn other words, Firefox doesn’t have any presence in mobile - its browser hasfewer than 100m downloads on Android, which gives it less than one-tenth of the Google-Android market, and the fact that it doesn’t show up in Statcounter’s mobile data suggests that it’s the default for very few people.While Yahoo gains face - Firefoxstill has 16.8% of the North American desktop browser market- the story is still not good in the overall context of the US market. Chrome’s share passed Firefox’s there last year, so that it now has about 34%, or double that of Firefox.Will Google stay on Firefox in the rest of the world?It’s unclear too whether Google will continue to pay Mozilla to be the default browser in countries outside the US, Russia and China when the current deal ends in December. Mozilla isn’t saying. The last time the deal ran out, in 2011, there was a brief partnership with Bing which was quickly wrapped up when Google re-signed. It is understand that at the time, Microsoft pushed up the bid price, which Google then trumped.Will this be the last search deal Firefox signs?The world has changed a lot since Firefox and Google first signed the search deal in 2004. That was before Google bought Android, at a time when the desktop was the only one for search, and Internet Explorer was the “default” browser.Even since December 2011, when the deal was last renewed, the world has moved on: Android has gone from being the biggest contender among the mobile pack to the clear leader; Chrome has become the most-used browser; iOS has become a key source of traffic for Google on mobile; Firefox’s share, and Yahoo’s importance, have both dwindled.While Mozilla isrepresenting the dealas one where “our primary consideration was to ensure our strategy aligned with our values of choice and independence, and positions us to innovate and advance our mission in ways that best serve our users and the Web”, it may have been driven too by financial reality: that Yahoo, plus Baidu and Yandex, offered more money in aggregate than Google was willing to pay as Firefox’s importance falls.With Firefox OS still not making any impact on mobile, the question will be whether in five years time, when this deal comes to renegotiation, there will be any point in renewing it. And that, in turn, puts a question over the viability of Mozilla. Five years is a long time on the internet. But for Mozilla, the clock may already be ticking.
Footage from hundreds of thousands of CCTV cameras and baby monitors is being live-streamed on the internet unbeknown to their owners, who think they are secure.A Russian website published thousands of these streams so that people online can easily watch them and the people, places and even babies in them, the Information commissioner’s officehas warned.How is this possible?A large number of the cameras being sold in the UK and elsewhere come secured with a default password that can be as simple as “password” or “12345” and is publicly known, often detailed in support documents.Internet users can view these streams using a browser armed with the default password and watch people in their homes and businesses without their knowledge.How big an issue is it?The Russian site lists hundreds of thousands of cameras freely for view across scores of countries including the UK. The insecure webcam feeds can easily be found through Google and other search engines, as their streams are indexed just like any other webpage.An estimated 350,000 internet connected surveillance cameras were sold in the UK alone, but it is unknown how many were left with weak or default passwords when set up by users.How long has it been going on?Unprotected internet-connected cameras have been viewable through Google searches and other websites for years, but this new site has only cropped up in the last month. It is likely other sites doing a similar job are available across the internet and within the dark net, which describes sites not indexed by search engines.Which cameras are affected?A variety of internet-connected cameras spanning CCTV cameras, home security cameras and baby monitors from a myriad of companies including Panasonic, Foscam, Linksys and others are affected.Any camera that is openly connected to the internet, can be viewed through a browser from outside the home and has a weak or default password can be viewed without the owner’s knowledge.Can people see my webcam?Whether it’s a baby monitor with a camera or a CCTV camera, people can only see your webcam’s stream if you haven’t changed the password that the camera came with or if you are using a password that is weak or easy to guess. ‘Password’ for example.Most internet-connected cameras broadcast their location along with a video stream. Browsing the Russian site or using Google to search for your camera could show whether others have been able to see it, narrowed by location.What can I do to stop people viewing my webcam?Because people are accessing these connected cameras via default or weak passwords, protecting your webcam for the casual viewer is as easy as changing your password to something strong.Strong passwords should be as long as you can remember, combine a mixture of numbers, upper and lowercase letters and punctuation marks. Real words should not be used and the password should not be used for more than one service.Remembering a 24 character randomly generated password is hard. Password managers such as 1Password or LastPass can help by remembering them for you and protecting them with one long password and two-factor authentication.•What to do if your email gets hacked - and how to prevent it•Tracking Isis, stalking the CIA: how anyone can be big brother online•Webcam hackers could be watching you, watchdog warns
After becoming the third largest smartphone manufacturer in the world, China’s Xiaomi is bullish about taking the top spot from Apple in five to 10 years.Top Apple and Xiaomi executives traded blows under the veil of light-hearted barbs at China’s World Internet Conference in Wuzhen, where Xiaomi’s chief executive and founder Lei Jun described the company as a “small miracle” and said that it was setting its sights on world smartphone domination.“I believe that no one thought the Xiaomi from three years ago, which just made its first phone, would later rank as the third largest player,” Lei said speaking for three minutes after arriving two hours late for a panel that was scheduled for two hours. “India is becoming our largest overseas market. Within five or 10 years, we have the opportunity to become the number one smartphone company in the world.”‘A small miracle like Xiaomi’Xiaomi was founded in 2010 and made its first smartphone in 2011 in China. It quickly became the number one smartphone manufacturer in China, rising to have 70 million users and becoming the world’sthird largest smartphone manufacturerin the third quarter of this year.Lei said that the company is forecast to almost triple its user base in the next year to 200 million users and targets the number-one spot globally currently held by Samsung powered by Xiaomi’s expansion into new markets.“It is easy to say, it is more difficult to do,” Bruce Sewell, Apple’s general counsel and senior vice president of legal and government affairs, told the conference when asked about Lei’s bold claims which would require Xiaomi to displace Apple in second place, adding that there were “many good competitive phones in China”.“In this magic land, we produced not only a company like Alibaba, but a small miracle like Xiaomi,” Lei said.Mountain to climbXiaomi may be number one in China, where Apple languishes in sixth place, but on a global scale with 6% of the smartphone shipments in the third quarter, it is far behind Samsung’s 25% and Apple’s 12%.Xiaomi’s smartphones use Google’s Android software with designs which some say mimic Apple’s iPhone. They compete with both Apple and Samsung smartphones with similar functionality, but at prices significantly lower than the cost of an iPhone 6 or Galaxy S5.Moving from outside of China and select developing markets in south-east Asia and India may also be difficult for Xiaomi, potentially facing legal challenges from Apple. Jony Ive, Apple’s chief designer, recently hit out at designs that could be seen as copying Apple.“I’ll stand a little bit harsh, I don’t see it as flattery,” said Ive when asked about Chinese smartphone manufacturer Xiaomi, described as “the Apple of China”in an interviewwith Vanity Fair. “When you’re doing something for the first time, you don’t know it’s gonna work. You spend seven or eight years working on something, and then it’s copied. I think it is really straightforward. It is theft and it is lazy. I don’t think it is OK at all.”Xiaomi has made efforts to be more appealing to the west, hiring key executives from Google, including the outspoken Brazilian vice president of Android Hugo Barra, who became Xiaomi’s head of international sales and spoke out about copycat claims.“Our designers, our engineers, are inspired by great products and by great design out there. And frankly who in today’s world isn’t?” Barra said at theWSJD Live conferencein Laguna Beach, California.•China rising: Xiaomi becomes world’s third biggest smartphone manufacturer•Xiaomi: Aiming to be the Apple - and Google - of China•China’s Xiaomi quadruples smartphone shipments in a year•Xiaomi to export cheap smartphones to emerging markets
There’s a lot of pressure to perform these days. In games, I mean. Gaming is a casual hobby to some, but with the rise of professional eSports tournaments, it has become a career to others. This year’s world championships for the PC online battle game Dota 2 offered a prize fund of $10m, and other popular competitive titles like League of Legends, Smite and Call of Duty offer similarly large pay-outs as well as lucrative sponsorship deals and salaries for top players.For much of the time, however, players of all abilities end up competing in the same environments. When I play Dota 2 I’m in the same arena as professional players – the only difference is I react slower, make bad decisions and generally, am not as good. And that’s OK, as far as I’m concerned.A lot of games market themselves toward the competitive end of the playing spectrum with a view to creating tournaments that reward real money or prizes. Recent arena-based games such as Transformers Universe and Nosgoth have put a key focus on competitive matches, with developer Jagex adding a dedicated livestreaming “arena” to its office and Nosgoth’s ESL (eSports league) starting up before the game has even left closed beta.Call of Duty, meanwhile, has added Com Cast and Oracle features specifically to make the games more interesting to spectators, and has included new maps, modes and league options to entice pro-gamers. With Overwatch, Blizzard’s competitive team-based first- person shooter on the horizon, this is a trend that shows no signs of stopping.But increasingly, even at a casual level, there’s a pressure to perform to league standards. Gaming communities, particularly in games like Dota2 and League of Legends can be notoriously unforgiving because people expect a certain standard of player. With Nosgoth, the introduction of the ESL has been divisive: it legitimises the game in the eyes of some players but creates unrealistic expectations for others. Being told you’re not good enough by a teammate who regularly plays in league matches can be disheartening, and saps the fun out of the experience for a lot of casual gamers. Matchmaking normally limits a lot of these problems by separating players of varying abilities, but in new games that simply isn’t happening effectively.Whether eSports provides a sustainable business model or not remains to be seen, most successes have been on overwhelmingly popular games like Dota2, League of Legends and Call Of Duty which already had established fanbases. Not every game can fill a stadium full of spectators and not every company can offer multimillion dollar prizes.While its exciting, the rise of eSports offers no guarantees that experiences will get better for average players. We may simply end up in a situation where, like other sports, you’re watching a different game that encourages exclusivity and negativity rather than fostering creativity and, ultimately, fun. Grassroots football has struggled in the shadow of the all-conquering Premier League. It would be a shame for online gaming to go the same way.Call of Duty v the planet: inside the world of competitive gaming
The Democratic senator, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law, and former Saturday Night Live performer Al Franken has written to Uber’s chief executive asking for an explanation of the firm’s cavalier approach to privacy.Franken laid out 10 questions for Uber, which this week hasapologised for commentsmade by an executive suggesting he should dig dirt on a journalist;investigated another executivefor accessing another journalist’s personal data;come under firefor tracking users’ one-night-stands in 2012; and hasannounced a partnership with Spotify.The senator asks whether any disciplinary action was taken against Emil Michael, the executive who suggested hiring a team of reporters to research a hostile journalist, and how the firm plans to improve internal privacy training to ensure that employees follow the company’s policies.He also asks what steps the firm is taking to limit access to its “god view”, which lets Uber employees track customers, and highlights the firm’s blogpost detailing users’ one-night-stands as an example of the company “condoning use of customers’ data for questionable purposes”.“The reports suggest a troubling disregard for customers’ privacy, including the need to protect their sensitive geolocation data,” Franken writes. “Under what circumstances would an employee face discipline for a violation of Uber’s privacy policies? Have any disciplinary actions been taken on this basis?”Franken has given Uber 28 days to respond to his questions, which were sent in his capacity as subcommittee chair. Uber says it will be responding to the Senator in the coming weeks, and has issued a statement in the meantime.“Our business depends on the trust of the millions of riders and drivers who use Uber”, the statement reads. “The trip history of our riders is important information and we understand that we must treat it carefully and with respect, protecting it from unauthorized access.“Ensuring that we have strong policies and practices in this fast-paced world of technology must be a constant quest. We have addedHarriet Pearson, one of the most respected data privacy experts in the world and her colleagues at Hogan Lovells, to Uber’s privacy team. Hogan Lovells will conduct an in-depth review and assessment of our existing data privacy program and recommend any needed enhancements so that Uber can ensure that we are a leader in the area of privacy and data protection.“We’ve learned a lot in four and a half years and want to continue to improve on the innovative tools that help us deliver on our mission of providing safe, reliable, affordable transportation to anyone, anywhere, at any time.”Pressure on Uber chief executive Travis Kalanick is mounting from other sources. The influential technology authorRobert Scoble has called on the executive to quitthe firm, in order to “reboot the culture there and have Uber regain its loved status.”“This company has deeply wounded itself,” Scoble continues. “The investors should insist that Travis go … This wound is a lot deeper than I thought and IS changing consumer behaviour. Travis, if I were you I would resign and help your company heal.”•Is Uber the worst company in Silicon Valley?
You can’t get a free Audi R8 car by liking a Facebook post. Which sounds like an obvious statement, but according to security firm Bitdefender, more than 200,000 users of the social network have fallen for a ‘Like-farming’ giveaway promising exactly that.The company has reported a Facebook page to the social network that has been soliciting likes and shares for a competition supposedly ending on 20 November tha would reward two “lucky winners” with the R8 cars.Entrants were asked to like the page and share its post on their own timelines, while saying what colour car they’d like if they won. Bitdefender claims that the page has attracted nearly 180,000 likes and more than 210,000 shares so far.Some of its posts include links to videos, which is where the scam gets worrying: Bitdefender says that some of the sites hosting those videos are also running the JS:Trojan.JS.Likejack.A code that can be used for “clickjacking on hidden commercials”.“Like-farming may not seem the worse things scammers can do on Facebook. However, it has repercussions for users and companies’ reputations and can even lead to identity theft,” said Bitdefender’s chief security strategist Catalin Cosoi in a statement.“Like-farming Facebook pages use the high number of fans to launch other fraudulent activities such as malware and survey scams to a wide audience. The database of unwary users can also be sold on the black market and used for more targeted attacks.”If you see a competition to win a free Audi R8 on Facebook, be very wary.Photograph: BitdefenderThe Audi R8 scammers fit into along line of such hoaxes on Facebook, including baits encouraging users to see “who viewed your profile”, as well as fraudulent giveaways and fake videos of celebrities and terrorist activities.In 2014 alone, there have been high-profile scams includinga link promising a video of a woman undressing on a webcam; a“Facebook colour changer” appthat installed malicious software on user’s computers; and atool offering to find out friends’ passwordsthat actually took control of the user’s account.•Want to catch a virus? Cheryl Cole is UK’s most dangerous celeb
Apple will make its Beats Music subscription service part of its iOS software from early in 2015, pushing its app to every iPhone and iPad, according to a report.The Financial Times claims thatBeats will be part of iOSas early as March in an effort to encourage Apple’s iTunes music buyers to try the streaming service, and that it could also use the Apple Pay payments technology to charge for monthly subscriptions.Apple paid $3bn for Beats Music’s parent company Beats Electronicsearlier in 2014, acquiring its lucrative headphones business as well as Beats Music, which launched in the US in January as a rival to Spotify, Rhapsody and other streaming services.Beats is expected to be rebranded under the iTunes moniker when it relaunches in 2015. The FT’s claim that it will be pushed to “hundreds of millions of iPhones and iPads” also suggests that the subscription service will be launching globally, having been US-only so far.Appleadmitted in Octoberthat sales of music downloads on its iTunes store have been declining in 2014, following anearlier report in the Wall Street Journalclaiming that those sales had dropped between 13% and 14% globally, year-on-year.The growth of Spotify, which hasmore than 50m active usersincluding 12.5m paying subscribers, has fuelled music industry speculation about Apple’s plans to compete in 2015 and beyond.While pushing a rival app to every iOS device will encourage more people to try it, Apple is also rumoured to be pressing labels for licensing deals that will enable it to start a price war with Spotify and other streaming services.“Among the things Apple wants is a new pricing structure that would allow it to sell the service for less than the $10 level it’s at now,”claimed tech news site Recodein October, beforefollowing up with a rumourthat its desired price was $5 a month.Details have been leaking out suggesting that Apple’s plans for Beats Music go beyond simply rebranding it under iTunes and pushing it to devices.Beats Music’s chief creative officer, musician Trent Reznor, recentlyhinted to music industry publication Billboardthat he was working on new features.“Beats was bought by Apple, and they expressed direct interest in me designing some products with them. I can’t go into details, but I feel like I’m in a unique position where I could be of benefit to them,” he said.“It’s exciting to me, and I think it could have a big enough impact that it’s worth the effort. I’m fully in it right now, and it’s challenging, and it’s unfamiliar and it’s kind of everything I asked for – and the bad thing is it’s everything I asked for.”Reznor also suggested that Apple is hoping to avoid the rows with artists that have plagued Spotify in recent times.“I am on the side of streaming music, and I think the right streaming service could solve everybody’s problems,” he said. “That idea that I’ve got my records on the shelf doesn’t feel as important even to me as it used to. I just think we haven’t quite hit the right formula yet.”That formula will seemingly now involve making Apple’s streaming subscription service available – at least in trial form – on every iOS device.However, this will likely be less a case of pushing an unwanted app to devices in similar vein toU2’s controversial Songs of Innocence iTunes giveaway, and more about incorporating whatever Beats Music becomes into the Music app that is already part of the iOS software.While Spotify is currently the biggest streaming subscription music service, Apple’s sights will also be trained on its most fierce rival of all – Google – which has similar potential to preload its ownGoogle Play All AccessandYouTube Music Keyservices on Android devices, with even more of them out in the wild than iOS devices.•Apple iTunes sales down, so what next for Beats Music?
