CNet has an amusing commentary fromRichard Stallmanabout the confusion between the GNU operating system and the Linux kernel whose development was started much later by Linus Torvalds. The point is that the kernel is only a small part of the operating system and in Unix-like operating systems can generally be changed with relatively little difficulty. You could certainly have a "Linux" system that looked exactly the same as it does today but did not use the Linux kernel or any Linux code. "Linux itself is no longer essential: the GNU system became popular in conjunction with Linux, but today it also runs with two BSD kernels and the GNU kernel," says Stallman.Update: this is being discussed onSlashdotnow.Background: see my1998 interview with RMS, originally published in Online though I can't find it on the Guardian's site.
Tourists have been known to topple over backwards on to the marble floor while torturing their necks to study every detail of the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, the masterpiece on which Michelangelo struggled and cursed for four years.Now, at the click of a mouse, they will now be able to zoom up to the recently restored ceiling, under which the painter - who only wanted to be a sculptor - spent endless months, between 1508 and 1512.He lay flat on his back on a specially designed scaffold until, it is said, his assistants had to prise the brush from his cramped fingers at the end of each day's work.The Vatican is expanding its rather dry website - the 50 million visitors a month may be enthralled by the section headed Vatican Secret Archives, but will find it is still "under construction" after eight years - to include virtual tours of the Sistine Chapel and many of the miles of galleries containing treasures from all over the world.It is even considering online ticket sales, allowing real visitors to escape one of the most infamous ticket queues in Rome, and an online gift shop.The Vatican's most famous work of art was created by an artist who never wanted the job.Michelangelo was notoriously fiery - a contemporary anecdote claimed that he nailed an unfortunate assistant to a board to study anatomical details for a crucifixion scene - and insisted that his proper tool was a chisel. He met his match in an equally towering ego, Pope Julius II, who ordered the artist to Rome and promised to commission for himself the most magnificent sculpted tomb in Christendom. Work on the tomb was continually deferred, while Michelangelo was kept bound to his work on the ceiling.&#183;The online tour is atvatican.va
Sometimes I sit here in my shorts, listening to the birdsong as the sunlight dapples the beech trees just outside my office window, and I think: "Jeepers, I wish I could be back in an office, working for someone else".  That feeling never lasts long, but it's one of the penalties of working from home - you miss the personal contact and the support infrastructure as well as the backbiting, the clockwatching and the hassles.  So here are the views of one who does the home office thing and has the scars to prove it.1. Separate home and work spaces  Rule number one: if you're working from home, it shouldn't feel like home. Work is work: keep it separate from real life. Ideally, that means physically separate - a different building, or at least a room with a door.  If you have to work from the kitchen table, clear the family clutter and banish all interruptions to make it more like a real workspace. Use a notebook (easy to set up and close down) and keep your portable office in a ready-to-go easy-to-hide box or bin.2. Separate home and work times  You and your family need to understand that you're really at the office during specific hours. My friend Susie actually hangs a BUSY/FREE sign on her office door.  The flipside is that private time should be work-free. The answering machine can pick up while you're having dinner or playing with the children; a PC-based system will give more flexibility in terms of the automated response.   There's a tendency to do the work because it's there, or because you think the client might be impressed by your working all weekend, or because you don't want to contemplate the possibility that there might be no work at all next month. But just because something is urgent doesn't mean it's important: life is short enough as it is; don't waste too much of it on work.3. Automate and   delegate  So simplify your own working life - use the tools available: let the answering machine pick up calls while you're working, use email to communicate out of hours. Outlook can handle contact information, schedule follow-ups, remind you about appointments, and much more. Spam filters can remove much of the dross from your inbox. QuickBooks takes a little time to set up, but thereafter automates your book-keeping, tracks overdue amounts, and produces handy reports for management (well, for you) as well as for your accountant and the taxman. Utilities such as SystemWorks can handle housekeeping tasks on the PC.  And don't do everything yourself. The DIY approach is often less cost-effective than involving other people - you might have to bite the bullet to get the best graphics, marketing programmes, relationships with the Inland Revenue, and other professional requirements.4. Clear the clutter  Keeping your desk tidy is one of the best ways of staying both sane and effective in your home office.   Start by picking the right tools. A flat-panel TFT screen will save on space; or consider a swivelling monitor stand that can be pushed aside. Use cable-free connections - infrared keyboard and mouse, Bluetooth for the printer.   Anything you use frequently should be within arm's reach, everything else can be stored further away (or junked altogether). But give yourself reasons to move around; the phone probably needs to be next to you, but the printer and fax machine can usefully be sited inconveniently to force you to get up to attend to them. Physical variation during the day is good for your body.   Regularly sort through your files, your pinboard and drawers. Throw out the things you don't use. Have a major overhaul every six months or so - redecorate, reorganise, tidy the cables, vacuum the computer.5. Avoid wasting time  Time management is another good habit. There's a temptation to ensure that all the pencils are sharpened, the mouse de-fluffed, the email sorted and filed before you get down to work. The less appealing the job, the sharper the pencils.  So schedule your time: handle email and post for the first 45 minutes, no more email until just before you break for lunch, finish the day with your final mail check and a to-do list for the morning. Set alarms on Outlook if you really need reminding.  More generally, start unsubscribing to newsletters and magazines. Limit yourself to the stuff you enjoy and/or use. If it helps, try allocating a regular time slot for reading newsletters (magazines you can pile up for train journeys and quiet times). Anything that doesn't fit into your schedule can be binned. And don't keep back issues if they are available online.6. Socialise  Yes, you have email, the phone, delivery services, and online ordering, so you probably don't need to leave your cosy workplace. But that gives you the freedom to develop your own work-life balance; and you don't want to become a tool of your tools. Network on the net; schedule time for chat rooms and newsgroups for your business. Get out more - preferably with clients, but friends will do. And get involved in your community: you'll have more flexibility than when you were chained to a time clock.7. Look for the small rewards   A good boss compliments staff and commends their work. You are your own boss, but you can still be a good one. Collect plaudits and testimonials from satisfied clients, put them on your website, and don't be shy about letting prospects know who else has been pleased with your work. It will make you feel good, too. And you can find other small triumphs for yourself - locating the completely free banking at Abbey National Business, finding cheap but excellent unbranded inkjet cartridges, persuading the Revenue to accept dry cleaning receipts as allowable business expenses...8. Create your own space  One of the best things about working for yourself is the ability to create your own environment. Arrange things to suit yourself, choose colours that you like, arrange furniture and office equipment to fit your working life. Have some personal objects in your eye line to remind you of the outside world while you're working.   If the daily domestic noise bothers you, invest in a decent thick-pile carpet and a stereo - low music of your own choice can effectively mask out unwanted external sound. Besides, this might be the only time the family will let you listen to Steely Dan.9. Manage  Just because you run a one-person business doesn't mean you're absolved from management responsibility. Yes, you're the marketing executive, the IT specialist, the maintenance guy, the receptionist and the bookkeeper as well as the poor sod who actually does the work.But you need to take an overview, too: that means a business plan of some kind, if only because the plan-making process organises your thinking and helps you sort out your priorities.   Thereafter you need regular management accounts (quarterly perhaps) to identify precisely where you're making money and spending it; QuickBooks and similar products can do this. You might also need more frequent tactical assessments to see how well you're doing.10. And finally...  Nobody who works from home will actually be able to follow all these tips all the time. You have to spend some time earning the money, after all. Treat them as pointers towards good working habits.  And you can always try the Three Legged Toad God. Feng shui wisdom says you place it near your workspace's entrance, facing into the room, to bring you luck and wealth. You have to keep a coin in its mouth, of course.
Back in London now and starting to look over some of the online reaction to last night's keynote. The most interesting thing I've seen so far is Tom Yager'sthoughtson the benchmark results used by Jobs on stage last night (viaScripting News).He says Apple messed around with the results, by optimising the Mac performance but not the rival Dell's. "The test results are invalidated by severely lopsided testing conditions..." he writes. "So what?", you might ask - you'd expect one company to try and get its products shown in the best light possible, wouldn't you? Yager hits the nail on the head: "None of this would be a problem if Apple and Veritest didn't claim the tests were objective... The Power Mac G5 shows major ass-kicking potential. Apple's got too much class to resort to sketchy benchmarks."
Drivers using mobile phones at the wheel will face fines of up to £1,000, the government announced today.Initially offenders will be subject to a £30 fine, which can be increased to a maximum of £1,000 if the matter goes to court, the road safety minister, David Jamieson, said.The government is also planning to legislate to make it an endorsable offence, so drivers will get three points on their licence each time they are caught holding a phone.Introducing the fines, which will take effect from December 1 this year,  Mr Jamieson said: "Driving whilst using a mobile phone 
is dangerous."Our decision to introduce this new offence will make the roads safer for us all."Missing a call won't kill you, an accident quite possibly could."Research demonstrated that driving and using a mobile phone meant motorists are four times more likely to have an accident, he said.Hands-free calls were also distracting and still put drivers at risk, he added.Drivers already face prosecution for careless or even reckless driving if using of a phone means they do not have proper control of their vehicle.The new offence is being introduced by an addition to the Road Vehicles 
(Construction and Use) Regulations 1986.New legislation is expected to be introduced later to make the offence subject to three penalty points.The government said it had carried out a consultation exercise in which 88% of the 1,000 responses were in favour of introducing a new offence of using a mobile phone at the wheel.The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (Rospa) welcomed the move but warned that motorists should not start using hands-free sets thinking they are safe.It said drivers should be banned from using hands-free phones as well.Rospa claimed thousands of accidents have been caused by people talking on the phone, including 20 deaths. Hands-free phones were being used in at least two of those tragedies, it said.Kevin Clinton, Rospa's head of road safety, said: "We are delighted to see a new law, but it will not have the impact we have been hoping for if people switch to hands-free devices instead ... We are worried that the powerful mobile phone industry will use the new law as an opportunity to market hands-free kits claiming they are safe, when in fact they are not.Motoring organisations warned the government it faced an "uphill struggle" to 
ensure the success of the ban.The RAC said, in order to work, the new law must "both have an impact upon the relatively small number of hard-core hand-held phone users who are wedded to their mobiles, and tackle the widespread perception that 'everyone else' is to blame for poor driving while using a hand-held phone".Research from the RAC report on motoring indicated that, although 63% of motorists "frequently" see others driving carelessly while using a mobile phone, only 4% admit to regularly using hand-held mobile phones while driving.RAC spokeswoman Rebecca Bell said: "Ministers must also contend with a shocking complacency among most drivers who, while condemning others who use a hand-held mobile phone while driving as dangerous, nevertheless think they can manage to do so safely."A new law on its own is not enough."There must be a properly funded information campaign to get across the message that using a hand-held mobile behind the wheel is potentially lethal."
Intel has given its Pentium 4 line a trivial speed bump from 3.06GHz to3.2GHz, and this could be the end of the line. (What remains is to drive the price down over the next 12-18 months until 3.2GHz reaches the bottom of the P4 range.) The next version, code-named Prescott, could be out later this year -- leading PC manufacturers already have samples. Prescott has some new instructions (PNI) and improved hyperthreading, and is expected to go up to 5GHz. Since the P4 has been around for a long time now, it could well be sold as the Pentium 5.
Very odd that Apple should claim that the Power Mac G5, announced today, features"the world's first 64-bit desktop processor". DEC announced the64-bit Alpha processorback in 1992, and it certainly sold desktop PCs running the chip -- machines that looked exactly line Intel PCs, and ran Windows NT, in about 1994. Other firms put 64-bit MIPS chips, such as theMIPS R4200, in Windows NT machines. These weren't expensive chips -- you could get an Alpha 21066 for $186 -- though they still didn't sell. Still, ignoring Windows NT, I guess Apple wants to distinguish between old 64-bit workstations running Unix and new 64-bit Apple desktop machines running, er..., Unix. The main difference being that Apple doesn't actually have any 64-bit software.
Read our detailed live commentary, posted as it happened...Well, quite an evening here. Big strategic announcements from Apple on the software and the hardware front - including the new G5 Mac - and the storm to end all thunderstorms, which caused quite a bit of damage in Berlin and blacked out Steve Jobs live satellite broadcast from San Francisco. At least it didn't defeat the QuickTime feed... You can read the rolling commentary I wrote during tonight's show by following the link above, as I've moved it off the front page for aesthetic reasons...One last thing: extensive "whaddawemiss?" quizzing has revealed the bit of they keynote we didn't see here was dealing with the newiChat AVinstant message app, which ties in with the new camera they're selling.And for those of you wondering: we'll wrap up all today's announcements, along with details of UK pricing and some pix of the San Francisco event, in Thursday's Online section.
Ah - thanks to thediscussionon my post below, I'm now discovering that if I use a Windows version of IE (in Virtual PC), I get the full Blogger posting window. This is not an honour, it appears, that is extended to Mac users. As they say in the US, this sucks. It gets even worse, as a reader reports permalinks and RSS are messed up too. Movable Type looks even more attractive - at least I managemy owncock-ups there...
Handspring, which is being taken over by Palm, has shown off theTreo 600, which PC World.com reckons is "a dramatic design departure from previous versions of the critically acclaimed and popular handheld. Instead of a flip-up gray clamshell, a Treo 600 has the design of a silvery candy bar." Comment: Oh dear, still not what I was looking for: it looks like a RIM Blackberry. I want a clamshell design that doesn't cramp the keyboard and other UI elements -- something more like theSamsung V200or a vertical-format version of theHiptop(but it would have to sync with Outlook as well). Am I the only person who feels left out?
Gyrationkeeps plugging away with its gyroscopic mouse system, and has done a version for PCs running Microsoft's Media Center version of XP, reportsCNet. But I can't see the word "Bluetooth" anywhere. This seems strange because Microsoft'sWireless Optical Desktop for Bluetooth, launched last year, is the obvious way to go. (Obvious way to go for iMacs, too -- something similar should have been standard with at least one LampMac.)
We were "upgraded" to the new version of Blogger Pro this weekend and, to echo Jack'scommentsbelow, I'm not hugely impressed. The interface is a inelegant thing, and there are little changes to the usability which grate. You can't see previous posts from the create new post page, which means it's harder to get a sense of context as you create your new post, for instance. I can't post and publish - only preview first. And some of the RSS settings weren't copied over correctly. Still, at least it works in Apple's Safari browser, which is something, and it feels a lot faster than the old interface. What it needs - real soon - is some new features, to keep up with the Movable Type crowd. For all that system's complexity, it is starting to look very attractive to me...
"In the Future, We'll All Be Harry Potter: The world of magic is a world where inanimate objects come alive; it's as if they had computational power, sensors, awareness, and connectivity." AnAlertboxcolumn published last December becomes topical again....
The Internet's "phone book" will be 20 years old on Monday, reportsWired News.
The man who owns the copyright on the Linux operating system kernel, and the trademark, has taken indefinite leave from Transmeta to work full time on the OS, reportsCNet.
Teutonic-style outrage over the infinitely exploding amount of spam - unsolicited bulk emails - has officially replaced weapons of mass destruction and even monkeypox as the leading threat to all that is good and decent ...In the current climate - which includes various pending and sure-to-be-useless legislative fixes - isn't anyone brave enough to say something good about spam? Well, I am. I love spam - and not only because I just placed an order for a guaranteed system that will enlarge my penis so that I can use it to clean my septic tank while playing solitaire with a deck of Iraq's Most Wanted cards. (As long as I'm sharing, I should mention that I only paid $59.99 for all this, using the same unsecured credit card that allowed me to take advantage of Mr Kwame Ashantee's generous invitation to invest heavily in the Ghana Gold and Diamond Mining Corporation ...)Even as spam clogs my inbox the way the Atkins Diet is clogging colons all over the country ... I remain thankful for the wonderful alternative universes that the junk opens up for me. Who knew, for instance, that farm animals enjoyed such interesting, if libertine, lifestyles? ...But what I really love about spam comes down to two points quite unrelated to bestiality, online gambling, and messages with phrases such as "&#212; &#237; &#205; &#251; &#237;..." in the subject line.First, in what is widely acknowledged to be an unprecedented age of rank ideological bickering (unprecedented, that is, since the age immediately preceding our current one), spam has managed to bring the right and the left together in a way that even a terrorist attack on US soil failed to. "Spam fight unites liberal, conservatives" shouts a headline for an Associated Press story detailing how Charles Schumer, the Democrat senator, has taken the step of teaming up with the Christian Coalition to choke spam - especially porn-related spam - off the internet ... As John White, a political scientist at Catholic University in Washington DC, observed, the Christian Coalition is "actually working with someone they disagree with on 99% of all other issues, and who they would like to defeat when he runs for re-election" ... The fact that spam has created not simply a dialogue but a partnership between these two is a sign that the age of miracles is not yet over.The second large point relates to the legislation Mr Schumer has introduced, the stop pornography and abusive marketing (spam) bill ... Mr Schumer's bill would not only potentially outlaw anonymous emailers - a service that is part of what makes the internet the internet - it showcases how political solutions often miss their real mark. "Laws should focus on what is the harmful thing that's being done," privacy consultant Ray Everett-Church said. "In the case of spam, it's really a question of cost-shifting from the sender to the recipient. If there were a law against shifting the cost of advertising on to the recipients, then you could go after junk faxes, spam and (wireless) spam."Another count against Mr Schumer's bill is that spam, like the pornography it so often advertises, is in the eye of the beholder. Or, more precisely, the nuisance level of spam is highly subjective and can only be properly sorted out at the individual level. As the New York Times has detailed, the vastly popular Iraq's Most Wanted cards were almost completely a function of spam-based marketing; clearly, the folks who bought over a million decks in a matter of days didn't necessarily find that particular piece of spam insulting.&#183;Fromwww.techcentralstation.com, June 16. Nick Gillespie is editor-in-chief of Reason magazine.
Several years ago Nokia seemed to have the mobile phone market sewn up. No well-heeled gal would dream of leaving home without making handbag space for the 8210. While the boys who loved their toys drooled over the Communicator - the only phone at the time that could successfully send and receive email.In the intervening years, in the UK at least, the company seems to have lost its way with rivals Samsung wooing erstwhile 8210 users with its clamshell models and the David Beckham-approved Sharp GX10 cleaning up in the camera phone market.So, perhaps in a bid to restate its market-leading credentials, last week Nokia invited a gaggle of journalists to the offices of its PR company and offered a hands-on introduction to its line-up of phones for this year.Nokia's candid approach was reflected in the presence of the company's head of product marketing, Ray Haddow, who quite happily fielded all kind of queries; from the old chestnuts (will Nokia launch a clamshell phone? It hasn't ruled it out) to crystal ball gazing (in five years will the company still be seen as purely a phone manufacturer? Probably not given its range of devices).Taking a look at the phones strewn across the desk it was clear that this year Nokia is determined to offer a phone to suit every kind of user. Whether you want business applications such as email and the internet or entertainment facilities like cameras, MP3 or games, there is a phone for you. The days when you chose a Nokia phone because it was small and had a simple-to-use interface have gone forever.Whether users want - or will use - all these fancy features is a moot point. The one handset the journalists agreed was sure to be a smash is the 3100 - a small, slight phone with a glow-in-the-dark casing that apart from an MMS facility (though no camera) is largely bereft of the company's high profile applications.Nokia, along with Sony Ericsson, is taking a huge gamble on the belief that within a few years, the only gadget people will leave the home with is a phone - albeit one loaded with entertainment and business applications. This might be the case when 3G establishes itself and delivers simple music downloads/streaming, online gaming and the option of shooting and sending large photo and video files. Given 3G's awkward genesis I wouldn't bet on it.For the moment, however, the handsets  that Nokia is parading offer only a poor substitute to the range of vastly superior gadgets currently on sale. Take its just-launched MP3-playing 3300. It may look innovative and stylish and boast an integrated FM tuner and Wap browser, yet it only comes with a 64MB storage card; enough for around an hour and half of music. Punters are hardly going to ditch their 30 gigabyte tiny Apple iPods for it just yet.The same is true of the N-Gage. Why would anyone swap a Nintendo Gameboy Advance for an N-Gage when the latter will have fewer, less sophisticated games? The N-Gage also lags on battery life coming in at 3-6 hours (without phone calls) compared to the Gameboy Advance's 10 hours (18 with the light off). There's also the small matter of Sony's PSP waiting in the wings.To be fair, both phones will be much cheaper than the iPod or the Gameboy Advance and are aimed at younger users. Their older, wider and richer brothers and sisters are less likely to take to them. Phone companies are almost obliged to issue these phones as they try to develop them into propositions that harness the best 3G has to offer. Yet until the phones offer a comparable performance to their rival gadgets (and who is to say this will ever happen) people will probably be happy filling their pockets with two devices.Perhaps the best phone Nokia has scheduled for this year is the 6600. The company has shoehorned all the best features from its 7650 and 3250 camera phones into a small and light handset that's perfect for the corporate market.The handset, which runs on the Symbian operating system, delivers email, full web browsing, VGA standard pictures and basic video. However it is not due until at least October. In the meantime, many would-be buyers may have had their heads turned by the similarly equipped and sized smartphone from Siemens (the SX1), to say nothing of Orange's new SPV E-100 or Handspring's promising Treo 600.Perhaps I am being a little harsh. After all, there's no denying that Nokia will have the most comprehensive selection of handsets from any manufacturer available this year. But there are some great phones on the horizon, including Sharp's update of the GX10, the GX20, Samsung's very clever camera phone the SGH-P410 and Motorola's 3G A835 (the handset that Three is desperately waiting for). Whether Nokia's new range is strong enough maintain the company's enviable market share remains to be seen.
When Sony announced last month that it would launch the PlayStation Portable in late 2004, the company was sketchy on the details, preferring to let spin do the talking and the elated games journalists carry the story to the gaming masses.We had to wait until the ELSPA games software summit this week for Sony Entertainment Europe president Chris Deering to finally release more information on what we can expect from the highly anticipated handheld console.Sony will be releasing all the entertainment software for the PSP on its new Universal Media Disc (UMD), a small 60mm optical disc that can hold up to 1.8GB of data. The UMD could play movies and music.If would be advantageous for Sony is music and film studios were to come on board and release movies and music on UMD, and at a lower price than normal-sized DVDs and CDs.Although a price for the PSP hasn't been set, Mr Deering said some games would be priced around £35-£42, but the majority would be in the £20 range.Despite the fact that the PSP looks like being a direct competitor to the GameBoy, Mr Deering was quick to say the PSP will target a different market, and won't be in direct competition with Nintendo. The relationship, described in a blizzard of buzzwords, could be "synergistic and dynamically collaborative". He added: "I don't think people will be able to walk around in the schoolyard with the PSP and treat it as roughly as you do with Game Boy." Instead, the PSP would cater for people who want to escape the TV, and who have "shorter leisure time ".Sony is not alone in trying to distance its products from the GBA. Iikka Raiskinen, the head of Nokia's entertainment division, is less convivial than Sony when it comes to promoting his N-Gage versus the GBA. "GameBoy is for 10-year-olds," he was quoted as saying. "If you're 20 or 25-years-old, it's probably not a good idea to draw a GameBoy out of your pocket in a public place."With the N-Gage pegged at $299 (no European price has been announced yet), it's clear that Nokia is pricing its handheld out of the market that the Nintendo currently occupies, and Sony will no doubt do the same - the GBA retails at £70 and the GBA-SP at £90. Baring in mind that N-Gage's price tag has caused a lot of bad press, Sony would be well advised to try and occupy the middle ground between Nintendo and Nokia.This evolution in the development of handheld gaming platforms seems to be forging the way for a bigger adult market in gaming sector that traditionally has been seen the preserve of children.But with recent software sales in Europe estimated to reach $6bn this year, games are a serious business. In much the same way as the PlayStation took console gaming outside the realm of teenagers, the expansion handheld market to cater to adults can only serve to help give gaming the recognition, and respect, it deserves.TOP 10 GAMES, ALL PLATFORMSCompiled by ELSPA1)	Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari, £39.992)	SOCOM: US Navy Seals (PS2) Sony, £49.993)	The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts, £17.994)	Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2, £29.995)	Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft, £37.996)	The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts, £37.997)	Def Jam Vendetta (PS2, GC) Electronic Arts, £39.998)	Return to Castle Wolfenstein: Operation Resurrection (PS2) Activision, £39.999)           HULK (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) VU Games, £39.9910)	Championship Manager 4 (PC) Eidos Interactive, £29.99
Cnetreports that Netscape "monitored the activities of SmartDownload users ... contrary to its own published privacy policy". It will now "pay the state of New York $100,000, delete data collected through the application and agree to privacy audits".
"The story behind Dean Kamen's Segway scooter, and his combustive meeting with the kingpins of Apple and Amazon." An excerpt fromCode Name Ginger: The Story Behind Segway and Dean Kamen's Quest to Invent a New World. Harvard Business School Press. Copyright 2003 Steve Kemper
Hello to all youSpymacreaders looking in at the moment... yes, I'll be blogging the new stuff live on Monday evening (UK time), as fast as Jobs can announce it... and I can type it. Next week's Online will also carry coverage, assuming anything of note happens :-) In the meantime, there's the usualfrenzied speculationto enjoy.
Following recent comments (below), you will now find thatwho-remembers-me.comworks for the old buddies site. We have yet to hear fromPowergen Italia (http://www.powergenitalia.com/)
"When the Government decides to develop software using a restrictive licensing base, such as the GNU GPL, (it) should be aware that this would prevent it from deriving commercial gain from any subsequent derivative programs and prevent or severely limit the opportunities to work with commercial companies on such projects," says Intellect, an IT trade organisation, in its response paper. The story is atZD Net.You can download a copy of Open Source Software (OSS) As a Possible Default Exploitation Route for Government Funded Software - Intellect Response (pdf 82KB) fromIntellect
Computerworld has an interesting interview withSun's Jonathan Schwartz, who says: "To any CIO I've ever met, source code is like a free puppy. It's great the day you get it. It's really cute. But then you have to feed it, get it its shots, take it for a walk, etc." Also, he evidently isn't completely naive about IBM.... Footnote: Java's creator,James Gosling, recently told Computerworld he thought Javashould beopen source.
A few million people tried the leaked version, possibly, in a few cases, because Microsoft said they shouldn't. Now the "sneak peek" version of MSN Messenger is officially availablehere.
A Republican senator who moonlights as a composer of hymns and soft rock ballads has called for the development of new technology to remotely destroy computers belonging to illegal music downloaders.Orrin Hatch later rowed back from his controversial comments after they prompted protests on technology weblogs and news sites.His original remarks came on Tuesday during a hearing of the Senate judiciary committee, which he chairs, on copyright abuses.During a discussion on methods to frustrate computer users who illegally exchange music and movie files over the internet, he asked technology executives about ways to damage computers involved in such file trading. Legal experts have said any such attack would violate federal anti-hacking laws."No one is interested in destroying anyone's computer," replied Randy Saaf of MediaDefender, a secretive Los Angeles company that builds technology to disrupt music downloads. One technique deliberately downloads pirated material very slowly so other users cannot access it."I'm interested," Senator Hatch interrupted. He said damaging someone's computer "may be the only way you can teach somebody about copyrights".He acknowledged Congress would have to enact an exemption for copyright owners from liability for damaging computers. He endorsed technology that would twice warn a computer user about illegal online behaviour, "then destroy their computer"."If we can find some way to do this without destroying their machines, we'd be interested in hearing about that," he said. "If that's the only way, then I'm all for destroying their machines. If you have a few hundred thousand of those, I think people would realise" the seriousness of their actions, he said."There's no excuse for anyone violating copyright laws," the senator added.Yesterday Senator Hatch published on his official Senate website a clarification to his statements to the committee, saying that he does not favour "extreme remedies" unless no moderate remedies can be found."I made my comments &#91;...&#93; because I think that industry is not doing enough to help us find effective ways to stop people from using computers to steal copyrighted, personal or sensitive materials. I do not favour extreme remedies - unless no moderate remedies can be found. I asked the interested industries to help us find those moderate remedies," the statement read.The senator earned $18,000 (£10,700) last year in songwriting royalties. Among the nine CDs available on his music website are America United, Heal Our Land and How His Glory Shines.A spokesman for the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), Jonathan Lamy, said Senator Hatch was "apparently making a metaphorical point that if peer-to-peer networks don't take reasonable steps to prevent massive copyright infringement on the systems they create, Congress may be forced to consider stronger measures".
You don't need to learn HTML to build a website; from the free software you can download to the latest version of Microsoft FrontPage, there are plenty of design tools that let you lay out pages like a desktop publishing package and never touch the code that makes them work. You don't need to buy or build an online catalogue, arrange distribution and set up credit card merchant services to do e-commerce, either. Whether you are a one-man band or a large company, you can get an online presence from sites that will do the work for you, but it is not always as straightforward as it might seem.If you sign up for an affiliate programme with an e-commerce site, you don't even need your own products. Create links on your web pages to products related to your site and get a commission if your visitors click through and buy from them. The commission varies - Amazon pays on a sliding scale, usually between 5 and 15% - as does how long your association with the customer lasts. The e-commerce site puts a cookie on the buyer's computer so further purchases carry on giving you commissions. The time limit ranges from under a day to 30 days and, with more than 900,000 Amazon Affiliate shops online, your referral has a lot of competition.Affiliate programs in the US went through the same boom and bust cycle as the e-commerce sites that spawned them, and there have been problems with browser add-ons that add "contextual" links to web pages, redirecting buyers to their own affiliated links or to other shopping sites altogether. These links only appear if users download the tools, but this kind of adware (or parasiteware, as online sites who feel their sales are being hijacked prefer to call it) is increasingly common; Gartner thinks more than 20 million people have some adware installed.Don't write affiliate programmes off yet. Forrester Research estimates they are driving around $14 billion of online sales worldwide, and the tools are getting more sophisticated. Amazon is the most famous, and while most affiliates hand codeproduct links in their pages, the new Amazon Web Services lets you use XML to include searches, recommendations, lists of best-selling products and up-to-date prices on your pages.Affiliate Windows has around 220 merchants, including Domino's Pizza and Oddbins. Its Integratable Product System uses XML web services that let you build a shopping area on your site with four lines of code,   although you need to be able to run the IPS scripts and software on your server.If you want to sell products you can make a little more your own, merchandising sites such as Caf&#233;Press and T-ShirtZoo put your images on products such as T-shirts, mugs and mouse mats. They produce, ship and collect the money for them. The base price covers their costs and you get the difference between that and what you choose to charge. In both cases, all you have to do is sign up, upload your images and link to your area on their site.T-ShirtZoo is based in Ireland but has printers in nearly 40 countries; you can set prices in sterling, euros or dollars. The local printer prints and ships the orders and T-ShirtZoo sends you the profits (usually via PayPal). The site handles returns, delivery problems and fraud for you, too.   You don't have to stick to canned images; the Africam site lets visitors take snapshots from webcams in various wildlife sanctuaries and T-ShirtZoo prints those on to shirts with the Africam slogan.Caf&#233;Press has a much wider stock including prints, lunchboxes, hats, clocks and stickers, and has recently started producing books and audio CDs on demand. The disadvantage is that everything ships from America,   with prices (and your profits) in dollars. A basic store is free, but there is a monthly charge for premium shops that allow more products arranged in categories.When you already have your own products to sell, you can sell through sites that already attract large numbers of customers or set up on your own. If what you are selling is in Amazon's catalogue, you can sell new and used items through the Amazon   Marketplace, which puts prices for third-party sellers on the page next to the Amazon price.Amazon collects payments, takes a cut and emails you delivery details, transferring payments into your bank account every two weeks. If you are selling more than 30 items a week, you can sign up as a pro-merchant. Twenty-five pounds a month buys you tools for submitting items in bulk and you pay a lower commission; you also get a customisable zShop area listing everything you have for sale. Amazon Web Services lets you take this a step further, with tools for uploading and downloading sales information directly.To sell items that aren't in Amazon's catalogue, you need to use the auctions area. This isn't as popular as eBay but Amazon doesn't charge you unless your item sells, whereas eBay charges you a listing fee whether you make a sale or not. On the other hand, there is no charge for running a store on eBay and you can advertise items in bulk at fixed prices.Unless you only take orders by email, setting up your own site means building a catalogue and accepting payments yourself. Getting a merchant ID for accepting credit cards can be a slow and painful process and you then have to deal with such problems as fraud.The alternatives are online payment systems like PayPal and the similar UK service, NoChex, and schemes such as BT Openworld's Internet Trader Pack, where WorldPay handles the transactions for you. Catalogue systems are simpler and more flexible than they used to be: Actinic's new Audio Store lets you sell digital downloads like MP3s alongside physical products, and it works with PayPal and other online payment providers.Bruce Towsend, from Actinic, points out the advantages: "Being somewhere like eBay means you are practically guaranteed to get customers, provided the pricing is right. But there are limitations. You can't create a product catalogue with subsections, or handle product variants like different sizes and colours; and there's no stock control or back-ordering facility. The system is country-specific, and can't handle variations in shipping cost or tax regime, and there are no built-in order processing features."If you want a more sophisticated store, you have to do more work. But whether you invest in that or sign up with an existing site, you can have your online store up and running in an afternoon.LinksAffiliate Windowswww.affiliatewindow.comCaf&#233;Presswww.cafepress.comT-ShirtZoowww.t-shirtzoo.comPayPalwww.paypal.comNoChexwww.nochex.com
Send in your video footage to a website, put in your credit card details and watch your home movie broadcast on national television. That's the plan for Open Access, a digital television station that will provide airtime for anyone willing to pay.Open Access's website will be aimed at individuals who want to broadcast almost any kind of material, subject to ITC regulations on advertising and sponsorship. The station, which started broadcasting in December, charges &#163;275 for 15 minutes of airtime, but once customers can send in material using a broadband connection and book airtime online, the cost will come down substantially, according to James Jegede, chairman of London-based Definition Consultants, the company that owns Open Access. "We hope people will get Open Access for under a tenner," he says.Its programs are transmitting from the Eurobird 1 satellite and can be viewed in the UK on channel 687 on Sky's digital service, and throughout northern Europe by anyone with a suitable satellite dish and receiver - a potential audience of about 75m.Its purpose is to provide access to anyone, however small their potential audience, says Jegede. "We want to give access most of all to those who are not served by commercial TV and to broadcast experimental forms of programming which would not normally be commercially viable on mainstream television." This will include short films by new film makers, animation programs made by children, poetry and even Extreme Knitting - a show devoted to making   scarves in dangerous places.Open Access will also sell airtime to businesses wishing to show material to small but highly targeted groups. It has only been commercially viable to carry out this sort of narrowcasting by making programming available for download or streaming over the internet, or by distributing video cassettes individu ally. Open Access opens the possibility of companies replacing internet-based narrowcasts of product launches or shareholder meetings with televised events, and businesses complementing catalogues with broadcast ones: a property auction house, for example, could televise walkthroughs of properties for sale.New Deal for Musicians, a government-funded initiative that aims to help unemployed young people find work, is hoping to take advantage of narrowcasting to expose new musicians to agents and record companies by paying for a series called Virtual Venue to be aired on Open Access. "There is no chance of getting young musicians like this on to normal television," says Graeme Robinson, man aging director of Circulation Recordings, the company that produces Virtual Venue. "We can use the show to help people create a demand for their music."The internet will play a key role in ensuring that people actually watch programs like Virtual Venue screened on Open Access, Jegede believes. "The internet is a great way to get people aware of your broadcast. It's very cheap, simple and effective to send emails out, targeting everyone who might be interested."That an email-based publicity strategy can be effective has been proven by veteran musician John Otway, who has used Open Access as a vanity broadcaster to screen The Cube, a tongue-in-cheek series of four 15 minute episodes which he produced "to give something back to the music industry and to share the knowledge he has gained from his 25 years as a chart act". Otway promoted the show by posting information about it on his website and emailing everyone subscribed to his mailing list. As a result, says Jegede, an estimated 20,000 Otway fans tuned in to the first episode on May 14.With broadband internet access becoming commonplace around the world and the price of television access falling to as little as &#163;10, web-based greetings cards may be replaced by television-based ones. Submit a video containing a holiday message to a website, and your friends could receive an email: "You have been sent a TV postcard by a friend: tune to Open Access tonight at 7pm to view it."
Wal-Mart, the US supermarket giant, may have tipped the RFID (radio frequency identification) market by insisting that its top 100 suppliers use the tags to identify deliveries, saving the company an estimated $1.3bn to $1.5bn a year.As other companies follow Wal-Mart's lead, a technology that has been considered a nice idea since the early 1970s could soon become almost as common as bar codes. Applications where RFID tagging was considered too expensive could quickly become feasible as high volume production and new technologies drive down prices from 50-70 cents to 5-10 cents, or less.Gillette, a Wal-Mart supplier, certainly got the industry's attention when it placed an order for half a billion RFID tags for its more expensive razor packs. RFID companies that have taken half a decade to sell 100m devices can now imagine customers buying billions at a time.Microsoft has also followed Wal-Mart's lead. Last week it joined the Auto-ID group and announced that it would build RFID support into its software.The important difference between   RFID tags and bar codes is that they can be read at a distance. As tens of millions of tube, subway and bus travellers have already learned, you don't need to take your RFID card out of your purse or wallet to use it. With RFID tags built into packages, it should be possible to track the movement of goods rapidly, efficiently and, to an extent, automatically.This is an aspect that the Home Office has been investigating since the mid-90s, most recently in its Chipping of Goods Initiative, launched in March 2000.According to the Home Office: "Marking and tracking systems based on electronic data tags can overcome many of the limitations of conventional systems to identify the ownership of personal property.Such systems are expected to assist investigators or police officers in identifying and recovering stolen merchandise, and be a powerful deterrent to would-be thieves. Tagging systems are also expected to provide evidence that is admissible in a court of law and which can help to convict those responsible for selling stolen merchandise."In 2001, the Home Office put &#163;5.5m into demonstrator projects   using RFID tags. Under this scheme, EMI tried tagging individual CDs, Dell tagged notebook PCs, and Tri-Mex tagged consignments of mobile phones. Argos, Asda and Woolworths are also involved in demonstrator projects.Supermarket executives are being sold the idea of "smart shelves". When a customer takes a product, this can trigger a stock order so the factory makes a replacement. RFID tagging then allows it to be tracked right back to the shelf, eliminating lots of expensive supply-chain bookkeeping.Tony Hart, a managing analyst at Datamonitor in London, says there's a corresponding dream of "smart fridges" in wired homes. "You could have a system that sensed something being taken out of the fridge, and it   could order a replacement item from the supermarket, which already has your credit card details," he says.But there may be a consumer backlash. The invention of washable tags got Benetton interested in weaving them into clothes, and the company ordered 15m tags.The news led to a Boycott Benetton website, and Katherine Albrecht of Caspian (Consumers Against Supermarket Privacy Invasion And Numbering) proclaimed: "I'd rather go naked than wear clothes with spy chips."Benetton backed off, saying it had not included RFID tags in any clothes, though it did not rule out using them for things such as stock control.It seems certain that RFID tagging will prompt more hysterical reactions than bar codes, which perform basically the same function, albeit less conveniently. However, many RFID tags can be controlled in ways that bar codes cannot, because they can be encrypted, protected, and written to as well as read from. In other words, they can be disabled.Dr Ari Juels, principal research scientist at US-based security company RSA Laboratories, has already filed patent applications for tags that can only be read by authorised users. Juels and his colleagues have also proposed "blocker tags" that could be carried by consumers, and that would (by simulating all possible RFID tags) stop RFID readers from working.If there is going to be a war over RFID tags, this is just the beginning.Useful linksHistory of RFID taggingwww.aimglobal.org/technologies/rfid/resources/shrouds_of_time.pdfHome Office: Chipping of Goodswww.crimereduction.gov.uk/securedesign14.htmAuto-ID Centerwww.autoidcenter.org/main.aspBoycott Benettonwww.boycottbenetton.orgCaspianwww.nocards.orgBlocker tagshttp://theory.lcs.mit.edu/~rivest/JuelsRivestSzydlo-TheBlocker Tag.pdf
Mirror, mirrorPhilips is launching a mirror screen that lets users check their email or watch TV while brushing their teeth. Unveiled at the company's home of the future (Home Lab) in Eindhoven last year, the Mirror TV will be launched to hotels next year with a version for homes available a year later. An LCD screen within a mirror that connects to a home entertainment system, the screen works using a polarised mirror technology, so when it is switched off it becomes invisible and the user sees their reflection.Philips is also launching a range of products that can be integrated within a wireless network to stream audio and video from the PC to other rooms. The Streamium MX-i6000, which is expected to work using 802.11b or 11g Wi-Fi wireless formats, also features a DVD player and surround sound and will go on sale in January for around &#163;500.The SL300i Streamium Linx - a video and audio streaming device without the MX-i6000's cinema facilities - is slated for a November launch priced at around &#163;350.www.philips.co.ukMobile PhonesNokia's 3G debutAfter many months on the launchpad Nokia has announced that its first 3G phone, the 6650, will be available this month in both Austria, through the Mobilkom network and in Japan via J-Phone. There is no news yet of a UK launch.The company claims to have solved the problems that delayed the phone - namely the difficulties it was having switching between 3G and 2.5G phone networks. The handset follows Nokia's traditional upright phone styling, features an integrated video camera capable of taking moving images at up to 10 frames per second, includes Bluetooth and has 7MB of memory.www.nokia.co.ukNew-look SPVHeading for the stores in the next few weeks is Orange's second crack at a Microsoft-powered smartphone - the SPV E100.  The original SPV was criticised for its rather dated design and tricky user interface. Unsurprisingly, with the new SPV E100 Orange has attempted to tackle both issues. The phone now sports a contemporary silver finish and a slightly larger screen.Navigating round the phone's many features, including cut-down versions of Microsoft's Outlook Express and Internet Explorer, is also easier, courtesy of a small joystick under the screen and larger, more prominent keys. For fast data input, Orange is offering a fold away Qwerty keyboard, which is expected to retail for around &#163;30-40.The phone also has a facility called Orange Backup, which lets users store personal data on the Orange network, so they can still access it even if they lose or damage the handset. The phone features MMS and is shipped with a snap-on camera. Initial retail price for the SPV E100 is expected to be in the region of &#163;200.www.orange.co.ukOnline musicHard disk audioThe Apple iPod will soon be facing more competition in the personal hard disk MP3 market.  Ministry, a brand linked to the London nightclub, which also has strong links to the Bush Radio group, is launching the MOS-MP028 - a hard disk-based jukebox - in July. The &#163;200 model is larger than the iPod, but has 20GB of storage and batteries good for 10 hours continuous play.Meanwhile, Philips is debuting its hard disk personal MP3 player in July as well. The &#163;350 HDD100 is smaller than all of its rivals bar the new iPod, is finished in black and has 15GB of storage.  Both the new players include a feature not found on the iPod - a line-in recording option that lets users directly record songs.Legal music downloads in the UK also received a shot in the arm this week when Sony, one of the big five record labels, announced that tracks from its artists would be available online within the next two months. Music by J-LO, Oasis and countless others can be downloaded via websites that work with Sony's partner on the project OD2. These include ISPs Tiscali and MSN and music sites Dotmusic and Ministry. Sony may have been forced to make the move by the success of Apple's iTunes music store, which was launched several months ago in the US.www.philips.co.ukGamingMobile gamesFancy a game of darts or a quick session on Tomb Raider? No need to go home or to the pub anymore. The mobile games explosion - tipped to be the next big growth area along with picture messaging - may at last be underway. That is the hope of Future Publishing, which has just launched a 100-page glossy magazine, Mobile Gamer, at &#163;3.95p a copy. The first issue reviews 65 games and has information about so many phones and developers that you wonder what will be left for future issues.It is clear from this one, however, that developers and operators are not making downloads an easy experience. On one level, Vodafone Live! makes it seductively easy to download from its website (at up to &#163;5 a throw) but most smaller fry haven't cracked it. Some of the games in Mobile Gamer need three outward bound text messages and four separate steps after that to download - plus familiarity with the phone's settings. Room for improvement.BT says Yahoo!BT is forming an alliance with Yahoo. In autumn, the BT Openworld portal will   be replaced by an intelligent BT Yahoo portal that will "learn" customer preferences and recommend content that may be of interest. Yahoo's instant messaging service will be added, as will the ability to set parental controls.The service will also include a firewall, antivirus and spam protection, and software to suppress pop-up adverts. BT says customers will be forced to move to the new service but monthly rates will remain the same. Business customers will not be affected.www.btopenworld.com/announcementSafari wins?Microsoft has conceded defeat and will cease development of the Apple Macintosh version of Internet Explorer. This follows the release of test versions of Apple Computer's web browser, Safari. The move is getting a mixed reception from Mac users who, though critical of the Microsoft browser, are concerned about compatibility. Many web pages are tailored to the features of Internet Explorer - Safari may be less compatible with these sites. When Safari appeared in January, Opera also said it might stop producing a Macbrowser.www.microsoft.com/mac/products/ie/ie_default.aspWi-FiStandard setAfter months of delays, a new wireless networking standard - 802.11g - has been agreed. The new format uses the same frequency as the most popular existing standard, 802.11b, and is backwards compatible with it. It offers faster data transfer speeds of   54mbp/sec as opposed to 11mbp/sec.Firmware upgrades will now be available for existing 802.11g products from the likes of Apple and Linksys, which work using the format's draft specification.Meanwhile, after the announcement of street-wide Wi-Fi systems in London and Paris, Milton Keynes is next on the list of places to offer its inhabitants fast net access via wireless systems.A pilot scheme operated by Milton Keynes council begins in the Linford Wood area next month, with the connection offered to up to 200 homes. The town apparently has the highest percentage of internet users in the country, yet is poorly served by cable and ADSL broadband services.
Eric Blair, better known as George Orwell, was born 100 years ago next Wednesday. His 1949 novel, Nineteen Eighty-Four, tells the story of Winston Smith, a man in a London without privacy, where every action and word can be monitored for evidence of unorthodox thought - "thoughtcrime" - on punishment of death.Orwell's nightmare never came true, at least not in Britain; East Germany might have approached it, and North Korea may still. But do we have the technological infrastructure needed to support Big Brother's totalitarian state where, as Orwell put it: "Nothing was your own except the few cubic centimetres inside your skull"?The London of Nineteen Eighty-Four features telescreens - two-way televisions - everywhere, including inside homes. Only the most privileged can turn them off. As well as pumping out propaganda, compulsory alarm calls and exercise classes, they provide a live sound and video feed to the authorities, detecting everything above a very low whisper."You had to live - did live, from habit that became instinct - in the assumption that every sound you made was overheard, and, except in darkness, every movement scrutinised," the novel says.In the London of 2003, security cameras have become omnipresent. The UK is thought to be one of the most surveilled countries in the world. The same is true in most urban areas: the Home Office has part-funded 684 schemes for cities and towns since 1999, involving anything from half a dozen to hundreds of cameras. Office buildings, retailers and other arms of the state have installed many thousands more. The total is likely to be hundreds of thousands.The cameras are even present in the countryside that Smith and his lover Julia assumed was safe for an affair. The Environment Agency has installed disguised cameras in rural beauty spots such as along the Ridgeway long-distance path in south-east England. The agency has hidden them in drinks cans.No government has got round to fitting televisions with a camera. But then, there is the home's other screen - the computer. Your internet service provider sees everything you do online, even if it cannot see you.Under Home Office proposals, state investigators working on a crime can apply for permission from an officer within their own organisation for "communications data", such as the times you are online, who you email, who emails you and which websites you visit. ISPs will have to keep this data for six months, except in the case of which websites you visit, which will be kept for four days.Similar information is kept on your telephone calls: the Home Office plans would require your phone company to keep this data for a year. BT keeps data for seven years. The police use it to build networks of contacts. And for serious crimes, the home secretary can give permission for everything you see and send through the internet to be gathered, along with everything you say and hear on the phone. And you wouldn't know any of this was happening.The authorities in Nineteen Eighty-Four rely on the telescreens, the police and the citizens to monitor where people go. This is not foolproof: Smith is able to wander into parts of London where he knows he should not be.Today, there is no need for such labour-intensive methods of tracking: 75% of the adult population have a mobile phone. The phone networks   know the cell being used by any switched-on phone, usually placing the user to within a few hundred feet in urban areas. This is recorded when a call or text message is made, and kept for several months, or even years. Under Home Office proposals, this will be kept for at least 12 months, or six months in the case of text messages.And the networks can place a mobile to within a few feet, through a technique called triangulation. This is only used when authorities request it. But in future, phones may have accurate positioning technologies built in, and this data would be available to your network and therefore the authorities. You wouldn't know this was happening.Your vehicle is increasingly likely to be tracked. Automatic number-plate recognition (ANPR) cameras are used by several police forces and by London's congestion charging scheme to identify a vehicle's owner. The typeface of number plates was changed partly to make it easier for   ANPR cameras to read them. Transport secretary Alistair Darling last week backed the idea of installing compulsory tracking systems in every motor vehicle, using satellite-based positioning. Commercial lorries must comply by 2006.Winston Smith knows his finances are monitored: he is asked to make "contributions" to various state appeals, which he reckons take a quarter of his salary. But he is able to buy, with anonymous banknotes, a book to use as a diary.Now, anonymous spending looks increasingly threatened. According to the Association for Payment Clearing Services, 73% of payments used solely cash in 2001, down from 81% in 1992 - and these are overwhelmingly for smaller purchases. All other transactions are logged by financial institutions, which must retain details for seven years.Even banknotes may soon be tracked. The European Central Bank is investigating radio frequency iden tification (RFID) tags so small that they can fit in a euro banknote. RFID tags, which include an aerial and a microchip, only have a range of a few feet, but if they were checked electronically, as cards are now, notes could be tracked as efficiently as non-cash transactions are.The data gathered by the authorities in Nineteen Eighty-Four had to be analysed manually - the only automatic manipulation of words mentioned comes from the machines that churn out the trashy novels known as "prolefeed", and the speakwrite, a speech recognition typewriter.In 2003, the output of security cameras can be analysed by face-recognition software, but it is only reliable in ideal conditions. Similarly, it is difficult to scan the contents of phone calls, although GCHQ, the UK's communications eavesdropping facility, is thought to have a computer system called Dictionary, which picks up key words.But digital information -   email, web-traffic, financial transactions and phone billing, mobile phone and vehicle location data - can be gathered in real time and fed into a central network to be catalogued and analysed by computers, with far fewer people needed. The novel's Ministry of Love could now operate with much greater efficiency.But surveillance in 2003 in Britain is bound by laws. Security cameras must be announced with signs, unless they are targeting a specific criminal act, and are there for good reasons: the Environment Agency's cameras watch for fly-tippers.Winston Smith believes that the toilets in his workplace are where the security cameras and microphones are most likely to be monitored constantly. Last week, the Information Commissioner - the government official charged with protecting privacy - issued a code saying that covert cameras should never be installed in toilets or private offices, unless the police are involved.Vehicle tracking and congestion systems are designed to enable congestion charging, possibly saving Britain's drivers from gridlock. The European Central Bank is trying to stop forgery. Financial transactions are held so the Inland Revenue can investigate tax dodgers. The Home Office proposals also include rules and punishments for the state investigators who can invade our privacy. And their job is to fight crime, not thoughtcrime.Britons now have a legal right to privacy, although it can be trumped by issues such as national security and crime-fighting. We have a right to see what information is held about us and change it if is incorrect.The regulation of surveillance is, however, not transparent - the authorities argue it could never be if it is to be effective. Much is accountable only through government-appointed commissioners and committees of MPs cleared to know secret details - and unable to share them.But then, through loyalty cards, millions of Britons allow retailers to track what they buy. Many more voluntarily install security cameras and web-cams in their homes, trackers in their cars, and carry picture and video-enabled mobile phones.Several self-invasions of privacy pass information not just to the authorities, but to everyone - at least, anyone who is interested. This can seem exhibitionist, such as with the inmates of television series such as Big Brother, or those training webcams on their bedrooms.But Nineteen Eighty-Four's Winston Smith risks his life to speak his mind. His thoughtcrime is embodied by starting a diary, where he can write whatever he wants to an unknown future reader. The authorities want to know what he thinks, but will torture and kill him for expressing his thoughts to others.Today, Smith could set up a website. The authorities would certainly know what he was thinking, if they cared to look. But the same goes for hundreds of millions of internet users worldwide. Britain in 2003 has the technology to expunge privacy. But the state does not monopolise that technology. If that means everyone's voice can be heard, not just the Party's, then the nightmare of Nineteen Eighty-Four will remain at bay.
Installing a free internet cafe for the duration of Refugee Week in Union Chapel in north London turned out to be very easy.The chapel has the space and good connections with local refugee communities, so it was pretty easy to put together.On this side of the digital divide, providing internet access to refugees represents no great problem.On the other side of the digital divide, there is a very different picture, despite the vision and efforts of aid agencies, universities and community organisations who work to bring internet cafes into some of the world's most isolated communities.Here the obstacles are inevitably those of inadequate infrastructure, cost of hard and software (which seem to cost the same everywhere in the world, immediately putting poorer countries at a disadvantage), sustainability and training.Burundian refugees living in camps in north-western Tanzania have, thanks to a UNHCR project launched earlier this year, access to the internet with 70% of the electricity being supplied by solar power and a biogas system using cow manure.UNHCR acknowledges that only a small percentage of  the 130,000 refugees in this area will make full use of the internet but believes "it will make a huge difference to the lives of those who do".Across Borders connects Palestinian refugee camps via the internet, aspiring to create a "virtual reunification" of their divided population.Across Borders uses text, video, sound technology, photo galleries and emails to offer a virtual space for refugees to communicate without the restrictions they live with in the real world.Again, demand far outstrips supply for this groundbreaking project and, in general, the internet, that offers so much potential contact between geographically divided but culturally united people, is accessed by a small percentage of refugees.Development and use of the internet by the Tibetan people, an uprooted nation, also has its limitations.  The internet is still very expensive for the average Tibetan and there is strict scrutiny by Chinese authorities, leading a number of net cafes to disallow users from accessing controversial sites.The internet's potential for democratisation of voice and break down of political boundaries has been discussed since its inception.Photovoice takes it one step further by identifying every individual's "right to represent themselves to the world at large".This London-based international organisation uses photography uploaded onto the internet as a way to give voice to people who are too often ignored or silenced.&#183;An exhibition is being shown at the Union Chapel, along with the launch of new work created by Photo Insight especially for Refugee Week at the World in Union Free Internet Cafe, Union Chapel Project, Compton Avenue, London N1 until Sunday June 22, 11am - 5pm every day.&#183;Julia Farrington is programme manager of the Union Chapel Project.
Parasite cityWhen I got broadband I was advised to get a firewall, so I purchased a McAfee firewall from PC World. Now, every time I turn on my PC (running Windows 98), I get a firewall alert. Would I allow Internet Optimizer access? I didn't know what Internet Optimizer was and denied access, but the message kept re-appearing. I decided to allow Internet Optimizer through the firewall. Immediately another alert flashed up: Would I allow Actalert? (This was a folder within Internet Optimizer.) I contacted the McAfee helpline but they said it was not their problem and told me to contact the software provider or PC supplier. My PC supplier said it wasn't their problem but McAfee's.Colin ChambersJack Schofield replies:Many Windows PCs now have unknown programs that have either been installed from a website or included with file-sharing software. The ones that have been installed without your informed consent should be blocked and, preferably, removed. Andrew Clover'sDoxdesk sitesays Internet Optimizer can be removed using the Control Panel's Add/Remove Programs utility and also includes manual instructions. Actalert may be the "porn dialler" DyFuCA Active Alert, which is covered bySophos.It is a good idea to run both Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and Lavasoft's Ad-aware to find and remove parasites. Both programs are free. If you    would prefer a commercial product, I'd suggestPestPatrol. You could also downloadSpywareBlaster, which prevents many of these parasites from being installed, as does the spywareBlocklist file.There are now so many Windows parasites that it is worth running a firewall even if you do not have broadband.Zone Alarmis probably the simplest for beginners though I prefer theSygate Personal Firewall. Both are available free for home use. Windows XP includes a firewall but it is turned off by default. Also, it only blocks unwanted incoming traffic, so it is no help if you have spyware programs or Trojans that generate outgoing traffic. Seewww.microsoft.com/WINDOWSXP/home/using.Audio captureIs there a method of recording internet radio broadcasts to hard disk?Neil SinclairJS:I usually recommend High Criteria's Total Recorder, which works well for audio streams, and can also record LPs, cassettes, CDs and DVDs. You can read about it atTechTVand download it fromwww.highcriteria.com.The registration fee is $11.95 US or $17.95 Canadian. You may find a free alternative from the long list atwww.hitsquad.com/smm/win95/AUDIO_RECORDINGbut most seem to be trialware. Silent Bob looks worth a try, but another reader, Chris Hallett, reported: "I originally had problems with Silent Bob - it recorded perfect silence! - but after reading some of the FAQs for other products, I set the Multimedia/Audio options to "use only preferred devices'."Streamrippercan capture MP3 streams and is also available as Winamp plugin. There are versions    for Windows, Unix and Mac OS X.Backchat&#183;Last week, Jacqui Rylands wanted to connect a PC to a remote phone socket and I suggested BT's On-Air 1800, a DECT phone. John Davies says another solution would be the One For All SV1500Wireless Phone Line Extender. This system looks like two large mains plugs, and makes an analogue phone connection over your electrical wiring. However, the quoted speed is between 22kbps and 33kbps, which is a lot slower than the 44-48kbps you can generally get from a V.90/56K modem. The SV1500 is advertised atwww.buyitoverthenet.comfor &#163;79.95 (UK only, including VAT).&#183;I recommended The Proxomitron for blocking pop-up ads on the web. John King adds that theOperaweb browser lets you "block all pop-ups, open them in the background or select which ones to allow. In addition,Mozillaallows you to block pop-ups from particular servers." I think those are worthwhile features that Internet Explorer lacks. However, I was driven to use Proxomitron to block Flash overlays. I also have it block banner ads and convert sound files to links, among other things. These options, and many more, are provided via pre-installed filters.However, The Proxomitron runs as a separate proxy server and does not care which browser you use, and many people use it with Opera. Finally, an alternative filtering program isWebWasher. WebWasher Classic is free for home and educational use, and it is available for Windows, Mac OS (not X) and Linux.
Handheld computers may be a dying breed, at least in consumer terms, but there is still a huge business market for them. I've encountered three in the past couple of days. The first was toted by the chap who came to read my electricity meter. The second was handed to me for an "electronic signature" by someone delivering a package to my door. The third was used by a waiter in a fairly trendy Indian restaurant, which shows just how far things have come...Or perhaps not. It has been obvious for at least 20 years that this kind of handheld computing could provide huge productivity benefits. In fact, a small British company designed a rugged industrial handheld called Husky in 1980: I remember seeing its application   for pub stock-taking in about 1983 (it was called Inn-ventory). General Motors was soon buying Huskies for maintenance applications.The first Psion Organiser followed not far behind. Indeed, Psion is still in this business, with the Canadian company, Psion Teklogix, which it purchased in 2000.It is not hard to find applications for handhelds in manufacturing, retailing, wholesaling, distribution, all the utility services, government - including education and health services - and all forms of field work. In other words, handhelds should already be ubiquitous.Some applications might once have been difficult, but it is hard to see the barriers today. GPRS mobile data services and Wi-Fi wireless networks mean data can be   uploaded almost instantly, and you can easily add extra features from bar-code readers to GPS satellite-based location finders.Nor should cost be a problem. Handheld computers will not always be the most cost-effective way of doing things, but it should be easy enough to work out. And according to a recent report from Analysys, you only need a productivity improvement of 1.7% to 3.4% to achieve break-even ROI. If you can use existing handhelds, this falls to 0.6-1.4%.The case for white-collar workers and middle managers is harder to make, unless they are salesman. (What is the financial benefit of access to email while on the move?) However, their needs are easier to meet using off-the-shelf consumer products such as PDAs (personal digital assistants), smart phones   and notebook PCs. Also, support for mobile information workers is becoming a standard part of business software suites such as Microsoft's Windows Server System, IBM's WebSphere and the whole web services industry.Indeed, the long-term trend is for what used to be wired devices - such as phones, terminals and computers - to be replaced by wireless devices. This does, unfortunately, involve a wide range of wireless technologies, including Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, data broadcasting, GSM, GPRS and several versions of 2.5-3G, but the direction is clear.So the question isn't whether or not to have mobile applications. The real issue is whether to plan for them, and try to wring an advantage from them, or just drift into them like everybody else.LinksHuskywww.obsoletecomputermuseum.org/huskyPsion Organiser 1www.bioeddie.co.uk/models/psion-organiser-1.htmPsion Teklogixwww.psionteklogix.com/ptxCMS/Core.aspxAnalysys: Return on Investment from Mobile Business Data Applicationshttp://research.analysys.com
Phantasy Star Online: Episode I &amp; IIXbox (Requires Xbox Live), &#163;39.99 Sega/Sonic Team, *****The original Dreamcast Phantasy Star Online was the Western console world's first online role-playing game, and despite the demise of Sega's great grey box, its spirit is very much alive and kicking in Xbox Live. This latest Phantasy incarnation is undoubtedly the best yet, with improved gameplay over the Dreamcast version, and a few benefits, such as voice communication and polished content, over the GameCube release.It can work out expensive: despite having an offline mode, you are going to have to fork out for Xbox Live to get to the main menu screen. There is also a &#163;5 monthly license fee but, since Sega wants to get you addicted first - and that is a certainty - the first two months are free.You have to choose and develop one of three basic character types: hunter, ranger and force. Each has four sub-categories: male human, female human, male android and female android. From there on, it is down to the inhospitable planet of Ragol to pillage and conquer.As you gain experience, offline and online with up to four players, you level-up your character and gain access to different weapons and spells. There's also your Mag to take care of, a unique robotic creature that accompanies every player, feeds on their unwanted booty and can provide valuable battle assistance.There are a few annoyances, such as the lag in the voice-comms system and the uncertainty surrounding whether Microsoft and Sega will be providing enough regular new con tent. However, get past the corny Disney-style opening soundtrack and you'll find a truly engrossing game.Rhianna PratchettStarsky &amp; HutchPlayStation 2, Xbox, PC, &#163;39.99 Empire Interactive ***The games industry has taken a surprisingly long time to exhume the 1970s cop show, which retains something of a cult following - thanks mainly to Antonio Fargas' character, the pimpish Huggy Bear, who neutralised much of the TV series' tendency towards schmaltziness.Empire Interactive's primary concern has been to bring Starsky &amp; Hutch to a new - young - audience. Hence the garish, comic-book style 2D cut-scenes, which will make all but teenagers wince. Starsky &amp; Hutch won't win any prizes for innovation, but it is a fairly entertaining piece of fluff. Inspired by the game Driver, it puts you behind the wheel of Starsky's Ford Torino, in pursuit of baddies. Starsky drives, while Hutch leans out a side window and shoots.To keep your TV ratings high, you must hit ramps and pull off stunts, shoot power-ups and traffic lights   and, of course, unload countless bullets into escaping vehicles. It constitutes entertaining, arcade-style action, but breaks no boundaries. A surprisingly coherent storyline knits the missions together fairly well, but the game could do with an injection of variety. Despite the shooting, it is more suitable for youngsters than Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. A bit of summer fun for the currently game-starved audience, but adults will find it too cheesy and unsophisticated.Steve BoxerEvil Dead: A Fistful of BoomstickTHQ, &#163;29.99 (includes Evil Dead 2 DVD) Xbox, PS2, *****Inventive plotline? Mentally challenging gameplay? Free DVD? One out of three isn't bad, even if die-hard fans will have seen the movie countless times. The rest are left with a hack'n'slash black comedy that simply requires rudimentary reflexes and an appreciation of zombie carnage.With a simplistic plot that apes the films, your aim is to kick undead ass. Using your spade or chainsaw, or both, it's relatively easy to take down anything in your way. Scything down baddies captures the simplistic mood of the movies. Evil Dead fans will revel in the slaughter, particularly when combined with the quips from the main character. A "magic" system lets you impersonate a Deadite, which becomes useful for when stealth is necessary. Otherwise, it's kill, kill and (yawn) kill again.Rudimentary puzzles crop up, offering a welcome rest for the thumbs. The graphics do their claret-spilling best, and are relatively perky, especially on Xbox. But only the wisecracking one-liners give the game any character. If the fact that these were recorded by Bruce Campbell means anything to you, add a star.For non-Evil Dead fans, Boomstick offers a schlocky, button-bashing that will keep you occupied for 90 minutes, but don't expect intellectual stimulation. This is as mindless as gaming gets.Greg Howson
Tour planThe Tour de France is celebrating its centenary this year, and on July 5, the race will start from Paris as it did in 1903. Mountain stages include the immortal L'Alpe d'Huez and the amazing climb up the Col du Tourmalet. If your team has not made the cut this year, you can still play on the net. The Internet Tour de France Game 2003 is a fantasy game where you pick your own squad of 15 cyclists and get points for results. It has been going since 1994. Graham Chapman from Velogames is also running a fantasy tour game, for the seventh time. Cycling News is a good place to research form.www.letour.fr/2003/presentationushttp://lcg-www.uia.ac.be/~erikt/tdfhttp://users.iclway.co.uk/http://lcg-www.uia.ac.be/~erikt/tdfhttp://users.iclway.co.uk/graham.chapmanwww.cyclingnews.comGod slotAnd "Gzus said, I wil B with U 24/7, 2 d end of time," or would have done had He been texting you. You can also take a quiz, find your way through a labyrinth, vote for your favourite karaoke carol, and read an interview with Sally Phillips from Channel 4's Smack the Pony. This site might have been put together with the slogan, Why should the devil have all the fancy Flash animations? Nor is this the place for internecine battles. "The cost of the site has been met by all the major UK Church denominations, including the Church of England, the Catholic Church, the Baptist Union, Methodist Church and the Salvation Army."www.rejesus.co.ukPotter timeMost of the internet will presumably be deserted this weekend as everyone who can read devours the latest JK Rowling. But the book launch could be good news for Harry Potter sites, especially the ones where readers can chat in open forums. DarkMark, for example, has message boards and chat rooms. The UK has its own Harry Potter Forums site, and even better, a group known as HPFGU: Harry Potter For Grown Ups. Many of the participants seem to be producing their own fanfic stories, and by the time you finish Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, you will no doubt be able to continue at Fiction Alley.www.darkmark.comwww.harrypotterforums.co.ukwww.hpfgu.org.ukwww.fictionalley.orgBlog watchTechnorati is an important site in the competitive blogging business since it tells you which sites are linked to yours, and how many days, hours and minutes ago the link was added. You can also get a list of the top 100 interesting posts made within the past three hours, from the 383,876 weblogs watched, and it offers keyword searching. It supports simple commands but if you hit a popular topic, it can be slow: all the results are displayed on a single page. Keyword search is still in beta so suggestions for improvements are welcome.www.technorati.comTalking Birds"All first memories feature singing or the number four," and "Colorado Springs, US, is an exact replica of Worthing, England, revolved through ninety degrees to the west" are just two of the "10 audacious new theories" being tested by data miners at Webdemographic. The site provides feedback forms so you can agree or disagree with these statements and provide your evidence, if any. Data may be processed using the already legendary Random Raffle (Patent Pending) method. Yes, but is it art?www.webdemographic.comTop dogThe kids-only section of President Bush's White House site now features a Barneycam. Barney is the First Family's Scottish terrier. Other animals with White House pages include Spotty the Springer spaniel, Willie the cat, and Ofelia (sic) the longhorn ("I enjoy grazing and daydreaming on President Bush's ranch in Texas"). All this is a marked contrast with the No 10's site, which provides nothing for kids and is strangely silent about Humphrey, the official mouser during the Thatcher and Major years.www.whitehouse.gov/kids/barneywww.number-10.gov.ukwww.catsincharge.co.uk/humphreyMost unwantedThe playing cards that featured Iraq's "most wanted" have been followed by a deck of America's Most Unwanted. Jacques Chirac merits an ace, obviously, while the Dixie Chicks are on the four of diamonds. The pack costs $12.95 plus shipping, but is available only in the US.www.thanxfornothing.comNew &amp; notedYoung Artist of the Year Awardswww.art-works.org.ukFiat's centenarywww.fiat.co.uk/Tell_MeSpot the dick:www.fscwv.edu/users/rheffner/ydkdSix of the best:BlockbustersAnimatrixwww.intothematrix.comFinding Nemowww.findingnemo.comThe Hulkwww.thehulk.comX2http://x2-movie.comTerminator 3http://terminator3.comBruce Almightyhttp://brucealmighty.com
Plain speakArlene McCarthy (Small fry need protection, June 12) wrote a reply offering to correct myths and      inaccuracies in an article written by myself and Richard Stallman, founder of the GNU project. Her      points have been answered before, but a rebuttal can be found here:http://swpat.ffii.org/index.en.html#amcc030614.         She claims to be harmonising and clarifying some current EU legal mess, but the EU law is already      unified by the European Patent Convention and even experts commissioned by her JURI committee have      repeated the lack of clarity arising from leaving important terms such as "technical contribution" or      "technical field" undefined.Could she tell us whether some example patent claims she's been offered should be patentable or not,      and what provisions in her proposal makes them so. She writes of the support for her proposal from      SMEs. If those against had written to her, she would have had up to 20 times as much mail, at least      according to the 94% of opposition to software patents from the CEC consultation, the representation      of SMEs in Brussels on November 7 and 8 and the study conducted by Professor Puay Tang from      University of Sussex.I, and many others who McCarthy labels unreal computer rights campaigners, want to ensure the      freedom of small to medium enterprises to continue innovating through computer software. We want      language that will make it clear the directive won't allow software patents.Nick Hillnick@nickhill.co.ukNo monopolyArlene McCarthy writes that free software "is not 'free', but is actually a different form of monopoly".      It is misleading to describe free software as a monopoly. Anybody may participate in the GPL "monopoly"      at no cost.There may be competition between participants in a single project, whereas proprietary software cannot      be modified without approval from the copyright and source code holders (for a fee they set). Copyright      holders usually exercise their right to prevent competition in modifications to their software. Perhaps      McCarthy thinks it is monopolistic for the GPL to impose conditions on the developers of derivative      works. All copyrighted software does this.Free software differs by allowing derivative works. BSD-style      licenses are different again. They permit proprietary derivative works and do nothing to "impose &#91;their&#93;      business model on the rest of industry".The purpose of the patent system is to encourage inventors to publish details of their inventions. By      stifling free software (which details the technologies it employs), software patents would be      counter-productive. Free software should be explicitly exempted from patent restrictions, especially as      McCarthy claims the directive "will not have any adverse effects on open source software development".Software developers must be assured they will not be forced to concede groundless patent lawsuits if      they cannot afford to contest them. We have seen such cases in the US, where software patents are      already granted.Tim Ivorsontim.ivorson@usermail.comLegal minefieldI am a software practitioner with 15 years' experience who holds developer certifications from      Microsoft and Sun, and have worked on proprietary and open source software projects on both sides of      the Atlantic.I take issue with the notion that "small fry" benefit from software patents. As has happened in the US,      if software patents are legitimised in the EU, even in a "limited" form, it will be large corporations who      will hold vast patent portfolios. This will create the same kind of minefield that exists in the US, stifling      innovation and creativity.McCarthy states the directive is not proposing to patent all software, and that "software as such"      cannot be patented. The line between what is pure software and what is software that runs on a      "device" is blurred; doesn't all software ultimately run on a device? We also don't have a crystal ball to      see what might happen.The notion that any kind of software patentability will not have adverse effects on open source      software development is untrue. Far from happily coexisting with software patents in the US, open      source software dances perilously around the patent minefield.       Harmonisation across Europe on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions is desirable, but      that harmonisation should be towards outlawing this practice. If software patents are allowed to      become commonplace in Europe, lawyers and big corporations win. Everyone else loses.Dafydd Waltersdafydd@walters.netLikely accessLast week's cover (NHS spree revealed, June 12) has some indication of the "electronic plans you are      not allowed to see". Any mention of security for the massive amount of health records data that will be      flying around the UK? Or is that one of the reasons the documents are off limits?Many NHS sites connect across ISDN (point to point) and have stringent security, but as the system      expands to IP-based communications with a "national intranet", unauthorised access to our medical      records (for example, via unattended terminals anywhere in the country or other methods) will become      much more likely.Gordon Jolygordon.joly@pobox.com
As IT directors fight to get more value for money, one problem keeps haunting them: the cost of infrastructure. It is possible to consolidate servers and storage into physical data centres, but it takes time to configure servers, and turning an application server into a tool for data mining takes a complete rebuild. It is easier to keep separate machines for separate tasks. So while systems are being consolidated, there are lots of them sitting idle in data centres the world over.An e-commerce site will often have two major server clusters, one to deal with the Christmas rush, the other to handle year-end planning and data mining. That is a substantial investment in hardware. You could save money by using one cluster for both purposes, prioritising resources as business needs change. This is just the type of problem you can solve with wide area distributed computing techniques - the computing grid.The popular view of grid computing is such applications as the SETI@home service, or the United Devices protein folding experiment. These take large scientific problems, break them down into smaller elements, and share them around millions of   desktop computers. These PCs run run calculations using spare processor time, sending results back to the central system for final analysis.It is an interesting approach to solving certain classes of scientific problem, but is not the best way of running a line of business application. Business applications run for a long time, and need to deliver results quickly. Intel thinks there will be two classes of grids: one focused on taking advantage of unused resources on desktop machines, the other on distributing load across an organisation's servers. Both are ways of handling wide-area distributed computing - but business will find the latter approach most interesting.Many major IT players are already using grid technologies. Oracle uses a 1,300 blade server grid to build and test its applications, while Sun and Intel use their internal grids for chip design, simulation and optimisation. Sun's chip design grid uses more than 7,000 different systems, at better than 98% utilisation - a substantial improvement over the typical data centre operating at between 6% and 25%.One benefit of taking a resource management approach to grid computing is the alternate approach   to server consolidation. By treating applications as a virtual layer on top of a grid of computing resources, businesses can use grid technologies to deploy a new service architecture to take advantage of the spare capacity in an organisation's servers - without investing in new hardware. Instead, a new layer of middleware applications manages all the existing servers and infrastructure as a single resource pool, whether in one building, across several sites or across the world.The big picture vision of a business grid is an imaginary dial to which IT managers can turn to deliver computing power to applications when needed, just by defining an appropriate set of rules for how the business operates and what its priorities are. It is a vision that will only be delivered   by a mix of clustering technologies, server and application virtualisation, dynamic profile-based provisioning and resource allocation tools.Vendors and service organisations all have stories about grid computing, and how ready it is for business. While most see it as being around five years away from the mainstream, others are taking the work they have done with universities and turning it into line of business applications.IBM and grid middleware vendor Platform recently worked together to develop a grid implementation of the Royal Bank of Canada's life assurance system. The pilot system was able to reduce run times for a 2.5 hour job to 10 minutes, and others from 18 hours to 32 minutes - a considerable saving, making the RBC's insurance applications more responsive. Oracle   is designing all its key applications to take advantage of the distributed computing paradigms at the heart of the grid model, offering tools that mean system managers can reallocate resources on the fly, without having to shut down databases. Another convert is HP, which sees grid technologies as a key component of the Utility Data Centre metered virtual-IT resource. Business can use the UDC to allocate computing power and storage to its applications, and account for what is used and when.There are two big challenges for any organisation thinking about deploying a grid solution. The first is the lack of standards. If a grid is going to be used effectively, it will need to be able to work across a wide range of operating systems, network storage and server hardware. The Global Grid Forum hopes to become the equivalent of the internet's IETF, managing standards for interoperation. The second, and possibly more difficult, challenge is going to be organisational politics. How will the US office feel when its resources are being used by the UK? While business treats IT as a cost centre, it will be hard for organisations to get full buy-in to grid implementations.As grid technologies are designed to allocate resources using business rules and policies, compromise is possible. A UK grid pioneer, the White Rose Consortium of Yorkshire universities, came up with an effective resource management model. With four server clusters in the grid, each cluster reserved 75% of resources for local users and 25% for external computing.Just like the web, grid technologies are moving out of scientific research and universities into the business data centre. But is grid computing the next big thing for IT? Some vendors think it might be, even though there is still much to be done before grids can be deployed across every data centre. There is one reason why grids are likely to become successful: when taken to their logical extremes, grid technologies turn every IT asset on a company's books into one single virtual data centre.
Power movesThe new department of constitutional affairs will cover privacy, data-sharing, data protection and freedom of information, following last week's reshuffle. The department swallowed most of the work of the lord chancellor's department and retains its web address  &lt;A HREF="http://www.lcd.gov.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.lcd.gov.uk, which contains numerous references to the abolished department. Ministerial responsibilities had not been allocated as Online went to press. Stephen Timms added energy to his ministerial brief at the Department of Trade and Industry, which includes e-commerce. Lord Hunt, who was in charge of NHS IT until he resigned in protest at the Iraq war, will be replaced after a three-month gap.OFT raps sellersThe Office of Fair Trading has told 12 computer retailers to change their terms and conditions. These include London-based computer retailer Micro Anvika. The firm promised to revise its terms, and gave undertakings not to exclude liability for mistakes or inaccuracies on its website, exclude or limit liability for defective software, have a term allowing it to vary the price and specification of goods, or restrict cancellation rights. Dabs Direct was among other firms that agreed to change their terms and conditions. The OFT says it is investigating 10 more computer sellers.Full list:www.oft.gov.uk/News/Bad year for growthAnalyst Ovum Holway says that last   year was the worst year for growth in IT software and services, with the market shrinking by 4%. The firm says this year, the market will shrink by a further 3% to &#163;22 billion, and will grow by less than the whole economy until at least 2006. IT managers will focus spending on making existing systems last longer and working better, rather than new technology, Ovum Holway said. The trend towards sending IT work offshore to countries such as India would continue, although the price difference between the UK and offshore staff would narrow.Open councilsNottingham and the London borough of Newham are considering moving their desktop computers from Microsoft Windows to the open source operating   system Linux, according to E-Government Bulletin. Nottingham has already moved its email system to Linux, although it says it is unlikely to decide this year on whether to move its desktops.The German city of Munich has decided to move about 14,000 desktop computers from Windows to Linux. In the UK, Sun says that 1,000 schools have obtained free licences for StarOffice, its rival to the Microsoft Office suite, which has an open source core.www.headstar.com/egbVAT on e-commerceCustoms and Excise has launched a website through which non-EU e-commerce firms can register for VAT payments, which they must do by July 1. This has hit several US-based companies, which were previously exempt.   Users of auction site eBay recently complained that it hiked prices using VAT's introduction as cover.Firms can choose where to base themselves in Europe for VAT purposes. US internet service provider AOL chose Luxembourg's low 15% rate, but is absorbing this tax within its prices. Rival Freeserve - which charges unlimited-use narrowband customers through Madeira, with 13% VAT - says AOL UK has saved &#163;150m in the past two years.https://secure.hmce.gov.uk/ecom/voesStabilisedIntel has launched the Stable Image Platform Program (SIPP), formerly code-named Granite Peak, to try to make PCs more consistent. It will limit "major technology modifications" for   12 months following the launch of a new chip set, and align the release of system driver software. Intel claims this will save IT departments time and money because they will not have to re-test PCs. SIPP is a hardware feature and makes its first appearance in Intel's 865G chip set. Dell, IBM, HP and Gateway all seem to be backing SIPP.www.intel.com/info/stableplatformFaster mobilesIntel has released a new range of Mobile Pentium 4 processors that finally run at desktop Pentium speeds - 2.40GHz to 3.06GHz - if the machines are plugged in to the mains. On battery power, they all step down to the same speed, 1.60GHz. All the new chips have 512K of cache memory and 533MHz buses. There is also a slower 2.60GHz/1.20GHz version with a 400MHz bus, at more than twice the price of the 533MHz alternative. It is, in fact, the most expensive Mobile Pentium 4 in the range, but it consumes less than half the power of its siblings. It should lead to fast (but not cheap) portables with longer battery life.Smart webAxiope, a University of Edinburgh spin-off, plans to develop a specialised environment for scientists to share and discover research information. The company, formed in September, has been awarded a &#163;45,000 Small Firms Merit Award for Research and Technology (Smart) by the Department of Trade and Industry to create a system to allow researchers to share and integrate their data in more flexible ways. Axiope co-founder Fred Howell says: "We are giving scientists the opportunity to grow their own semantic web, in their laboratories and across the internet right now."www.axiope.org/software.html
How long have you been using computers?Ever since they came into the BBC in the mid-eighties... I took a lot longer to get one for home use though. We have two computers at home now that are supposed to be linked together by anAirPort wireless hubbut it doesn't seem to work very well! I have a laptop I take away with me although it doesn't seem to matter what laptop I use - the screen always gives me a headache. If I'm away anywhere it lets me access the Herald site (www.theherald.co.ukthough.Do you have access to any special research resources through Newsnight?We don't really have anything    different to what everyone else has access to.The BBC siteis extremely good and I tend to useJournalismNetor sometimesMoreOverfor news. Of course you can always go directly into Google. It does occasionally melt down though - I remember after September 11 when some sites were down and people went back to hard copy. I do love the idea that you can juxtapose views on the net and get a real overall sense of a story.Do you always trust online content?I always double-bank things just to make sure. Content-wise I have to say that we have more of a problem at home now with the amount of porn spam we seem to get. It's a nightmare - this great open access tool and the idea of increasing democracy and we can't seem to stop porn coming in via email?So you'd like to see some anti-spam measures?Surely some of the best minds can be applied to cleaning things up. We have junk-mail filters set but you still get the subject line of the mail and they can be absolutely hideous!Broadband?I use it at work and we haveNTLbroadband set-up at home _ although I have to say it's not as fast as it could be. I think broadband will become more part of people's lives when they get more convergence with TV and other services. It is great having an ISDN line at home because I could even use it for broadcasting from home in the future.Could you live without your mobile?I could but, funnily enough, I think life would be more complicated. I have a Nokia 6310i _ though I don't use Wap. I'm only learning how to text properly - I can't even use the predictive texting!   My kids can text so fast and creatively. It's a generational thing.Email?I still write letters... even though I send them as emails! I still think one of the best feelings is to leave a manila envelope by the front door ready to post. Email and texting are great but my little stand against the future is to always put 'see you later' instead of 'c u l8r' - I don't believe in leaving hanging participles!You weren't impressed by the recent mass sacking via SMS then?I thought that was pretty shocking - it was like school kids being "chucked" by text! I used to think I'd never let my kids have mobile phones but I'm really glad they've got them now as they help them keep so in touch.Visit:www.warkclements.com
Small business will complain this week they are facing a bill for internet fraud that is rising so fast it threatens e-commerce.The Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) has written to Stephen Timms, the e-commerce minister, of their concerns. Stephen Alambritis, the federation's head of parliamentary affairs, points out that internet fraud costs the British economy &#163;28m a year, compared with &#163;3.8m in 2000.The liability on the retailer "is acting as a disincentive to trading online," he writes. "For the small business community to fully embrace e-commerce, we need to work towards a liability shift so that the issuing bank is liable in the event of cardholder-not-present fraud in the same   way as the card issuer is liable in the event of cardholder-present fraud."Tim Fallowell, director of specialist optical equipment supplier Focus Optics, is one of those being put off e-commerce by the risk of credit card fraud. He swallowed chargeback costs of &#163;3,000 through fraudulent orders placed over the phone.Some small to medium-sized companies (SMEs) are going offline after taking one too many hits. David Barrett, director of Cybercomp, which sells computer parts, shut his website after getting stung for &#163;2,500. He thought he was protected after signing up to use WorldPay's e-payment processing system and getting authorisation for transactions from NatWest. "Authorisation means noth ing," says Barrett. "I thought that if anything went wrong the bank would bear the brunt. When I had chargeback, I just closed the website."Confusion over what authorisation means is a problem highlighted in the letter. "Many small businesses are not aware that when a transaction takes place over the internet, credit card authorisation is not a payment   guarantee," says Alambritis.In reality, as the Credit Card Research Group says on its website, authorisation "only indicates that the card has not been reported lost or stolen and there are sufficient funds available in the cardholder account."The FSB fears that cardholder-not-present fraud will grow as the banks focus on tackling cardholder-present fraud.It welcomes the &#163;1.1bn investment in chip and PIN, with plans to roll out smart cards nationwide by 2005, scrapping the need for signatures that can be forged.However, John Walker, FSB policy chairman says: "There is a danger that as chip and PIN takes off, fraudsters will just use the internet instead."APacs is unlikely to budge on the liability issue. Kay Worobec, its head of fraud prevention, says: "Cards weren't set up to be used for non present payments. In the longer term,   we are looking towards chip and PIN technology and this should help all of us in the fight against fraudsters."Worobec says traders could sign up to Visa's Verified scheme and MasterCard's SecureCode to protect themselves. Both require cardholders to enter their code for online authentication. Hugo Bottelier, head of Verified by Visa, says it "should lead to an 80% reduction in chargeback disputes," but the scheme is in its infancy and there are costs.
When a world-wide virus strikes, who gets the blame? The antivirus vendors? You might think they would as their products failed to protect but, in fact, the bile is generally directed at the company with the most software in use around the world: Microsoft. Hardly surprising, then, that last week it bought an anti-virus company, choosing Romania's GeCAD Software. GeCAD's RAV AntiVirus is regarded as the best product available for Linux.Microsoft's attempt to improve its security - based on its Trustworthy Computing initiative - has led to a number of recent announcements. These include new anti-virus application programming interfaces (APIs) for Exchange Server 2003, and for Microsoft Word 2003. The new APIs will make it easier for antivirus vendors to write their code in such a way as to more easily protect our systems.Microsoft has also formed an alliance with Network Associates Inc and Trend Micro Inc called the Virus Information Alliance (VIA), the idea being that they will provide Microsoft customers with up-to-date information on virus incidents. VIA offers an extremely useful website, with some excellent documents on best practices for security, available tools, how to use your operating system in a more secure manner, and so on.Microsoft also announced the Windows File System Filter Manager Architecture, an open and freely available architecture that antivirus vendors can easily plug into, thus ensuring that future antivirus software will work better with Windows. One key element is that the new architecture will enable you to run multiple antivirus software packages on the same system.The stated reason for this is that it provides greater resiliency against attacks, because if one vendor's prod uct misses a new virus, another might well catch it. And of course, not coincidentally, Microsoft will be able to take advantage of it using the technology it has acquired with GeCAD Software.I applaud this move by Microsoft. I even hope it gives away its antivirus software to those that are satisfied with say, daily updates, and perhaps only charges those who want a genuinely live update service.Why would Microsoft want to do this? It is because it wants everyone to visit the soon-to-be new Windows Update site as often as possible. A good way to get people to do that would be to have antivirus signatures available as part of the download.While you visit the site, Microsoft will offer to scan your system for upgrades, and then show you what patches are available. If it can get the vast majority of people patched right across the board - OS, applications, etc - it will dramatically lower its technical support costs. It could be by such an order of magnitude to easily justify free antivirus software.The antivirus vendors will be quietly gnashing their teeth, because the last thing they want is an architecture that enables you to run more than one product at a time. They like annual fee payments, and work hard to convince you that the software you use is the best. With an architecture that enables you to run multiple software versions, you will be able to see who really has the best.This doesn't sound a death-knell for antivirus vendors, but it is a huge wake-up call. Microsoft provides a free firewall, but that hasn't put firewall vendors out of business: it simply forced them to add value.Interestingly, Microsoft is not saying whether the new "let's all live together" architecture will be retrospectively applied, or whether it will just be for Windows Server 2003 and Longhorn, the next desktop version.
Microsoft has taken the unprecedented step of launching two legal actions in Britain against distributors of unsolicited junk email as part of a global attempt to halt the spam epidemic.The software company announced yesterday that in addition to 15 lawsuits it has filed in the United States, it was bringing two cases against alleged spammers in this country under the Computer Misuse Act - Microsoft's first attempt to use the courts to battle spam in Europe.Jean-Philippe Courtois, president of Microsoft Europe, said: "Spam is one of the most serious problems facing customers today and we have a responsibility as an industry leader to help people address the issue and restore confidence and utility in email."Both cases involve so-called dictionary attacks on the company's servers, in which the spammer attaches random email prefixes to a known domain name, for example joebloggs@msn.com. This tactic allows the spammer to generate lists of "live" email addresses which can be sold on or used for subsequent spam attacks.In the first case, Microsoft's servers were attacked more than 455,000 times, automatically generating more than 3m email addresses, of which more than 225,000 were valid.The second case involved an attack on both Microsoft and a British anti-spam organisation. Every invalid address generated sent an undelivered message to the anti-spam group in an attack so severe that its email system was disabled for several days.The crackdown comes amid growing fears over the threat that the explosion in spam poses to the viability of the global email system. Unsolicited junk mail, most of it distributed by 150 people based in the US, accounts for about half of all email traffic, much of it offering hardcore and illegal pornography and get-rich-quick schemes.Recent research estimated that spam cost European businesses about &#163;2.5bn last year, and it continues to proliferate at an exponential rate.Microsoft has a vested interest in leading the battle against the spammers. Its free webmail service, Hotmail, is one of the worst affected by junk mail and it is the company's Windows PCs that are most vulnerable to attack by spammers seeking to hijack computers to distribute the mail.
There's an interesting story in the Timestodayabout a hospital that is saving thousands of pounds by using picture messaging instead of expensive couriers to send X-ray results to consultants. I've heard of women using camera phones to text a photo of their taxi or mini cab driver or their licence number to where they are going as a safety device. I know someone else who uses them to paint small portraits (you can use the zoom feature to see details like eyeballs while still holding the brush in the other hand) .Any other unusual (tasteful) uses of picture messaging out there? - I'm collecting them for an article.
Something I've noticed over recent weeks: the output of some of my favourite bloggers has declined markedly. I know quantity doesn't equal quality (insert your own joke here). But the fall in output does appear to be more widespread than could be explained by just one or two individuals' hectic schedules leaving them with no time to blog. Maybe they're getting bored with the medium? And what does this mean for the likes of our blogroll (the list of links to the right)? Should we start replacing under-performing bloggers, like poor stocks in a share portfolio? Will they be offended at removal? And what if they're prolific, but have just got really boring of late? This is a whole new social minefield...From our blogroll, who would you replace - and who's worth introducing?
In the retail world, the introduction of radio frequency identification (RFID) chips is underway. These
    tiny computer chips can communicate wirelessly with distant readers and are widely used in, for
    example, mass transit. London's new bus and tube tickets work this way.When you add them to something valuable you want to track and trace, such as a cow, they are known
    as smart tags. When you add them to a can of beans, they become a sort of clever bar code (known as
    electronic product codes, or EPCs) that can be read through boxes and packaging. When you add them to
    underwear, they're known as X-ray specs (at least by me): one US consumer group has advocated a
    boycott of Benetton for just this reason.The interest from the retail sector is understandable, because the introduction of smart tags and EPCs
    will mean substantial economic benefits: small improvements in the supply chain can mean big savings,
    which can be passed on to customers. Wal-mart is requiring its top 100 suppliers to smart tag their
    products by 2005, and others are certain to follow.The picture of retailing induced through this technology is appealing: every case of beans will be
    identified and tracked from production, through warehouses and distribution networks, to the
    supermarket shelf, and into the shoppers' basket (and home).There are aspects to this revolution, however, that demand further thought. If, for example, every case
    of beans has a smart tag that can be tracked around a warehouse by readers a few metres away, then
    criminals could save a lot of time at truck stops by driving around with a reader to find out which
    container has beans and which container has cigarettes.For the simply curious, the idea of an add-on for your mobile phone that could read tags is a delight.
    Who wouldn't want to stroll around a friend's house at a party and know exactly what they had in their
    wardrobes? Looking into handbags and pockets would, given human nature, be an irresistible temptation
    that technology would fulfill with ease.Now, of course, the government could demand that retailers disable the tags when the goods leave the
    shop. But how would Marks &amp; Spencer switch it back on when the customer returns the sweater because
    it is the wrong size? The consumer could benefit greatly if his washing machine could read the tags
    ("warning: that blue sweater should be in a cold wash"). Imagine medicine bottles that could warn for
    contraindications or plugs that could reject incorrect fuses.We must adjust to the fact that the tags will be ever-present and devise technical and legal security
    infrastructures for their use. 
    Think how much time it could save on that first date if your iPaq could tell you the colour and size of
    your companion's underwear?Smart tags are a genuine benefit: but smart security will be required to
    make them work in the mass market.
In the retail world, the introduction of radio frequency identification (RFID) chips is underway. These
    tiny computer chips can communicate wirelessly with distant readers and are widely used in, for
    example, mass transit. London's new bus and tube tickets work this way.When you add them to something valuable you want to track and trace, such as a cow, they are known
    as smart tags. When you add them to a can of beans, they become a sort of clever bar code (known as
    electronic product codes, or EPCs) that can be read through boxes and packaging. When you add them to
    underwear, they're known as X-ray specs (at least by me): one US consumer group has advocated a
    boycott of Benetton for just this reason.The interest from the retail sector is understandable, because the introduction of smart tags and EPCs
    will mean substantial economic benefits: small improvements in the supply chain can mean big savings,
    which can be passed on to customers. Wal-mart is requiring its top 100 suppliers to smart tag their
    products by 2005, and others are certain to follow.The picture of retailing induced through this technology is appealing: every case of beans will be
    identified and tracked from production, through warehouses and distribution networks, to the
    supermarket shelf, and into the shoppers' basket (and home).There are aspects to this revolution, however, that demand further thought. If, for example, every case
    of beans has a smart tag that can be tracked around a warehouse by readers a few metres away, then
    criminals could save a lot of time at truck stops by driving around with a reader to find out which
    container has beans and which container has cigarettes.For the simply curious, the idea of an add-on for your mobile phone that could read tags is a delight.
    Who wouldn't want to stroll around a friend's house at a party and know exactly what they had in their
    wardrobes? Looking into handbags and pockets would, given human nature, be an irresistible temptation
    that technology would fulfill with ease.Now, of course, the government could demand that retailers disable the tags when the goods leave the
    shop. But how would Marks &amp; Spencer switch it back on when the customer returns the sweater because
    it is the wrong size? The consumer could benefit greatly if his washing machine could read the tags
    ("warning: that blue sweater should be in a cold wash"). Imagine medicine bottles that could warn for
    contraindications or plugs that could reject incorrect fuses.We must adjust to the fact that the tags will be ever-present and devise technical and legal security
    infrastructures for their use. 
    Think how much time it could save on that first date if your iPaq could tell you the colour and size of
    your companion's underwear?Smart tags are a genuine benefit: but smart security will be required to
    make them work in the mass market.
BT yesterday dumped its BT Openworld consumer internet brand and signed up with Yahoo! in a tacit admission that it needs help to hit its target of attracting 5m households to broadband within three years.BT Yahoo! Broadband will be launched in September backed by a multi-million pound advertising campaign.BT will pay Yahoo! a small part of the &#163;29.99 a month it will charge for the service - taking a hit on revenues to increase the number of users and shorten the time it takes before it starts making money out of high speed internet.It will also pay Yahoo!, which has 15m UK visitors a month, a fee for every subscriber attracted through its site.Yahoo! will be paid for the 330,000 Openworld subscribers BT is moving on to the service over the autumn. Openworld, which the company spent millions of pounds trying to establish, will remain in use for business customers.BT retail head Pierre Danon admitted that BT had failed to produce a compelling internet portal which offered people more than just fast internet access - which 250,000 customers get at &#163;27 per month through BT Broadband. Most people with broadband are early adopters who already use the internet and are attracted by the speed of the service - up to 10 times faster than traditional modems.Mr Danon said the company must offer more than just speed, since many people in Britain do not spend anything like the &#163;27 on internet access that broadband costs. "If you are not a heavy user why would you triple your spend just for fast internet access?"BT hopes services such as a personalised home pages for each family member, internet security and parental controls will attract customers who have seen no need to sign up.The deal is likely to infuriate Microsoft which is working with BT on the broadband use of its XBox game system and hoped to sign a broadband deal. Mr Danon said: "We did run a comparison but decided to go with Yahoo!"
My life, like that of Mad Max, is littered with obsolete technology. A Betamax video, a first-generation Sodastream that sat on our kitchen worktop like an Easter Island monolith. Quite possibly the only Commodore 16 computer sold in the UK.There is, I have learnt, a certain folly in being what is known as an "early adopter" of electronic gadgetry.For some time, therefore, I have been eyeing the iPod with a wary desire. It is beautiful and clever, holding thousands of songs in magical digital form within its sleek, pristine loveliness. There is a nifty wheely control and it glows warmly when you touch its buttons. It is small and perfectly formed. Kylie in tablet form.And yet, I was scared of commitment. The iPod's initial incarnation - the 10GB model - held something like 2,000 songs. This is only 200 CDs which really isn't that many; the 15GB isn't that much of an advancement. And then along came the 30GB model - smoother, sleeker, sexier still. Resistance was futile. I gave up and gave in. I will never look back.My Ipod is transporter technology, a rescue remedy that drowns out the world. When you see someone on the street, white buds in their ears, it's a thrill to know that they are part of the brotherhood. It wouldn't be an exaggeration to say that my iPod has changed my life, almost as much as my bike has. Halfway towards filling its 7,500 song capacity, the iPod has given my day a soundtrack ranging from Shawn Colvin to Queens of the Stone Age to 2 Many DJs, every emotion an easily accessible tune. My life is a musical.
More than 180 people have been charged and a further 10,000 are being investigated by the Italian police after a series of raids to shut down one of Europe's biggest internet piracy rings, it was revealed yesterday.Operation Mouse, led by the financial police, began with a single email address, which led to a sophisticated network selling counterfeit software, music and films worth millions of euros.In the raids, which took place in 30 Italian provinces over six months, the police seized counterfeit products of all the main software manufacturers, faked CDs of performers such as Robbie Williams and Madonna, and Italian releases of films such as Gangs of New York.The network used anonymous emails and illegal websites to market and distribute its products.
