TheFreeman PC museumis a particularly large collection of computers, consoles and other devices that will have some of us nodding away nostalgically.As of today we have about 900 PC systems, PDA's, game consoles, handhelds, calculators, typewriters plus hundreds of hardware, software and accessory items listed online and we will be adding more.But what's this? The collection's up for sale oneBay, with more than 400 vintage personal computers on the list. The owner, David Freeman, says he's upset to be selling but that it's become necessary.Current price is $7,700 - but it's going up all the time.
Another day, another blog about Nintendogs. The puppy simulator is thereview of the weekinTechnologyand gets a five-star rating. The praise is high. Apparently Nintendogs "repay your (emotional) investment like nothing else in the history of videogames." Continuing the doggy theme we have aninterviewwith Hideki Konno the producer of the game. Here we learn that he has a virtual boxer called Luigi and that the "bark" feature is popular in Japan. Er, right. Anyone else had enough of Nintendogs already? Back on firmer ground is our very own Aleks, with aninteresting pieceabout the newly slimline Peter Jackson's involvement in the Halo movie. "At his beckon, a Halo phoenix should rise from the ashes of game-related cinema stinkers," she says. Let's just hope the movie involves more than theMaster Chiefshooting the same enemies in virtually indistinguishable corridors eh?
The latest issue of the Guardian's weeklyTechnologysupplement is here, and this week's lead story is a look at why everybody wants to jump on thepodcasting bandwagon. Yahoo were the latest this week, and Apple, the BBC, AOL and others are already trying to position themselves in the podcast market. Why?Elsewhere, we've got hold of a leaked draft of thegovernment's IT strategy, which is due to be published later this month. What does it say? More data sharing, a central role for ID cards and ways to try and stop failures from happening again.OurInnovationsall come from last week's Ceatec show in Japan, while inGames, we're reviewingNintendogsand examining Peter Jackson's decision to make amovie of Halo.Of course, that's not all:click herefor complete listings.
"Officially we are SIS [Secret Intelligence Service] but many people know us as MI6," says the newsite.Richard Norton-Taylor hasthe story....
Fallen angel fromBuycostumes.com"BuyCostumes.com's new streaming video website,BuyCostumes.tv, features a how-to fashion show of ghastly get-ups such as a Michael Myers outfit and a body bag costume. (For the fainter of heart, it sells seedy and silly costumes as well — such as a sexpot version of The Wizard of Oz's Dorothy and a giant banana.) As models strut their spooky stuff, the costumes are painstakingly described by two chatty online TV hosts who also oversee product demonstrations such as monster makeup applications," reportsUSA Today."'Its e-commerce meets QVC,' says BuyCostumes.com CEO Jalem Getz."
In the heyday of radio, the wireless was the centre of people's lives. The image of families gathered around their radio set is a familiar one - listening to a broadcast was a group activity. "When they say The Radio, they don't mean ... a man in a studio," wrote EB White, author of children's classic Charlotte's Web, in the 1940s. "They refer to a pervading and somewhat godlike presence which has come into their lives and homes. It is a mighty attractive idol."Time has changed that idol's nature. Families don't sit and listen to the radio as groups any more. People listen to the radio in their cars, on their own - or not at all. And now it is changing again: instead of simply listening to the radio, people are making it themselves.Despite the hype that has surrounded podcasting since it started to emerge last year, it is a relatively low-tech concept. Most digital music players don't have radio receivers, but are blessed with a large storage capacity and, when docked with a PC, a connection to the internet. At the same time, the essential kit of the radio operation - a microphone, recording equipment and mixing desk - have become common, inexpensive and easily usable through home computers.With all this, the question became clear: why not make radio programmes that can be downloaded to MP3 players? That is essentially what podcasting - a term first coined in these pages in February last year- means, self-contained digital radio.It is early days, but two distinct threads have already emerged. On one side stands a gaggle of enthusiastic fans who produce podcasts as a hobby, and on the other lie well-established media companies who see the podcast format as a great way to crawl into people's ears.Early adoptersThe grassroots movement is growing fast and beginning to diversify, but it is dominated by two groups: those who use it to talk about technology - often, excruciatingly, about podcasting itself - and those who use it to create and distribute adult material. So far, so familiar: this pattern of technologists and pornographers as early adopters is one any web user will recognise.Now independent podcasters (they don't like to be labelled amateurs) are developing further, stretching deeper into music programming and earning money from advertising. For some - including the flagship Dawn &amp; Drew Show, made by a couple on their disused dairy farm in Wisconsin - it's a personal experience. For others, such as American technology writer and broadcaster Leo LaPorte, it is effectively another extension of their own personal, professional brand."Independent podcasting has been driven by an insatiable desire for better listening," says Adam Curry, a former MTV presenter who has been one of the pioneers of the format. He thinks the failings of traditional radio - particularly in the US - have left people looking for vibrant, new solutions that they are now finding through the internet. "For the past 20 years, the American entertainment industry has relegated the actual content in favour of marketing. People want passion: the same kind of passion that helped create pirate radio in the 1960s."While independents are exploring new ways of using podcasting, media organisations have been among the first to latch on to its benefits, for obvious reasons. Many already have expertise in producing high-quality audio material, and most have made substantial services in their web operations. The BBC, for example, makes many radio shows available this way - and is set to begin doing the same with video content, too. But it is basically repurposed, timeshifted radio - TiVo for MP3 players.Developing new talent"For the moment that's true, but I would see it changing," says James Cridland, head of new media at Virgin Radio, which was the first UK radio station to produce a daily podcast. "In the next few months we are going to be using some of our archive material, and I would only see that type of thing increasing. And new presenters and new talent might eventually come from podcasting, not from hospital radio or overnight slots on local stations."Because of the combined benefits of high-quality audio and cross-promotional marketing, big broadcasters are already dominating the ecology. A quick look at the iTunes directory reveals that the top performers include CNN, Fox and America's public service radio network, NPR.For amateurs, however, producing broadcast quality material is not the point. It is an outlet for personal expression, much like blogging, and is not intended to compete with the professionals."It's a complete farce that it has to sound a certain way," says Curry. "Rock 'n' roll was based on distortion of electric guitars: when people are tuning in, they don't care about the audio quality - they care about the content ... crap on the radio is still crap on the iPod."Conversations are aimed at niche markets, and engage with small audiences. For some, they will manage to turn their sideline into a business, but for most it will remain a hobby; all they need are a few tools and a little dedication to have fun.This is where big money is getting involved. Offering services to the podcasters and their audiences is now where the action is for seasoned internet players. They are ignoring the products in favour of building the infrastructure around the products. Why? Because it is here - in the spaces between - that industries are born.Millions of subscribersThe greatest leap forward came when Apple decided to integrate a podcast directory into its iTunes music client. Since June this year, iTunes users - which includes the estimated 20m iPod owners around the world - have been able to view, download and listen to a wide range of podcasts. It has already registered millions of subscriptions.Apple isn't the only one getting involved. This week, Yahoo unveiled a service that lets users search for, subscribe to and review podcasts. This follows moves by companies such as AOL and the search engine Blinkx, which both have podcast-related offerings.New outfits are also trying to break into this area. One firm, Odeo, is a startup created by Evan Williams, a co-founder of the pioneering weblog service Blogger. Odeo organises and downloads the latest podcasts for you, and eventually hopes to offer a web-based application that will help users create podcasts.Curry is also ploughing ahead. Thanks to almost $9m in funding - from investors including Sequoia Capital, which has backed Google, Cisco Systems and Electronic Arts - he now runs a company, Podshow, which offers help, advice and web hosting to podcasters. Although Curry lives in Surrey, the company is based in San Francisco and has a staff of 20. To the pioneers, podcasting is just the latest part of a shift in the way we live."The future of sitting in front of a box that has just one function is going away," says Cridland. "It's a platform which is a much more level playing field: anyone with decent content can distribute it."It is a far cry from the days of crowding around the wireless. Now, just as people have been carrying their own music around with them, they're taking their own radio shows as well. When Mae West whispered, "Come up and see me sometime when I've got nothing but the radio on," she probably didn't imagine she would be wearing an iPod.What is podcasting?A podcast is essentially a downloadable radio show. The name combines "broadcast" and "iPod", although they are generally compatible with any brand of personal on-demand digital music player, not just the iPod.How do I create podcasts?In the past, creating audio material would have needed a professional studio. Now you can do the basics with little more than a computer, a microphone and a piece of software. After recording your podcast, you then need to find somewhere on the web to keep it.How do I listen to podcasts?Some podcasters make shows available directly from their websites. You can find others by using tools such as Apple's iTunes, Odeo or Yahoo. Downloading from these is simple, as is "subscribing" to your favourites. This means that each time you dock your MP3 player, it will update the latest episodes.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Web search engine Google and cable company Comcast are in discussions to buy a stake in Time Warner's America Online, two sources said, in a deal reportedly worth as much as $5 billion (£2.9 billion). An investment would set the stage for an alliance marrying Time Warner's trove of programming and Google's popular search and e-mail services with Comcast's high-speed Internet portal and experience in cable video distribution and telecommunications," reportsReuters.Comment:The Guardian also has this storyhere, but the Reuters piece includes the interesting information that Google "derived about 11% of its first-half revenues from a deal with AOL". Even so, it's hard to see a good reason for Google to put billions into a declining, quasi-Internet service except to annoy Microsoft, which is also trying to do a deal. And while Microsoft clearly has cash to waste, I'd have thought Google would do better if it spent a few billions on upgrading its own services -- the ones that hundreds of millions of Web users actually value.
Would you please explain the advantages and disadvantages for email of buying one's own domain? Chris WilsonWhen you sign up with an internet service provider (ISP), the account usually includes email. This is fine, but you may not get much choice of email address, and the address will probably include the ISP's name: j.bloggs@wobblyserve, for example. After a few years, all your contacts will have your address, and now you have a problem. If you want to change your ISP, you have to get everybody to update their address books, and that's inconvenient all round.The solution is to buy your own domain name. This will probably come with a mail forwarding service, and may include a mailbox, probably at extra cost. You can choose your own domain name, within the limits of what is still available. This lets you use, say, chris-wilson.me.uk. as your email address, and tell the company hosting your domain to forward all your email to whichever mailbox you like: it could be your ISP's mail server or another service, free or paid for. Now if you change your ISP, you can keep the same email address. All you have to do is log on to your domain host and paste in the address of your new mailbox.Having your own domain lets you create as many email addresses as you like, by putting different things before the @ sign. This means you can use different ones for friends, business contacts, newsletters or whatever. All the mail will still be forwarded to the same mailbox, but you can filter it as it arrives.It's a good idea to use a standard POP3 (Post Office Protocol version 3) mailbox. This lets you use a wide range of mail software - Outlook Express, Thunderbird, Eudora etc. It will also let you set your chosen address, chris-wilson.me.uk, as the Reply To address.The disadvantages are the cost of a name, and remembering to renew it. Just make sure the domain is listed in your name, and you are the administrative contact, so you really own the name. This avoids problems if a domain name reseller tries to hold a domain name hostage, or goes bust. There is a list of accredited registrars at www.icann.org/registrars/accredited-list.html. Resellers and agents can be cheaper, but remember, the lowest price isn't necessarily the best value.
Do you know of any cheap or preferably free software to allow the rotation of MPegs shot in portrait format on a digital still camera? I only need the software to rotate the clips then save them so they can be viewed without the viewer having to rotate instead. David GrinlyI only know of one program that will do this -VideoMach- though there may be others as well. This one is shareware and costs €26.21 to register.Update:Several readers have mentioned that Microsoft's free Movie Maker 2 will also do the job.
My daughter installed Norton Antivirus 2005 on her new laptop. Now it won't uninstall. We tried Windows' Add/Remove Programs. It didn't budge. Catherine OzilSymantec, which owns Norton, has developed a new Norton Removal Tool, SymNRT, for cases where Add/Remove Programs hasn't worked. You can download ithere.
Re backing up, I remarked that many people have 3in Amstrad PCW disks they can no longer read. David Jones wrote in to say this problem can be sorted "quickly and amazingly cheaply by John King, who deserves a knighthood for his service". Seewww.pcwking1.netfirms.com.
Slashdotpoints to an extensive and excellent essay (with photo-examples!) fromVideogame Aesthetics: We're All Going To Die!about the seemingly inevitable trajectory of photo-realism in computer games design and development. In it, David Hayward argues thatTechnological development does not solely equate to the development of photo-realism. While the aesthetic development of games will to some extent occur in conjunction with improved technology, and while the corporate games industry will continue the photo-real push, what's already been done shows that utilisation of newer hardware is by no means the only boundary to be pushed.Hayward comes from an artistic sentiment, but I'd like to throw in a social one as well. When greeted with the general public's perception of videogames and their (contested) relationship with offline violence, Joe and Jane Bloggs seem pretty concerned about the projected photo realism. It's a popular argument that the more real something is on screen, the greater the transfer to the real world. Whatever your beliefs on this issue, that's what the general public (as an aggregate) feels, and that's one of the reasons why they're getting more and more concerned.At apanela few months ago, parents and worried adults asked what will happen as games get more real-looking. I argued that new technology in the future will allow developers to explore other aesthetics, and that photo-realism wouldn't be the only trajectory of interactive entertainment. I was shot down by a (rather smug) games designer in the audience who said that the future of mass-market interactive entertainment, whether we liked it or not, was photo-real.I'm still not convinced for a few reasons. First, a friend of mine wrote an article about reactions to realistic animated imagery a few years ago for the SciFi mag SFX. In it, she interviewed a number of thinkers on the subject who said that the reason popular animated films featured cell-shaded and stylised versions of human beings is because people look for faults in too-realistic animated human-like characters and lose their suspensions of disbelief. It's a long time coming before photo-realistic characters are added to games, and while the choice to include such characterisations may be one path to take, there are many other options, which often "work" better than others.Second, one of the things that computer games have going for them is the medium in which they are created. Unlike cinema, where actors are an integral and central element to the movie experience, animated characters and the palate of technology are a default in games. The computer games medium allows for a greater diversity of artistic performance than cinema, which can play with some of its visual aesthetic through the use of CGI in blockbusters, animation in animated films, shaky-camera in Dogma and independent cinema, and new modalities in films like Timecode, Sin City and others but is not essential or elemental. While alternative imagery may always be an independent spirit in computer games, there is the possibility that new forms of computer entertainment that emerge with advances in technology may distill gameplay aspects which aren't related to photo-realism, and perhaps will do better without.Third, it's been suggested that the future games business model will incorporate more independent, self-published products which infiltrate into the consciousness of the mass public through alternative distribution systems. Hey, fantastic. These indie developers, however, won't have the financial capacity to create photo-realism (or perhaps not as we know it), and therefore they may innovate new methods of creating digital visuals which don't rely upon reality as inspiration. Asothershave (voiciferously) said, innovation in this business is essential for survival.It's important to recognise that gaming isn't cinema or television, or any other traditional form of visual media. Photo-realism may not be the only trajectory for computer games, and I certainly hope it doesn't play the only role in the future of interactive entertainment. That would stagnate the creativity of developers, and would result in the loss of the indescribable elements of what computer games are actually all about.
Peter Jackson is a glutton for punishment. With The Lord of the Rings, he tackled one of the world's most difficult literary treasures and took it from its original medium to the big screen. His latest project, King Kong, risked ruining a pioneering piece of cinema. Now he is taking the producer's chair for the fiendishly anticipated Halo movie adaptation. Does he never learn?The making of the movie of the flagship Xbox first-person-shooter series has been accompanied by the same kind of misplaced obsession that drives hundreds of normal people to subscribe to Heat magazine. Newly empowered fanboys bolstered by the critical and popular success of Lord of the Rings are again suddenly wrapped up in the cultural zeitgeist. At the centre of their whirlwind is Jackson, a proclaimed Geek Lord who has the capacity and the power to take their Xbox dreams and make them a reality.It's a no-brainer: Jackson is one of them. He has been vetted by the geek elite, many of whom were rapturous about his adaptation of the adventures of Frodo and his merry crew. He has the pedigree (Bad Taste and Brain Dead) and talent to oversee the making of a film of a beloved first person shooter. It seems that for the first time, the games-to-movies thing might actually work.To date, Hollywood's A-list have avoided game projects like the plague - and rightly so. Games aren't movies. Their biggest selling point is their interactivity, not the storylines or characters, and trying to coax an engaging film from a scarecrow plot of two dimensionality is even more impossible than condensing the richness of an average novel into 90 minutes. Sure, many book-to-screen adaptations are disappointing but for players, watching someone else "play" a game for an hour and a half is not only dull, but a snub to the relationship they developed with the protagonists over hours of console time. See the film versions of Resident Evil, Street Fighter or Final Fantasy for more reasons to distrust the adaptation process.Still, as Hollywood continues to mine popular culture, games companies continue to leap at the opportunity to get their creations out of the living room and into the theatre.By naming Jackson and his wife Fran Walsh as executive producers on this project, as well as paying Alex Garland a reported $1m to write the screenplay, the gamers feel as if the ball is back in their court. Whatever black magic Microsoft cast over Jackson, it was a stroke of pure genius. At his beckon, a Halo phoenix should rise from the ashes of game-related cinema stinkers.It could be a new dawn for the relationship between games and movies.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nintendogs is a game that makes full use of the innovative features of the Nintendo DS - a handheld console that has managed to go from quirky toy to an essential piece of gaming kit.But, surprisingly, Nintendogs wasn't originally designed for the DS, explains Hideki Konno, the game's producer."It was one of several projects we were working on at the time that weren't designed for any specific platform," he says. "Once we heard all about the DS's features like the touch screen, microphone and wireless capabilities, we knew that our puppy simulator was the project best suited to it."We realised that with the touch screen, players might actually be able to touch their pets, and with the microphone they might actually be able to talk to them as well. There was just so much scope to work with."There were a few design aspects, however, that had to be left on gaming's equivalent of the cutting-room floor. Originally, the puppies were going to turn into fully grown dogs, but Nintendo wisely decided on keeping their virtual creations cuddly and cute for as long as possible.Likewise, the puppies would have been able to die. Considering just how guilty you feel when you haven't given your puppy food or a bath for a week and you find it sitting sadly in the corner and covered in fleas, this particular feature would have undoubtedly bordered on mass emotional torture."We still wanted to create the experience of interacting with a real dog," claims Konno, whose favourite Nintendogs puppy is a boxer called Luigi. "When I first got Luigi, he didn't have any attachment to me. He wouldn't listen to me or obey my commands ... just like a real puppy. But recently he is starting to respond to me and he's doing much better in competitions, so that's giving me more of a personal attachment to him."Konno believes it is games such as Nintendogs that will help to grow the videogames industry, because the sheer act of being able to touch and talk to a virtual creature makes play much more tangible and accessible."I also think the 'bark' mode, which allows players to let their puppies play together, or leave messages and presents, is a fresh method of communication. That feature has proved very popular, especially in Japan."Although nothing has been confirmed, Konno says he would like to expand the franchise to include other animals. Unsurprisingly, cats have been a popular request. Just how realistic that could ever be is debatable, since cats generally do what they want, not what you want them to do.But that may not stop them trying. As Konno gleefully puts it: "We like a challenge."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A surprising amount binds the British and Japanese below the surface. Both nations pride themselves on their eccentricity, drive on the left-hand side of the road, suffer from a high population density and, above all, are kinder to their pets than they are to their neighbours.But while the British have muddled along in an endearing way, the Japanese have much more logically turned silicon into virtual pets. The latest and by far the most accessible incarnation of that crusade is Nintendogs, for the Nintendo DS handheld console.Nintendogs is already more than a mere game: it is a social phenomenon. It has sold more than 1.5m units in Japan and the US, and has obvious mass appeal: if you are a dog lover, you will find it irresistible. It won't poo on your carpet or eat your favourite slippers, but it will provide you with much of the satisfaction of owning a pet.House trainingNintendogs is a game I feel uniquely qualified to assess, since my girlfriend and I are raising a French bulldog in a first-floor flat that is tiny enough to have been transplanted straight from Tokyo. Naturally, owning a real puppy gives you rewards that Nintendogs cannot hope to provide - the bundle of fur crawling cutely into your lap to sleep, the more dubious, yet oddly endearing, pleasure of being woken by a tiny wet tongue in your ear, and the impossibility of walking more than 100 metres without being mobbed by adoring schoolchildren. But Nintendogs is so beautifully executed - as you would expect from designer Shigeru Miyamoto - that it really does provide a credible approximation of owning a puppy.Before buying Nintendogs, you need to make a choice: it comes in three flavours, each featuring six different breeds. I picked the dachshund variety. First stop is the kennel, where you choose a breed and pick a puppy to buy. Having picked a pug, I committed my first mistake, giving her the same name as my real dog, Lola. Much of Nintendogs depends on issuing voice commands, so the real Lola can become confused when I am playing.The first time you get it back home, your new pup is - as in real life - a bit shaky, so after calling it to the DS's bottom screen (by tapping a button with the stylus), you are well advised to stroke and pet it. Once settled in, you can start teaching it tricks - a process that is considerably easier than in real life. Initially, you must perform gestures; touching the puppy's head then moving the stylus downwards, for example, will cause it to sit. At this point, a lightbulb icon appears. Touch that, and the DS will record your voice command for that trick. This process must be repeated several times before your puppy learns the trick.Your virtual home is the hub of Nintendogs - from it, you can access supplies including toys, food and water, or shampoo your puppy. Although Nintendogs' gameplay resides in the outside world, its full glory becomes apparent the moment you get your puppy back home.Its virtual puppies (in Nintendogs, your puppies never grow into adult dogs) look astonishingly like the real thing and are the most beautifully animated objects ever to appear on the screen of a handheld console. Stroke your puppy's head, and it will shut its eyes and pant. Scratch its belly, and it will roll on to its back and kick a hind leg. Neglect it, and it will turn its back on you and whine. Serious neglect will ensure it runs away.Going walkiesThe meat of the game, though, is accessed from the Go Out screen. From there, you can take your puppy for a walk, enter it in a competition, visit the Pet Supply store, banish it to the Pet Hotel or go to the kennel to buy or play with another puppy. The first thing you will want to do is go for a walk. To do this, you must plot a route - taking into account your puppy's stamina.You can visit various places and shops in your locale, including discount shops, the park and the gymnasium, where you can train your pup over an obstacle course. You might bump into other dog owners on your walks, and there are gifts to find as well as rubbish, which your dog will eat and vomit up if you don't give it a yank on the lead. And this is the only part of Nintendogs that doesn't gloss over the issue of excrement. If your little pride and joy leaves a deposit on the pavement, you must stab it quickly with the stylus, or the virtual dog owners you meet will give you grief.There are three types of competition to enter. Disc Competition involves throwing a frisbee for your pooch; the further away from you it catches it, the more points you accrue. Agility Trial is show jumping-style negotiation of objects, and Obedience Trial - the hardest of the three - involves getting your mutt to respond to your commands. The competitions are hosted by a bizarre duo who could have been transplanted from Best In Show. Your puppy's skills will improve with practice, and this is how you earn money to buy objects, more dogs and even a flashier house.Only the most militant dog haters could fail to delight in Nintendogs. Dog lovers will be sucked in after a few minutes playing it, the first time their cute-as-a-button furballs come bounding up and put their paws against the bottom screen. And once your training begins to pay off, and your pup starts to respond to your voice, the overwhelmingly feeling that you have created a virtual creature of your very own kicks in.Physically, Nintendogs can't possibly be a substitute for the real thing. But emotionally, they repay your investment like nothing else in the history of videogames.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Bleeps, buzzes and chirps are the background soundtrack to any public urban space these days. Modern technology - mobile phones, BlackBerrys, laptops and iPods - has made us a nation of chit-chatterers and thumb merchants, plugged in to a network of noises that provide permanent communication. But the advance of technology has raced ahead of the manners to cope with it.We only needed a highway code, according to social etiquette expert Frances Edmonds, when car ownership became widespread. So why not a social consensus on "techiquette" now that everybody has a mobile phone?We can all tell hi-tech horror stories of the lack of modern etiquette: from being dumped or sacked via a text message, or having a cinema visit interrupted by a nauseating ringtone, to hearing our own delicate music compilation drowned out by someone's grating rap-thumping headphones on the bus. A survey by the phone operator T-Mobile found that the workplace is becoming a hotspot for techiquette rage, with 62% of British workers on the receiving end of bad mobile manners. Proving that technology makes us ruder, inconsiderate laptop and mobile phone use makes employees feel frustrated and ignored, while some want their companies to adopt mobile etiquette guidelines.It's easy to see why such a wealth of communication interruptions can make us feel lost in a digital sea of loneliness. There's no such thing as a one-on-one conversation any more as the demanding bleeps of texts, emails and phone calls splinter the sociability such dialogues once afforded. Suddenly we can be transformed from being in the middle of a conversation to being left on the sidelines when our co-converser is whisked away by a call.It can be even worse when the mobile doesn't ring or the BlackBerry doesn't throb, when your opposite number obsessively checks their phone for messages or hits the refresh key on their mobile device. Or consider the frantic passengers after a long flight, digging out their mobile device for their fix of bleeps. But also remember those for whom the inbox doesn't toll, who turn on their mobile phone and hear ... nothing. It's as if we need a public proclamation of our popularity or importance.If you really wanted to be polite, and show a modicum of interest in whoever it is - boss, boyfriend, bus conductor - you are talking to, you would turn your equipment off. Even using "silent mode" is a sham. A vibrating alert is just the smug user's signifier of social standing. Like a Rolls-Royce with its noiseless engine, a gentle buzzing on a desktop is superior to the honk of the ordinary alert - but it's still very annoying. If you genuinely are so important that you can't spend an hour without contact from the outside world, or are expecting a life-or-death call, then you should politely explain this before starting an intimate chat.Manners are about perspective and considering how someone else would feel. In that case our mobile manners are a sad reflection of our social inadequacy. It's an emotional cop-out to break a date or relationship by text message, and even more so if you write in text speak - an open advertisement for your lack of literacy as well as time for others. Using "emoticons" is worst of all. You can write a nasty email and then stick :-( at the end, as if to say, "Only joking!" It's pathetically passive aggressive.People mocked Kenneth Clarke's aides for saying that the Tory leadership contender didn't carry a mobile phone. Clarke later said he did have a mobile - he just doesn't always turn it on. Given the 65m mobiles in use in the UK, I reckon that makes him special. And if his one-on-one time with Mrs Clarke is truly technology free, then she must feel pretty special too.nat@ak13.com
Shoving your fingers in your ears is usually a crude signal that the conversation is over. Not so for NTT DoCoMo, whose latest gadget, which was on show at Ceatec, requires mobile conversationalists to do just that.The Yubi-Wa - a Japanese pun that can mean "ring" or "finger-talk" - is a phone shaped like a ring. The size of a pebble and weighing next to nothing, it is worn like an ordinary ring.When the user's index finger is inserted into the ear, a bone conduction transceiver turns vibrations into sounds. Apparently, it also works if the finger is stuck up the nose, although no one appeared willing to attempt it during free tryouts at Ceatec.The gadget uses Bluetooth to receive and send signals to its owner's conventional handset. Dialling requires a rhythmic click of the index finger against the thumb; the action is repeated, with a different rhythm, to hang up.The receiver is fitted with a microphone and a speaker and produces a sound clear and strong enough to be heard "on the factory floor", even when speaking quietly, says a spokesman.When the Guardian gave Yubi-Wa a test run, the female voice at the other end was audible but slightly muffled amid the din around the 700 industry stalls covering the floor of the cavernous Makuhari Messe exhibition hall.In its current form, the Yubi-Wa is really just a gimmick, but the company says a smaller version will become commercially available. The firm boasts that Yubi-Wa owners will be able to leave their conventional handsets in their bag and yet stay in touch with friends and colleagues round the clock.Kayo Shimizu, a university lecturer, wasn't altogether happy with that prospect: "I don't want to be on call 24 hours a day." Even so, she said she would consider buying one, but only after they become popular: "It might be a bit embarrassing being the only person wearing one on the train."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Francis Bacon said that innovation should happen "but quietly and by degrees scarce to be perceived". That was 400 years ago and it is a good job he is not reviewing mobile phones. The pace of change is still breathtaking, not least during the past week, when two eagerly awaited phones arrived, like proverbially late buses, at the same time. So it is a shame that O2's impressive NEC-made N411i, which introduces the successful Japanese "internet at the touch of a button" i-mode system to the UK, should coincide with Nokia's N70 launch on the Orange network. Among other functions - such as a radio, a 2 megapixel camera, an MP3 player and videophone - it gives you 16 channels of live television.For years, people have been debating whether they would want to watch television on their phones. Orange has been offering it for a while in niche markets, but with a state-of-the-art N70 3G phone, television comes into its own. On a 24-hour trial I was very impressed with the ease of switching from ITN News to CNN, Bloomberg or the new ICC cricket channel.Picture quality depends on good 3G reception. It was better at work, which is not usually good for quality of reception, than at home, when the screen would often freeze momentarily. With such heavy streaming of data, it is hungry for juice. Constant use means the battery needs to be recharged during the day. Another niggle is that the tiny four-directional navigation button is not as easy to use as previous Nokia ones.But all in all, it is a very impressive experience and, because TV comes as a bonus on what is a highly versatile 126g phone - one of the best Nokia has produced - I can see a lot of people signing up. The catch is it costs &pound;10 a month for 1GB of TV data (20 hours of viewing). Orange's TV is also available on a few other phones. The cost is from nothing on a monthly contract to &pound;270 on pay-as-you-go.O2's attractive i-mode clamshell phone, which weighs only 95g, has two distinctive features. Developed by NTT DoCoMo, Japan's biggest operator, it claims to offer simple and speedy access to the web, backed up by an admirable pricing policy that leaves 86% of the revenue generated with content providers. This is one reason why there are 90,000 i-mode sites in Japan. Initially, there are only 100 in the UK, but this ought to grow because the revenue-sharing model should be a big incentive for bedroom entrepreneurs.Speed of access to the web did not quite live up to claims that it takes three seconds on average against 20 seconds for Wap. It was certainly faster than a typical Wap experience, but not without those irritating "time-outs" all too familiar to GPRS users.A special i-mode button takes you straight to the web and a menu of paid-for services (free until Christmas). Among the features are news from providers such as the Financial Times, games, lifestyle, sport, betting, adult and weather. I signed up to images and received a very recent satellite picture of the sky over western Europe. The lack of clouds over London didn't quite correspond to the murky view outside the office window but hopefully that was just a quirk. It would be useful to look at before a long car journey.There is a banking section and I got through to my Egg bank account without any trouble, the first time that has happened on a mobile. At the moment, all you can see is your account balances (all on the same screen) but there are plans to start transactions soon.This is a good device for accessing all the revenue streams, which cost up to &pound;3 a month, that are attached to the i-mode service, but it is less good at browsing the web proper. For instance, the window for Google floats off the screen, making it almost impossible to type in. In comparison, the Google window fits the N70's screen. The i-mode phone won't repeat its success in Japan but will still appeal to many people.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Fujitsu isn't the first to pursue the idea of a flexible screen, but as the crowds around its display at Ceatec demonstrated, the idea of a low-voltage, flexible screen has been a long-held dream for many.Fujitsu has created a colour version that requires little power and, in the case of one demonstration unit, could be updated wirelessly. This would make it ideal, for example, as an external screen to show information from your mobile phone, freeing it from the limitations of the small display typical of most handsets.The prototype screen displays a reasonable range of colours and only needs minimal power to change what is displayed. Once there, the image will remain for two months, even if the power is switched off.Fujitsu acknowledges that there are other colour screens, but claims they lose out on flexibility by using glass, and require more power, since they need to be refreshed more regularly to maintain what is displayed.But don't go thinking you'll be folding it in half and stuffing it in your back pocket. When the product hits the market sometime in 2007 or 2008, it will need a semi-rigid protective coating on either side, taking it from a thickness of 3mm to just under a centimetre.The designers claim that will make it flexible enough to roll up or bend around a lamp post, so it could be used for advertising or changeable information bulletins.It uses a Cholesteric LCD (ChLCD), which was designed for images that either move very slowly or are still: that means it won't be displaying TV or films. The slowness of the display becomes apparent when the screen refreshes: a visible vertical line washes from left to right, with the new image displayed in its wake.If you fancy one, you will have to get in line behind Japan's crown prince Naruhito, who paid it particular attention when he visited the show.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple's new iPod nano fits four gigabytes of music into something not much bigger than a business card. Plug one into an office PC and it could just as easily be thousands of confidential files walking out of your office. The same goes for the ubiquitous USB Flash drives, personal digital assistants (PDAs) and smartphones.With more and more people taking work home away from the protected office network, it doesn't take a deliberate attack to expose information. Earlier this year an employee at Mitsubishi Electric in Japan took files home on a USB drive. The home PC he plugged it into was infected with malicious software that uploaded the files to a peer-to-peer file-sharing site. What it copied included personal data on other Mitsubishi employees and confidential information about nuclear power facilities.Crude measures, such as filling USB ports with epoxy or switching off access, means you also lose out on legitimate devices, such as keyboards, mice and printers. And few UK businesses could get away with the measures employed at some call centres in India, which include confiscating cameraphones and pencils from employees as they arrive, filming them at their desks and searching them on the way out. Instead you need a security policy to cover the information you care about plus the tools to implement it.Portable devices aren't the only threat. Most new PCs come with a CD or DVD burner, and recently, police in New Delhi arrested a call centre worker found copying personal information about customers on to a CD. But you can use standard Windows security to turn off the CD burning features built into Windows XP and you can stop users installing their own CD burning software.USB devices are harder to deal with because you can't use automatic policies to disable removable media. They are also easier to overlook than a stack of CDs or a pile of printouts. Windows Vista will have the option to limit which devices you can plug into a PC, by USB, Bluetooth or any other connection by blocking the device drivers they need to work, but that won't be available until late next year. Plus USB storage is popular because it is useful; banning Flash drives may not be the answer.Windows XP Service Pack 2 adds some protection because you can edit the registry to make USB devices read-only. That stops anyone copying data on to them, but IT staff can still use them to install handy utilities for troubleshooting. USB drives used on unprotected home PCs can bring viruses or spyware back to the office, but a security policy that includes personal firewalls and desktop virus scanning will deal with that.According to Gartner analyst Ruggero Contu, some organisations are banning personal USB data storage and providing devices with password protection, file encryption and even biometric identification.But an acceptable-use policy for something as common as these removable devices will need enforcing. In a recent survey, audit specialist Centennial Software found nearly 90% of users 
plug in a PDA or USB Flash drive at least once a week.Access control solutions, such as Centennial Software's DeviceWall, SmartLine's DeviceLock, Safend Protector and FullArmor's IntelliPolicy help you manage connections, including USB, FireWire and Bluetooth, on individual PCs or through Active Directory, without blocking USB peripherals such as mice. You can also audit what is getting connected.Barclays Bank uses SecureWave's Sanctuary Device Control software to lock down USB ports, while keeping the option of authorising individual devices, specific users or even the time of day when you can connect devices. "You cannot put a price on the bank's credibility, so we have to ensure that none of the branch PCs can be penetrated," points out Paul Douglas, desktop build team manager at Barclays.Sanctuary and Becrypt's Connect Protect are the first products to gain the CSIA Claims Tested Mark, a scheme launched recently by the Cabinet Office to support the government strategy for information assurance.Good information security is about more than protecting a single connection and, if your files are valuable, you should consider encrypting them. Software such as Reflex Magnetic's Disknet Pro or Pointsec Media Encryption lets you automatically encrypt and digitally sign data on removable devices, so you can still control company information.These tools need to be part of a wider security policy that includes physical security, which covers who has access to confidential information, as well as policing connections to devices and networks.
Any trip that might require cameras, computers, mobiles or audio recorders requires a number of power chargers and, if you're going to foreign climes, adaptor plugs. What's needed, many argue, is a universal standard.SplashPower hopes it has created it. It has developed a charger that uses electromagnetic induction to pass electricity from a charging plate to any suitably equipped device placed on it. It is the same principle used by cordless kettles and electric toothbrushes.Now the company has to persuade manufacturers to include its SplashModule in devices, even though there aren't many SplashPad chargers out there. To combat this Catch 22, SplashPower, which displayed its products at Ceatec, has been putting together deals. Lily Cheng, its chief executive and co-founder, said the firm was in discussion with two premium hotel chains. The target is to put SplashPads into Penninsular's new projects in Tokyo and Shanghai, and in Radisson's flagship location in Mayfair. SplashPads will be built into bedside units.There's also interest from makers of upmarket office furniture, who see it as a way of putting electrical items such as lamps and fans on desks, without the accompanying wires.SplashPower has expanded its range of pads to include one that charges two devices simultaneously and a smaller, travel-friendly version. And rather than wait for the makers of portable devices to catch up with its thinking, the company has designed and made adaptors for a number of devices - the iPod mini and digital video cameras, for example - that consumers can attach themselves.And don't worry about the pad's magnetic field wiping your portable hard drive or credit card: the creators have that sorted. Even placing a metal spoon on the pad won't cause problems - the unit shuts down the charging and flashes a warning light.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
What's in a name?Would you please explain the advantages and disadvantages for email of buying one's own domain?Chris WilsonJack Schofield replies:When you sign up with an internet service provider (ISP), the account usually includes email. This is fine, but you may not get much choice of email address, and the address will probably include the ISP's name: j.bloggs@wobblyserve, for example. After a few years, all your contacts will have your address, and now you have a problem. If you want to change your ISP, you have to get everybody to update their address books, and that's inconvenient all round.The solution is to buy your own domain name. This will probably come with a mail forwarding service, and may include a mailbox, probably at extra cost. You can choose your own domain name, within the limits of what is still available. This lets you use, say, chris-wilson.me.uk. as your email address, and tell the company hosting your domain to forward all your email to whichever mailbox you like: it could be your ISP's mail server or another service, free or paid for. Now if you change your ISP, you can keep the same email address. All you have to do is log on to your domain host and paste in the address of your new mailbox.Having your own domain lets you create as many email addresses as you like, by putting different things before the @ sign. This means you can use different ones for friends, business contacts, newsletters or whatever. All the mail will still be forwarded to the same mailbox, but you can filter it as it arrives.It's a good idea to use a standard POP3 (Post Office Protocol version 3) mailbox. This lets you use a wide range of mail software - Outlook Express, Thunderbird, Eudora etc. It will also let you set your chosen address, chris-wilson.me.uk, as the Reply To address.The disadvantages are the cost of a name, and remembering to renew it. Just make sure the domain is listed in your name, and you are the administrative contact, so you really own the name. This avoids problems if a domain name reseller tries to hold a domain name hostage, or goes bust. There is a list of accredited registrars atwww.icann.org/registrars/accredited-list.html. Resellers and agents can be cheaper, but remember, the lowest price isn't necessarily the best value.Rotating MPegsDo you know of any cheap or preferably free software to allow the rotation of MPegs shot in portrait format on a digital still camera? I only need the software to rotate the clips then save them so they can be viewed without the viewer having to rotate instead.David GrinlyJS:I only know of one program that will do this - VideoMach (www.gromada.com/videomach.html) - though there may be others as well. This one is shareware and costs &euro;26.21 to register.Removing NortonMy daughter installed Norton Antivirus 2005 on her new laptop. Now it won't uninstall. We tried Windows' Add/Remove Programs. It didn't budge.Catherine OzilJS:Symantec, which owns Norton, has developed a new Norton Removal Tool, SymNRT, for cases where Add/Remove Programs hasn't worked. You can download it fromhttp://service1.symantec.com/.Backchat&#183;Last week, I pointed Chris Dewey towards some digital recorders suitable for recording music. Stephen Wallington, Jack Street and Jon Banks all recommended using portable MiniDisc recorders as a flexible and cheaper alternative. Banks says: "Hi-MD recorders can record in Sony's Atrac 3+ mode as well as linear PCM (uncompressed). Recordings can be edited and, unlike earlier models, they can upload recordings to PC in the formats mentioned and as WAV files. The Sony software is a bit clunky but it does work."&#183;Many people have 3in Amstrad PCW disks they can no longer read. David Jones says this problem can be sorted "quickly and amazingly cheaply by John King, who deserves a knighthood for his service. Seewww.pcwking1.netfirms.com."&#183;Dave Cooper wanted to email his 200-plus tennis club members, and I suggested using a list service. Ian Cuthbertson says EBMailer (www.ebmailer.com) will enable him to send individual emails to each member, thereby overcoming Wanadoo's blocking. It's shareware and costs $20 to register.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You have critical updates. Install them immediately. Unpatched, your computer could be controlled remotely by a hacker.Critical? To me, critical means a crash victim lying unconscious in bed with drips and a machine that goes beep, beep, beep. Suddenly: beeeeeeeeeeep. "Doctor! Crash team!" Out come the metal pads. "Clear! Kaboom! Try again! Kaboom! I'm sorry, we've lost him." Is that what we're talking about? Because my computer looks pretty healthy.You must install them immediately: every minute it goes unpatched, another PC dies.What rubbish. If we need to install them this second, how come 10-year-old machines are still working fine? Rather than forcing us to spend hours every month installing patches and updates, how about software companies building products that don't have holes in the first place? How about being reimbursed for faulty goods?But you have to do it or a hacker will seize control of your machine, it will become a "zombie" and wreak havoc across the world.Like what? I can't even find the files I want on my computer. How many millions of lists and presentations will this hacker have to go through to find something useful? Does some nerd in Iowa really want Uncle Laurie's phone number? Is he going to call him?But, say companies in the $6.7bn security software market, if you don't buy firewalls and anti-virus software, if you don't download, update, patch, scan and check, then hackers could get your credit card details. How? My details aren't on my computer.Have you not heard about Russian criminals and phishing scams? They set up websites that look like the real thing, ask for your card details and then ... If someone came to your door and said "Hi! I'm a touring representative from Robert Dyas and was wondering if you'd like to buy a set of pans half price, all you have to do is give me your credit card details," what would you say?You'd say: prove you're from Robert Dyas. And he'd produce a cheaply printed badge saying "Rub3rt Diyaz".If you get caught in a phishing scam, you're an idiot. It's that simple. Equally, if you open an email attachment from someone you have never heard of promising "sexy footage" or "Bush is a buffoon", you're the buffoon.Does it not strike you as odd that the very people advertising these threats are the same people that sell us the protection against them?If these products have holes, we should send them back, and not be grateful that they send a plank and two nails in the post. You are the zombies, not the computers.
One net for the US and one for everyone elseAmerica generates the internet and some international group wants to steal it (Breaking America's grip on the net, October 6). Granted, the inventor of the web's platform is not American, nor is the inventor of Linux, the operating system that most of the internet runs on. But what is the problem? That America controls it. I can tell you what US users and the US government are going to say about an international group controlling internet standards within US borders: forget it. If by some perversion of international law it becomes the case, you will see the internet implode.Randy JohnsonOregon, USI can't say I'm thrilled the internet is overseen by the US Department of Commerce, but it has been consistently well-run - by private industry. If the UN wants to set up another net, that would be absolutely fine by me.Fergus SmithVermont, USDiscrediting professionalsThe reporting in School for scoundrels (October 6), with its often technically incorrect look at "hackers" does a great discredit to the people in the field of computer science. Real hackers delight in exploring the intricacies and power of computers, and all technology. Irresponsible misuse perpetuates the stereotype that the computer-literate are nerds whose only pastimes are breaking into the systems of the naive.Scott WhittakerAberdeenOpposing viewsI have always found people's determination to use their digital camera's LCD screen baffling, since it entails holding the camera well away from the body - a sure recipe for shake. This spurning of the natural tripod offered by two hands and a face strikes me as perhaps the starkest possible illustration of the perils of technophilia: why use a natural and superior method when an inferior but technologically sexy one will do?Alan PatersonLondonDigital delightsAshley Norris's review of the Morphy Richards portable DAB radio (Innovations, October 6) is riddled with inaccuracies. He says that it is "hard to see the point of digital radios for the home", but then extols the virtues of portable DAB radios - signal quality, no interruption from pirates, scrolling text in the form of programme information, news, song lyrics and so on. Surely these advantages also apply to models in the home? And what about other advantages, such as not having to remember frequencies?Simon PooleHerne BayA grand waste of moneyWhat's most galling about Windows Media Center (Technobile, October 6) is that my TiVo does at least as good a job as a digital video recorder, on a fraction of the processing power, with an almost silent fan and hard drive. And it was a fraction of the price. Media PCs were &pound;1,000 two years ago and while prices drop at an alarming rate elsewhere, a new Media PC is still ... about &pound;1,000.Andrew DuckerEdinburghBlogBackI live in Belgium, which has the top-level domain name ".be". Any individual or business can register whatevertheylike.be. Do you not think that Belgium would rather control its own domain than depend on another country to make sure root zone files point to a.ns.dns.be for the .be domain? Do you not think every country would rather have full control over its domain zone files?slashdot.orgI figure UN control, at least for the meantime, will prove better than continued US hegemony. Better a slow and bureaucratic enemy than a strong and agile one. But UN control could also mean swifter enforcement of local information laws. Long term, the internet needs a base-level restructuring to eradicate the archaic hierarchies.williamgillis.blogpost.com
So, now I'm home - no thanks to the Northern Line, which is totally closed down. But that, of course, is incidental.Before I scooted from the Apple launch, I had a chat withDanika ClearyandJai Chulani, product managers for iPod and iMac respectively.Here are the brief highlights of our discussion.I was interested in the rather constrained way in which the video capability was touted. Should Apple have gone in harder? "iPod is about music, and this new iPod is about keeping this the best in the market," says Cleary. "Video adds a new layer of enjoyment through music videos. Steve really said it: this is the beginning of the next step."So this is an iPod that plays video, not a video iPod. That I understand - after all, it was fairly similar deal with the photo capability. But doesn't a video-playing iPod need a huge amount of content ready to go? "Well, the deal with ABC and Disney, it's clearly the first of its kind," she said, following with talk of strong hopes that video downloading could grow at the kind of speed seen with iTMS.So what's the overall effect? "We're just changing the whole way people are experiencing media," says Chulani, pointing to the new iMac. He compares the six button iMac remote to one of the many-button equivalents used with MS media centers: this was the same thing Jobs during the launch speech. Simplicity I understand, but I wonder about what direction this means... if you compare yourself with media center, are you talking about turning Macs into the central entertainment item in the home? Are we ever likely to see people using their Macs instead of TVs? He says not: "We talk to Mac users a lot, and we just don't see the demand."That's no surprise - Apple is big on the difference between the "lean back" mode for watching TV, and the "sit forward" way we use computers. But then why bother with the Front Row system, and the remote control, if there are no plans to try using Macs as more integrated media hubs? The answer, according to Chulani, is that one doesn't necessarily follow the other.Back to the iPod: I wonder about the potential size of the market for the big models. The lower-end iPods have sold well, but with the higher end units, could Apple merely end up getting earlier generation buyers to upgrade? Cleary thinks there will be many upgraders, but also a lot of new buyers. "The market keeps expanding and each new product brings in new people," she says. "At the same time, lots of people who already have an iPod will want to buy one of these. We learned a lot from the nano."And what about the quickfire double launch - this strikes me as strange, mainly because the Apple Expo in Paris (where there was no keynote speech). Cleary said this was the plan, a way of "out-innovating". "It's that one-two punch," she says. So will the double whammy turn into a triple whammy? Cleary laughs: "I hope not: I've got to get back and spend some time in the states."Related:Other posts from the launch event -Apple launches new video-capable iPod-New iPod: first impressions
"Apple has updated the iMac G5 with a new chassis that's as much as a half-inch thinner and that comes with a built-in iSight camera and a special remote control. However, the new machine's ability to manage multimedia marks its biggest change," reportseWeek.Apple will load the new iMac G5 with Front Row, software that provides a special interface for accessing music, video, DVD movies and photos. Front Row's icons are visible from across a room, and it works in concert with a six-button remote. The remote, which resembles an iPod Shuffle, has a range of about 30 feet.Although the new iMac G5 does not work as a personal video recorder, Front Row allows it to be used to show movie trailers, and to purchase music videos and some ABC TV shows via Apple's iTunes Music Store. The built-in camera can take photos and assist in video conferencing, Apple representatives said.Comment:OK it's not really a Media Center PC because it doesn't have a TV tuner built in, and doesn't record from TV, and doesn't let you move recordings to a portable player, but at least it's a step in the right direction.It's also a brave move to make it half an inch thinner when the original design had overheating problems, but presumably Apple's engineers now have that problem sorted.
Got my grubby mitts on the new iPod, and I'm pleasantly surprised.There's a definite "nano" feel - even the 60GB iPod is thinner than the old 20GB model - and the screen seems to cope with video better than I expected. It's ultimately the same old bauble with a few extras.But here's the catch: right now if you are outside the US, you can't buy TV content through iTunes (as a commenter in theprevious postnoted) though I do expect that to change fairly quickly... there's no reason, for example, that the BBC can't make content available (it's already doing it through trials of itsinteractive media player).The preferred solution would possibly be to record some TV shows onto your desktop - Mac users could look intoElgato'sfantastic range of gizmos - and then sneak them onto iTunes. But will that work? I'm not sure.I've spoken to a few analysts this evening, who are stuck between interest - clearly this is a good product - and disappointment - it could have been so much more. But they all agree on one thing: this is Apple testing whether there's a market for portable video, before it tries to dominate it.Should be going for a one-to-one briefing with an Apple bod shortly, and will report back.Related:other posts from the launch -Apple launches new video-capable iPod-New iPod: a chat with Apple
Phew. Just got out of the hubub of an Apple event down at BBC TV Centre in London - and dealt with some rather strict dead-tree deadlines - and can finally report what the Mac-heads probably already know: Apple'sjust launched a new iPod.First, the stats: it's a slimmer, slicker model that comes in 30GB (£219) or 60GB (£299). And it comes in black as well as white. It does all the usual stuff, and also - as expected - video.But is this what Apple really wanted to launch with, or were they rushed into it? After all, the iPod screen is no bigger than a traditional white iPod, and the video download service that will now be available through iTunes 6 allows you to buy music videos, short films from Pixar (no surprise) and shows from American network ABC (like Lost or Desperate Housewives).That's not a whole lot of content, to be honest. Steve Jobs was surprisingly muted about video - he called it "a bonus" - and although he tried to whip up enthusiasm about a choice of 2,000 music videos, it's hard to when that's just a drop in the ocean. Madonna alone probably constitutes half of them, the old chicken.It's a step forward, certainly, but this was probably Apple's most highly (and accurately) anticipated launch in a long time, and it delivered... what we expected. Few surprises.Also on the slate tonight was a sleek new iMac - again, slimmer and higher specced - and some new home multimedia apps, including a new desktop media centre-style application, Front Row, and a remote control that can run the whole show. Again, this is toe-in-the-water territory: do Apple want to do a media centre, or do they want to test whether it's worth it?Should they have gone in more heavily? Should they have waited longer?I'm sure my initial scepticism will be proved wrong - it usually is - but I think Apple might find video a harder, and bigger, nut to crack than the music market.Related:other posts from the launch -New iPod: first impressions-New iPod: a chat with Apple
ArgentinaHas garnered support from African states, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, New Zealand, Canada, Chile, Mexico and EcuadorArgentina's proposal calls for an "evolutionary process" with governments, industry and civil society participating in the debate in "a co-ordinated and balanced manner" through:&#183;A forum which "should not replace existing mechanisms or institutions but should build on the existing structures of internet governance" and not be involved in "in the day-to-day operation of the internet".&#183;Reform of Icann to reinforce the role of governments in its decision-making "with regard to relevant internet public policy issues" and also continue its "internationalisation" - essentially continuing the current process towards its separation from the US government.Verdict:Argentina's position appeals to countries that object to US involvement in the internet but are worried about destabilising the existing infrastructure.The EU, led by the UKHas proposed two new structures:&#183;Icann would be given its independence and a new "co-operation model" put in place which will remove the need for the US Department of Commerce. This model - the EU stresses it is not a council or board but a regular meeting of states and it will not oversee Icann - would only be involved with technological issues. It would draw up contingency plans should the system collapse and draw up a new system for the allocation of internet addresses. It would also establish an arbitration and dispute resolution system independent of California, which currently has jurisdiction over Icann. Any technical changes would be implemented by industry.&#183;A forum open to all "stakeholders" - governments, industry, non-governmental organisations. Essentially a talking shop this forum would probably be linked with the UN and its meetings would take place in conjunction with other UN events. It would allow discussion of anything connected with the internet including public policy issues such as cybercrime and content. But it will have no actual power over either the "new cooperation model" or Icann.Verdict:The make-up and organisation of the "co-operation model" is still too vague to tell whether it is a viable alternative to the US government's involvement in Icann. The forum is a talking shop designed to keep the control-oriented states quiet.Iran, Pakistanapparently supported by Brazil, China, Russia, Saudi Arabia&#183;An intergovernmental Council for Global Public Policy and Oversight (Iran and Pakistan's wording) anchored within the UN but with the private sector and intergovernmental agencies having only an advisory role. The Council would oversee Icann and IANA and also have control over the allocation of the world's internet addresses.&#183;Pakistan has also proposed an Internet Governance Forum, a talking-shop that would sit for an initial five years and allow governments, international organisations and industry to debate a wide range of internet topics.Verdict:Those interested in the promotion of free speech and an open internet fear an overbearing council will quickly move into policy areas. They believe certain countries are grabbing at the way the internet technically works as a way to control it. There are also fears that controlling the future allocation of addresses will allow states to control access to the web.USIn June George Bush's principal adviser on telecommunications and information policy, the NTIA, laid out four principles on the internet domain name and addressing system:&#183;The US government will preserve the security and stability of the system because it is important to the world economy. So the US will "maintain its historic role in authorising changes or modifications to the authoritative root zone file".&#183;It admitted that governments have "legitimate interest" in the management of their country codes, adding that it will work with "the international community" to address these concerns.&#183;"Icann is the appropriate technical manager of the Internet domain name system" and the US will continue to provide oversight "so that Icann maintains its focus and meets its core technical mission".&#183;"Dialogue related to Internet governance should continue" but in a number of bodies and forums rather than one central governance council.Verdict:There appears little room for negotiation with the US, which does not want what it deems unnecessary interference in a system that has worked very well.
Once again I delve around in the trough of mobile gaming news, this week unearthing 3D Pool Urban Hustle, Sonic the Hedgehog, mobile gaming's answer to Ikaruga, a German gardening platformer and Bullseye, the Java game!3D Pool Urban HustleI-playjust sent me this. More an upgrade to the very impressive3D Poolgame released earlier this year than a full-bodied sequel. This time the green baize action takes place in a bar setting rather than a simple abstract space. Your aim is to play through the pool halls of New York, LA and London taking on gradually better players until you're... Paul Newman I suppose. Like Gameloft's Midnight Pool you can bet on the outcome of forthcoming games, amassing as much money as possible as you progress. The single player game takes in both matches and trickshot challenges – there are also quick play, two-player and practise modes.While it's a step-forward to see the action happening in an actual graphical location, the interaction hasn't changed much. You still get three views of the table – two 3D and one overhead – you still get to add spin and power to each shot then watch as the multiple cameras pick up the consequences from various exciting angles. While you'll no doubt use the overhead view quite a bit to plan more ambitious plays, it's nice to be able to wander round the table in 3D, and to line-up closer shots from a player's perspective. I'm alittledisappointed that more hasn't been done to fine tune the aiming system, which still seems a little inexact and capricious – but 3D Pool Urban Hustle is an extremely playable mobile title that actually uses the 3D construction to the benefit of the gameplay. Sadly, this is still quite rare in the gold rush of mobile three-dimensional visuals.iFone vs SegaManchester-based mobile developer iFone hasstruck up a relationshipwith Sega that will see it converting the likes of Sonic the Hedgehog and Virtua Tennis to mobile phones. First, though, we'll get Super Monkeyball Mini-Golf – due in December.Glu causes ChaosYes, the mobile phone version of Amiga classic Chaos Engine is now available thanks to mobile publisher,Glu, which also has a translation of Atari's daftly-titled graffiti culture game, Getting Up. Busy as ever, Glu is also lining up its real-time multiplayer combat game Mech Battalion for release on 3, and also has Java titles Driver: Vegas and AstroPop (a cool puzzle title) en route.The company's press person also told me, "we are gearing up for our first proper foray into 3D - it's a Japanese-style shoot'-em-up in the style of Ikaruga or Radiant Silvergun, but all scaled down a bit for mobile. We are using 3D for the backgrounds only; that way the gameplay remains the same for non-3D handsets, meaning we can actually make some money out of it..."More licensing funIf you have a bizarre cult license to sell, the mobile games industry is definitely the place to offload it. Jamdat recently announced that it's working on a Java conversion of hit TV showBullseye- a sure sign that the darts sim market is finally over-saturated. Also, Iomo is planning a conversion of late-night comedy stunt show Dirty Sanchez. No more details on that as I think they might have asked me not to say anything...Living Mobile goes gardeningGot a bizarre press release last month from German developer Living Mobile but forgot to write anything on it. The company is set to release a new Java platformer entitled Aquababe: Freaky Gardening. Here's their description:"Arm yourself with a dung fork and a watering can! Through unexplained mysterious circumstances, vegetables in your neighbourhood have mutated into living threats! Since then, several species cavort in the gardens and destroy the landscape. Lead "Aquababe" Alice and displace Larry the Lingering Leek, Carl the Crazy Carrot and Albert the Abnormal Asparagus!"Does that take you back to the early eighties? Monty Mole? Pyjamarama? No? You're far too young then.
Following yesterday's anecdotalpostabout Nintendogs comesnewsthat the game has sold over 160,000 units in Europe during its first weekend. Hardware sales are 400-700% up, which is impressive, but shows how slow DS sales had been. The DS is already achieving that uniquely Nintendo phenomenon of attracting the affections of both the hardcore and the very casual while leaving mainstream gamers slightly nonplussed. But whereas the Gamecube is essentially on life-support untilTwilight Princess, the DS looks in good health.
Palm has launched thePalm TXhandheld "for a generation of professionals on the go who want affordable Wi-Fi to access the information that matters to them". It has a large (320 x 480) colour screen and 128MB of memory, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth for an estimated UK street price of £229.99 (but £249.99 from Palm). It has a 312MHz Intel ARM and also runs Garmet, measures 12.1 x 7.8 x 1.5cm, and weighs 149g.
Microsoft has secured a $761m (&pound;435m) deal to resolve a lawsuit from rival Real Networks in a settlement that finally clears away the morass of anti-trust legal action in the US that has dogged the firm over the past decade.Microsoft will provide a mix of cash and promotions for the Real Networks music and games services through its online and software business in a deal worth just over $300m. Real Networks has also agreed to drop its legal action in the US and end its involvement in EU litigation in return for $460m in cash.The deal was announced yesterday by Real Networks' chairman and chief executive, Rob Glaser, and Microsoft's Bill Gates, two men whose animosity goes back years in both companies' home city of Seattle. Mr Glaser worked at Microsoft for 10 years before quitting in 1993 amid rumours that he had been passed over for a top job. He set up a rival software business that became Real Networks and pioneered online media applications while Microsoft was still concentrating on its operating system software.But Mr Glaser yesterday moved to bury the hatchet. He said: "Today we're closing one chapter and opening a new one in our relationship with Microsoft."Under the deal, Microsoft will provide promotional and marketing support for Real Networks' digital music subscription service, Rhapsody, on its MSN websites. It will also offer Real Networks' digital games through MSN Games and its online games portal, Xbox Live Arcade, for its forthcoming Xbox 360 console.On this side of the Atlantic, Real Networks was Microsoft's last large commercial opponent in the EU case. Microsoft has already reached out-of-court deals with the other four major parties that had intervened against it. But ahead of the Real Networks announcement, EU officials said they would press on with their case against Microsoft to ensure it complies with a judgment made last year. The EU fined Microsoft &pound;330m, forced it to share information with rivals and sell copies of its Windows operating system without MediaPlayer included.In the past two years Microsoft has been working to wrap up the legal disputes stemming from the US federal antitrust lawsuit filed against it in the mid-1990s. It has paid billions of dollars to settle allegations that it abused its dominant position to hustle rivals out of the internet and software markets.Among the largest settlements, it agreed to pay Sun Microsystems $1.95bn to end a suit that alleged Microsoft had competed unfairly against its Java technology.Real Networks filed its suit in December 2003, alleging that Microsoft had held back technical information about its Windows operating system that prevented Real Networks from developing software. It also alleged that Microsoft used its market power to draw up licensing agreements with computer makers that favoured Windows Media Player at the expense of Real Networks.
Palm has announced theZire Z22, "an easy-to-use and compact colour handheld built for the mass market," with an estimated UK street price of £79.99.The spec includes a 200MHz Samsung ARM-based processor running Palm OS (Garnet v5.4) and, according to Palm's Web site, a 32MB hard drive with 20MB accessible to user (ho ho). It measures 10.3 x 6.8 x 1.5cm and weighs 96g.
Following up a report in the Wall Street Journal yesterday, it seems there's something in the rumour that Microsoft and Yahoo will be making their compatible.CNet has had atip-offsaying that the firms "are close to a pact that would allow users of their respective instant messaging services to exchange messages with one another".The exchange of both text and voice messages is being considered, although the source stressed that details of the pact are still being finalized. The two companies are planning to announce the deal on Wednesday, the source said.A Microsoft representative declined to comment on the matter. A Yahoo representative was not immediately available for comment.I'm sure that it's more than a little to do with the launch of Google Talk, but if you're a consumer, who cares? The instant messaging market has been problematic in the past, with a wealth of closed standards and incompatible products. Hopefully that's becoming a thing of the past.If they are indeed planning to announce today, then I'm sure we'll hear fairly soon.Comment from Jack:Of course, Microsoft business software users can already interoperate with Yahoo, AOL and MSN instant messaging services, using MicrosoftLive Communications Server 2005. It's just not available for public consumption..... ;-)
Late last year, an anonymous post from "ea_spouse" made public an important but oft-ignored issue in computer games development, that ofquality of life. The post, which outlined some of the grave liberties the Canadian uber-publisher took (and continues to take) with its employees, ricocheted around the Web and mainstream newsprint. Quality of Life has since become a point of contestation at variousconferencesand has been addressed in the Independent Game Developer Association'sQuality of Lifewhite paper. To date, on paper and in practice not a lot has happened to tackle these issues, and ea_spouse has taken a backseat in the lore of over-worked industry circles.Things may have received a kick thanks to a settlement reported byGamePoliticsandGameSpotlast week.In June, two parties took EA to court, filing suit against its unhealthy and exploitative unpaid overtime work policy. Whileoneis still contested, the results of the Jamie Kirshenbaum vs. Electronic Arts class-action law suit (detailed analysisherefrom GamePolitics - scroll down) was settled last Wednesday for $15.6 million.EA can't ignore this, and other lesser publishers and developers will soon be forced to follow suit if practices don't change. Could this be the catalyst for action?
I'm doing a piece on the history of footy games for the paper and it's got me reminiscing about the days before Pro Evo ruled the roost. Going back to the 80s there was Match Day on the speccy, though I was always more of aInternational SoccerC64 man. Blocky graphics yes, but this really was football - in 1985 anyway. By the late 80's the upgraded version, Emlyn Hughes International Soccer, which amazingly still has anactive community, was the game to play.Of course, the golden era was the early to mid 90s, withKick Offand then Sensible Soccer becoming the games of choice (Super Soccer on the SNES was also an amusing distraction). Kick Off was ridiculously fast and demanded joystick - sigh - skills of the highest order. It bore little relation to the beautiful game, and had far too many subtle mentions of Crystal Palace players, but KO was a minor classic.The real masterpiece though wasSensible Socceron the Amiga, particularly the later World editions which had licensed teams from around the globe. Again Sensi bore little relation to the real sport but it played like a dream. A fast and engrossing dream, with little stick men who loved applying after-touch to the ball. The passing was slick and scoring was satisfying, but there was immense depth too, with little touches on the joystick changing the height and direction of the ball. The Mega Drive version of the game was re-released recently on one of thoseplug-into-the-tellythings. Playing with pads rather than joystick is plainly stupid though.Later on we had International Superstar Soccer Deluxe and the like, but to me it was Sensi that was the perfect footy game before Pro Evo. Any other soccer titles worth a mention?
For a decade Sony's PlayStation has been the undisputed champion of the world's &pound;30bn video games market. But now Microsoft, the megalithic software company founded by Bill Gates, is attempting to dethrone its Japanese rival.The Xbox 360, Microsoft's latest video games console, will be shown in Britain for the first time today before its launch on December 2. The machine, which is predicted to be one of the best-selling gifts at Christmas, is spearheading Microsoft's latest campaign to dominate a market that is now bigger than cinema's box office.The company hopes the unit, which will sell for about &pound;210, will lure children and adults alike with the prospect of high-definition graphics and internet games.Britain's video games industry was worth more than &pound;2.2bn in sales last year alone, making it the world's third largest market behind the United States and Japan. Sony dominates at present with its popular PlayStation family, which has sold more than 200m units worldwide since it was introduced about a decade ago. The Japanese electronics giant is planning to bring out the latest version, the PlayStation 3, next year - but Microsoft believes a pre-emptive launch of its new machine could help it steal a march on its rival.The product's release has been supported by a viral internet marketing campaign. Microsoft is also using star names to appeal to a wider audience, with Lord of the Rings actor Elijah Wood among those enlisted earlier this year.
I've been playing around with my display setting since acquiring software that wants to run on a resolution of 1024 x 768 rather than my 800 x 600 (which suits my 15in' monitor and 99% of my needs) and then started mucking about with fonts and stuff to make things legible. Is there anywhere I can get hold of the default settings for XP as I seem incapable of getting the right combination of font and size settings to return my display to the starting point. Mike CalvertHmm, well, the default setting (Go to Settings, click Advanced and look at the General tab) is Normal Size (96dpi). If you already have that set, then change it to something else -- ie select Custom and set 75% or whatever), and close the Display Properties box. Next, re-open the box and change it back to Normal Size (96dpi). Restart if prompted to do so. Restart if not prompted to do so. This should get things back to normal.
"Microsoft Corp said on Tuesday it would pay RealNetworks Inc $761 million (£436 million) to settle an antitrust suit accusing the world's largest software maker of using its dominance to promote its own media software. RealNetworks, maker of Real Internet media software, has said Microsoft's decision to bundle Windows Media Player for free within the Windows operating system was to blame for slower sales at RealNetworks, shares of which rose as much as 48% in midday trading before slipping back a bit," reportsReuters."RealNetworks' suit, filed nearly two years ago, was the last remaining major antitrust action against Microsoft, which has spent the last three years reaching agreements with several US states, the European Union and other companies including International Business Machines Corp, Time Warner Inc, and Sun Microsystems Inc."Comment:This s a great deal for Real, especially when you remember that (a) Real's founder, Rob Glaser, had spent a decade as one of Bill Gate's merry men, and Microsoft supported him by buying 10% of his company; and (b) Real's player was so obnoxious it made the company one of the most hated on the Internet. The experience certainly made me unwilling to touch a Real product ever again -- though to be fair to Rob, the last time I saw him, he was apologetic and said Real had learned from its past mistakes.Users who missed the burning excitement of those years should have a look atReal ProofandReal Obnoxious, a "rant about Real's fantastically crappy product".Real Proof concludes: "the saddest part of the story, the part which really tears you up, is the fact that Real Networks didn't die an agonizing death when the industry bubble burst." Well, it not only survived, it's now due to collect $460 million in cash from Microsoft.
"Jesse Klein is in no rush to get to the patent office. His invention -- a robot that toasts, butters, pours syrup and spreads whipped cream on waffles - is both ingenious and absurd," reportsThe Daily Heraldin Everett, Wash."Klein's machine toasted the waffle, and a five-pronged mechanical jaw grabbed it and placed in on a plate. A mechanical arm moved the plate from station to station - a butter drop, a syrup squeezer and a whipped cream slatherer. 'I just added whipped cream for the fun of it,' Klein said."
It looks like Nintendo have only gone and done it again. I've had a stack of calls and email from female friends asking me if I had a copy ofNintendogsthat they could "borrow". Tempted in by theadsand the premise of puppy interaction, they are suddenly keen on gaming. And it's genius by Nintendo. They can go on flogging the endless updates that will undoubeteldy follow while getting their DS hardware into the hands of the previously uninterested. Well, that's the theory anyway. Whether these new DS owners will then go out and try something likeZoo Keeper, which should be equally appealing, remains to be seen. In the meantime it's probably worth playing Nintendogs for novelty alone. But be warned, this time next year, as the eighth add-on storms to the top of the charts, you'll be sick of 'em.
TheEntertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Associationis launching a new website entitledAskaboutgames, which seeks to explain the videogames rating system to parents while dispelling a few myths about the industry. As the press release explains:"...there is a lot of misinformation in some sections of the media about the games industry and many parents are concerned about content their children may be exposed to. Many parents are unable to find fact-based information about games and the games industry and as a result may see the industry as corrupting to youthful minds."Unable to find information? Hmmm, how about thePEGIratings clearly displayed on every single videogame sold in Europe? Surely that's a pretty good start. And therein lies the problem with ELSPA's perfectly sensible initiative. The kind of parents who take the time to seek out this website are probablynotthe ones who actually believe those 'videogame industry controlled by Satan' scare stories vomited out by desperate hacks every time they run short on real news. No, they're probably the kind of parents who actually glance at game boxes and think, "oh, this one has a 15 certificate from the BBFC. I deduce, therefore, that this game is not suitable for my seven-year-old son". They are the kind of parents who might actually have a quick go on the game to satisfy their curiosity and concerns.Information requires time and effort – these do not appear to be popular currencies.Anyway, I like the fact that ELSPA is including details on gaining employment in the videogame industry. If parents cannot be persuaded to learn about games they may at least be interested to know that there is money to be made in them.The site has its official launch on December 1st.
To start, go to Yahoo's improved copy of Google's search page athttp://search.yahoo.com/and click on theNewstab. OK so far? Now enter a search term such as [blogging] and click theSearch Newsbutton. Theresults screenshows news stores on the left hand side, but note: there's another column on the right headed "BLOGS BETA 1-4 of 3,229" or whatever. At the bottom of that column, clickMore Blog resultsand you now have aBlog search page.Hey, Yahoo, why not just let me bookmarkhttp://blog.news.search.yahoo.com/or even let meadd a Blogs tabto the Search page? That would be useful.Update:Just received Yahoo's press release headed "News Search Expands To Include Blogs, Flickr Photos and My Web Links, Giving Consumers a Single Source for Mainstream and Grassroots Media," which gives you an idea of the thinking behind it.....Also, AP now has anews story.
The first PSP malware has hit the web, disabling Sony's handheld console.Symantechas reported aTrojanthat, when downloaded and activated, stops the PSP from turning on correctly. If you're infected (and the threat is comparably low and localised) the prognosis isn't particularly good:Symantec is not currently aware of any instructions for restoring the Playstation Portable device to its original condition if it has been compromised.As1Up.comsays, tread gently when downloading things from funny places. The trojan is pitched as a mod that'll allow users to run non-Sony applications.Be warned. More info can be found fromSoftpediaand The Guardian'sTechnology Blog.
Who should run the internet? Until recently it was an academic question. After all, the United States - thanks to public money and (later on) private entrepreneurialism - had been the midwife of the net in the 1960s and had assumed de facto maternal control. But this divine right is now being challenged. Last week the EU proposed new global institutions, possibly under UN control, to replace existing organisations such as Icann which controls the issuing of domain names such as ".com" and the "root servers" critical for the working of the net's infrastructure. This is to be decided at next month's UN world summit in Tunis on the information society, where the US is likely to be in a tiny minority against the rest of he world.It would be wrong to exaggerate the influence of Icann since the internet is by its nature a highly fragmented system that is very difficult to control. But Icann, though nominally independent, is subject to a veto by the US department of commerce which set it up. The Bush administration has made it crudely clear that it will not give up its veto and especially not to a body answering to the UN.It is time the US had a more mature approach. Whatever its origins, the internet is a global phenomenon and that must be reflected in its governance. The US has done immensely well out of its invention since it produces most of the hardware and software that powers the internet. This has been a big factor in the prolonged revival of the US economy during the past decade. Whatever legitimate worries there may be about threats to security under broadened control they must not be used as an excuse to prevent the emergence of a new model of internet governance to reflect its global structure. This need not spell the end of Icann, which has done a good job. It would certainly mean broadening the base of its stakeholders.There is a need for a separate body to deal with global issues such as spamming, child pornography, intellectual property and abuses of democratic rights. The UN would be good for this role, though its bureaucratic structure is not best fitted to run a fast-moving phenomenon such as the internet, nor to deal with political problems including China, which recently forced Yahoo to hand over data that led to the imprisonment of a journalist. China has also been trying to change domain name suffixes to make them inoperable in China. Any new body should have a membership and constitution that reflects the extraordinarily democratic character of the internet, and which also protects it against interference from governments.
The newsbrokelast week when I was on an airplane, but fanboys across the world can now officially breathe a sigh of relief.Lord of the RingsandKing KongdirectorPeter Jackson(Lord of the Geek?) is officially sitting in the Producer's chair of 2007's summer blockbuster adaptationHalo. He and his wife will take the helm with their production company WETA to bring the gritty realism of a Halo world infiltrated by a bunch of angry aliens to the silver screen.I can already hear theMovie Trailer Guysdoing the voice over...Uber-geek question: Does anyone else think that Jackson is the new George Lucas or John Carpenter? His movies are messy in the literal sense, while perfectly polished in the figurative sense. He shows dirt, grime and, in the case of his earliestscreenendeavours, bucketloads of gore. With Jackson at the helm, and in conjunction with28 Days Laterscribe Alex Garland's $1 milllion script, this could be the game adaptation we're waiting for.More thoughts in Thursday'sTechnologysection.
Yes, it is great that Microsoft are releasing the 360 in Europe so soon after the US. It really is. But how many games you will actually be able to buy on Dec 2nd is a moot point. Allard and co wouldn't be drawn last week, and thenewsthat Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter - it's a combat game, obviously - has been delayed until Feb 2006 removes one potential launch title from the list. With X05 showing that first-party titles like Perfect Dark Zero are not quite there yet, you can imagine the caffeine intake at Rare, who are developing PD and Kameo for launch, is going through the roof. Personally I'd rather have a couple of really interesting games at launch rather than 20 rushed or generic efforts.
Is there any useful source of company email addresses on the web? Oh, and what is Yahoo's email address, by the way? Steve CooneyThere's theUltimate Email Directory, which lets you search the main email directories, and the companionUltimate Yellow Pages. But usually, I think, most of us just go to the company's site for email addresses and phone numbers.Web-based companies, of course, generally don't have a company email address, they have tens, hundreds or thousands. And if they have many millions of users, like Yahoo, they may not want to get email from them....
Yahoo seems likely to take a lead in the podcasting market with its newPodcast searchbeta: it looks easy to use, and it's got tagging and community ratings features.Yahoo's press release says you can "Listen directly from the source through Yahoo! Podcasts, with or without an MP3 player, and skim through long podcasts using Yahoo! Podcasts' fast Web-based playback at up to two times the speed of an original recording."According toAP's report: "Yahoo's service is built strictly for listeners. Unlike Odeo's site, Yahoo isn't providing any tools for creating podcasts, although there are plans to do so eventually, said Joe Hayashi, Yahoo's director of product management."
