The Irish government closed part of its genealogy website on Friday, after the country&apos;s data protection commissioner warned that potentially sensitive personal details were available to all.Irish Genealogy, a website created by the Department of Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht, offered people born or married in Ireland the ability to search for civil records such as birth certificates as part of their research into their heritage.But those records contain data such as dates of birth and mothers&apos; maiden names, information which is frequently used as security questions for accounts such as online banking. That information is not legally defined as &quot;sensitive&quot; under Irish data protection law, but the commission stepped in to prevent the data anyway.Billy Hawkes, the Irish data protection commissioner, said his office had been consulted on the site, but that it had not been made clear that the information available would be contemporary as well as historical.“We had been consulted on it in the context of putting on the registers which were over 100 years old – that would be fine. But this was a total shock to us,”he told the Irish Times. The commissioner&apos;s office had not responded to requests for comment at press time.The information contained on the website has always been publicly available, but before online access to civil records was turned on, it had required payment of a fee to get a copy of an individual record. But online, free searches offered the potential of malicious actors bulk downloading data in an effort to match up information with records from other sources.The site, which only launched the search on Thursday 3 July,now notes that&quot;Civil Records Search [is] temporarily unavailable … Further update will be provided.&quot;In March 2013, when the Irish Genealogy site launched, it focused on historical records, offering users the ability to search the 1901 and 1911 censuses.•Theresa May warns Yahoo that its move to Dublin is a security worry
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSClarisketch (Free)It’s unclear whether Clarisketch is a serious workplace tool or a fun messaging app. Perhaps it’s both. You use it by taking photos, then scribbling on them while talking: the app then turns that into a shareable “sketch” that friends or colleagues can watch, even if they don’t have the app themselves.Wiper (Free)There are dozens of messaging apps promising greater privacy for their users, in the wake of last year’s NSA revelations. Wiper is the latest, throwing in voice calls for good measure. You can ping text and photos back and forth, with its schtick being a “Wipe” option to erase whatever you’ve sent to a friend from their phone.Tastemade (Free)For now, you’ll need one of Samsung’s Android devices to run restaurant recommendations app Tastemade. It’s a collection of one-minute videos shot by foodies about their favourite places to eat, with the app used to browse videos of restaurants near you, or shoot and share your own.Wear Camera Remote (Free)Wear Camera Remote is exactly what it sounds like: an app (currently in demo form) to control your smartphone’s camera from your Android Wear-powered smartwatch? “Mount your cell phone on something and use it to take better selfies, group shots, watch a live stream of your kitchen pot,” suggests the developer. A big day for selfie-taking group pot-watchers.Freesat (Free)Brits getting their TV through Freesat satellite dishes now have an Android app to control their set-top box, browsing listings, setting recordings and using their device as a remote control. Design-wise, it takes its cues from other grid-based electronic programme guide (EPG) apps.Dreamstime: Sell Your Photos (Free)If you’re a prolific snapper on your Android smartphone, Dreamstime is one of the services aiming to help you make money from your mobile photography. It’s a stock photos library, with this new app used to register, upload images and track how much (or, yes, how little) money you’re making from them.Watchup: Your Daily Newscast (Free)Watchup is one of a clutch of startups trying to aggregate video news on your behalf, in this case, letting you set the time for, yep, “your daily newscast” to be compiled. It’s simple to use, including editing the topics you’re interested in, with the ability to read related articles for each story a nice touch.Jink Beta (Free)This is interesting, albeit a feature that could be built into existing apps: a two-tap way to share your location with a specific contact. The idea being that when you meet up with them – friends, children, colleagues etc – the sharing stops. Could be useful when meeting in crowded and/or complicated spaces.Sprout Now (Free)One for American parents, this: an official app for NBCUniversal’s Sprout children’s TV channel. The app, which is US-only, enables you to watch full episodes of shows, once you’ve signed in with your cable TV provider details. It’s an easy way to quickly access shows from your Android device.lettrs (Free)I like the principle behind lettrs, even if I’m unsure how much it will catch on. It’s a messaging app, but one that looks a lot more like traditional letters sent through the post – deliberately. Its developers want to “bring back the art of meaningful communications”. LOL, as your parents would say (in a text).Destiny (Free)Destiny is the official companion app for the console game of the same name, released in beta form by developer Bungie for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 recently. You can check on your stats, communicate through forums and private messages, and get news from Bungie on new developments.Roblox for Android.GAMESRoblox (Free + IAP)New to Roblox? It’s big news online, where it has a thriving community of people creating games, and more than 60m people playing them. Now it’s available on Android too, so you can browse and play the games, buy the Robux virtual currency, and chat to friends.Magic 2015 (Free + IAP)This is the latest Android version of deck-building card-battling game Magic, as you gather your deck and battle against AI opponents or real humans online. Experienced hands will likely already know about the new features, but for newcomers, there’s an accessible tutorial to get you up to speed.Guardians of the Galaxy: TUW (£2.91)A sign of mobile gaming in 2014: when a company like Marvel releases a new roleplaying game (RPG) that’s paid rather than freemium, it shouts “NO IN-APP PURCHASES” right at the start of its Google Play listing. Quite the selling point, but the game’s really good too: a deep-but-accessible adventure.Lionheart Tactics (Free + IAP)Back to freemium for Kongregate’s new Android game, although it’s also very good: a tactical RPG where you build a mini-army then send them out to battle foes across 50 different battlefields. You can also play online, with a neatly-handled leagues system to chart your performance over time.Ruzzle Adventure (Free + IAP)Word game Ruzzle has been a big hit on smartphones and tablets, but this is its official sequel for Android. The “Adventure” element sees a Candy Crush / Angry Birds-like structure wrapped around the core “swipe letter tiles to make words” gameplay, as you try to get three-star ratings in the hundreds of levels.Game of Thrones Ascent (Free + IAP)Another RPG, and another game from Kongregate, although this one’s based on one of the biggest TV brands of modern times: Game of Thrones. Your job is to build your reputation, complete quests, put rivals to the sword and – if at all possible – avoid tumbling into the sack with a sibling.Nuts! (Free + IAP)Nuts! is a “vertical endless runner” (i.e. more Doodle Jump than Canabalt) that sees a squirrel leaping upwards through an “Infinitree” completing challenges as he goes. The game was very well received on iOS, and looks impressive on Android too if you’re a fan of the genre. And/or squirrels.Atom Run Premium (£2.49)On iOS, developer Fingerlab makes excellent, inventive music apps. This is its expansion into games though: you race along as Elgo the robot, looking for atoms and molecules. It’s fast, easy to control and driven along by a decent soundtrack – perhaps not the biggest surprise, given the developer.Bug Heroes 2 (£1.18 + IAP)Finally, Bug Heroes 2: a colourful action game based on, yes, bugs. 25 of them, including a waterbug, a “grenade-launching worm” (hmm, that rings a gaming bell…) and a stinkbug. You complete missions, level up your characters, and can choose to play solo or multiplayer with friends.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
With the upcoming release of The Last of Us: Remastered, one of the biggest games of 2013 is coming to the PS4 in a new definitive edition.Out in the UK on July 30, the new edition includes the original game, which follows the journey of Joel and Ellie, as they struggle to survive in a post-apocalyptic world, as well as all previously released add-ons such as the Ellie-focused Left Behind DLC and multiplayer map packs.The whole package has been given a polish for the next-gen console, the frame-rate boosted to a smooth 60fps, and the resolution of character models and textures pushed beyond what the seven-year-old PS3 could handle.&quot;We were at the end of a seven year console cycle, and we were squeezing every damn bit of juice out of that thing,&quot; says Troy Baker, who voiced Joel. &quot;I remember everyone going &apos;I can&apos;t believe how lush this looks, how beautiful it looks.&apos; And it did! And then to see it side by side with where we&apos;re at now is mind-blowing.&quot;To me, what I love most about it is the world played such a character in the story,&quot; Baker continues. &quot;The environment was so much a part of the experience, and to see all of the hard work from the background artists and the layout artists and everything that was involved with the art direction be fully realised the way they originally intended – that&apos;s what I love most about it. There&apos;s some detail and some subtle nuance, there&apos;s so much of the story that was told within the environment, and I love that you really get to see that.&quot;The team purposefully decided to put a limit on the extent of the improvements. &quot;There was a lot of stuff that they wanted to change,&quot; says Ashley Johnson, who voices Ellie. &quot;Every director wants another cut… but if we ended up really tweaking and fixing all the things that we wanted to, we would never stop. We would have ended up making another game.&quot;Baker mentions Ellie&apos;s pathfinding as one avenue of discussion which was halted fairly early on, and Arne Meyer, of Last of Us developers Naughty Dog, adds another. &quot;Definitely our community and our reviewers have docked us a little for some difficulty spikes in the game,&quot; Meyer says, &quot;and that was one where it was like &apos;maybe we should look at that&apos;.&quot;But it&apos;s a slippery slope. Once you change that, what else do you change? That&apos;s when we decided we need to pull back on that and not change it as much.&quot; Meyer cites &quot;a series which I won&apos;t name&quot; as providing a warning sign about the perils of approaching remasters as opportunities to fixed perceived wrongs, but Baker is less circumspect, coughing the name &quot;Star Wars&quot; between words.The mere fact that the team decided not to change the gameplay doesn&apos;t mean the port was a matter of simply redoing the textures and calling it a day, however. Behind the scenes, the two generations of Playstation are radically different machines, something which necessitated building an entirely new engine for the game to run on.&quot;This entire generation of consoles has made great steps in making it easier to code for, but we were taking something so bound to the PS3, so it was a challenge,&quot; Meyer explains. &quot;So much of the advances that we&apos;ve done visually on the PS3 was because we could move our routines over to the SPUs, which is something that doesn&apos;t exist on the PS4. We were able to push our graphics and our lighting so far with that, and now that doesn&apos;t exist, it&apos;s like &apos;how can we recreate that, or make it even better?&apos;&quot;But now that the engine has been made, Naughty Dog is already one step closer to their next game, Uncharted 4: A Thief&apos;s End, due 2015. Every other console generation, the team has struggled to write a whole new engine at the same time as creating its game, but this time it should be different. &quot;This has given us a really great advantage to working on Uncharted 4. It&apos;s had us create a good foundation to start pushing things that we could only do on the PS4, and really delve in to that.&quot;•The Last of Us – review•The Last of Us: Left behind – review•The Last of Us is a brilliant video game. The problem is I&apos;m hopeless at it
Apple has announced the lineup for its next iTunes Festival in London, with music stars including Pharrell Williams, Kylie Minogue and Maroon 5 set to perform at the month-long event in September.Other musicians already confirmed for the festival include David Guetta, Beck, Sam Smith, Kasabian and Blondie. The gigs will take place at the Roundhouse venue in Camden, with more than 60 artists expected to play.As in previous years, the concerts will be filmed and streamed online by Apple, with fans able to watch on their computers, iPhones, iPads and iPod touch devices, or on their televisions via the company&apos;s Apple TV set-top box.Apple is planning to make the live streams available in more than 100 countries, although in a break from previous years, they will be streamed through the iTunes store on iOS devices, rather than through a dedicated app.Tickets will be distributed via the company&apos;s customary online lottery, with fans entering their detailson the festival&apos;s websiteto try to win tickets. Media partners for this year&apos;s event include Global Radio and the Evening Standard newspaper, who&apos;ll be running their own competitions.&quot;These live shows capture the heart and soul of iTunes and we love bringing them to our customers in the Roundhouse, as well as to the millions of people watching all over the world for free,&quot; said Eddy Cue, Apple&apos;s senior vice-president of internet software and services, as the gigs were announced.The announcement of the next London event follows the iTunes Festival&apos;s first international expansion in March, whenApple hosted gigs by artists including Coldplay, Pitbull and Soundgardenin Austin during the SXSW festival.The event was first held in London in 2007, and has since seen more than 430 artists perform. Other artists confirmed for this year&apos;s event include Calvin Harris, 5 Seconds of Summer, Chrissie Hynde, Robert Plant, Jungle and Kiesza.It is also possible that Apple will use the September festival for the UK launch of one or both of its streaming music services, iTunes Radio and Beats Music.Both initially launched in the US only – Beats Music beforeApple agreed to buy its parent company for $3bnin May, with that deal expected to close in the near future. iTunes Radio launched in Australia in February, but neither is yet available in the UK.•7 ways a streaming iTunes could compete with Spotify
Price £94,845MPG 135Top speed 155mphThe A832, which heads west from Inverness before skirting the edges of Loch Maree, is a favourite with vehicle manufacturers keen to show off the capabilities of their newest cars. But these ancient mountains have never seen anything like theBMW i8– a revolutionary plug-in electric hybrid that’s set to change the way we see performance sports cars.A small group of us flew up to Inverness for a first drive in the car, which launches in the UK this week. Glancing out of the aeroplane as we landed we could see the test cars parked on the apron of the runway. Among the old island hoppers and abandoned prop planes on the outfield, the low-slung, curvaceous cars with their unique U-shaped laser lights looked surreal, as if they’d escaped from the set of the latestTransformersmovie.Get closer and they look even more futuristic. The chassis is lightweight aluminium, while the “life module” is carbon. The dynamic material allows designers to make the body any shape they want to. Here, they went for a mass of overlapping contrasts: accents, lines, grooves and angles. You’ll rarely see a motor with more head-turning presence – either in the wilds of the Highlands or the mews of Chelsea. The car I drove was crisp white with bright blue accents. Its aerodynamic smoothness and carved air-flows meant it could have been a chunk of sculpted ice. And, foot down on the sweeping curves of the A832, the car had all the irresistible sweep and cutting-edge of a two-handed Mackenzie claymore.Inside the car, the space-age show continues. The “dihedral” doors swivel upwards at the touch of a button. There’s a digital dash, a separate multifunctional screen and head-up display. The cabin and controls feel fresh and modern without being intimidating. The back seats are tiddly and the boot pretty much nonexistent. What did you expect? It’s a car, not a miracle. Annoyingly the windows don’t drop flush into the door; for arm swingers like me that’s irritating. And getting in and out will be a challenge, if not impossible, if you have a bad back or are pregnant.The scissor doors with the modern yet unintimidating interior.The car is what BMW is calling “born electric” – as opposed to being a traditional car with an electric engine shoehorned in. It certainly feels as if it has all four wheels firmly in the future. It’s aimed atPorsche 911andAudi R8drivers, yet it only has a small 1.5-litre turbo three-cylinder engine. Remarkably, per litre this is the most powerful engine BMW has ever made. Coupled to the 129bhp electric motor that drives the front wheels, the i8 will do 135mpg and produce a laughable 49g/km while thrusting you from 0-62mph in 4.4 seconds. It has a range of 373 miles. It is scarcely believable.The car is packed with intelligent driver aids. You can remotely turn on the aircon with an app on your phone, for instance, or allow the car to use real-time traffic info to select the most efficient drive mode.Halfway through our test drive, we stopped at Gairloch to buy some tablet. “Is that your car, mister?” asked a freckly boy sucking on a lollipop. “No,” I said, “but I wish it was…”Learning to drive?If you are new to driving or have a child who has just passed that critical 17th birthday, you might want to have a look at a new app calledmiDrive. It’s free and it’s estimated it could save you up to £300 on the overall cost of passing your test.The app helps learners find the best user-rated instructors in their area, helps them track their learning using GPS and provides access to a comprehensive library of digital learning materials. The service aims to reduce stress and hassle for the 750,000 people learning to drive each year, it also provides the UK’s 44,000 Approved Driving Instructors a platform for attracting new clients. For more information, go tomiDrive.Driving abroad this summer?With millions of families heading to the continent this summer,Halfordsis advising drivers to plan ahead and pack some glovebox essentials to ensure you don’t get caught out by variations in the motoring laws between countries. They’ve even put together all of the essentials in one handy bag. The Halfords Motoring Abroad Kit includes a warning triangle, first aid kit, headlamp beam adapters, GB sticker and high-vis waistcoat, all for £20 (usual price £29.99). Here’s what you will need for these countries:SpainGlasses wearers are required to carry a spare pair in the car.Motorists should disable the speed camera detector on their SatNavs before setting off as speed camera detectors are banned.Etiquette dictates a flash of the lights before overtaking.In some cities, cars parking on one way streets are required to park on the side of the road with even numbers on even days of the month; and on odd days, the side with odd numbers.PortugalIt’s illegal to run out of fuel on Lisbon’s 25 de Abril bridge – make sure you top up.Indicators are rarely used in Portugal, so take extra care on motorways, dual carriage ways, and when driving alongside parked cars.Some motorways operate auto-tolls. You can buy pre-paid passes from most post offices or you can hire an electronic toll device that charges your credit card when you pass a toll.Don’t forget to turn off speed camera alerts on your SatNav.FranceIt’s compulsory to carry an NF certified breathalyser in the car.It is illegal to overtake a tram when passengers are alighting.Most traffic lights go straight from green to red with no amber.Children under 10 aren’t allowed to travel in the front seat without a special restraint.Don’t forget to turn off speed camera alerts on your SatNav.ItalyIn cities you must park on the same side of the road that you are driving on.Once you commit to a decision stick to it – Italians manoeuvre quickly so hesitation can lead to an accident.Don’t forget to turn off speed camera alerts on your SatNav.GermanyThere is no speed limit on motorways unless visibility is less than 50 meters or it’s snowing, when it becomes 50kmh.It’s illegal to drive while wearing headphones.Tyres need to be changed to suit the season, it’s illegal to use summer tyres during winter months.Traffic coming from the right has priority at junctions and crossroads.In traffic jams cars feed in one at a time from alternating directions – so look both ways.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Once upon a time, 12 years ago to be precise, David Bowie said something very perceptive. "Music itself is going to become like running water or electricity,"he told aNew York Timesreporter. "So it's like, just take advantage of these last few years because none of this is ever going to happen again. You'd better be prepared for doing a lot of touring because that's really the only unique situation that's going to be left. It's terribly exciting. But on the other hand it doesn't matter if you think it's exciting or not; it's what's going to happen."I thought of Bowie and his perceptiveness last week, when – in a rare piece of corporate carelessness – Amazon inadvertently provided a fleeting glimpse of what it has in store for the publishing industry. A new page appeared on its website only to be very quickly withdrawn, but not before it had beencached by Googleand spotted bya hacker website.What was on this elusive page? Why, nothing more or less than an introduction to a new service called "Kindle Unlimited". Subscribers will be invited to "enjoy unlimited access to over 600,000 titles and thousands of audiobooks on any device for just $9.99 a month".One commentatordescribed it as "Netflix for books". David Bowie would doubtless have said that it's the turn of books to become like running water or electricity.Bowie was perceptive because he understood early the implications of ubiquitous connectivity. When Apple first cracked the problem of selling music tracks online, people collected the tracks in little electronic containers called iPods and carried them around, much as tourists in undeveloped countries carried personal supplies of clean water in bottles. But once safe piped water became readily available, the importance of having one's own bottle declined. The same thing happened with online music, which is why we now have services such as Spotify into which subscribers can tap whenever they please (and have a network connection).Kindle Unlimited is based on exactly the same logic. Indeed, it's extraordinary how closely it adheres to the original Apple template: the Kindle e-reader is the equivalent of the iPod; and the Kindle store is the counterpart of the iTunes one. The difference is that Amazon is already working on the next move – making the transition from selling discrete units to streaming – with which Apple has struggled (and which explains whyApple bought Beats– not for its daft headphones but for its streaming music service).Amazon's move will be as discombobulating for the book publishing industry as the advent of Spotify was for the music industry.  Stand by, therefore, for howls of protest from publishers and authors on how streaming produces infinitesimal royalties compared with the old publishing paradigm. All true, and a reminder of Joseph Schumpeter's conception of the waves of "creative destruction" with which capitalism renews itself. Each wave has two dimensions: a creative one in which new possibilities, industries and business models emerge; and a destructive one in which old ways of doing things (including things that were genuinely valuable) are destroyed.The analogy between the Kindle and the iPod is instructive in other ways too. Amazon's device came with networking built-in from the beginning, whereas the iPod relied initially on a physical connection to a laptop or desktop machine for its connection to the online store. And the connectivity of the Kindle has led to some interesting side-effects.  Obviously, users can highlight and annotate passages as they read; but if they so choose they can also opt to see what passages other readers have highlighted, which means that one has the strange sensation of seeing what other people regard as interesting or important in the book one is reading.That's not necessarily great news. Your networked Kindle tells Amazon where you've got to in each book. This is so that if you switch to, say, the Kindle app on your smartphone, you can pick up exactly where you left off. But this also means that Amazon knows not only what you're reading, but even where you've got to. So anonymous reading goes out of the window. And this has led to some ingenious attempts to spot the most unread bestsellersde nos jours[unitalics]. One commentator, for example, claims that Thomas Piketty'sCapital in the 21st Centurycurrently holds that title. But since his gleeful article appears in theWall Street Journal, theMandy Rice-Davies qualificationapplies. He would say that, wouldn't he?
There has been something of a boom in simulating the seemingly mundane over recent years. Truck driving proved popular, and even the needs of ski lift enthusiasts have been catered for. There have been successful parodies too, such asSurgeon Simulator, but until now they've been largely limited to PC and Mac.Farming Simulator 14brings what one might hesitate to call "the party" to Vita, where the business of running a smallholding – harvesting, selling to market and expanding the operation – is compressed into a handheld. Largely focused on operating vehicles and machinery, it ticks along at an agreeably gentle pace, atypical of most contemporary games. Visually,Farming Simulator 14is a shade underwhelming, and its abi lity to communicate with the player is painfully poor. There's little explanation of how to get going, resulting in an excruciatingly protracted start – who knows, perhaps real-life farming start-ups are the same? Persist, and there's a balanced, pleasant distraction tucked deep within the game, but its lumbering pace and lack of polish will limit its appeal to anyone except absolute devotees of a good old virtual mucking out.
Based on the series of comic books by Viktor Kalvachev, Kosta Yanev and assorted artists,Blue Estateis a throwback to the oldon-railslightgungames that were once ubiquitous in arcades. Using the PS4 controller's motion sensors or the Xbox One's Kinect, your pad becomes the gun here, and both allow remarkably precise aiming. You'll have to re-centre the reticule often, however, and while it's a single button press, the required frequency annoys, as does a repetition of locations within levels. Narrated by Roy Devine, Jr, a hapless private dick in Hollywood,Blue Estateis replete with gleeful pulp noir and gangster stereotypes, all given a twist thanks to a dark sense of humour. Dialogue and the occasional fourth wall-breaking bit of screen text keep genuine laughs coming, while the watercolour visuals serve up some highly stylised eye-candy. A solid co-op mode rounds out what is an entertaining but imperfect package.
"Edutainment": a word that makes a generation shudder, haunted by memories of shoddy classroom software trying to "gamify" learning. If only history classrooms hadValiant Hearts, which successfully brings the horror of the first world war home but remains eminently gripping. Despite its animated approach, the game plucks at the heartstrings. Experiencing the opening days of the conflict from the perspective of several characters, players see the human costs of war, intercut with snippets of real-world information or correspondence from the trenches. Hence the edutainment, but here it's more emotional gutpunch than dull lecture. Each character has a particular skill – American soldier Freddie can cut barbed wire, for instance – though most progress is made through relatively simple environmental puzzles. Irritatingly, character outlines become extremely pixellated in close-up. It's only problematic during cutscenes, but thejaggiesreally pull you out of the moment. WithValiant Hearts' strength being in its story, that's a disappointment in an otherwise superb game.
The trend for phablets (phone/tablet hybrids with big screens) is helping titles that would otherwise struggle in the limited environs of a mobile to flourish.Not only do the beautiful, sparse visuals ofFluid SE(iOS/Android/Windows, £1.49, radiangames) take full advantage of a large HD device, such as Nokia's Lumia 1520, but the extra space makes it easier to control.Fluidis all about precision – what at first appears to be a modernPac-Man, as you steer a ship to gobble up golden spheres, soon reveals itself to be a demanding course-racer. Using the stick on the left, players must beat set times to earn stars and progress to more testing tracks. Without the ability to accurately control, it would become impossible, so the extra screen space is a boon. Repetition is key, as learning the best racing line is a must, but nailing the time to earn another star and progress further through the game is simply exhilarating.
On 24 August 1965 Gloria Placente, a 34-year-old resident of Queens, New York, was driving to Orchard Beach in the Bronx. Clad in shorts and sunglasses, the housewife was looking forward to quiet time at the beach. But the moment she crossed the Willis Avenue bridge in her Chevrolet Corvair, Placente was surrounded by a dozen patrolmen. There were also 125 reporters, eager to witness the launch of New York police department's Operation Corral – an acronym for Computer Oriented Retrieval of Auto Larcenists.Fifteen months earlier, Placente had driven through a red light and neglected to answer the summons, an offence that Corral was going to punish with a heavy dose of techno-Kafkaesque. It worked as follows: a police car stationed at one end of the bridge radioed the licence plates of oncoming cars to a teletypist miles away, who fed them to a Univac 490 computer, an expensive $500,000 toy ($3.5m in today's dollars) on loan from the Sperry Rand Corporation. The computer checked the numbers against a database of 110,000 cars that were either stolen or belonged to known offenders. In case of a match the teletypist would alert a second patrol car at the bridge's other exit. It took, on average, just seven seconds.Compared with the impressive police gear of today – automatic number plate recognition, CCTV cameras, GPS trackers – Operation Corral looks quaint. And the possibilities for control will only expand. European officialshave consideredrequiring all cars entering the European market to feature a built-in mechanism that allows the police to stop vehicles remotely. Speaking earlier this year, Jim Farley,a senior Ford executive, acknowledgedthat "we know everyone who breaks the law, we know when you're doing it. We have GPS in your car, so we know what you're doing. By the way, we don't supply that data to anyone." That last bit didn't sound very reassuring and Farley retracted his remarks.As both cars and roads get "smart," they promise nearly perfect, real-time law enforcement. Instead of waiting for drivers to break the law, authorities can simply prevent the crime. Thus, a50-mile stretchof the A14 between Felixstowe and Rugby is to be equipped with numerous sensors that would monitor traffic by sending signals to and from mobile phones in moving vehicles. The telecoms watchdogOfcom envisionsthat such smart roads connected to a centrally controlled traffic system could automatically impose variable speed limits to smooth the flow of traffic but also direct the cars "along diverted routes to avoid the congestion and even [manage] their&nbsp;speed".Other gadgets – from smartphones to smart glasses – promise even more security and safety.In April, Apple patented technologythat deploys sensors inside the smartphone to analyse if the car is moving and if the person using the phone is driving; if both conditions are met, it simply blocks the phone's texting feature.Intel and Ford are workingon Project Mobil – a face recognition system that, should it fail to recognise the face of the driver, would not only prevent the car being started but also send the picture to the car's owner (bad news for teenagers).The car is emblematic of transformations in many other domains, from smart environments for "ambient assisted living" where carpets and wallsdetectthat someone has fallen, to variousmasterplansfor the smart city, where municipal services dispatch resources only to those areas that need them. Thanks to sensors and internet connectivity, the most banal everyday objects have acquired tremendous power to regulate behaviour. Even public toilets are ripe for sensor-based optimisation: the Safeguard Germ Alarm, a smart soap dispenser developed by Procter &amp; Gamble and used in some public WCs in the Philippines, has sensors monitoring the doors of each stall. Once you leave the stall, the alarm starts ringing – and can only be stopped by a push of the soap-dispensing button.In this context,Google's latest planto push its Android operating system on to smart watches, smart cars, smart thermostats and, one suspects, smart everything, looks rather ominous. In the near future, Google will be the middleman standing between you and your fridge, you and your car, you and your rubbish bin, allowing the National Security Agency to satisfy its data addiction in bulk and via a single&nbsp;window.This "smartification" of everyday life follows a familiar pattern: there's primary data – a list of what's in your smart fridge and your bin – and metadata – a log of how often you open either of these things or when they communicate with one another. Both produce interesting insights: cue smart mattresses – one recent model promises to track respiration and heart rates and how much you move during the night – andsmart utensilsthat provide nutritional advice.In addition to making our lives more efficient, this smart world also presents us with an exciting political choice. If so much of our everyday behaviour is already captured, analysed and nudged, why stick with unempirical approaches to regulation? Why rely on laws when one has sensors and feedback mechanisms? If policy interventions are to be – to use the buzzwords of the day – "evidence-based" and "results-oriented," technology is here to help.Come and hear Evgeny Morozov speak at the Observer Ideas festivalThis new type of governance has a name: algorithmic regulation. In as much as Silicon Valley has a political programme, this is it. Tim O'Reilly, an influential technology publisher, venture capitalist and ideas man (he is to blame for popularising the term "web 2.0") has been its most enthusiastic promoter. In a recent essay that lays out his reasoning, O'Reilly makes an intriguing case for the virtues of algorithmic regulation – a case that deserves close scrutiny both for what it promises policymakers and the simplistic assumptions it makes about politics, democracy and power.To see algorithmic regulation at work, look no further than the spam filter in your email. Instead of confining itself to a narrow definition of spam, the email filter has its users teach it. Even Google can't write rules to cover all the ingenious innovations of professional spammers. What it can do, though, is teach the system what makes a good rule and spot when it's time to find another rule for finding a good rule – and so on. An algorithm can do this, but it's the constant real-time feedback from its users that allows the system to counter threats never envisioned by its designers. And it's not just spam: your bank uses similar methods to spot credit-card fraud.In his essay, O'Reilly draws broader philosophical lessons from such technologies, arguing that they work because they rely on "a deep understanding of the desired outcome" (spam is bad!) and periodically check if the algorithms are actually working as expected (are too many legitimate emails ending up marked as spam?).O'Reilly presents such technologies as novel and unique – we are living through a digital revolution after all – but the principle behind "algorithmic regulation" would be familiar to the founders of cybernetics – a discipline that, even in its name (it means "the science of governance") hints at its great regulatory ambitions. This principle, which allows the system to maintain its stability by constantly learning and adapting itself to the changing circumstances, is what the British psychiatristRoss Ashby, one of the founding fathers of cybernetics, called "ultrastability".To illustrate it, Ashby designed the homeostat. This clever device consisted of four interconnected RAF bomb control units – mysterious looking black boxes with lots of knobs and switches – that were sensitive to voltage fluctuations. If one unit stopped working properly – say, because of an unexpected external disturbance – the other three would rewire and regroup themselves, compensating for its malfunction and keeping the system's overall output stable.Ashby's homeostat achieved "ultrastability" by always monitoring its internal state and cleverly redeploying its spare resources.Like the spam filter, it didn't have to specify all the possible disturbances – only the conditions for how and when it must be updated and redesigned. This is no trivial departure from how the usual technical systems, with their rigid, if-then rules, operate: suddenly, there's no need to develop procedures for governing every contingency, for – or so one hopes – algorithms and real-time, immediate feedback can do a better job than inflexible rules out of touch with reality.Algorithmic regulation could certainly make the administration of existing laws more efficient. If it can fight credit-card fraud, why not tax fraud? Italian bureaucrats have experimented with theredditometro, or income meter, a tool for comparing people's spending patterns – recorded thanks to an arcane Italian law – with their declared income, so that authorities know when you spend more than you earn. Spain has expressed interest in a similar tool.Such systems, however, are toothless against the real culprits of tax evasion – the super-rich families who profit from various offshoring schemes or simply write outrageous tax exemptions into the law. Algorithmic regulation is perfect for enforcing the austerity agenda while leaving those responsible for the fiscal crisis off the hook. To understand whether such systems are working as expected, we need to modify O'Reilly's question: for whom are they working? If it's just the tax-evading plutocrats, the global financial institutions interested in balanced national budgets and the companies developing income-tracking software, then it's hardly a democratic success.With his belief that algorithmic regulation is based on "a deep understanding of the desired outcome", O'Reilly cunningly disconnects the means of doing politics from its ends. But the how of politics is as important as the what of politics – in fact, the former often shapes the latter. Everybody agrees that education, health, and security are all "desired outcomes", but how do we achieve them? In the past, when we faced the stark political choice of delivering them through the market or the state, the lines of the ideological debate were clear. Today, when the presumed choice is between the digital and the analog or between the dynamic feedback and the static law, that ideological clarity is gone – as if the very choice of how to achieve those "desired outcomes" was apolitical and didn't force us to choose between different and often incompatible visions of communal living.By assuming that the utopian world of infinite feedback loops is so efficient that it transcends politics, the proponents of algorithmic regulation fall into the same trap as the technocrats of the past. Yes, these systems are terrifyingly efficient – in the same way that Singapore is terrifyingly efficient (O'Reilly, unsurprisingly, praises Singapore for its embrace of algorithmic regulation). And while Singapore's leaders might believe that they, too, have transcended politics, it doesn't mean that their regime cannot be assessed outside the linguistic swamp of efficiency and innovation – by using political, not economic benchmarks.As Silicon Valley keeps corrupting our language with its endless glorification of disruption and efficiency – concepts at odds with the vocabulary of democracy – our ability to question the "how" of politics is weakened. Silicon Valley's default answer to the how of politics is what I call solutionism: problems are to be dealt with via apps, sensors, and feedback loops – all provided by startups. Earlier this year Google's Eric Schmidt even promised that startups would provide the solution to the problem of economic inequality: the latter, it seems, can also be "disrupted". And where the innovators and the disruptors lead, the bureaucrats follow.The intelligence services embraced solutionism before other government agencies. Thus, they reduced the topic of terrorism from a subject that had some connection to history and foreign policy to an informational problem of identifying emerging terrorist threats via constant surveillance. They urged citizens to accept that instability is part of the game, that its root causes are neither traceable nor reparable, that the threat can only be pre-empted by out-innovating and out-surveilling the enemy with better communications.Speaking in Athens last November, the Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben discussed an epochal transformation in the idea of government, "whereby the traditional hierarchical relation between causes and effects is inverted, so that, instead of governing the causes – a difficult and expensive undertaking – governments simply try to govern the effects".Governments' current favourite pyschologist, Daniel Kahneman. Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverFor Agamben, this shift is emblematic of modernity. It also explains why the liberalisation of the economy can co-exist with the growing proliferation of control – by means of soap dispensers and remotely managed cars – into everyday life. "If government aims for the effects and not the causes, it will be obliged to extend and multiply control. Causes demand to be known, while effects can only be checked and controlled." Algorithmic regulation is an enactment of this political programme in technological form.The true politics of algorithmic regulation become visible once its logic is applied to the social nets of the welfare state. There are no calls to dismantle them, but citizens are nonetheless encouraged to take responsibility for their own health. Consider how Fred Wilson, an influential US venture capitalist, frames the subject. "Health… is the opposite side of healthcare," he said at a conference in Paris last December. "It's what keeps you out of the healthcare system in the first place." Thus, we are invited to start using self-tracking apps and data-sharing platforms and monitor our vital indicators, symptoms and discrepancies on our own.This goes nicely with recent policy proposals to save troubled public services by encouraging healthier lifestyles. Consider a 2013 report by Westminster council and the Local Government Information Unit, a thinktank, calling for the linking of housing and council benefits to claimants' visits to the gym – with the help of smartcards. They might not be needed: many smartphones are already tracking how many steps we take every day (Google Now, the company's virtual assistant, keeps score of such data automatically and periodically presents it to users, nudging them to walk more).The numerous possibilities that tracking devices offer to health and insurance industries are not lost on O'Reilly. "You know the way that advertising turned out to be the native business model for the internet?" he wondered at a recent conference. "I think that insurance is going to be the native business model for the internet of things." Things do seem to be heading that way: in June, Microsoft struck a deal with American Family Insurance, the eighth-largest home insurer in the US, in which both companies will fund startups that want to put sensors into smart homes and smart cars for the purposes of "proactive protection".An insurance company would gladly subsidise the costs of installing yet another sensor in your house – as long as it can automatically alert the fire department or make front porch lights flash in case your smoke detector goes off. For now, accepting such tracking systems is framed as an extra benefit that can save us some money. But when do we reach a point where not using them is seen as a deviation – or, worse, an act of concealment – that ought to be punished with higher premiums?Or considera May 2014 reportfrom 2020health, another thinktank, proposing to extend tax rebates to Britons who give up smoking, stay slim or drink less. "We propose 'payment by results', a financial reward for people who become active partners in their health, whereby if you, for example, keep your blood sugar levels down, quit smoking, keep weight off, [or] take on more self-care, there will be a tax rebate or an end-of-year bonus," they state. Smart gadgets are the natural allies of such schemes: they document the results and can even help achieve them – by constantly nagging us to do what's expected.The unstated assumption of most such reports is that the unhealthy are not only a burden to society but that they deserve to be punished (fiscally for now) for failing to be responsible. For what else could possibly explain their health problems but their personal failings? It's certainly not the power of food companies or class-based differences or various political and economic injustices. One can wear a dozen powerful sensors, own a smart mattress and even do a close daily reading of one's poop – as some self-tracking aficionados are wont to do – but those injustices would still be nowhere to be seen, for they are not the kind of stuff that can be measured with a sensor. The devil doesn't wear data. Social injustices are much harder to track than the everyday lives of the individuals whose lives they affect.In shifting the focus of regulation from reining in institutional and corporate malfeasance to perpetual electronic guidance of individuals, algorithmic regulation offers us a good-old technocratic utopia of politics without politics. Disagreement and conflict, under this model, are seen as unfortunate byproducts of the analog era – to be solved through data collection –  and not as inevitable results of economic or ideological conflicts.However, a politics without politics does not mean a politics without control or administration. As O'Reilly writes in his essay: "New technologies make it possible to reduce the amount of regulation while actually increasing the amount of oversight and production of desirable outcomes." Thus, it's a mistake to think that Silicon Valley wants to rid us of government institutions. Its dream state is not the small government of libertarians – a small state, after all, needs neither fancy gadgets nor massive servers to process the data – but the data-obsessed and data-obese state of behavioural economists.The nudging state is enamoured of feedback technology, for its key founding principle is that while we behave irrationally, our irrationality can be corrected – if only the environment acts upon us, nudging us towards the right option. Unsurprisingly, one of the three lonely references at the end of O'Reilly's essay is to a 2012 speech entitled "Regulation: Looking Backward, Looking Forward" by Cass Sunstein, the prominent American legal scholar who is the chief theorist of the nudging state.And while the nudgers have already captured the state by making behavioural psychology the favourite idiom of government bureaucracy –Daniel Kahnemanis in,Machiavelliis out – the algorithmic regulation lobby advances in more clandestine ways. They create innocuous non-profit organisations like Code for America which then co-opt the state – under the guise of encouraging talented hackers to tackle civic problems.Airbnb: part of the reputation-driven economy.Such initiatives aim to reprogramme the state and make it feedback-friendly, crowding out other means of doing politics. For all those tracking apps, algorithms and sensors to work, databases need interoperability – which is what such pseudo-humanitarian organisations, with their ardent belief in open data, demand. And when the government is too slow to move at Silicon Valley's speed, they simply move inside the government. Thus, Jennifer Pahlka, the founder of Code for America and a protege of O'Reilly, became the deputy chief technology officer of the US government – while pursuing a one-year "innovation fellowship" from the White House.Cash-strapped governments welcome such colonisation by technologists – especially if it helps to identify and clean up datasets that can be profitably sold to companies who need such data for advertising purposes. Recent clashes over thesale of student and health data in the UKare just a precursor of battles to come: after all state assets have been privatised, data is the next target. For O'Reilly, open data is "a key enabler of the measurement revolution".This "measurement revolution" seeks to quantify the efficiency of various social programmes, as if the rationale behind the social nets that some of them provide was to achieve perfection of delivery. The actual rationale, of course, was to enable a fulfilling life by suppressing certain anxieties, so that citizens can pursue their life projects relatively undisturbed. This vision did spawn a vast bureaucratic apparatus and the critics of the welfare state from the left – most prominently Michel Foucault – were right to question its disciplining inclinations. Nonetheless, neither perfection nor efficiency were the "desired outcome" of this system. Thus, to compare the welfare state with the algorithmic state on those grounds is misleading.But we can compare their respective visions for human fulfilment – and the role they assign to markets and the state. Silicon Valley's offer is clear: thanks to ubiquitous feedback loops, we can all become entrepreneurs and take care of our own affairs! As Brian Chesky, the chief executive of Airbnb,told theAtlanticlast year, "What happens when everybody is a brand? When everybody has a reputation? Every person can become an entrepreneur."Under this vision, we will all code (for America!) in the morning, driveUbercars in the afternoon, and rent out our kitchens as restaurants – courtesy of Airbnb – in the evening. As O'Reilly writes of Uber and similar companies, "these services ask every passenger to rate their driver (and drivers to rate their passenger). Drivers who provide poor service are eliminated. Reputation does a better job of ensuring a superb customer experience than any amount of government regulation."The state behind the "sharing economy" does not wither away; it might be needed to ensure that the reputation accumulated on Uber, Airbnb and other platforms of the "sharing economy" is fully liquid and transferable, creating a world where our every social interaction is recorded and assessed, erasing whatever differences exist between social domains. Someone, somewhere will eventually rate you as a passenger, a house guest, a student, a patient, a customer. Whether this ranking infrastructure will be decentralised, provided by a giant like Google or rest with the state is not yet clear but the overarching objective is: to make reputation into a feedback-friendly social net that could protect the truly responsible citizens from the vicissitudes of deregulation.Admiring the reputation models of Uber and Airbnb, O'Reilly wants governments to be "adopting them where there are no demonstrable ill effects". But what counts as an "ill effect" and how to demonstrate it is a key question that belongs to the how of politics that algorithmic regulation wants to suppress. It's easy to demonstrate "ill effects" if the goal of regulation is efficiency but what if it is something else? Surely, there are some benefits – fewer visits to the psychoanalyst, perhaps – in not having your every social interaction ranked?The imperative to evaluate and demonstrate "results" and "effects" already presupposes that the goal of policy is the optimisation of efficiency. However, as long as democracy is irreducible to a formula, its composite values will always lose this battle: they are much harder to quantify.For Silicon Valley, though, the reputation-obsessed algorithmic state of the sharing economy is the new welfare state. If you are honest and hardworking, your online reputation would reflect this, producing a highly personalised social net. It is "ultrastable" in Ashby's sense: while the welfare state assumes the existence of specific social evils it tries to fight, the algorithmic state makes no such assumptions. The future threats can remain fully unknowable and fully addressable – on the individual level.Silicon Valley, of course, is not alone in touting such ultrastable individual solutions. Nassim Taleb, in his best-selling 2012 bookAntifragile, makes a similar, if more philosophical, plea for maximising our individual resourcefulness and resilience: don't get one job but many, don't take on debt, count on your own expertise. It's all about resilience, risk-taking and, as Taleb puts it, "having skin in the game". As Julian Reid and Brad Evans write in their new book,Resilient Life: The Art of Living Dangerously, this growing cult of resilience masks a tacit acknowledgement that no collective project could even aspire to tame the proliferating threats to human existence – we can only hope to equip ourselves to tackle them individually. "When policy-makers engage in the discourse of resilience," write Reid and Evans, "they do so in terms which aim explicitly at preventing humans from conceiving of danger as a phenomenon from which they might seek freedom and even, in contrast, as that to which they must now expose themselves."What, then, is the progressive alternative? "The enemy of my enemy is my friend" doesn't work here: just because Silicon Valley is attacking the welfare state doesn't mean that progressives should defend it to the very last bullet (or tweet). First, even leftist governments have limited space for fiscal manoeuvres, as the kind of discretionary spending required to modernise the welfare state would never be approved by the global financial markets. And it's the ratings agencies and bond markets – not the voters – who are in charge today.Second, the leftist critique of the welfare state has become only more relevant today when the exact borderlines between welfare and security are so blurry. When Google's Android powers so much of our everyday life, the government's temptation to govern us through remotely controlled cars and alarm-operated soap dispensers will be all too great. This will expand government's hold over areas of life previously free from regulation.With so much data, the government's favourite argument in fighting terror – if only the citizens knew as much as we do, they too would impose all these legal exceptions – easily extends to other domains, from health to climate change. Consider arecent academic paperthat used Google search data to study obesity patterns in the US, finding significant correlation between search keywords and body mass index levels. "Results suggest great promise of the idea of obesity monitoring through real-time Google Trends data", note the authors, which would be "particularly attractive for government health institutions and private businesses such as insurance companies."If Google senses a flu epidemic somewhere, it's hard to challenge its hunch – we simply lack the infrastructure to process so much data at this scale. Google can be proven wrong after the fact – as has recently been the case with itsflu trends data, which was shown to overestimate the number of infections, possibly because of its failure to account for the intense media coverage of flu – but so is the case with most terrorist alerts. It's the immediate, real-time nature of computer systems that makes them perfect allies of an infinitely expanding&nbsp;and pre-emption‑obsessed&nbsp;state.Perhaps, the case of Gloria Placente and her failed trip to the beach was not just a historical oddity but an early omen of how real-time computing, combined with ubiquitous communication technologies, would transform the state. One of the few people to have heeded that omen was a little-known American advertising executive called Robert MacBride, who pushed the logic behind Operation Corral to its ultimate conclusions in his unjustly neglected 1967 book,The Automated State.At the time, America was debating the merits of establishing a national data centre to aggregate various national statistics and make it available to government agencies. MacBride attacked his contemporaries' inability to see how the state would exploit the metadata accrued as everything was being computerised. Instead of "a large scale, up-to-date Austro-Hungarian empire", modern computer systems would produce "a bureaucracy of almost celestial capacity" that can "discern and define relationships in a manner which no human bureaucracy could ever hope to do"."Whether one bowls on a Sunday or visits a library instead is [of] no consequence since no one checks those things," he wrote. Not so when computer systems can aggregate data from different domains and spot correlations. "Our individual behaviour in buying and selling an automobile, a house, or a security, in paying our debts and acquiring new ones, and in earning money and being paid, will be noted meticulously and studied exhaustively," warned MacBride. Thus, a citizen will soon discover that "his choice of magazine subscriptions… can be found to indicate accurately the probability of his maintaining his property or his interest in the education of his children." This sounds eerily similar to therecent caseof a hapless father who found that his daughter was pregnant from a coupon that Target, a retailer, sent to their house. Target's hunch was based on itsanalysis of products– for example, unscented lotion – usually bought by other pregnant women.For MacBride the conclusion was obvious. "Political rights won't be violated but will resemble those of a small stockholder in a giant enterprise," he wrote. "The mark of sophistication and savoir-faire in this future will be the grace and flexibility with which one accepts one's role and makes the most of what it offers." In other words, since we are all entrepreneurs first – and citizens second, we might as well make the&nbsp;most of it.What, then, is to be done? Technophobia is no solution. Progressives need technologies that would stick with the spirit, if not the institutional form, of the welfare state, preserving its commitment to creating ideal conditions for human flourishing. Even some ultrastability is welcome. Stability was a laudable goal of the welfare state before it had encountered a trap: in specifying the exact protections that the state was to offer against the excesses of capitalism, it could not easily deflect new, previously unspecified forms of exploitation.How do we build welfarism that is both decentralised and ultrastable? A form of guaranteed basic income – whereby some welfare services are replaced by direct cash transfers to citizens – fits the two criteria.Creating the right conditions for the emergence of political communities around causes and issues they deem relevant would be another good step. Full compliance with the principle of ultrastability dictates that such issues cannot be anticipated or dictated from above – by political parties or trade unions – and must be left unspecified.What can be specified is the kind of communications infrastructure needed to abet this cause: it should be free to use, hard to track, and open to new, subversive uses. Silicon Valley's existing infrastructure is great for fulfilling the needs of the state, not of self-organising citizens. It can, of course, be redeployed for activist causes – and it often is – but there's no reason to accept the status quo as either ideal or inevitable.Why, after all, appropriate what should belong to the people in the first place? While many of the creators of the internet bemoan how low their creature has fallen, their anger is misdirected. The fault is not with that amorphous entity but, first of all, with the absence of robust technology policy on the left – a policy that can counter the pro-innovation, pro-disruption, pro-privatisation agenda of Silicon Valley. In its absence, all these emerging political communities will operate with their wings clipped. Whether the next Occupy Wall Street would be able to occupy anything in a truly smart city remains to be seen: most likely, they would be out-censored and out-droned.To his credit, MacBride understood all of this in 1967. "Given the resources of modern technology and planning techniques," he warned, "it is really no great trick to transform even a country like ours into a smoothly running corporation where every detail of life is a mechanical function to be taken care of." MacBride's fear is O'Reilly's master plan: the government, he writes, ought to be modelled on the "lean startup" approach of Silicon Valley, which is "using data to constantly revise and tune its approach to the market". It's this very approach that Facebook has recently deployed to maximise user engagement on the site: if showing users more happy stories does the trick, so be it.Algorithmic regulation, whatever its immediate benefits, will give us a political regime where technology corporations and government bureaucrats call all the shots. The Polish science fiction writer Stanislaw Lem, in apointed critique of cyberneticspublished, as it happens, roughly at the same time asThe Automated State, put it best: "Society cannot give up the burden of having to decide about its own fate by sacrificing this freedom for the sake of the cybernetic regulator."To Save Everything, Click Here: Technology, Solutionism, and the Urge to Fix Problems That Don't Exist by Evgeny Morozov is out now in paperback
If [insert name of car] were a&nbsp;person, they'd be [insert name of person]. It's a game&nbsp;many motoring journalists have resorted to. I did it about aconvertible Audi A3just the other day – said it would be Kate Middleton, basically because it was posh and pretty. (I&nbsp;got a couple of complaints, actually, I think because I was comparing a woman to a car, so today I'm going to do a man, in the interests of non-sexism).I don't think it's such a bad game, to be honest. I mean, you can look at the figures – 0-60, torque, CO2 emissions, length of warranty etc – all day long, but what you really want to know about is a car's&nbsp;personality, what it would be&nbsp;like to live with. Same as with a&nbsp;life partner.So who would the Lexus CT200h be then? Well, me, as it happens. No,&nbsp;wait, go with it. Look at the picture. Attractive, no? Youthful, lean, athletic-looking. And the car, boom boom! Even more so after this&nbsp;face-lift (now I am talking about the car. I haven't done that, yet). Lexus has made 94 changes, apparently. It's a friskier-looking car,&nbsp;especially this F-Sport model, which has bigger 17-inch (phwoar) alloy wheels and – spoiler alert – a&nbsp;spoiler. Plus one of those shark fins on the roof, dur-dum (that's the&nbsp;Jaws music, obvs).The good news continues inside where, as you'd expect from a Lexus, it's lovely and posh and comfy in a classy, understated kind of way. As I am, inside. (I&nbsp;only pretend to be an uncultured oik). And then you press the button and go, and oh…There's no reason you should expect the Lexus CT200h to be a thrilling drive, apart from the way it looks. It's a posh hybrid, basically a Toyota Prius that's been sent to finishing school and had elocution lessons. It's about impressive fuel efficiency and CO2figures, which are indeed impressive. It's about gliding about quietly, comfortably, effortlessly and greenly, perhaps ever so slightly smugly. All of which it does, excellently.But it's hard not to be a teeny bit disappointed, because of its dynamic, sporty appearance. Cancel the Jaws music, it's one of those harmless basking sharks. Or, if you prefer to stay on dry land for your animal metaphors, it is a sheep in wolf's clothing.As am I, according to my own life partner. She saw the dynamic good looks, the sophisticated refinement, the byline in a national newspaper, and thought it would lead to a thrilling ride along the road of life… And she got a Lexus CT200h. Her&nbsp;dad might approve – Hi, Martin! – but she's been a little bit sad inside&nbsp;ever since.Lexus CT200h SportPrice£26,745Top speed112mphAcceleration0-60mph in 10.3 secondsCombined fuel consumption68.9mpgCO2emissions94g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating6/10
Space Agency(Android, iOS)In Space Agency, you build and fly rockets and in the process discover the power and subtle control needed to leave Earth. This puts the “fun” into fundamentals of gravitation.Nooleus, 69pPlundernauts(iOS)You’re a cosmic pirate, pillaging starsystems for their gold and liberating handy bits of space junk to craft new components and weapons for your starship. But like a Pirates Of The Caribbean film, it’s fun for a while but far too repetitive to sustain long-term interest.Backflip Studios, freeOTTTD(iOS)Over The Top Tower Defence blends the usual base-protecting schtick with enemies that explode into clumps of flesh and skeletal matter. Sounds fun, right? But it’s scant recompense for a stodgy game.SMG Studio, £1.99This Means War!(iOS)The App Store gets an almost daily delivery of Clash Of Clans rip-offs, but This Means WAR! is more competent than most. Its modern warfare theme gives access to a wider range of units that includes an airforce, and battles involve a compelling level of strategy.TapZen, freeStar Wars Scene Maker(iPad)Not a game, but a tool for creating your own scenes using characters and backdrops from the franchise. It’s a shame it continually crashes and the paywalls act as joy-destroying Sith lords.Disney, freeCastlestorm(Android, iOS)Winning at CastleStorm involves upgrading your castle and units, sending the right troops into battle, and carefully selecting which ordnance to fling at your enemy’s buildings and minions. As with many free-to-play games, its solid mechanics suffer from being spread over way too many levels.Zen Studios, freeDisco Zoo(Android, iOS)You “rescue” animals and once in your zoo, the little blighters earn money while awake. Annoyingly, they fall asleep every few hours, so you need to get rousing disco party going to wake them up. It’s weirdly mesmerising if hugely morally flawed.Nimblebit, freeTiny Prehistoric Adventure(Android, iOS)In the style of Tiny Thief, but with none of its wit or panache, Tiny Prehistoric Adventure is a voyage back in time controlled with solitary stabs of your index finger, tapping goofy-looking creatures that pop up while helping your astronaut escape its frustrating and poorly designed levels.Alexandre Minard, freeBridge Constructor Medieval(Android, iOS)The original Bridge Constructor wanted you to design the cheapest possible bridge to support cars and lorries across increasingly wide ravines. Its sequel also gets you to build a roof to defend against enemy attack, but despite this addition and new play modes, it’s a much less interesting game.Headup Games, £1.49
The European commission (EC) has praised Google but criticised Apple over the steps both companies are taking to ensure children don&apos;t spend money on in-app purchases (IAP) without their parents&apos; permission.The EC has been working with consumer protection bodies in its member states, as well as app store owners, to improve their policies following controversies and concerns around the use of IAP in apps and games played by children.The commission has set out rules for the app store owners to follow, including not advertising games as &quot;free&quot; and misleading people about the true costs; and banning &quot;direct exhortation to children to buy items in a game or to persuade an adult to buy items for them&quot;.It has also demanded that in-app purchases should not be made &quot;through default settings without consumers&apos; explicit consent&quot;, and insisted that apps firms provide email addresses so that they can be contacted with queries and complaints.Astatement released by the commissionpraised Google for a series of changes that will be put in place by the end of September.&quot;These include not using the word &quot;free&quot; at all when games contain in-app purchases, developing targeted guidelines for its app developers to prevent direct exhortation to children as defined under EU law and time-framed measures to help monitor apparent breaches of EU consumer laws. It has also adapted its default settings, so that payments are authorised prior to every in-app purchase, unless the consumer actively chooses to modify these settings.&quot;Apple, meanwhile, is on the end of some sharp words from the commission over its response since the new rules were communicated at the end of 2013:&quot;Although, regrettably, no concrete and immediate solutions have been made by Apple to date to address the concerns linked in particular to payment authorisation, Apple has proposed to address those concerns. However, no firm commitment and no timing have been provided for the implementation of such possible future changes. CPC authorities will continue to engage with Apple to ensure that it provides specific details of changes required and put its practices into line with the common position.&quot;Apple has lost no time in responding to the criticism with a statement outlining its efforts to prevent IAP abuse – particularly relating to children – in its App Store.&quot;Apple takes great pride in leading the industry in parental controls that are incredibly easy to use and help ensure a great experience for parents and children on the App Store,&quot; a spokesperson told the Guardian.&quot;The parental controls in iOS are strong, intuitive and customisable. And over the last year we made sure any app which enables customers to make in-app purchases is clearly marked. We’ve also created a Kids Section on the App Store with even stronger protections to cover apps designed for children younger than 13.&quot;The spokesperson added that &quot;these controls go far beyond the features of others in the industry&quot; – a clear reference to Google, as well as rival app stores from companies like Amazon, which is beingsued by US regulator the Federal Trade Commissionover &quot;millions of dollars in unauthorized in-app charges incurred by children&quot; on its Android store.•Who is responsible for kids and IAP: Apple, developers or parents?•Freemium games can teach kids how to manage their money•Tech-savvy children abandon the web for &apos;free&apos; mobile playThe European commission is leaving enforcement, including legal action, in the hands of national authorities in its member states. The UK&apos;s Office of Fair Trading has been investigating the issue since 2013, includingpublishing a report outlining best practice for app developers.Earning the trust of parents over in-app purchases is becoming one of the battlegrounds between Apple and Google with their respective app stores and device software.In June, Apple unveiled the next big software update for iPhones and iPads, iOS 8. Due to be released later this year, it willinclude a feature called Ask To Buy, which will require children to get permission from parents before making any purchase on their device.Apple has also launched a series of parental guides to in-app purchases and the settings to restrict them, as well as a feature called iTunes Store Allowance for parents to automatically credit a child&apos;s account with money once a month, to manage their spending.However, in January 2014,Apple also agreed to pay at least $32.5m to consumersto settle its own Federal Trade Commission complaint about children and in-app purchases, providing a full refund to affected parents after the FTC reported &quot;at least tens of thousands of complaints&quot; over iOS apps.Children's games using in-app purchases have sparked interest from regulators.The puzzling aspect to the EC&apos;s specific criticism of Apple – &quot;no firm commitment and no timing&quot; to addressing payment authorisation issues – is that Ask To Buy appears to be exactly that, even if the launch of iOS 8 remains pegged as &quot;autumn&quot; rather than a specific date.With Google praised for promising to put in place some measures already implemented by Apple, the latter is likely to be feeling hard done by over the EC&apos;s criticism. However, European politicians are resolute in their determination to keep up the pressure on both companies.&quot;The commission is very supportive of innovation in the app sector,&quot; said vice president Neelie Kroes. &quot;In-app purchases are a legitimate business model, but it&apos;s essential for app-makers to understand and respect EU law while they develop these new business models.&quot;•It&apos;s time more parents started paying for children&apos;s apps
New research could allow our physical behaviour to be used as a secure way of logging in to our computers and smartphones, a team at the University of Oxford say, claiming that they can also detect when a person is drunk or has had sex.Researchers have identified that every individual creates a unique pattern of physical behaviour including the speed at which they type, the way they move a mouse of the way they hold a phone.About 500 different behaviours are unique to every individual and, taken together, form what they call &quot;eDNA&quot;, orelectronically Defined Natural Attributes. Changes in this string of physical behaviour might even be able to signal when someone has taken drugs, had sex, or if they might be susceptible to a heart attack in three months’ time.&quot;Electronic DNA allows us to see vastly more information about you,&quot; saysAdrian Neal, who developed the technology while studying for an MSc at the university and is now chief executive ofOxford BioChronometrics.&quot;Like DNA it is almost impossible to fake, as it is very hard to go online and not be yourself. It is as huge a jump in the amount of information that could be gathered about an individual as the jump from fingerprints to DNA. It is that order of magnitude.&quot;Oxford BioChronometrics is a startup from Oxford University that with the help ofIsis Innovation Software Incubatoris being transferred into the private sector, or spun out, on 18 July in order to take the commercialisation of the technology to the next stage.Isis Innovationis the technology transfer company of Oxford University. Biochronometrics is the measurement of change in biological behaviour over time.&quot;It is easy to tell when someone has been taking drugs using this technology,&quot; says Neal. &quot;But it would place us in a difficult situation if we did. So it’s best we don’t. We just want to collect the data to make sure that x is who x says they are.&quot;This eDNA will eventually be used to allow an individual to login on any computer or mobile device, Neal explained, by confirming their identity.David Scheckel, president of Oxford BioChronometrics, says that eDNA would be able to spot whether a click on an advert or a site is from an automated program, or so-called bot, or a real human. &quot;We can hold companies like Google and Facebook to account ,and they know this technology is coming,&quot; he said.Oxford BioChronometrics&apos; own research suggests that 90-92% of clicks on adverts and 95% of logins are actually from bots. Their first product NoMoreCaptchas which stops spam bots from registering and logging on has already quietly been rolled out to 700 companies.Adrian Neal, a former cryptographic expert, said the eDNA project has its roots in several decades&apos; worth of research including biometrics, which can measure keystrokes or mouse movements, but these were thought to be too insecure to use as a login principle.As computing power, along with the ability to gather large volumes of information from users, researchers were able to identify much broader and more complex patterns of interaction with their devices.Prof Chris Mitchellof theInformation Security Group at Royal Holloway, is more sceptical that eDNA will reach the mainstream. &quot;Using different factors to prove your identity online is always good,&quot; he says, but believes consumers won&apos;t be happy to be continuously assessed in this way. &quot;It may also add to the cost and inconvenience of business as companies’ own software will likely have to be rejigged.&quot;&quot;But there will also be resistance by customers if you find your behaviour monitored, a little bit of pushback,&quot; he added.
The Data Retention and Investigatory Powers (Drip) bill that yesterdaycleared the House of Lordswill make companies holding UK citizens’ communications data far more attractive to criminal hackers, a security expert has warned.This will likely be a long-term consequence of the law as it will spread the UK’s data across the world, said Dr Adrian Davis, cybercrime expert and European director of (ISC)2, an association of information security professionals.Davis raised concerns about clause 4 of the bill, which extends the territorial reach of UK surveillance powers by making it clear foreign firms holding UK citizen data can be served with a warrant to hand over information.The government chose to add the clause as the current law only has an “implicit extraterritorial effect” and “some of the largest communications providers” based outside of the UK have questioned whether the legislation applies to them.But this will lead to storage of data in more locations around the world, thereby increasing the chance hackers will be able to access it, Davis said, adding that companies storing the information may not have the same quality of security as those within the UK.“Because of the extraterritorial reach in the Drip bill, it requires foreign internet service providers, who may be providing webmail services to British citizens (think of the expats living in Spain or Florida and using national ISPs for example), to store data about those British citizens in data or storage centres outside the jurisdiction of the UK Data Protection and other relevant Acts,” Davis told the Guardian.“As a result, we don’t know how that data is stored, processed, accessed or protected … Hackers may view foreign ISPs storing British citizens’ data as a ‘soft target’ – the levels of protection may be different and the penalties for stealing or compromising data could be lower.”Davis also claimed that organisations within the UK will also become more attractive to criminal hackers thanks to the proposed update of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which currently governs how surveillance by UK agencies can be carried out.AHouse of Commons&apos; standard note about Dripindicated any company that provides &quot;webmail&quot; services will have to retain data, thus increasing the volume of data they have to store and thereby increasing the number of enticing targets for criminal hackers hoping to get their hands on troves of data, he said.Some security experts disagree, however. Prof Alan Woodware from the department of computing at the University of Surrey said the data that companies are being forced to retain may not actually be that attractive to malicious hackers.He said that the metadata that the government wants to have stored includes who spoke to whom, when and from where – not the actual content of the communications.“User IDs I suppose could be of interest but without passwords is that really going to tempt hackers? I’d expect hackers to be more interested in fuller data sets,” said Woodward.“But, I suppose also there will be someone who tries to do this to make a point. The point however is that they could do it before Drip, and the fact that Drip is now in place simply means they continue to have the same opportunity, if indeed it exists.”Richard Clayton, security expert from the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory, agreed it was unlikely hackers would put more effort into breaching ISPs as a result of Drip. But it may lead to more journalist attempts to illegally acquire interesting communications data, he added.“What does seem plausible is that journalists will bribe insiders for the data. A list of mobile phone calls performed by Mr Cameron over the past week or so might be very interesting,&quot; said Clayton.&quot;But lots of this data is held for a short period anyway - so the increased risk comes from being able to look back 12 months for this information.&quot;Despite claims Drip would simply reaffirm the status quo, lawyers and human rights activists have pointed out that clauses 4-5 of the bill extend the government’s reach to US and foreign companies and increasing the kind of web services for which intercept warrants can be issued.“In our view these clauses should be deleted entirely,” said Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group. There is also a heated debate over whether the bill has been rushed through without proper debate about its implications.•Drip: sceptical, misleading and an affront to democracy
Facebook is testing a “buy” button placed on adverts for products which would allow users to purchase products directly from the ads without leaving the social network.The button will be visible from adverts on the desktop and mobile app versions of Facebook, as well as product page posts from brands, and connect the user directly with the retailer.The "buy" button as it will appear in Facebook's mobile apps. Photograph: Facebook“We’ve built this feature with privacy in mind, and have taken steps to help make the payment experience safe and secure,” Facebook saidin a blog post. “None of the credit or debit card information people share with Facebook when completing a transaction will be shared with other advertisers, and people can select whether or not they’d like to save payment information for future purchases.”The test is limited to a few small- and medium-sized businesses in the US, and is expected to help both merchants and users. When a user clicks on an ad within Facebook for a product they would like to purchase it currently sends them to an external site.Facebook launched a store for goods in 2012, but pulled the plug on the venture in 2013 after lacklustre engagement from users with gift cards the most popular users.Twitterimplemented a “buy” button this year, allowing users to buy products directly from ads, while Amazon added the ability to put items to a shopping cartdirectly through tweets in May.It is unknown whether the Facebook “buy” button test will be rolled out to UK users in the near future.•Facebook apologises for conducting &apos;emotion contagion&apos; study on unwitting users
Microsoft has shut its Xbox Entertainment Studio, the divisionset up in February 2013to create original televisual content for Xbox One and other platforms. The corporation is in the process of a major cost-cutting plan, which will cut 18,000 jobs across the entire company.In a memo to employees,reported by industry site MCV, Xbox chief Phil Spencer confirmed that the studio would be closing but added that current projects would be completed.A documentary series named &quot;Signal To Noise&quot; about the history of Atari, a live-action Halo TV series and the Halo: Nightfall web series that accompaniesthe release of the Halo: Master Chief Collection, will all be completed. It&apos;s doubtful, however, whether the Halo television series will go into another season.Also safe is Quantum Break, a much-anticipated &quot;transmedia&quot; project, which combines an action adventure game from developer Remedy Entertainment with an interconnected TV series.In a statementreleased to US news site Polygon, a Microsoft spokesperson said, &quot;[Quantum Break] will be released next year and the game and show both remain on track. The news of Xbox Entertainment Studios has not impacted our progress.&quot;Since Satya Nadella took over as Microsoft CEO in February, there has been consistent speculation that he might jettison the Xbox division in its entirety to cut costs. However, the executive has confirmed in several interviews thatthe division is safe.Microsoft has always envisaged Xbox One as a multimedia hub and made live television and video-on-demand services a key focus during its press event to announce the console last May. In his memo Spencer stated, “Xbox will continue to support and deliver interactive sports content like &apos;NFL on Xbox,&apos; and we will continue to enhance our entertainment offering on console by innovating the TV experience through the monthly console updates.&quot;Increasingly, console manufacturers have been considering the model of developing original TV content, which has been explored successful by Netflix and Amazon. At the E3 games event in June, Sony announced that it would be developing a TV series for PlayStation owners, based around the Marvel comic, Powers.Xbox Entertainment Studios is reported to have employed 200 staff and had ambitious plans, butaccording to news site Re/Code, insiders claimed that the business model was not working:Sources paint a picture of a disorganized studio that struggles to close deals and lacks a fully fleshed-out business model. This inability to execute has turned off potential studio partners, they say, complicating the process of securing premium content.Microsoft is due to reveal more details of its ambitious Quantum Break project at the Gamescom gaming exhibition in Cologne in August.•Microsoft to cut 18,000 jobs in deepest cuts in tech giant&apos;s history•Microsoft reveals Xbox One – as it happened•Jam tomorrow for Xbox One&apos;s TV dreams?
The Open Rights Group (ORG) is taking the government to court to try to block the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers (Drip) bill, which wasrushed through parliament on Tuesday.The bill cleared Commons, despite 56 MPs opposing the deal between the three main parties.TheORG believes that it can stop the billcoming into force, on the basis that it countermands a European court ruling that blanket data retention is unlawful and violates the right to privacy, breaching human rights.Jim Killock, director of the ORG, said: “The government has ignored a court judgment, ridden roughshod over our parliamentary processes and denied the public the debate they deserve. But people do care about their privacy and they do care about government stitch-ups.“Blanket data retention is unlawful and we will fight against this legislation. Our message to Theresa May is: see you in court,” he said.The ORG believes that Drip breaches the European convention on human rights, the European charter of fundamental rights and the UK’s human rights Act.&apos;Powers and capabilities that exist today&apos;The home secretary, Theresa May, said that Drip was needed to put into law “powers and capabilities that exist today” that were hindered by the European court of justice ruling in April that said that blanket data retention is unlawful and violates the right to privacy.A group of senior academics labelled Drip as &quot;a serious expansion of the British surveillance state” that is in potential breach of European law, in anopen letterto the full House of Commons prior to the bill being passed.&quot;If we delay we face the appalling prospect police operations will go dark, that trails will go cold, that terrorist plots will go undetected,” May warned. &quot;If that happens, innocent lives may be lost.”&apos;Democratic banditry resonant of a rogue state&apos;But the Labour MP Tom Watson labelled the passing of the bill as “democratic banditry resonant of a rogue state&quot;, saying &quot;parliament has been insulted.”The ORG is meeting with lawyers to work out the best way to take the government to court, but is open to working with any other group that is willing to help.It is putting out a call for members to help support the fight against Drip, pushing its participation in the defeat of the &quot;snoopers&apos; charter&quot; andAnti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (Acta)as evidence of what can be accomplished.•UK’s Drip law: sceptical, misleading and an affront to democracy
It’s hot and sticky. Too hot and sticky. And Britain being Britain, air conditioning in the home is about as common as a great crested newt. Dyson’s answer is a desk fan like no other, with a price tag to match.TheDyson Cool AM06is no ordinary fan; it has no visible blades whirring to propel air around the room.Instead the fan uses a turbine-like system in the base that sucks air in, firing it up to a big ring mounted above.The ring directs the air forward with force, amplifying the airflow. Aturbofan jet engineworks in much the same way.The result is a steady stream of air, projected straight out of the ring with seemingly no moving parts. Dyson claims this steady flow is an improvement over traditional bladed fans because there’s no “choppy” airflow or the turbulence created as the blades spin.Quieter mark IIAir is drawn in at the base and fired out via the ring. Photograph: DysonThe AM06 is the second iteration of theoriginal Air Multiplier design, the AM01 released in 2009. It now has a timer and a remote that docks magnetically on top of the fan ring. But the biggest upgrade is on noise – a major downside of the old design which sounded much like the company&apos;s noisy AirBlade hand driers.Some desk fans can make a real racket. The Cool is 75% quieter than the AM01 by Dyson’s claims and in my testing I found it significantly quieter than my £50 bladed desk fan – which you’d hope it would be, given the £200 price difference.Dyson also spent time tuning the sound to be more pleasantusing a “Helmholtz acoustic cavity”, which dissipates sound energy as the air rushes in and around the turbine. It makes the machine quieter, specifically targeting sounds in the 1,000Hz range, which are the most irritating, and won the Noise Abatement Society’s Quiet Mark award for technology that makes modern life quieter and less noisy.On low levels, around the one to three out of 10 mark, the fan is particularly quiet and sounds like a quiet laptop fan. As the power is cranked up it does get louder, but the noise isn’t annoying and easily blends into the background. At full power, I struggled to hear the TV at normal listening volumes, but it was still quieter than a bladed fan at full blast.The fan can oscillate, while the whole thing tilts up or down by 20 degrees to provide a breeze where you need it.The fan being testing in Dyson's acoustic labs. Photograph: DysonLess distracting while up close and personalThe biggest benefit over a cheaper fan isn’t the timer or the remote, which is very handy when you’re trying not to sweat on the sofa in front of the TV watching Wimbledon, it’s the reduced distraction the Cool causes compared to a bladed fan.The Cool can be much closer to your face and body without being distracted by whirring blades, while its quiet operation can be masked by the fans of your computers. You pay a hefty premium for that reduced distraction, of course.VerdictThe Dyson Cool AM06 is certainly a great, technologically advanced fan. It’s quiet, less distracting, can be remotely controlled and has a handy timer with LED display.At close quarters as a desk fan it is effective, but its power wanes when trying to blast air across a room; Dyson sells larger and even more expensive fans for that purpose. It is also still a fan – it won’t actually cool the air it’s blasting at you, just move it around.But it is best-looking fan I’ve seen and its deceptively simple ring a talking point, while the lack of visible spinning blades makes it the safest to have around children. (Whether you’d actually let children anywhere near a £250 fan is another question.)At £250, you pay a significant premium of at least £200 for the style, technology and relative silence of the Dyson Cool. Whether that’s worth it depends on how much you care about your desk fan.•The best BBQs reviewed: Britain gets a taste for &apos;low and slow&apos; cooking
Google&apos;ssecond quarter financial resultsrevealed further growth for the internet giant, as its revenues rose 22% year-on-year to $15.96bn. The company&apos;s net profits were up 5.9% to $3.42bn.Google&apos;s own sites accounted for $10.94bn of its revenues in the last quarter, with advertising on other sites generating $3.42bn. The company also highlighted the growth of its Google Play store for apps, music, video and ebooks.The &quot;other revenues&quot; category in Google&apos;s financial results was up 53% year-on-year to $1.6bn, with chief financial officer Patrick Pichettetelling analyststhat &quot;digital sales of apps and content in our Play Store drove the year-over-year growth&quot; for that part of Google&apos;s business.His colleague, chief business officer Nikesh Arora – who is about to leave Google for a new job at SoftBank – added that &quot;Google Play continues to grow at breakneck speed across all types of digital content&quot;.He also pointed to the announcement during the recent I/O developer conference thatGoogle had paid out more than $5bn to Android app developersin the last year alone. &quot;Clearly, it is a growing business for us as well.&quot;Another point of interest from Google&apos;s financials was the company&apos;s growth in the UK, where revenues jumped 22% year-on-year to $1.6bn, compared to 12% growth in the US to $6.6bn.The fastest growth came from the rest of the world, though, where Google&apos;s revenues rose 31% to $7.7bn for the second quarter.YouTube was prominent during Google&apos;s earnings call with analysts, although Pichette declined to comment on a recent claim by technology site The Information thatthe online video service made $3.5bn in 2013.&quot;We don’t comment on outside estimates,&quot; he said, although Arora was keen to talk up YouTube&apos;s growing business attracting advertising from big brands.&quot;Whereas digital used to be just one channel, today’s brands are putting digital at the centre of the brand building campaign,&quot; he said.&quot;We see this from our clients as well and video seems to be the linchpin of the strategy. YouTube continues to be driven by the insanely popular channels from some of our top content creators like Breakout hit Epic Rap Battles of History and new sensation Vice News.&quot;Arora also hailed the impact of an initiative launched in April called Google Preferred, which packages together the most popular YouTube channels and sells ads across them up front, in the same way that traditional TV ads are sold.He said that advertising agency groups Digitas and Omnicom, as well as brands like General Motors, Coca Cola, Universal Pictures and Adidas have all signed up for the initiative.&quot;Our monetisation model in YouTube is working. It’s a phenomenal model. It is now the linchpin of each of our brand strategies if our partners and advertisers want to come work with us to create brand campaigns,&quot; said Arora.&quot;YouTube allows you to actually target a fragmented set of interests in a most efficient fashion, as opposed to try and do burst advertising that you would do in television and broadcast.&quot;Analysts were keen to find out how Google&apos;s efforts to fund more original content on YouTube – it&apos;s rumoured to bein talks with various Hollywood studios and independent producersto offer $1m-$3m towards new YouTube-only projects – might dovetail with its Google Fiber business, which has made Google a broadband ISP in 34 US cities.The potential is for Google to effectively become a cable TV provider, except with the channels coming from YouTube as well as traditional networks. &quot;Bandwidths will continue to increase. People’s appetite for bandwidths will continue to grow up,&quot; said Pichette.&quot;It’s clear that people will consume content more and more in a non-linear fashion. And its clear that content will come from different places, not just the traditional mechanisms of cable and television.&quot;Meanwhile, Pichette warned analysts not to expect Google&apos;s more experimental projects, including self-driving cars, to make lots of money in the near future.&quot;In some cases like self driving cars, obviously multi-year... we think of kind of half decade, sometimes even a bit longer before... you can get kind of real momentum on revenue and profitability,&quot; he said.•FBI warns driverless cars could be used as &apos;lethal weapons&apos;
Hideo Kojima is sitting in a bunker somewhere in the belly of Los Angeles Convention Centre’s booming South Hall. It is a bunker in the literal sense: the space is dressed as a command room, with a metallic studded table and khaki drapes dangling from its cardboard walls. It&apos;s a reference to the military locales that have dominated the Metal Gear series – the hugely popular stealth adventures that Kojima has been overseeing for 25 years. This bunker is also a retreat, away from the flash and boom of the E3 show floor, where tens of thousands press, developers, publishers and salespeople jostle for a glimpse of the next big thing in video games.Kojima’s forthcoming project, Metal Gear Solid: The Phantom Pain, is, if not the next big thing, then a sizeable event. Ever since the 1998 instalment Metal Gear Solid, which re-imagined playground game hide-and-seek as a 3D military infiltration sim, this series has been a major fixture on the video game schedule. Set in a convoluted world of warring special agents and arcane secret services, the highly cinematic adventures mix high-tech robotic weapons with tense interpersonal drama – sort of Robotech meets 24, with a cast list that&apos;s almost Shakespearean in its range of interlocking feuds and friendships.With Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain, Kojima appears to have contemporarised the series for the next-gen consoles. There’s the loose structure that allows the player, taking on the role of decorated US operative Venom Snake, to tackle its series of open-world missions in a variety of dynamic ways. There are also the controversial themes, which have already been clearly demonstrated in a playable taster of Metal Gear Solid V released earlier in the year, Ground Zeroes, in which players rescued orange jumpsuit-wearing terror suspects from a Guantanamo-esque camp. What is Kojima trying to say?Not so solid nowLast time we met, the famed designer was in a breezy mood, winking out from beneath his sweeping fringe to discuss his childhood movie-making endeavours and the consternation of his parents at his final chosen profession. But that was during the formative days of The Phantom Pain’s development (after we spoke that time, he beckoned me over to look at a video of a virtual girl in her underwear on his phone, exquisitely rendered and lingeringly presented in the game’s graphical FOX engine – such naïve days).Today he appears haggard, compressed by a day of group interviews with journalists from around the world, hungry for details he can’t yet give. But it’s more than that. Kojima seems tired from the unique pressure of developing a blockbuster video game in 2014, the pressure of being a small god, setting the rules and dimensions of a world, then filling it with detail, plot, consequence and, in this game’s case, commentary.“I try to do as much as possible myself,” he tells me, hunched over the table, eyes darkened with jetlag. A silent employee from the game’s publisher films us with a camera mounted on a tripod off to the side: even the PR team is run like a military unit. “I develop the design and construction of the environments and I set the theme and topic from the game and work to ensure that it fits with the game systems. That all has to come from me as the vision holder.” Nevertheless, he admits that, since Metal Gear Solid (which he wrote alone) he has worked alongside smaller teams, split up to handle plot, scenarios and the reams of chatter that occur between enemy soldiers and Snake and his remote team.Those themes have always been somewhat scattershot. Kojima seems just as comfortable making scatological jokes as he does commenting on nuclear proliferation in his games, even if the resulting tone is uncomfortable and uneven. With Ground Zeroes he escalated the stakes by taking aim at North America’s contemporary policies towards terror suspects. “In the past the US was the centre of the world, where everything was happening,” he says. “I think my stories have always sought to question this, maybe even criticise it. But the situation is changing. America is not seen as the centre of the world any more. So the focus of my stories is shifting alongside with that change in the real world.”It’s a diplomatic answer, but Ground Zeroes is not an especially diplomatic video game. Its incarcerated terror suspects kneel in wire cages, bound at the hands and feet with blinding sacks over their heads. As you hoist them on to Snake’s shoulder and sprint to the evacuation helicopter, some break down in tears either through fear or relief. It’s grimly political. “[Guantanamo] was definitely something that I made decision to address in the game,” Kojima says. “Hollywood continues to present the US army as being the good guys, always defeating the aliens or foreigners. I am trying to shift that focus. These movies might not be the only way to view current affairs. I am trying to present an alternate view in these games.”Comedy, cinema and politicsFor some, the game’s ground level visual humour undermines Kojima’s loftier political commentary ambitions. In The Phantom Pain enemy soldiers, supplies and even animals can be airlifted back to Snake’s base via an air balloon tied to an ankle that comedically jerks them into the air. Kojima counters the concerns elegantly. “With a movie it’s probably easier to sustain intensity and seriousness over the 90-minute duration,” he says. “But in an open-world game it becomes exhausting, demotivating and even uninteresting for the player. In order to avoid that fatigue, I try to interrupt that heaviness with visual jokes in the world, something to provide the player with some comic relief and change the mood dynamically.”Kojima is often portrayed as a frustrated film director. He has said that part of the reason he joined Konami in the late 1980s was because of the lack of opportunities in the Japanese film industry. But today he is adamant that he makes games due to the unique opportunities the medium presents for narrative and systems to work in concert. “I love movies but if I was to create a film I’d use different methods,” he says. “I make games. That’s what I do. So I think about ways that I can use the game systems to reinforce my story, or do things that simply aren’t possible in other media.”He offers the example of Snake’s military base in the forthcoming game. “The message is anti-nuclear weapons,” he says. “But it’s not just about shouting that message at the player.” Instead, he makes the point through non-written means. “Through the game, the player is motivated to make a base and build up their military centre. But at some point, when it reaches a certain size, the world begins to take notice and, in that sense, you become the threat. Countries begin to attack you.&quot;At this point I give the player the option to think about acquiring a nuclear weapon, in order to deter these attacks, a kind of threat. It illustrates the cycle of nuclear weapons, what inspires people and nations to enter into that system. It’s something that you can only really do in video games.”The problem with narrative gamesThere are, however, major challenges that remain for storytellers such as Kojima. “In games it&apos;s very difficult to portray complex human relationships,” he says. “Likewise, in movies you often flit between action in various scenes. That’s very difficult to do in games, as you generally play a single character: if you switch, it breaks immersion. The fact that most games are first-person shooters today makes that clear. Stories in which the player doesn’t inhabit the main character are difficult for games to handle.”Kojima’s games traditionally rely heavily on so-called cutscenes, film-like segments of drama that intersperse the game’s interactive sections. But with The Phantom Pain he hopes to move away from this emphasis, onto the kind of storytelling exemplified by titles such as Gone Home and Dark Souls, in which the player must piece the narrative together from scraps of information and objects that they discover. “The player is able to flesh out the detail and background of the game by discovering and listening to cassette tapes,” he says. “It’s a different way to develop story but one that is arguably, more impactful: the player puts it all together in their mind.”These creative decisions are, unusually for the creator of a big budget blockbuster, seemingly Kojima’s to make without counsel or compromise. The Metal Gear series is the cornerstone of publisher Konami’s business, on which the company’s continued success rides. As such, Kojima is afforded the position of auteur. Even here, in the riot of E3, the staff around him whisper and tiptoe.But unquestioned power can bring with it creative stagnation. I ask Kojima whether he has lost some of the fire that, in his untested early days, drove him to make games to prove his detractors wrong. “I agree that it’s far easier for me to get my plans approved these days,” he says. “The company is much more willing to take risks on me and my ideas. But that might be the only thing.”He argues that his pride to create specific kinds of works to the highest quality remains unchanged after more than two decades. “That desire is pretty much the same as when I started out,” he says. But there are other responsibilities that have come including the grim realisation of the financial responsibility he carries. “The biggest difference might be that I now have the role of producer as well as director. I’m forced to think about the business side of things too. When I was just creating games, I didn’t even have to think about budgets. I didn’t care whether a game was a financial success or not.”Innocence dies at the hands of experience: so it is for the kidnapped, for the terror detainee, for a tentatively post-nuclear nation and, as he quietly frets in his bunker, for this wearied game director.Metal Gear Solid: The Phantom Painis due out on PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One in &quot;early 2015&quot;.•Hideo Kojima: video game drop-out – interview part 1•Hideo Kojima: video game drop-out – interview part 2•Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes review
The UK’s new Data Retention and Investigatory Powers (Drip) law, which went from announcement to enactment in eight days, is a complete abomination. Everything about the process – and here, process is critical – is an affront to democracy, to the rule of law, to the rights of British and global citizens, and even to the erstwhile ends of national security.The completely unsatisfactory process involved the announcement last Thursday that the three main party leaders had been working in private towards supporting a bill that wasn’t yet public, followed by a three day fast-track process through the Commons and Lords, an overnight afterthought on human rights compliance, vague and uncoordinated attempts at amendment, and a government reshuffle and countless other matters to distract and detract.What Drip represents is the absence of true political leadership and an utter failure to engage in an open, mature, public debate about the clash between privacy and security online.The debate shouldn’t be between blanket, universal data retention and no retention at all, as it was misleadingly cast. It should be about retention that is necessary and proportionate.Instead of engaging with what it termed an “emergency” – that, months ago, theEuropean court of justice, theEuropean parliament, theUnited Nations, communications providers, civil society organisations, and other governments clearly stated that blanket, indiscriminate data retention and mass surveillance infringe human rights and are not necessary and proportionate – parliament pushed that debate, those rights and, in the long-run, that data, underground.As Martha Lane Fox said in her speech to the Lords, with uncharacteristic gloom: “Theweb I wantseems to be disappearing,”she said. “Addressing the ECJ ruling and planning this bill far earlier could have been an extraordinary opportunity to instigate a wide-ranging and sophisticated review about the future, a review which carefully considered the implications of data collection, the role of surveillance, and the trade-off between privacy and security.“Instead, we are being catapulted into legislation that builds on the badly understood and arguably dysfunctionalRipalegislation. This bill sets a precedent from which, even with reviews and a sunset clause, I believe it will be hard to row back. I sincerely hope that we do not regret it.”The clash between privacy and security goes to the heart of the kind of society we want to live in. It has been shown that governments and corporations routinely collect, retain, and process the most intimate details of our connected personal lives.What kinds of limits and safeguards exist on that data collection and data retention?What limits and safeguardsshouldexist?By outright depriving us of that debate – and by doing so with such obvious propaganda (“emergencies”, paedophiles, terrorists, and crooks at every turn), deception (“status quo” and “clarifications” masking naked extension of interception powers and extraterritorial reach), and hypocrisy (the UK can no longer meaningfully criticise surveillance conducted under more repressive regimes) – Drip may be so bad that it is almost, perversely, good.What possible good is there here? The problem with the privacy/security debate, like many of our great challenges, is that laziness favours the bad.We all know that lazy needs to stare down its bloated, weak, and depraved reflection before it is stirred into action. And Drip is part of that ugly reflection. It might be just a glimmer; a fleeting mirage, but it is significant.If government fails to lead, respect, and restrain, it is a call to action – an appeal to us all, to technology, to society.To quote again Lane Fox: “Public trust is at an all-time low and I fully understand why. We ignore people’s anxiety at our peril.”By making such a comprehensive mockery of the processes of public consultation and proper parliamentary scrutiny, Drip in all its disappointment should seed scepticism, anxiety, and restless distrust. It may be part of the nudge we need to compel the masses from their desk-chairs and to start reclaiming the web we want.Julia Powles is a researcher in law and technology at the University of Cambridge. Find her on Twitter @juliapowles•The byzantine, meandering discussion on the future of the internet
Nokia&apos;s MixRadio streaming music app is spinning off as a standalone company, as part ofdeep cuts announced by its new parent company Microsoft.MixRadiowill continue to be preloaded on smartphones running Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone software, but it will also have the freedom to explore other platforms like Apple&apos;s iOS and Google&apos;s Android.&quot;Basically, we’re planning a spin-off,&quot; said MixRadio chief Jyrki Rosenberg.&quot;I’ve been meeting with potential investors around the world in the last few weeks. We have very strong interest from investors in the US, Europe and Asia, and we remain open for further discussions.&quot;MixRadio launched in 2011 as an app called Nokia Music, preloaded on Nokia&apos;s first Windows Phone handsets.Rather than Spotify-style &quot;on demand&quot; access to streaming music, the app offered a collection of themed playlists – a feature called &quot;Mix Radio&quot; – curated by an in-house team at Nokia.The basic app has always been free to use with no advertising: Nokia saw the app as a selling point for Lumia smartphones, rather than a direct moneymaker in its own right.In early 2013, though, the company added an option to pay £3.99 a month for better audio quality, the unlimited ability to skip tracks and cache playlists on the smartphone, and a web version to access it on non-Nokia devices. The app was also rebranded as MixRadio, after its most popular feature.On Windows Phone, MixRadio is available in 31 countries. Nokia has never published details of how many people are using it, although Rosenberg said the app currently has &quot;millions of happy customers&quot;.As an independent company, MixRadio will now have the freedom to launch on Android and iOS, which between them have a huge share of the smartphone and tablet market.&quot;The opportunity in this kind of setup is vast, and it’s much greater than what we’ve been able to benefit from today,&quot; said Rosenberg, while declining to enlarge on the company&apos;s plans beyond Windows Phone.There are plenty of competitors. The biggest personal radio service is Pandora, which is only available in the US, Australia and New Zealand. It has more than 250m registered users, although a more accurate measure of its popularity is the 77m active listeners it reported in May.In the UK, there is also BlinkBox, the Tesco-owned personal radio service that launched in 2013, and hassince registered more than 1m users.MixRadio&apos;s biggest competition, however, will come from the on-demand streaming services like Spotify, Deezer, Rhapsody/Napster and Beats Music, which all have personal radio features as part of their apps.The fate of Microsoft&apos;s own Xbox Music streaming service following the company&apos;s cuts remains unclear.Rosenberg said that MixRadio is spinning off because Microsoft&apos;s entertainment strategy is shifting towards working with a variety of external partners rather than running its own services.That shift has already led to plans toshut down Xbox Entertainment Studios, Microsoft&apos;s division for commissioning and producing original TV shows for its Xbox One console, which may not bode well for Xbox Music.•Microsoft kills Nokia X Android smartphones after four months
Microsoft is terminating its Nokia X smartphone line that was firstreleased in Barcelonain February, powered by Android.The company inherited the Android-powered smartphones as part of its acquisition of Nokia’s handset division, which closed earlier this yearfollowing a regulatory delay.&quot;In the near term, we plan to drive Windows Phone volume by targeting the more affordable smartphone segments, which are the fastest-growing segments of the market, with Lumia,” said Stephen Elop, Microsoft’s head of mobile devicesin an email to employees on Thursday.&apos;We expect to make this shift immediately&apos;&quot;In addition to the portfolio already planned, we plan to deliver additional lower-cost Lumia devices by shifting select future Nokia X designs and products to Windows Phone devices,” said Elop. “We expect to make this shift immediately while continuing to sell and support existing Nokia X products.”“This builds on our success in the affordable smartphone space and aligns with our focus on Windows Universal Apps,” Microsoft chief executive Satya Nadella added in a statement.Short-lived feeder systemThe launch of Nokia X Android devices was designed to bring the cost of Microsoft smartphones down in cost, aimed squarely at the developing world in markets like India. It used the open source parts of Android combined with Microsoft’s apps and services, instead of Google’s.“We’re bringing all our expertise to bear to connect the next billion people to the internet. The Nokia X family will introduce the next billion people to Microsoft and act as a feeder system for our Lumia smartphones,” Elop, then Nokia chief executive said at the time.Microsoft will also discontinue Nokia’s Asha brand of feature phones and Nokia’s MixRadio music service,will be spun off into a separate company.•Microsoft cuts 18,000 jobs in the deepest cut in the tech giant’s history• This post was updated at 0920 18 July to reflect the news that Nokia MixRadio will be spun off not close as originally indicated.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDDoS attacks intensified in first half of 2014 &gt;&gt;&gt; CNETThe largest reported attack in the second quarter was an NTP reflection attack at 154.69Gbps, launched against a Spanish target. NTP reflection attacks use address spoofing to overwhelm a target with requests. Such attacks while still significant were more prevalent in the first quarter than the second, according to Arbor. Average NTP traffic volumes are also falling back globally.That&apos;s a heck of a lot of bandwidth.EU Regulators Invite Google, Microsoft to Discuss &apos;Right to Be Forgotten&apos; &gt;&gt;&gt; WSJOne flash point is Google&apos;s refusal to remove name-search results from its main Google.com search engine. It prefers to make a narrower removal of name searches in the European versions of its search engine, such as google.fr or google.co.uk. That position has already raised hackles with regulators in Germany and elsewhere, privacy officials have said.The &quot;right to be forgotten&quot; certainly has some way to go before it&apos;s crystal clear what it really means, and what search engines have to do about it.Tomorrow, We Scream for Ice Cream! &gt;&gt;&gt; UberFor £20 you get 5 Mr Whippy ice creams and branded Uber goodies - you can request higher multiples of ice cream if you wish, all you need to do is ask!So you can pay £4 for a Mr Whippy, but at least Uber will bring it to your door.Inside Look: Imgur Reveals Redesign, Announces Plans for a Convention &gt;&gt;&gt; Betabeat&quot;We know that Imgur is huge in terms of scale, but don&apos;t recognize Imgur as a community that&apos;s come so far in the last few years,&quot; Tim Hwang, Imgur&apos;s Head of Special Initiatives, told Betabeat. &quot;The meetups show that they appreciate us, but they&apos;re also a sign of what&apos;s to come.&quot; So what&apos;s to come? The Imgur team wants to ramp up to a major convention, but won&apos;t have the details ready until as late as December, though they claim it will be &quot;something no Internet community has ever done before.&quot;By some measures, Imgur is bigger than Reddit, yet the company has few employees, little attention, is run on a shoestring and only took external investment for the first time this year. Could that be about to change?Fly like Peter Pan over London Town with the Google Maps 3D update &gt;&gt;&gt; Pocket-lintUsing the 43-degree angled satellite imagery, Google has crafted a 3D model of London for both Google Maps and Google Earth. The centre of the city at least looks spectacular and you can fly past or stare longingly at many well-known landmarks as well as streets off the beaten path.Something to do if you&apos;re bored Friday lunchtime.Police trial facial recognition software that can ID suspects &apos;in seconds&apos; &gt;&gt;&gt; TelegraphAlthough none of those cases have yet come to court, and the results of the searches are not directly admissible as evidence, officers believe that the system will dramatically speed up investigations. The system can even find family members of the suspect, narrowing down the search even if the person is not themselves in the police database.Narrowing down by family members? Criminals can run, but they can&apos;t hide.Killzone: Shadow Fall adds farting, planking DLC &gt;&gt;&gt; Digital SpyThe latest Killzone add-on pack doesn&apos;t add traditional fodder such as guns, items, maps or abilities, but instead lets players pay money to pass gas.Truly, this is the end of days.What do Google searches tell us about our climate change fears? &gt;&gt;&gt; SpringerLang specifically checked how often, when and where citizens in 205 cities in the US used the search terms &quot;global warming,&quot; &quot;climate change&quot; and &quot;weather.&quot; The terms &quot;drought&quot; and &quot;flood&quot; were also included because increases in these natural phenomena are important predicted impacts of climate change... Lang found that search activity increased when extreme heat was felt in summer, when no rain fell over extended periods, and when there were fewer extreme cold snaps in winter. Such weather fluctuations are consistent with projected climate change.Google Trends basically lets researchers see what it would be like to be psychic.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Microsoft is embarking on the deepest cuts to its workforce in its 39 year history, axing 18,000 jobs over the next year, as it absorbs its newly acquired Nokia phone business and takes out layers of management.The new boss of the US company is cutting one in seven of the tech giant’s 127,000 global workforce as it attempts to integrate the Finnish business it acquired in April for $7.2bn.Satya Nadella, the firm’s chief executive for just five months, first hinted at job cuts last week when he outlined plans for a leaner business. That led to speculation about sweeping job cuts, but expectations underestimated the 18,000 job losses announced yesterday, which propelled the tech giant’s shares to their highest level since the dotcom boom in 2000, gaining 1.5% to $44.84.The cuts will mostly come from Nokia, which added 25% more staff to the Microsoftworkforce. Until now, the largest round ofredundancies in Microsoft history was in 2009, when it cut 5,800 employees.“My promise to you is that we will go through this process in the most thoughtful and transparent way possible,” Nadella said in an open letter on Thursday.Nokia’s former chief executive Stephen Elop, who is now vice-president for devices at Microsoft, sent a lengthy letter to staff which began with “hello there” and was peppered with management jargon such as “ramp down”, “right-size” and outlining a desire to “help people ‘do more’”.It is only in the final paragraphs that Elop acknowledges 12,500 professional and factory workers will be axed from Nokia’s devices and services division. “These decisions are difficult for the team, and we plan to support departing team members with severance benefits,” said Elop, who received a controversial £16m payoff from Nokia before signing up to join Microsoft.Nadella said 13,000 staff would receive redundancy notifications in the next six months. All will receive severance pay and some will receive job placement services.It was not clear where in the world the axe will fall, but the cuts could begin with 1,350 redundancies in Seattle. When Nokia was acquired by Microsoft, the Finnish phonemaker operated 130 sites in 50 countries. Including those, Microsoft runs 717 sites across 114 countries.Nadella said the cuts were caused by the absorption of Nokia into the larger organisation and because he intended to embark what as described as “work simplification”.“It’s important to note that while we are eliminating roles in some areas, we are adding roles in certain other strategic areas,” he said. He did not offer details about what new positions might be added.“The overall result of these changes will be more productive, impactful teams across Microsoft … We will simplify the way we work to drive greater accountability, become more agile and move faster,” he said, indicating there would fewer layers of management.The exercise will cost between $1.1bn and $1.6bn over the coming 12 months.The Nokia deal had been set in train by the former Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer as a way to move into mobile devices, an area that has not traditionally been a strong one for Microsoft.Other technology companies are also wielding the jobs axe to cut costs and focus on new internet-based technology. Hewlett Packard, for instance, is cutting 50,000 staff from its 250,000 workforce.In April, Nadella and Elop emphasised growth in emerging markets, and aimed to provide the “next billion” people with their first phones – potentially worth $50bn a year.“The vast majority of people do not have, nor will they ever have a personal computer,” Elop said. “And so there are literally billions of people who can be exposed to Microsoft for the very first time.”Nadella took the reins from Steve Ballmer in February, and wrote last week’s 3,200-word letter to employees that emphasised the importance of cloud computing and mobile devices.He is only the third boss of the business since it was created by Bill Gates, who was succeeded by Ballmer. Many saw the memo as foreshadowing cutbacks, but the size of the cuts was unexpected. Analysts had predicted more than 6,000 job cutsMicrosoft is due to publish its results on 22 July, when more details of the job cuts are expected.
The founder of secure file storage service SpiderOak says the company has seen both traffic to its site and signups increase by 50 per cent since Edward Snowden&apos;s revelations about US government surveillance in June 2013.Ethan Oberman, CEO and founder ofSpiderOak, said the service had enjoyed &quot;sustained and continued growth&quot; in the past year, as consumer and business awareness of privacy and security has increased.&quot;Privacy is a right, not a privilege,&quot; Oberman told the Guardian, saying that it is important that private services are usable for the mainstream, with privacy more of a hidden benefit. &quot;The hard part is letting privacy disappear into the background so that the user doesn&apos;t feel – bridging those two things is very complicated.&quot;SpiderOak, which has offices in San Francisco, Chicago and Kansas City, offers secure file storage that encrypts users&apos; files before they are sent to the SpiderOak server. The files cannot be decrypted or accessed in plain text without a unique key, or long number string, which only the user has.&quot;Snowdenhas used a term we began using seven years ago, this concept of &apos;zero knowledge&apos; – the idea that the server does not know what it is storing. Customers are paying you for the service and you, as the intermediary, cannot access that plan text data.&quot;Oberman said that not every element of Spideroak is open sourced – made available for the security community to audit – but that that balance is difficult for a commercial company. &quot;That&apos;s an additional element to trust with a certain segment of the community, but if the idea is to push security mainstream, many people don&apos;t care or have enough knowledge to understand an audit report.Zero knowledge states an intention to structure a business in a certain way from the beginning he says; Spideroak has also developed an open source application framework calledCryptonthat can be used by any developer to build secure applications.&quot;Trust is a lot about the intention of the business,&quot; he said. &quot;Zero knowledge states your intention from the beginning - it&apos;s very different strain in thinking about monetising a business; how are companies charging their userbase? Are they reselling their users&apos; data on the advertising market?&quot;The question might be &apos;will you pay $1 month more for a chat application that actuallyisprivate?&apos;&quot;Oberman said SpiderOak is often asked about the boundary between the right to personal privacy, and privacy that may protect illegal activity such as child abuse material.&quot;It&apos;s a very complicated issue and everybody in society believes these people need to be brought to justice,&quot; he said. &quot;But at its core I do believe privacy is a right. We all need to feel comfortable with a document stored online or a conversation between friends – these things need to remain private, because if not it could represent a very scary place to live.&quot;History is littered with times when bad people have abused holes in legislation – the ability to surveil has been abused many, many times. If they were never abused we wouldn&apos;t be having this conversation.&quot;Asked what the future should hold for Snowden, whotold the Guardian on Thursdaythat if he ends up in US detention in Guantánamo Bay he can live with it, Oberman said he deserves a fair trial.&quot;Snowden has raised awareness of a critical issue we all need to be aware of, and once that&apos;s out of the bottle ... that&apos;s it. Whatever happens to him, this is not going to go away as a mainstream issue,&quot; he said.&quot;I&apos;m not in a position to say how history will judge him. But I do think he should have a fair trial. He has the right to have his case heard, and both sides have a right to stand up and tell it. I hope he gets to stand up and tell it.&quot;
How not to cut 12,500 jobs: send your staffa windy 1,100-word memo that starts "hello there", proceeds to torture its readers with phrases like "appropriate financial envelope" and then finally mentions job cuts about two-thirds of the way through.Did Stephen Elop, formerly boss of Nokia but now Microsoft's executive vice-president of devices and services, ask anybody to read this stuff before he pressed "send"? One assumes not because a well-intentioned colleague would have told him to cull at least one of the two uses of the phrase "the finest of Microsoft's digital work and digital life experiences" in the first three paragraphs.The worst of it, of course, is the time it takes Elop to get to the job cuts. When he does, he devotes just two sentences to the subject – 12,500 posts at Nokia will go as the Microsoft takeover is completed and there will be severance benefits. Then he's back to banging on about "iconic" tablets and "new interaction models".At Nokia, Elop became famous for writing a memo that compared the company's position to that of a man on a burning oil platform. His bosses didn't like it but at least it caught the reader's attention.This latest dispatch is jargon-heavy management bluster. Apple and Samsung have nothing to fear.
Edward Snowden has warned against the cloud storage service Dropbox which he says is &quot;hostile to privacy&quot;, and called for more services to offer the &apos;zero knowledge&apos; which have no decrypted access to user data.Snowden pointed out that Dropbox had appointed former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to its board in April 2014.&quot;Dropbox is a targeted you know wannabe PRISM partner,&quot; hetold the Guardian.&quot;They just put … Condoleezza Riceon their board… who is probably the most anti-privacy official you can imagine. She&apos;s one of the ones who oversawStellar Windand thought it was a great idea. So they&apos;re very hostile to privacy.&quot;Cloud companies need to pursue the zero knowledge system, he said, where they host and process content on behalf of customers without having access to it themselves.&quot;By depriving themselves of the ability to read the information, of the ability to sort of analyse and manipulate the information without the customers&apos; consent or authorisation, that&apos;s the only way they can prove to the customers that they can be trusted with their information,&quot; he said.&quot;Spideroak has structured their system in such a way you can store all of your information on them with the same sort of features that Dropbox does, but they literally had have no access to the content. So while they can be compelled to turn it over, the law enforcement agencies still have to go to a judge and get a warrant to actually get your encryption key from you.&quot;Spideroak, which was founded in Illinois in 2006, is one a group of tech companies offering a zero knowledge service for its customers, who use it to store documents, images and videos.Much like its larger rival Dropbox, Spideroak offers online storage for individuals and businesses. But because the service encrypts users&apos; files on their device before they reach the Spideroak servers, it claims no one at the company can decode them.Only the user, with their unique key – an extremely long, unguessable number – can decrypt the files again. This technique means that data can&apos;t be at risk from internal or external hackers, and any government would have to request access by issuing a warrant to the user for their password.
Could you be allergic to your iPad?It&apos;s unlikely, but it&apos;s an issue which has raised its head in a recently-released report, which said nickel in the first-generation version of the iPad may have triggered an allergic skin reaction in an 11-year-old boy.The report, published by the American Academy of Pediatrics this week, centred around an 11-year-old boy treated at a San Diego hospital for an initially unexplained skin rash. Dermatologists Dr Sharon Jacob and Dr Shehla Admani studied the reaction for six months before discovering the boy was allergic to nickel.According to the report, the boy&apos;s iPad, which was a first-generation version of the gadget, tested positive for nickel and the rashes subsided when the boy began using an iPad cover.Reuters reports that Apple has defended the safety of its products. In a statement, the company said: &quot;“We have found that allergies like the one reported in this case are extremely rare.&quot;Apple products are made from the highest quality materials and meet the same strict standards set for jewellery by both the US Consumer Safety Product Commission and their counterparts in Europe.&quot;Being allergic to nickel is fairly common and mostly affects people when it comes to jewellery and zippers. This report acknowledges contact dermatitis has been previously linked to laptops and phones, but not to iPads.Over to you: have you ever been allergic to technology? Whether it&apos;s physical or just an aversion to tech (we understand Twitter isn&apos;t for everyone …) let us know your tech allergies in the comments below.
A picturesque village in Provence. Fields stretch out as far as the eye can see. The sun glints among ancient farm buildings. Nothing stirs.And then suddenly, amid a cloud of dust and the whine of super-charged, engines a Lamborghini Huracán shoots out of a dust track, closely followed by a Nissan GT-R. The cars clip the edge of a field, smash through a wooden fence and disappear into the distance. Welcome to Forza Horizon 2.Set throughout southern Europe, the latest open-world racer from Leamington-based studio Playground Games, takes us along the Cote D&apos;Azur and down into Italy, through the north of the country and on to the Amalfi coast. &quot;It&apos;s colourful, it&apos;s bright, it&apos;s uplifting, this is one of the most beautiful areas in the world,&quot; enthuses the creative director, Ralph Fulton. &quot;There are great vistas, wonderful landscapes, great driving roads, and we&apos;re capturing it all in 1080p.&quot;And it does look rather beautiful. Scorching through rural backroads, edging along coastal routes – it&apos;s sort of a modern Ridge Racer in the way it celebrates the landscape. &quot;The secret to next-gen beauty is not about poly counts or textures, it about light,&quot; continues Fulton. &quot;The way light moves, the way it bounces, the way it effects every surface differently – glinting from the body of a super car, reflecting back at you from puddles …&quot;&quot;We&apos;ve simulated the Earth&apos;s atmosphere&quot;Behind it all is the Forza 5 engine, built from the ground up for Xbox One – though locked to 30 frames-per-second in this title it seems. But then, with its open environment, Horizon has more to do than the main Forza titles with their neat, delineated circuits. Playground is also throwing in a dynamic weather system, which can lead to spot showers at any point in a race, as well as a day/night system. &quot;We&apos;ve simulated the Earth&apos;s atmosphere,&quot; says Fulton. &quot;we&apos;ve modeled the number and type of particulates, because the way that light moves through these particles determines the colour of the sky.&quot;There is plenty more graphics titillation. The team has modelled the absorbancy on different surfaces to work out how they look and feel during and after rain. Puddles form and dry up in real-time.In terms of driveable play space, the landscape is three times larger than the world in the original Horizon.Handling seems at this stage to be forgiving but still authentic enough to provide a challenge, and plenty of thrills. There&apos;s an element of late-era Codemasters in it; a propensity toward over-steer (depending on the model of course), but approachable enough that you&apos;re not flatlining into barriers every five seconds. Lots of people were worried about the prospect of driving exotics through wheat fields, and yeah, it&apos;s strange that your Huracán, which probably has the ground clearance of an ant, can hit dirt tracks and keep going. But then, I like the fact that Horizon 2 is valuing exploration and experimentation over stark realism.This extends into the 700 or so events dotted around the map for players to find. Some of these involve crazy stuff like racing against steam trains or an 150ft cargo plane as it zooms in to land. More conventionally, there are point-to-points, street races and circuits as well as hill climbs and cross country events. Playground reckons it&apos;s more than 100 hours of content.The skill system is back from Horizon, rewarding players for driving stylishly – cool drifts, near misses, the usual stuff. These points can then be spent on perks which give you subtle advantages: Fast Travel lets you whiz instantly between distant points on the map, while XP Everywhere, earns you extra points in every mode of the game.The game retains its festival setting, with each player&apos;s solo world constantly connected online, allowing you to join friends with one button press. There&apos;s also a Club feature, allowing you to set up gangs to compete together and new Car Meet areas inviting players to stop and chat with other gamers via Kinect or a headset. Playground imagines a sort of harmonious community of petrol heads swapping tips and livery designs – but let&apos;s see if that holds up against the average online player&apos;s propensity toward griefing and insults.The return of the DrivatarsThe studio has also employed the Drivatar system from Forza 5, which learns how you drive and then uses that information to create an AI version to represent you online when you&apos;re not around. This will also turn up in your friends&apos; games, so in theory, everyone competes against people they know, rather than robotic AI drivers.Updated for Horizon&apos;s open setting, the Drivatars now learn not just how your drive, but also how you use the landscape. In a demo at E3, Fulton shows us a race against the drivatar of Playground&apos;s lead game designer, Martin Connor; we see his McLaren P1 taking a shortcut along a separate path – &quot;this is a shortcut that Martin himself would have taught the Drivatar while playing the game,&quot; says Fulton. &quot;It opens up a cool emergent feature – if you&apos;re driving around and happen across the Drivatar of a friend you could follow that car and discover any secret routes or items that they have discovered. Your friend is actually helping you asynchronously.&quot;Over 200 car models in the game including extreme offroaders, muscle cars, hot hatches.Due out in September, Forza Horizon 2 will be the first in a trio of racing games looking to explore the social capabilities of the next gen machines. DriveClub, Sony&apos;s major rival to Horizon, is out in October with Ubisoft&apos;s intriguing The Crew following in November. All are making dramatic claims about how they&apos;re going to change the genre, about seamless drop-in and drop-out competitive play, and about forming groups of players into driving guilds. These are interesting times.With its Forza heritage and undoubted good looks, Horizon has a confident foot jammed on the accelerator. We&apos;ll need to spend much longer behind the wheel to know if the feel matches the theory.•Forza Horizon 2 is released on Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 30 September•Forza Motorsports 5 – review•Forza Horison – review
“Your call may be recorded for training purposes.” There can be few more depressing phrases in modern life. In just two days, a recording of a call that’s likely to be used for training purposes for decades to come has been listened to more than 4m times.It’s a conversation between tech journalist Ryan Block and Comcast, his internet provider. All Block and his wife wanted to do was cancel their subscription. The Comcast representative had other ideas. After 10 minutes, in which the rep had become “straight up belligerent”, Block began recording. What follows is eight excruciating minutes of Block repeatedly attempting to disconnect, and the Comcast representative demanding to know why he should want to.“I’m just trying to figure out here what it is about Comcast’s service you’re not liking,” the rep demands. “This phone call is actually an amazing, representative example of why I don’t want to stay with Comcast,” Block replies. And so on, in myriad permutations. At one point Block even asks: “Are you punking me?”Block subsequentlyposted the recording on Soundcloud, and the story has spread like wildfire across Twitter and news networks, immolating Comcast’s reputation in the process. “This was Guantanomo-Black-Ops-site-style verbal waterboarding!” wrote one Twitter sympathiser, while other comments praised Block’s restraint, and testified to similar experiences. Now Comcast has contacted Block directly to issue a cringe-inducing apology: “We are using this very unfortunate experience to reinforce how important it is to always treat our customers with the utmost respect.”.@Ryanwe are sorry &amp; embarrassed by what happened. We&#39;re determined to be better.  We clearly have more work to do.http://t.co/keQQM14KKr&mdash; Comcast (@comcast)July 15, 2014Block has kept the employee’s identity secret and asked that he keep his job, but the episode lifts the lid on the dynamics of “retention departments” – the places where calls from departing customers are routed. The “retention specialist” on the other end is invariably paid according to performance. The more customers they lose, the lower their pay packet. It’s a thankless, low-paid job that inevitably generates tedious, adversarial encounters and a general increase in global misery. If you feel sorry for the caller, imagine what it’s like for the guy on the other end having to do that all day, every day. As Block put it:1/ I want to publicly reiterate my asking@Comcastnot to terminate the rep. My first job was in tech customer service. Not fun. Further...&mdash; Ryan Block (@ryan)July 17, 20142/ It&#39;s clear the rep had a strong incentive (or threat) not to disconnect our service, and felt an inappropriate level of pressure.&mdash; Ryan Block (@ryan)July 17, 20143/ It belies a dysfunctional system that pits call center reps + customers against one other for the benefit of the company.&mdash; Ryan Block (@ryan)July 17, 2014But now, at least, the issue is out in the open – thanks to the same technology that caused all that grief in the first place (with a little help from its human custodians, admittedly). And there’s nothing like really, really bad publicity on a global, viral scale to change company practice. What the episode also teaches us is how faceless corporate behemoths can have their weapons turned against them.So next time, before you engage in phone combat with your truculent service provider, remember to state clearly and robotically: “Your call may be recorded for shaming purposes.”
Kim Kardashian&apos;s income in 2013 was$28m according to Forbes, which is a pretty startling statistic. But not as startling as claims this week that the reality TV star could earn $85m in 2014 from her official mobile game alone.Celebrity news website TMZ is the source for the latter number, claiming that Kardashian will get 45% of the net profits forKim Kardashian: Hollywood, which was released for Android and iOS in late June.TMZ&apos;s sources on the terms Kardashian&apos;s business contracts are likely to be strong, but the $85m figure is still based on speculative maths, to say the least.&quot;The game – Kim Kardashian: Hollywood – is set to gross a reported $200 million this year alone. We&apos;re told the actual expenses associated with the business are relatively low. A straight 45% cut of $200 million totals a whopping $90 million. Industry sources tell TMZ ... expenses would not exceed $10 million.So ... we&apos;re no mathematicians, but 45% of $190 million is $85.5 MILLION FREAKING DOLLARS.&quot;It&apos;s logical enough, but note the &quot;reported $200 million this year alone&quot; figure. This is drawn froma report by Bloomberg last week, and an estimate from a single analyst – Cowen &amp; Co&apos;s Douglas Creutz – that the game&apos;s annual revenues may reach $200m.Not this year, then – annual revenues of $200m would suggest a little under $100m for the game in 2014 – so more like $40.5m for Kim, which is still a mightily-big number.The game is certainly proving popular and lucrative. At the time of writing, it&apos;s the fifth top-grossing iPhone app in the US, albeit 22nd in the same rankings for iPad.In the UK, it&apos;s third and 13th respectively on those charts. It&apos;s firmly inside the top 10 grossing Android apps too in both countries.The game&apos;s publisher, Glu Mobile,provided its shareholders with a trading updateyesterday (16 July) announcing that not only had Kim Kardashian: Hollywood beaten its previous single-day revenue from a single game (Deer Hunter 2014), but that it had beaten that record in 16 of the last 18 days.(Glu hasn&apos;t given the actual figures involved, but as a guide, Deer Hunter 2014 averaged$304k a dayin the last quarter of 2013, and$191k a dayin the first quarter of 2014. Its single-day revenue record will be higher than the first of those figures, then.)Kim Kardashian: Hollywood.To make $200m in a year, Kim Kardashian: Hollywood would need average daily revenues of $548k. That&apos;s certainly not a ridiculous goal: one of the top mobile games publishers, Supercell,averaged $2.44m a day in 2013when it only had two games available.So yes, Kim Kardashian is making a lot of money from her official mobile game, but no, she&apos;s extremely unlikely to trouser $85m from it this year: based on its release date of 25 June, it would have to average just over $1m a day for the rest of the year to make that magic $200m.But the fact remains that all this speculation is based on a single big number said in an interview by a single analyst at a time when Kim Kardashian: Hollywood hadonly been out for 15 days.Games can have long runs in the upper reaches of the app store top grossing charts: Clash of Clans has been out for 314 days, Candy Crush Saga for 609 days, Minecraft for 971 days, and Zynga Poker for 1,313 days, for example, and they&apos;re all still making lots of money.But games can fall away too: if Glu doesn&apos;t update Kim&apos;s game often enough, or if it releases an update that annoys many of its players, or if something comes along that they&apos;re more interested in...Suffice to say, whatever happens with the game, Kim will end 2015 being really,reallyrich. It&apos;s just that it&apos;s far too early to tell how many MILLION FREAKING DOLLARS her mobile game will contribute to that fortune.•40 best iPhone and iPad games of 2014 (so far)
Three students from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have hacked together a 3D printer that can produce edible Mr Whippy-style ice cream in any shape.Kyle Hounsell, Kristine Bunker and David Donghyun Kim developed the contraption – a modified version of an existing 3D printer connected to a “soft serve” ice-cream machine – as part of a graduate project in MIT’s additive manufacturing department.“First, we needed to print into a cooled environment so that the ice cream would hold its shape once printed,” the studentsexplained to 3Ders. “We bought a small upright freezer which was large enough to both put the Solidoodle inside and allow for the full build volume we were aiming for.”Liquid nitrogen cooling systemThe students built a cooling system using liquid nitrogen to fix the ice cream in place as it was squirted out of the 3D printer’s nozzle into the desired shape. The instant cooling allowed the printer to build up the ice cream layers just as a traditional extrusion-based 3D printer squirts down layers of plastic.The student's setup in the lab. Photograph: MIT“The main reason we feel an ice cream 3D printer is an important addition to current additive manufacturing technology is that it interests children,” the MIT students explained.The students had to balance the accuracy and printing resolution of the printer to enable interesting shapes and creations with the speed of printing, as no one wants to wait 30 minutes for their ice cream to appear.“We imagine this technology being marketable in ice cream parlours such as Dairy Queen where customers can order an ice cream treat, wait 15 minutes, and see the shape they chose be created,” they said. “Of course last, and more importantly, we aim to enjoy the ice cream after successful printing.”The proof-of-concept printer needs refinement before it is likely to see commercial duty, but the technology could appear in an ice cream truck near you soon, if the students or a third party decides to continue developing the system further.For now, ice cream 3D printed into a star shape is entirely possible.3D printing ice cream•Vagina self 3D printing gets Japanese artist into hot water
A security researcher working on zero-day exploits accidentally destroyed the local copies of his research after a &quot;dead hand&quot; system fired while he was in hospital with pneumonia.Arrigo Triulzi, the co-founder of security firm K2 Defender, had set up the system to protect against attempts to silence his research. Such programs typically require a user to check in on a periodic basis to prove that they are still alive and well; if a check-in is missed, the system assumes the worst has happened and carries out the instructions it has filed away.In Triulzi&apos;s case, that involved wiping his local machines, and disseminating his research around the world, encrypted so that only trusted friends could read it. Fortunately, Triulzi wasn&apos;t actually dead or under arrest, but in an Italian hospital on an IV drip for a case of antibiotic-resistant pneumonia.&quot;Embarrassing: when you are out because of third-line antibiotics for pneumonia and your dead hand system kicks in,&quot;Triulzi wrote,adding: &quot;Not embarrassing: when said dead hand system works flawlessly thereby proving concept and demonstrating the shortcomings of the concept.&quot;This is all very embarrassing as I did not code a backdoor,&quot;which would havelet him reverse his actions without requiring his friends encryption keys. &quot;Oopsie.&quot;Triulzi, who declined to comment further to the Guardian, did get something done in hospital, however, fixing the organisation&apos;s DNS server, patching the main pneumology machine, and performing a quick password audit for the department:Quick password audit shows beer brand is most used password in dept, recommended change at least for the oncology ward out of respect. Nods.&mdash; Arrigo Triulzi (@cynicalsecurity)July 15, 2014•Google uncloaks Project Zero security team set to defend the internet
A fresh strain of Android malware has emerged that locks people out of their phones, then delivers a fake message from the FBI telling them they have broken the law by visiting pornographic websites.The ScarePakage malware then tries to persuade them to pay a $300 fine to its creators via payment service MoneyPak, according to researchers from security company Lookout Mobile Security.Describing the malware as &quot;highly concerning&quot; in a blog post, Lookout said that it is launched when users use their Android device to visit a website hosting the malicious code.They will then be prompted to install an app masquerading as Adobe Flash or anti-virus software. Once downloaded, the app triggers the FBI warning, which users can not escape by navigating away.If they turn their phone off and on again, the warning will reappear immediately, while as soon as they try to interact with another app for more than 10 milliseconds, they are cut off and returned to the ransomware notice.ScarePakage looks similar to another malware type called ColdBrother, which was also able to take photos of the victim. For now, ScarePakage appears to be targeting the US.“ScarePakage is likely created by Russian or other Eastern European authors given language cues used in the application that we observed,” explained Lookout. “Unfortunately, this ransomware is hard to remove if you give this malware device administrator privileges.”Advice to avoid ScarePakage includes refusing to award downloaded apps &quot;device administrator&quot; status unless you are absolutely sure what they do, as well as only downloading apps from developers you know and trust.ScarePakage is just one of several new strains of ransomware – named for their demands for money in return for letting them access their devices again – to have emerged in recent months.Simplocker, which locked up people’s data on their SD card,was one of the most concerning, selling for $5000 on cybercriminal forums.•How can I keep my Android smartphone or tablet secure?
Fans must wait until late 2015 to see the new Star Wars film, Episode VII, but one has been filling their time by remaking the original 1977 movie, using Minecraft.The creator ofMinecraft – Star Wars – A New Hoperecently released a new trailer (above) for their film, which is also due to be finished in 2015.The project has involved painstakingly recreating sets from the first Star Wars film (retitled as Episode IV following the prequels released between 1999 and 2005) within Minecraft, then filming scenes.So far, 70 minutes of footage are in the can after three years of work, with another 40 to produce. Creator Paradise Decay appears to be shooting for the Star Wars Celebration convention in April 2015 as the film&apos;s debut.When finished, the film will be free to watch, although its creator is taking PayPal donations on the website to fund future plans to turn their work into a Minecraft server &quot;featuring all the sets for you to roam around in&quot;.The film will be silent, so viewers will have to play a copy of the original film simultaneously to provide the soundtrack.The inspiration for the project came in 2003 when the creator&apos;s then three-year-old daughter was diagnosed with a rare brain tumour. &quot;They didn&apos;t think she would survive past Boxing Day! She is now 16 and loves playing Minecraft,&quot; he explains on the site.&quot;Not only is this project fun to do for my daughter Sarah, but it takes her mind off her daily ‘on-going’ problems and health issues. Her tumor can never be removed and she has to live with all the side-effects this terrible disease brings.&quot;Minecraft – Star Wars – A New Hope is just the latest grand project of its kind to be created using Minecraft, the game that has sold more than 54m copies so far across computers, consoles, tablets and smartphones.One group of fans iscreating a scale reproduction of Hayao Miyazaki&apos;s famous animated film Spirited Awayusing Minecraft, whilemapping authority Ordnance Survey has constructed a map of Britain, and theDanish ministry of the environment has recreated Denmark.•Minecraft: a personal story
Amazon is due to launch a new book subscription service called Kindle Unlimited, according to a leaked Amazon site.The Kindle Unlimited section of the Amazon US site was briefly available online before being removed, but isstill available via Google’s web cache, and is being described as a “Netflix for books”.The service, which may only be available in the US, will cost $9.99 a month and give readers access to over 600,000 ebooks as well as thousands of audiobooks sourced from Amazon-owned audiobook service Audible.&apos;Unlimited reading and unlimited listening on any device&apos;“Kindle Unlimited gives you the freedom to explore over 600,000 titles and thousands of audiobooks in the palm of your hand,” said the narrator of a promotional videodiscovered by technology site GigaOM. “Enjoy unlimited reading and unlimited listening on any device for $9.99 a month.”The service will be available on Amazon’s Kindle e-readers, tablets and phone, as well as via the Kindle app on Android smartphones and tablets and Apple’s iPhone and iPad.Amazon did not respond immediately for request for comment.Harry Potter, Hunger Games and Lord of the RingsAn Amazon book subscription service has been expected for months, expanding on itsAmazon Prime Lending Library, which offers loans of one book a month from about 600,000 books in the US and 350,000 books in the UK as part of an Amazon Prime subscription.The Lending Library includes the Harry Potter series by JK Rowling as well as books from selected publishers and Amazon’s own publishing service.It is unclear whether the library of ebooks available under the new Kindle Unlimited service will be different from the Prime Lending Library, although the Harry Potter, Hunger Games and the Lord of the Rings series are featured in the leaked promotion video and adverts.Amazon is not the first company to launch an ebook subscription service. Both Oyster and Scribd operate similar services costing about $9 a month and offering access to 500,000 and 400,000 books respectively, but featuring books from two of the big five publishers, HarperCollins and Simon &amp; Schuster.Amazon’s subscription services have all launched exclusively in the US before expanding to the UK and other markets often years later. It is likely that Kindle Unlimited will only be available in the US initially.•Apple agrees $450m settlement in ebook price-fixing case
With the touch of a button, security researcher Dan Petro can make any Google Chromecast in wireless range Rickroll its unsuspecting viewers.While the hack is, for now, only used to pipe the memefied 80s hit Never Gonna Give You Up, it can be used to force Google&apos;s TV ristreaming stick to play any video the attacker has chosen, opening up the possibility forcing videos into people&apos;s homes that are even more distressing than Rick Astley.Yet Google insists the bug that lets it happen is too important to Chromecast&apos;s easy setup for the company to fix it.The device is called the &quot;Rickmote&quot;, andPetro explainshow he uses it to &quot;hijack unsuspecting Chromecast users’ TVs, turning their Game of Thrones marathon into a 1980s flashback&quot;.&quot;The Rickmote accomplishes this by briefly disconnecting nearby Chromecasts from their Wi-Fi. When this loss of connectivity occurs, the Chromecast tries to reconfigure and accepts commands from anyone within proximity. The Rickmote automatically provides this configuration in the form of everyone’s favorite Rick Astley song on loop.&quot;The Rickmote is built from a Raspberry Pi computer, with the addition of wireless cards, a touchscreen and a plastic case. When users hit the touchscreen (which acts as a massive button in the shape of Rick Astley&apos;s face), it sends out a &quot;deauth&quot; command to any nearby Chromecast that disconnects it from the local wifi network.But because Google needs to make the Chromecast easy to set-up, its reaction to being booted off Wi-Fi is to create its own open wireless network. Out of the box, that means that the company can simply tell users to find and connect to the Chromecast network – but in Petro&apos;s hands, it lets him join the network first, and reconfigure it to show whatever he wants.&quot;This is actually a really hard problem, and it’s not clear that it’s ever going to get fixed,”he told Wired Magazine.•Google Chromecast review: simple, fast internet TV
Sales of the Xbox One games console have more than doubled in the US since the cheaper Kinect-free bundle was introduced, Microsoft has claimed.The machine, which was launched last November, originally came packaged with the Kinect motion-control device, at the price of $499. However, Sony&apos;s rival device, the PlayStation 4, arrived in the same month at just $399 with its own camera peripheral selling separately.So far, the PS4 has reaped the rewards of being the cheaper machine, selling more than 7m units, with Xbox One lagging behind on around 5m. The $399 Kinect-free Xbox One bundle hit shelves on 9 June.Microsoftoriginally statedthat Kinect was an integral element of the Xbox One ecosystem. However, many consumers reacted against the idea of having a camera in their living room that seemed to be switched on by default, and able to record their movements and conversations. Furthermore, developers struggled to implement the device into their games, despite assurances that it was more accurate and powerful than its predecessor, the original Kinect on the Xbox 360.In May, when Microsoft announced its decision to release a Kinect-free bundle, Yusuf Mehdi, corporate vice president for devices and studios, saidthe decision had been taken in consultation with publishers and development studios. Despite the success of the new bundle, executives maintain that Kinect is an important feature.Speaking to Tech Radarlast month, Mehdi said, &quot;I think Kinect is going to continue to be integral [...] We keep making improvements, perfections, and the progress on Kinect v2 has been pretty huge.&quot;At the E3 games conference this year, the Kinect was barely mentioned during Microsoft&apos;s 90-minute press conference.Equivalent sales figures from the UK and Europe have yet to be announced.•PlayStation 4 vs Xbox One: the console war that turned into a love story•PlayStation and Xbox bosses discuss the future: &apos;We made the right call&apos;• Microsoft at E3 2014: from Halo 5 to the return of Crackdown - the key points
Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are still a mystery to most adults, so teaching children how they work may seem a strange ambition.Nevertheless, that&apos;s the aim of a new app,The Bitcoin Alphabet – for Kids and Everyone Else, released for Apple&apos;s iPad tablet this week by author Chris Bozak and publisher iKandy.The app is a mixture of illustrations and text explanations in plain English, and as its title makes clear, it has an eye on parents who don&apos;t know their blockchains from their hash rates, as well as their children.It&apos;s a no-frills affair, without the voice narration or interactivity that have become standard features in book-apps for children. On the plus side, it does have a jazzy soundtrack.&quot;This is a movement that forces the world to re-learn all that we thought we knew about money – and more importantly – your money,&quot; writes Bozak in the introduction.&quot;This book is for those of you, young and old, who have not yet gone down this wonderfully inevitable rabbit hole. My hope is that it whets your appetite to learn more.&quot;iKandy is selling the app for £1.99 on iPad&apos;s App Store – the equivalent of 0.01 bitcoins, although you&apos;d be advised to check those maths with a passing child.The Bitcoin Alphabet joins other iKandy apps on Apple&apos;s store including Jake the Juggling Octopus, Skate Punk Bird Massacre and Snowboard Penguin Smackdown.iKandy is also responsible for Twenty Pussies – an app about cartoon cats – with this Apple-baiting App Store listing: &quot;Who says you can&apos;t get pussies on the Apple iTunes store? Apple now carries shaved pussies, expensive pussies, wet pussies, hot pussies, tight pussies, sick pussies, hairy pussies and many more.&quot;Suffice to say, all-ages cryptocurrency education is likely to be a safer bet in the apps world than laboured vagina/cat japes. Or, at least, so you&apos;d hope.•Bitcoin made simple – video animation
A quick burst of 7links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNovartis joins with Google to develop contact lens that monitors blood sugar &gt;&gt;&gt; NYTimes.comWhat makes this case different is the involvement of Google&apos;s engineers, he said. &quot;One of the biggest hurdles was miniaturization, and that&apos;s one of the biggest benefits that Google X brings,&quot; he said. &quot;This is a set of engineers that are really doing incredible things with technology.&quot;Smart contacts are really going to happen, eventually.Tesla confirms Model III as next EV contender &gt;&gt;&gt; SlashGearDespite being smaller, it will still be able to boast of a 200 mile (322 km) realistic range same as the Model S. But the Model 3 will also sell cheaper according to Musk, around ?30,000 or $35,000, thanks to cheaper batteries that will be produced in Tesla&apos;s upcoming Gigafactory.£30,000 isn&apos;t exactly mass market, but the BMW 3 is one of the most popular family cars in the UK and costs not far off that.BlackBerry debuts Siri-like voice assistant &gt;&gt;&gt; CNETBlackBerry, which has been struggling to hang onto customers in the tough smartphone market, is offering BlackBerry Assistant after Apple debuted its voice-assistant Siri in late 2011, followed by Google Now and Microsoft&apos;s Cortana. With those other voice assistants already available, BlackBerry Assistant is unlikely to be that must-have feature for the Canada-based company&apos;s phones.Us too, we have a voice assistant too.Amazon &apos;Kindle Unlimited&apos; will be the Spotify subscription service for books &gt;&gt;&gt; Pocket-lintIn total there will be over 600,000 titles and thousands of audiobooks to choose from. The pages showing off the new service appeared online before being quickly pulled down. But not before images were captured of the venture. All you can eat books.Makes sense, but the publishers might not like it much.Blurred lines: Are YouTubers breaking the law? &gt;&gt;&gt; Eurogamer.netJohn Bain received his first offer to create advertorial for his YouTube channel in 2010. &quot;A video game publisher asked me to create a video about one of its titles,&quot; says Bain. &quot;They agreed to pay for the coverage so long as I agreed to not say anything negative about the game.&quot; It was the first of a slew of such deals that Bain - better known to his 1.7 million YouTube channel subscribers as TotalBiscuit - has been offered, from posting a product link in a video&apos;s description through to elaborate ad campaigns. Bain was asked not to disclose the nature of the proposed sponsored content to his viewers. He refused the deal. &quot;I don&apos;t know how I&apos;d live with myself,&quot; he tells me. &quot;It&apos;s taking your passion and selling it out for a small pay-cheque. It morally bankrupts you.&quot;Is it OK for a critic to get a cut of sales in exchange for coverage of a product? What about simply running advertorial, unmarked? Or even being paid £10,000 to like a Facebook page? Do the answers to that change when the critics aren&apos;t traditional journalists, but are influential members of the YouTube Let&apos;s Play scene? Simon Parkin investigates.Apple debuts iTunes Pass in Japan, allows Passbook-based iTunes credit refills at Apple Stores &gt;&gt;&gt; 9to5MacApple today has launched an interesting new service for iTunes Store, App Store, and iBookstore users in Japan with iPhones and iPod touches. The new service, called iTunes Pass (no, not that iTunes Pass), allows users to go to an Apple Store in Japan, purchase credit in-store for the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBookstore, and have that money immediately applied to the Apple ID account instead of needing to receive a gift card and enter a redemption code...In Japan, you can now add credit to your iTunes account by using Passbook and cash at an Apple Store. A small change - but one that would be a necessary step to enable the creation of an iTunes wallet.Overcast &gt;&gt;&gt; Marco.orgI had been wanting to make a podcast app for a while by late 2012, when I got two ideas that encouraged me to look more into it: Smart Speed shortens silences. Playing at faster speeds has always helped people make time to hear more podcasts, but it usually came at the expense of sound quality and intelligibility. Smart Speed is like getting another speed increment for free: it saves time without sounding weird. Voice Boost is a combination of dynamic compression and equalization that can make many shows more listenable and normalize volume across all shows. This makes amateur-produced podcasts (including many of my favorites) more listenable in loud environments, like cars, where you&apos;d otherwise need to crank the volume so loudly to hear the quiet parts that you&apos;d blow your ears out when the loudest person spoke.Marco Arment&apos;s the creator of Instapaper, which created the category of &quot;read it later&quot; apps; he&apos;s the founder of The Magazine, the only good thing Apple&apos;s Newsstand ever had going for it; and he&apos;s employee number one of Tumblr, which you may have heard of. Overcast is his third major app, but the first time he&apos;s entered a crowded space: podcast apps.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Apple has agreed to pay $450m (£262.7m) in the US to settle claims the iPad manufacturer conspired with five major publishers to fix ebook prices.It came ahead of damages trial next month, in which US states and lawyers for a class of consumers were expected to seek up to $840m (£490m). The deal follows earlier settlements with five publishers – Penguin Group, Harper Collins, Simon &amp; Schuster, Hachette and Macmillan – that provided $166m (£97m) for ebook purchasers.However, the Apple settlement could still be altered by the US circuit court of appeals in New York, could reverse the liability finding and either reduce the amount Apple pays to $70m or eliminate the settlement payments."While we cannot predict the outcome of the appeal with certainty, we are confident in the case we made against Apple at trial," Connecticut attorney general George Jepsen said in a statement.The settlement still requires approval of a US district judge.Apple denied that it had conspired to fix ebook prices and said it would continue pressing its case on appeal. "We did nothing wrong and we believe a fair assessment of the facts will show it," said Apple."The iBooks store has been good for consumers and the publishing industry as a whole, from well-known authors to first-time novelists. As we wait for the court to hear our appeal, we have agreed to a settlement which is contingent on the outcome of the appeal. If we are vindicated by the appeals court, no settlement will be paid."Even if Apple does pay the full $450m, the sum is barely 1% of the $37bn (£22bn) it made in its last fiscal year, which ended in September.Combined with the $400m from Apple, the recovery is "among the exceedingly rare cases that provide consumers nationwide with double the amount of their estimated damages", lawyers for the plaintiffs wrote.The US Department of Justice and the state attorneys general sued Apple and five publishers in April 2012, accusing them of working together illegally to increase ebook prices.
When is a snoopers' charter not a snooping charter? When David Cameron and his stooge Nick Clegg call it the data retention and investigation powers bill (Surveillance bill rushed through in a day, 16 July).The European court of justice decided in April that the blanket surveillance by the state, which forced companies to retain communications data for 12 years, must stop. In order to circumvent the ruling, David Cameron is creating a new law without either parliamentary oversight or scrutiny, so as to keep us "safe from criminals and terrorists". Remember, people, the terrorists want to destroy your freedom. In order to combat this we need to record all your communications, track you and record you wherever you go. To protect your freedom. Hmm.Will this legislation be applied to companies? Will it apply to multinationals that supply weapons to terrorists? Will it apply to tax dodgers? Will it apply to politicians? No? Thought not.This draconian law isn't happening in other EU countries, so why just the UK? It would seem that Barack Obama and the NSA's influence trumps everything, even EU law – well, in this country anyway. Bets for when this data, which is being gathered to keep us "safe", will be sold to Yahoo or Google?Our free speech has been eroded, our worker rights have been watered down, our right to demonstrate is being taken from us and now Cameron wants to remove our right to strike. Let us not forget either that Boris Johnson's water cannons await, lest anyone make the mistake and happen to believe we live in a democracy.All this from an unelected prime minister and government. He has no mandate for spying on us, and what is worse is that the "opposition" have signed up for the snooping charter, sight unseen.In 1979 Stiff Little Fingers sang "They take away our freedom in the name of liberty". They were singing about the terrorists; 35 years later it could equally apply to our government.Julie PartridgeLondon• In principle, the proposals are important for national security and law enforcement. It is essential that any intrusion into a citizen's private affairs is minimal, proportionate to the benefits to society as a whole, and properly controlled and supervised. Hasty legislation has often proved to be badly flawed.Dr Martyn ThomasInstitution of Engineering and Technology• Two interesting contrasting stories on 11 July. One,British PM David Cameron is to rush through emergency law to allow spying on us. Two,German chancellor Angela Merkel orders CIA official out of the country because the US refuses to cooperate over spying allegations, including spying on her own mobile phone. We were recently told from on high (by Gove, possibly?), that "British" values included things like the rule of law, democracy and human rights. It looks like, when it comes to defending these values, it is a case of Germany 7, England 1.William HindsYork• Britons never never never shall be slaves as long as we are willing to gag, blindfold and shackle ourselves voluntarily to preserve our inner freedom and moral superiority.John BirdLondon
Manuel Noriega, the former military dictator of Panama, is suing games publisher Activision over its depiction of him in Call of Duty: Black Ops II.Released in 2012, the military shoot-em-up takes place throughout 1980s Latin America and features scenes in which Noriega aids CIA operatives before betraying them. The 80-year-old former soldier and politician is claiming lost profits as well as damages for the depiction.Documentsobtained by Courthouse Newsreveal that the lawsuit, filed on Tuesday in Los Angeles, accuse Activision of &quot;blatant misuse, unlawful exploitation and misappropriation for economic gain&quot;. Noriega is currently in prison in Panama serving a 20-year sentence for crimes committed during his rule including the murder of political rival Hugo Spadafora.The law suit continues:In an effort to increase the popularity and revenue generated by Black Ops II, defendants used, without authorisation or consent, the image and likeness of plaintiff in Black Ops II.Defendants&apos; use of plaintiff&apos;s image and likeness caused damage to plaintiff. Plaintiff was portrayed as an antagonist and portrayed as the culprit of numerous fictional heinous crimes, creating the false impression that defendants are authorised to use plaintiff&apos;s image and likeness. This caused plaintiffs to receive profits they would not have otherwise received.Activision is yet to comment on the suit, but this is not the first time it has been legally challenged in this way. In 2009, the company, one of the largest video game publishers in the world, was sued by pop group No Doubt, over the use of the band&apos;s likeness in the music game Band Hero. That was settled out of court three years later. Elsewhere, the actor Lindsay Lohan has launched legal action against another publisher, Rockstar, claiming that the company used her likeness in the hit game Grand Theft Auto V.Speakingto the BBCabout the strength and veracity of Noriega&apos;s lawsuit, the entertainment lawyer Jas Purewal, said &quot;In the US, individuals have what&apos;s called the right to publicity, which gives them control over how their person is depicted in commerce including video games.&quot;But Noriega isn&apos;t a US citizen or even a resident. This means that his legal claim becomes questionable, because it&apos;s unclear on what legal basis he can actually bring a case against Activision.&quot;The Call of Duty series has featured several other real-life military and political figures, including the former CIA director David Petraeus and former US president John F Kennedy.
Marvel has announced that the next character to become Thor, after taking up the hammer of Mjölnir and proving worthy of its power, will be a woman. The as-yet unidentified protagonist will star in a new comic series, written by Jason Aaron with art by Russell Dauterman, which launches in October.Marvel has billed it as &quot;one of the most shocking and exciting changes ever to shake one of the &apos;big three&apos; of Captain America, Iron Man and Thor&quot;.It is, of course, something of a marketing exercise. Like video games, mainstream comics have been widely lambasted for their portrayal of women characters. Leading female heroes are comparatively rare on the DC and Marvel rosters and usually overtly sexualised, portrayed in skintight outfits, cut high across the stomach and low over the cleavage.Certainly, male characters have been idealised as muscular titans, but they have rarely been objectified as titillating eye candy in the same way as their female co-warriors.Things are changing. As multimedia artist Laurenn McCubbinpointed outin her response to the recent controversy surrounding Wonder Woman&apos;s feminist credentials, comics are becoming much more inclusive and intersectional. A growing number of readers and writers beyond the traditional demographic of young men is leading to an array of new characters and scenarios.In the mainstream, a lot of the progress is happening in the reinvention of stock female characters – Kelly Sue DeConnick&apos;s Captain Marvel and Gail Simone&apos;s Red Sonja, for example – or the rebooting of female takes on male heroes, such as Batgirl, one of the most successful titles in DC&apos;s 2011 &quot;new 52&quot; range revamp.But Marvel&apos;s latest escapade – actually transitioning a stock character from male to female has already garnered mass social media interest. Is this something games publishers could try?Given the industry&apos;swell-reported reluctanceover introducing new women characters, perhaps swapping over male protagonists is the best hope we&apos;ve got. After all, there was a huge amount of interest last month when artwork depicting the forthcoming Wii U instalment of Legend of Zelda seemed to show that series hero Linkmay be a girl. Nintendo quickly refuted the rumours, but the publicity must have had them thinking.Ubisoft, for example, is in trouble fortelling everyonethat female characters were a bit too much of an effort for the Assassin&apos;s Creed Unity development team; it could maybe redeem itself with Princess of Persia to reboot its once hugely successful action adventure series.Or there&apos;s always Ray-Woman, of course; or a Samantha Fisher to re-enliven Splinter Cell. The Metal Gear Series, another franchise that has beendiscussed for its problematic treatment of women, could easily imagine an offshoot where Dr Clark produced a female Snake clone in those original genentic experiments.Meanwhile, Gearbox would spare us all from yet more machismo sub-humour by reinventing its long-running shooter series as Duchess Nukem. And perhaps future DLC for Grand Theft Auto V could answer criticisms of its all-male cast by re-inventing at least one of the trio as a woman. The prospect of a female Trevor Philips is surely just about disturbing enough to pique the interest of Rockstar&apos;s edgy development team.OK, this is silly, but then, in comics and games, the audiences are growing and diversifying, yet the gender imbalance in both both characters and writers is only very gradually improving. So gender-swapped reboots may be the safest way for publishers to improve the ratio.It&apos;s like Geena Davis wrote last year, in a guest article for Hollywood Reporter entitled,&quot;Two easy steps to make Hollywood less sexist&quot;:Go through the projects you&apos;re already working on and change a bunch of the characters&apos; first names to women&apos;s names. With one stroke you&apos;ve created some colorful unstereotypical female characters that might turn out to be even more interesting now that they&apos;ve had a gender switch.Perhaps publishers should just do that with their back catalogues – you know, see what turns up. I mean, gamers have been doing it themselves for years anyway. Here isVaas from Far Cry 3 as a woman; here areLuigi, Kratos and others; and if you have some free time, just put &quot;Sonic the Hedgehog as a woman&quot; into a Google image search. You&apos;re welcome.As in comics, video game universes are hyper-real, malleable and usually pretty transgressive – they don&apos;t need excuses, they don&apos;t need formal logic. They can explore representation in so many weird and interesting ways.Mass Effect&apos;s bi-gender lead protagonist is great; the fact that Sunset Overdrive lets you create characters of any colour or combination of genders is even better. But outside of the RPG genre, these instances are rare.Thor as a woman is an easy gimmick, a promotional no-brainer. But hey, it&apos;s probably going to work for Marvel – and what works in comics can work in games. Thinking about representation is good; allowing people to see themselves in the media they experience is good.And anything that moves us on from the perennial justification of, &quot;yeah, but there&apos;s Lara Croft and Jill Valentine and... all them, so there are plenty of women in games&quot; is probably a good idea. Even if it is a really daft good idea.•Video games need more women – and asking for that won&apos;t end the world•Why does the games industry have such a problem with female protagonists?
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe discuss the reasons behind a rush by the UK government to get new data laws on the statute before the summer recess of parliament. Aleks speaks toJim Killockexecutive director of the Open Rights Groupabout the dangers of rushing such important legislation and why this might endanger our civil liberties and rights as consumers.Aleks is also joined by the Guardian tech team in the form ofSamuel GibbsandShiona Tregaskisto discuss Amazon's recent application in the US to test out its drone delivery system Prime Air and Guardian games editorKeith Stuartgive his top five tips for those who have just returned to the world of gaming and are nervous about picking up a controller.Finally Guardian technology editorCharles ArthurmeetsBoris Sofman, founder of the robotics company Anki.  Boris discusses the recent launch of hisAnki Drivetoy cars and why the technology running is not so different to the technology behind Google's self-drive car.
