What did some of the industrial design team behind Microsoft&apos;s Xbox console, Kinect controller, Zune media player and the never-launched Courier tablet do next?They founded a startup calledFiftyThreeand released an iPad app calledPaper, as adept for touchscreen note-taking as for sketching and digital painting. One App of the Year prize from Apple, a$15m funding roundand more than 8m downloads later, Fiftythree is releasing its first hardware product to go with Paper.Full marks if you guessed it would be called Pencil. It&apos;s a smart (in both senses of the word) stylus that goes on sale today in North Americafrom the company&apos;s own website, in a choice of walnut or graphite. It can be used as a stylus for any tablet app, but when paired with Paper via Bluetooth, it does more.Paper was released in March 2012, but Fiftythree was already working on the Pencil to go with it according to co-founder Jonathan Harris, who heads the company&apos;s hardware design team.&quot;We&apos;ve been using pen and paper for over a thousand years, and now we&apos;ve entered this new digital age, we need to evolve. We have these beautiful iPads, but we&apos;re still working with this dead stick!&quot; Harris told The Guardian, referring to existing stylus accessories.&quot;How can we make that experience so much richer? A lot of things from the analogue world are still lacking on the digital side, so we wanted to bring a nice solution of digital and analogue together, and build a really expressive tool.&quot;Harris said that Pencil has been designed to have similar versatility to Paper, to be used for art and sketching, but also for writing. That includes its &quot;friction-tuned&quot; replaceable tip, which glides smoothly across the tablet screen.John Ikeda, who heads hardware product management at Fiftythree, compared Pencil to the games that were core to the colleagues&apos; previous jobs at Microsoft: easy to pick up and play, but with more depth for players who put in the time.&quot;Pencil as a tool should be intuitive, accessible and very easy to pick up and use. It should feel obvious. But as you progress and learn the intricacies of how to use it, you can definitely master it and create really technical things,&quot; said Ikeda.Pencil is certainly easy to pick up and use, based on my experience with one this week. Rather than fiddle with buttons to pair it with your iPad, you press its nib to a button on-screen – &quot;Kiss-to-Pair&quot; is how Fiftythree describes this.Why pair a stylus with a tablet? Partly for something called palm rejection: when Paper knows you&apos;re using Pencil, it ignores input from your palm resting on the touchscreen – something Harris said has been &quot;the number one request&quot; from Paper&apos;s creative users.Pencil was designed to look like a carpenter's pencil.Pairing Pencil and Paper also means you can flip the accessory over and use its eraser (yes, it has one) to rub things out without manually selecting the rubber tool on-screen. And while palms are rejected, fingers are welcome: when you&apos;re using Pencil, touching the screen with your fingers smudges lines and blends colours, just as they would on real paper.&quot;Pencil works great as a passive stylus, but passive styli are just an attempt to make a better finger. What&apos;s the point of that? A finger&apos;s awesome! If we&apos;re going to make a tool, let&apos;s make a tool that does things that a great tool does,&quot; said Ikeda.&quot;How is an analogue pencil more powerful than a finger? One: it allows you to erase. And two, you can still use your finger for what a finger is good for: what you learn to do as a child, which is to manipulate art.&quot;The device&apos;s design was inspired by a carpenter&apos;s pencil according to Harris: flat and wider, which in that tool&apos;s case is partly to ensure it doesn&apos;t roll off a work-bench or roof. In Pencil&apos;s case, magnets in the walnut version help it attach to Apple&apos;s iPad covers.There are, it&apos;s fair to say, plenty of people who&apos;ll take a more cynical view: why Paper and Pencil with devices costing hundreds of pounds (in total) rather than, well, paper and pencils? Or if you are using a tablet, just your fingers?It&apos;s a question that Fiftythree fielded cheerfully. &quot;Like we said, we&apos;re not trying to build a better finger: touch is great, and there is no tool better than the human hand. But there are things that tools can do to complement the human hand. We believe that Pencil is one of those things,&quot; said Harris.&quot;For us, for people to have a natural tool like a pencil to use is a no-brainer. The way we&apos;re raising this society, it doesn&apos;t feel natural to draw without a tool. What age do you start using crayons?&quot;Pencil isn&apos;t quite as cheap as a set of crayons: the graphite version costs $49.95 while the walnut version costs $59.95 – complete with sustainably-harvested wood that &quot;we can source right down to tracking the stump that it came from&quot; according to Harris.&quot;Just like the app, we&apos;re trying to take away the barriers to creation, and we didn&apos;t want price to one of those barriers,&quot; added Ikeda. &quot;We&apos;re trying a price point where it&apos;s accessible to all the everyday creators, not just to the architects and the designers.&quot;
Chances are you've taken at least one selfie recently. After all, it wasn't chosen as Oxford Dictionaries' word of the year for nothing. Technological advances, as well as the sheer unadulterated vanity of social media, means that usage of the word "selfie" hasincreased by 17,000% over the past year. If you have an Instagram account, you'll know this to be true – there are now almost as many self-taken photos of pouting faces as there are of cats and food, which is really saying something.But perhaps you're new to the art of the selfie. Maybe the validation from Oxford Dictionaries has given you the courage to finally try one out for yourself. If that's the case, be careful. You are about to enter a minefield of potential disasters, so be sure to follow my quick guide.DoPose in front of the Mona LisaNobody really knows why, but taking a photo of yourself in front of the Mona Lisa has become a strange little selfie sub-genre.EminemandDiddyboth took photos next to the painting in 2010, and now the Louvre is awash with would-be rappers trying to mimic their idols.Eminem in front of the Mona Lisa.Why the Mona Lisa? Because that's basically a selfie, isn't it? A selfie with a cool filter.Brannan, I believe.Leave space for BeyoncéSure, it might be tempting to fill the entire frame with a grotesque closeup of your own face. However, there is a chance that if you leave about a third of the frame empty, Beyoncé will pop up out of nowhere and photobomb you. Ithappened to a teenage girl just last month– albeit a teenage girl at a Beyoncé concert – and to an American actress, Nikki Boyer, on the red carpet at the Grammys. So there's no reason why it won't happen to you in, say, the frozen-poultry aisle in Aldi.She's behind you: Beyoncé photobombs Nikki Boyer at the Grammys.Check behind youIn case Beyoncé doesn't show up, that empty space might end up being your undoing. Always perform a careful background check before you take a selfie; there may be, say,a guy sitting on the toilet doing a poo right behind you. Some things you miss. Other things your followers will seize upon and never let you forget.Don'tKim Kardashian's duckface selfie: do not attempt this at home.Duckfaceif you know what a selfie is, you should also know what duckface is. It's when you attempt a subtle pout, often while angling the camera down your face so that you get your cleavage in shot, but overdo it to such a hideous extent that you end up resembling your own granny lurching in for a kiss.If you've ever searched Tumblr for the term, you'll know how widespread – and regrettable – the trend is."@KimKardashian:#NoFilterhttp://t.co/EWveUYTi3y" HEADING HOME NOW&mdash; KANYE WEST (@kanyewest)October 17, 2013Just take a picture of your bottomAbout a month ago, Kim Kardashian took what has become perhaps the most iconic selfie of all time. It's her, looking into a mirror,taking a photo of her own bum. Now you might think that, because Kim took what has become known as a "bum selfie" and even - shudder - a "belfie", you can do it too. This absolutely isn't the case. First, Kim Kardashian is a notorious attention-seeker, and you're better than that. Second, Kanye West replied to this selfie by suggesting that he wouldimminently have sexual intercourse with her. Do you want West to imminently have sexual intercourse with you? Of course not. For the love of god, just keep it in your trousers.Selfie in front of strangersThere is no shame like the shame of being caught taking a furtive selfie. This one comes from experience. In Bognor Regis earlier this year, during a run along a windy seafront, I attempted to take a photo of myself. I didn't see the two dog walkers behind me. "You're from London, aren't you?" they asked, their voices full of disappointment and contempt. I deleted the selfie and now I can never return to Bognor Regis.
ThePS4controller could have entirely lacked buttons, and simply been covered with touch panels, if developers hadn’t stepped in and said no to Sony.Previously Sony had boasted about how PS4 game developers had helped with the design of the DualShock 4. Now we know the extent to which that is true.&quot;At the very start, we were thinking of drastically changing the controller,&quot; said Toshimasa Aoki, manager of product planning for Sony Computer Entertainment talking toGamesBeat. &quot;We made, I don&apos;t know, more than 20 prototypes. Some had no buttons, just touch panels. Some were rounded. All this crazy stuff.&quot;Incremental improvements rather than radical departuresSony pitched prototypes for the next evolution of the PlayStation’s controller to game developers who were already in the process of making games for the PS4.Around half of the developers Sony talked to only wanted to make incremental improvements to the tried-and-tested DualShock formula, however different studios wanted different things from the controller depending on their game type.The general consensus was that the user shouldn’t have to look down at the controller to have to use it, which they would if it was an all-touch controller. Therefore a tempered balance was struck, adding the touch strip to the front but keeping a familiar layout for the rest of the controller.“The developers love the touchpad, but only as the secondary input,” said Aoki. “Of course, as it evolves and people get used to the touchpad, it may become more primary.”• PS4 or Xbox One,which one for Christmas?
Samsung’s poorly received Galaxy Gear smartwatch was described as a “small green tomato” by David Eu, head of the Samsung Open Innovation Centre.According toan unconfirmed report by Business Korea, the Galaxy Gear has sold under 50,000 units since launching in for around £300 in September, far below industry expectations, although Samsung has yet to officially reveal any sales figures for the Galaxy Gear.“What we&apos;re dealing with is small green tomatoes. What we want to do is take care of them and work with them so they can become big red ripe tomatoes,” Eu said at theBusiness InsiderIgnition conference. “Over time this thing is going to get big and red – a big opportunity for us, and software services.”&apos;A prototype masquerading as a commercial product&apos;At the time of the Galaxy Gear’s launch Ian Fogg, director for mobile and telecoms at research firm IHS, commented that the Gear was &quot;a prototype masquerading as a commercial product — and because of that, it is unlikely to be successful in the market.&quot;He concluded: &quot;The device exhibits multiple shortcomings, including a high price tag, a short battery life, its status as a companion device and its limited compatibility. The bottom line is the Galaxy Gear smartwatch probably will not succeed in the market and Samsung will need to try again with a more refined product.&quot;In September,a Samsung official told the Korean Times:“We&apos;ve acknowledged that our Gear lacks something special. With more investment for user interface and user experience, Samsung devices will be better in terms of customer satisfaction.”Samsung wasrumoured in Septemberto already have a second iteration of the Galaxy Gear in the works for a January 2014 launch at the US Consumer Electronics Show (CES) or Mobile World Congress (MWC) in March.&apos;I wouldn’t have bought the first one myself&apos;Asked whether he was pleased with the way the Galaxy Gear turned out, Eu said: “I wouldn’t have bought the first one myself, but it has absolutely grown on me – I can see where it’s going.”Leaked internal documentsfrom electronics retailer Best Buy in the US suggested the Galaxy Gear had a return rate as high as 30%.Eu liken the Galaxy Gear to an early stage startup, a “1.0 product” which “of course isn’t Gmail”, but he said that he didn’t think critics gave Samsung enough credit for integrating all the current functionality into the Gear.&apos;It doesn&apos;t seem to stack up&apos;“I find it very difficult to believe the sales figures from Business Korea, given Samsung’s marketing and bundling of the Galaxy Gear with the Note 3. It just doesn’t seem to stack up with what we’re seeing,” said Ben Wood of research company CCS Insight.DespiteBusiness Korea’s reportof less than 900 units of the Gear being sold a day and less than 50,000 sales in total, Samsung is unlikely to release official numbers for the Gear until it hits a milestone like 500,000 sales, something that has yet to happen.Samsung’s Galaxy Gear wasn’t the first smartwatch on the market, beaten by first Sony’s LiveView and then the Smartwatch and mostrecently the Smartwatch 2, as well as theKickstarter-funded Pebble.Research firm Canalys reported that 330,000 smartwatches were sold in 2012, lead by offerings from Sony and Motorola. That figure was predicted to rise to 500,000 total sales in 2013, with a further increase to 5m devices in 2014, as the market for smartwatches is expected to explode next year. Chris Jones, vice president of Canalys, believes that “smartwatches will be the most important new product category in consumer electronics&quot;.• Google Nowcould be the injection of intelligence smartwatches need, as Google is rumoured to be working on a smartwatch of its own
The HTC One Max is the Taiwanese manufacturer&apos;sentry into the phablet market, a 6in version of thewell-received HTC OneAndroid smartphone.Like theSamsung Galaxy Note 3before it, the One Max stretches hands with a large screen, and you’ll definitely need two hands to wield it.Designed just like a giant phoneThe One Max is the biggest phone in the HTC&apos;s current lineup – and with a 5.9in screen it is certainly a giant. A phablet without a stylus, the One Max has a very large frame compared to most other smartphones, including its smaller brother, the 4.7in HTC One.The One Max is also relatively thick for a premium phablet at 10.29mm thick, which is 1.99mm thicker thanSamsung Galaxy Note 3, and certainly feels large in your hand.One-handed operation is essentially impossible given the sheer size of the phone – even my adult male hands struggle to reach half of the screen without dropping the device, making it a decidedly two-handed effort.HTC One Max review - a large, crisp 5.9in screenMatching the build of the rest of the HTC One line, the One Max is clad in aluminium and, like the One Mini before it, has a white plastic band running around the edge of the device. Unlike the One and One Mini, however, the One Max has a removable back that is released using a small latch on the side of the device that strongly resembles the mute switch/rotation lock found on Apple’s iPhone and iPad.The build quality of the One Max is certainly top notch, with absolutely no give or flex in the frame of the device despite its large size, while the back cover fits extremely well onto the rest of the device and doesn’t give even a fraction of a millimetre when pressed.Behind the back cover you find the SIM slot as well as a microSD slot for adding storage, but no removable battery.A fingerprint sensor also sits on the back of the device immediately below the camera, about one-third from the top of the device and only just within reach of an index finger.The front of the device is dominated by the One Max’s large 5.9in screen, which at full HD 1080p resolution is pin sharp making text on websites and ebooks clearly legible, images crisp and detailed, and videos a joy to watch.The screen is bracketed by HTC’s BoomSound stereo speakers, which genuinely add to the video watching experience.SpecificationsScreen:5.9in full HD LCDProcessor:1.7GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 600RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16/32GB plus microSD slot supporting up to 64GB cardsOperating systemAndroid 4.3 with HTC SenseCamera:4MP UltraPixel rear and 2.1-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi (n/ac), NFC, Bluetooth 4.0, IR and GPSDimensions:164.5 x 82.5 x 10.29 mmWeight:217gPowerful and long lastingHTC has equipped the One Max with a mid-range 1.7GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 600 quad-core processor, which is slightly disappointing given that the competition, including the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 and the Sony Xperia Z Ultra, use the faster, more powerful Snapdragon 800 processor.In reality, it makes very little difference to performance as the device is as snappy and lag-free as the competition. In fact, its one of the fastest devices available at the moment in general navigation, coping with anything you might want to throw at it, including graphically intensive gaming, which looks especially good on the 5.9in screen.HTC One Max review - a removable back, but no removable batteryThe One Max comes with 16 or 32GB of storage space, depending on model, but also comes equipped with a microSD card slot, which stands ready to add up to another 64GB of space for movies, music and photos, should you need it.A 3,300mAh battery, 100mAh bigger than the Note 3’s cell, easily powers the One Max through a full day’s heavy use with a mixture of emails, calls, web browsing and listening to music over Bluetooth. Being a bit more frugal with the device – reducing the screen brightness and using wired headphones over Bluetooth sets – will probably see the Max stretch to two days, although you might have to top up the battery to see you into the second night.Sense-enhanced AndroidThe HTC One Max runs a customised version of Android 4.3 “Jelly Bean”, which HTC calls “Sense”. A skin on top of the stock Android experience, Sense is generally quite good with only small additions made to the overall look and feel of Android which don’t add much in the way of bloat slowing the system down.While many prefer Android the way Google intended, without modifications, such as theNexus 5, HTC’s Sense adds the ability to customise the order of the apps within the main application list, as well as place them in folders, which makes finding particular apps a lot easier if you have a lot of them installed.Other additions include HTC’s “BlinkFeed”, which pulls in customisable news, entertainment and updates from your social networks into one rolling news feed, and sits to the left of the standard set of home screens.For the most part, HTC’s modifications to Android generally add to the experience, rather than detracting from it, however, HTC has made little of the larger screen size on the One Max.Unlike the Galaxy Note 3, for instance, there is no help with one-handed use, no additions to allow two apps to be open on one screen, nor any leaning towards a tablet use, which ends up making the One Max feel like a giant, blown-up phone, rather than a tablet, with no more utility than a phone significantly smaller, such as the Nexus 5.‘UltraPixel’ cameraHTC has given the One Max its “UltraPixel” camera, which firstmade an appearance in the HTC One, and attempts to boost low-light performance by reducing resolution and expanding the size of the pixels on the image sensor.The theory behind it is that bigger pixels on the image sensor can receive more light and therefore produce better images in low or average light conditions – the kind of lighting in which most people shoot photos.The consequence of that UltraPixel decision is a relatively low resolution camera, which captures four-megapixel images. For comparison, the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 has a 13-megapixel camera, while the Sony Xperia Z Ultra and Google Nexus 5 have eight-megapixel cameras.Unlike the HTC One, the camera on the One Max lacks optical image stabilisation, resulting in much more blurred photos at the mercy of handshake, especially in low-light conditions.HTC has also reworked the camera software as part of its Sense customisations.The UltraPixel camera on the One Max certainly isn’t bad, but it isn’t quite as good as it could be, producing average images compared to its phablet competition and most other smartphones currently available, which lack detail, particularly in bright lighting conditions.HTC One Max review - a square, capacitive fingerprint sensor sits just below the UltraPixel cameraFiddly fingerprint readerFollowing a trend set by theiPhone 5S and its TouchID sensor, HTC has seen fit to equip the One Max with a fingerprint sensor. Instead of being hidden under the home button like the iPhone, however, HTC put it on the back of the device directly under the camera – the small black square you see in the image above.At first glance this looks like a stupid place to put it, but it actually lines up well with your index finger if you hold the phone with one of the bottom corners anchored into your palm. That is, if you hold the One Max like a phone, which given there is almost nothing in the way of customisation to make it more like a tablet, is fair bet.Reaching that fingerprint sensor with one hand is fine, but getting your finger’s pad flat enough on the sensor to get an accurate reading is a challenge. It is also difficult, depending on how long your fingers are, not to first put a big finger smudge on the camera lens as you swipe your finger downwards across the sensor.The sensor will also allow you to bind up to three different fingers to unlock the phone, and optionally launch an action or application. It doesn’t take an image of your finger in any traditional sense of the word. Instead the sensor works by measuring the capacitance of your skin – something that can’t be fooled with a fake fingerprint for instance – while your finger&apos;s ID is only ever stored locally on your device and not sent into the cloud.On the whole the fingerprint sensor works OK on the One Max, averaging about a 70% success rate with practice, although its positioning only really makes it useful for people with average or larger male-sized hands and makes you worry that you might drop the phone as you try to unlock it.Priced as premiumThe HTC One Max is a premium phablet, and it is priced accordingly. The 16GB storage variant costs £599.99 SIM-free, without a contract direct from HTC, while prices from other retailers are around the £570 mark.With a contract, the One Max can be found for free on plans costing upwards of £40 a month.Verdict: a big phone too farWith the One Max, HTC’s tried to mimic the phablet form-factor made popular in Asia by Samsung’s Galaxy Note range. While there’s nothing wrong with the One Max, unlike most other phablets it literally is just a big phone.HTC’s barely made any effort at maximising the utility of that large 6in screen, which is great if you want a slick, clutter-free experience, but is a missed opportunity with a phone this big. The fingerprint sensor also works, but doesn’t speed anything up or offer a better way of doing things.The biggest problem with the One Max, however, is that it is too big and heavy to really use comfortably as a phone, especially one-handed, but not big enough to replace a tablet. Web pages and other desktop-orientated content doesn’t quite fit on the screen as it does on a 7in tablet for instance.If you’re after a massive phone that is just that – a big phone with a large screen and not a tablet – then the One Max does the job admirably. It has enough battery life to get you through the day, a great-looking screen and is fast and powerful, but it only provides the same amount of utility as a much more manageable 5in phone.Star rating: 3/5Pros:Big screen, clear screen, great built-in speakers, decent battery life, micro SD slot, solid buildCons:Too big to easily manage as a phone, not optimised for the size of screen, average camera, heavy
In the dispute between the European Commission&apos;s competition group and Google, one issue has remained uppermost, andrepeatedly reiterated: that Google should not distort competition by giving preferential treatment to its own &quot;vertical search&quot; businesses when people are looking for organic results.Here&apos;s an extract from a speech Joaquin Almunia, the EC&apos;s antitrust commissioner,gave in May:First, in its general search results on the web, Google displays links to its own vertical search services. Vertical search services are specialised search engines which focus on specific topics, such as restaurants, news or products. Alongside its general search service, Google also operates several vertical search services of this kind in competition with other players.In its general search results, Google displays links to its own vertical search services differently than it does for links to competitors. We are concerned that this may result in preferential treatment compared to those of competing services, which may be hurt as a consequence.This key problem boils down to one point. If you search on Google for &quot;iPod&quot; - an example the company itself offers in its proposed settlement – you see a sponsored (paid-for) link at the top of the page, followed by a subtly delineated box titled &quot;Shop for iPod on Google&quot; and &quot;Sponsored&quot; in small letters on the top right.Results of search for 'iPod' in Google UK in November 2013. Google Shopping, with paid-for links illustrated by images, is prominent in the results - and more visible than any rivals'. Photograph: Public domainThat box is Google&apos;s &quot;shopping vertical&quot; – in essence, an online store. But why is it there? Typing the word &quot;iPod&quot; into Google isn&apos;t, of itself, an expressed intent to buy an iPod. In years gone by, Google would have offered up various &quot;organic&quot; search results for iPod – probably starting with Apple&apos;s, which in the modern day is pushed down the page by the box.The box is Google&apos;s &quot;vertical search&quot; shopping service. The question is, why is Google&apos;s one there? Is it the best shopping service out there? There&apos;s no evidence that it is; the links that appear there appear because they&apos;re paid for, not because Google has chosen them on any merit. (Danny Sullivan, who has covered the search business for years,calls this inclusion of paid links a &quot;broken promise&quot;, observing that Google&apos;s founders said repeatedly that they wouldn&apos;t have such paid-for links, even in Google Shopping results.)Nor do they always seem to be the cheapest; a quick search on Foundem for &quot;iPod&quot; when this article was being written showed the lowest price being offered for an iPod Touch was £60, compared to £130 on the Google Shopping page. (Foundem, it should be noted, has formally complained to the EC that Google penalises competing services in its results.)A search on Foundem for 'iPod' in November 2013 turns up similar results - but the cheapest on offer is significantly cheaper than that shown on Google's Shopping space with its paid-for links. So how can Google's rank higher? Photograph: /Public domainCan we be sure that Google Shopping is the best vertical search engine for shopping? How would we prove that either way? And if it isn&apos;t, why is it in the top, prominent position?In principle, the argument is the same as that deployed against Microsoft in the US and Europe in the 1990s and, after 2000, over Windows and Internet Explorer. Windows had (and still has) a monopoly of desktop operating systems – and the desktop was by far the dominant path to the internet. Microsoft then used that dominance to push Internet Explorer towards dominance by shutting out rivals, particularly Netscape. In the US the Department of Justice sued; in Europe, the EC&apos;s DG Comp group raised a &quot;Statement of Objections&quot;, which eventually saw Microsoft sued for anti-competitive practices and forced to offer a &quot;browser choice&quot; system which offered users a variety of choices of browser.In Google&apos;s case, the elements are its dominance of &quot;organic search&quot; - when you use Google to search for something - and its apparent annexation of related topics.That is why &quot;vertical search&quot; – for things such as shopping – is important. It&apos;s a source of competition from which consumers can benefit through innovation by the providers. Those which can forge the best deals, or which have the most effective search strategies, will be able to attract consumers and succeed.But they won&apos;t if Google is able simply to put its own shopping site at the top of the page without having to compete fairly with rival shopping sites. And especially not if – as Foundem alleges – Google suppresses rival vertical search companies so that they never appear for the average search.Foundem&apos;s page doesn&apos;t appear in the first ten results pages for &quot;iPod&quot; on Google UK; the first vertical search company is GetPrice, an Australian company. Even a search using the words &quot;buy iPod&quot; on Google UK doesn&apos;t turn up Foundem&apos;s site in the first five results pages, which would see off around 99% of searchers.Moreover, there&apos;s no internal market in Google that forces the Shopping box to pay for the space it receives. And, equally, no rival can bid for – or buy – that space.In its most recent proposals to the EC – multiple copies of which have been leaked to the Guardian – Google offers to let rival vertical search services buy space in that box. It will have prime position, while the rivals will get small links. (The proposal is ringed in red.)Google's proposals to the EC on how it would show rival vertical search shopping services in a search for 'iPod', October 2013 Photograph: /GuardianThis though has angered the rivals. Their complaint is twofold. First: it does nothing about Google pushing down rival vertical search services in organic results - the point which Almunia has reiterated in his speeches. Almunia said in a speech to the LSE last week: &quot;One of the competition concerns we have in this case is that Google may divert internet traffic through favourable treatment – within its web search results – to its own specialised web search services as compared to the links of competing services; such as those specialised in helping users find restaurants and shops.&quot;The second concern is that either way, Google wins. If shoppers click on the links in its part of the box, it gets paid; if they click on the links from rivals, it gets paid. And the system it is proposing (contained in the proposals) would maximise its revenue, because it will operate in the same way as its AdWords system: links are positioned through a combination of their likelihood of being clicked and the amount being offered for them. In other words, the maximum possible revenue.As part of its proposals – dressed as a concession – Google has offered rivals a new &quot;reserve price&quot; (the lowest amount they can bid for a space) of 3 euro cents. The problem with that is that it&apos;s an auction system – so any worthwhile link will attract far higher bids, and so more money for Google.The broader objection is that Google isn&apos;t meant to be benefiting from its monopoly in organic search in this way; that this hampers innovation. If the next space for innovation is in vertical search (which is possible, since &quot;organic&quot; search seems largely played out), or some other area altogether, then letting Google put its own products front and centre stymies that innovation.The frequent riposte is &quot;well, it&apos;s Google&apos;s search pages – it should be allowed to do what it wants&quot;. It was Microsoft&apos;s operating system, too, and the US Department of Justice and the EC both (rightly) ruled that it couldn&apos;t do exactly what it wanted – the EC with rather more force than the US.The problem with letting Google do what it wants with its search page, according to its rivals, is that it is bad for competition in fields which have nothing to do with organic search (what might be called &quot;search on its merits&quot;). The problem isn&apos;t confined only to the desktop; mobile search is increasingly important, and so Google has offered similar proposals there, which have drawn much the same objections. On mobile, the proposals shove rivals off to the side, on a hyperlink.Google's proposals for search on mobile: rival vertical search would be accessible only via a link, while its own offering would be plainly visible. Photograph: /GuardianThroughout the 96-page document, the problems and the proposals are much the same. It doesn&apos;t matter whether you&apos;re searching for a camera or a hotel in Glasgow: Google&apos;s vertical search results come up top, and rivals&apos; are nowhere. It&apos;s very surprising that no matter what the topic – cameras, consumer electronics, restaurants, hotels – that Google&apos;s vertical search should always somehow be better than any rival. Unless, that is, it is distorting the results in its favour.There are many more issues – hotels and restaurants have complained at being pushed down in organic search, while Google&apos;s paid-for &quot;vertical search&quot; becomes more and more prominent, and some publishers have complained about their inability to dictate how much of their content is displayed on Google News. But it&apos;s the rows about contention between vertical search providers which is the clearest illustration of the row over monopoly and its potentialGoogle proposal to EC for search results on the example of hotels in Glasgow, October 2013. (Added sites ringed in red by the Guardian.) Hotels also complain that they are pushed down in search results. Photograph: GuardianResults of a Google UK search for hotels in Glasgow, November 2013. Google's own "sponsored" *(paid-for) links rank higher than any vertical search engine. Photograph: Public domainSo is this accidental? While Google hasn&apos;t been called to give any public testimony about its position in Europe, in the US the executive chairman Eric Schmidt was called before the US Senate Antitrust Committee to testify about this in November 2011. Some of the search results have been tweaked since – with Google&apos;s vertical search becoming more prominent – but it&apos;s the tenor of Schmidt&apos;s arguments which are key. The video is edited by Foundem to respond to Schmidt&apos;s points, but it has not altered the timeline of his responses.Google has given no public explanation in Europe of its use of &quot;Universal Search&quot;, which is part of the complaint made by the EC against Google - but the complaint in the US was the same.Foundem's analysis of Eric Schmidt's testimony in 2011 to the US Senate antitrust committee.What are the solutions, then? Google objects that it doesn&apos;t want to make its algorithm open, because that would lead to abuse. But all that sites such as Foundem say they want is for Google to subject its vertical offerings to the same ranking system as everyone else. Foundem did athorough examination of this possibilityin November 2011, after Schmidt&apos;s testimoney.The video above includes passages about the strange way that Google&apos;s services always rank higher than rivals. And what of Google Shopping? It is, said Schmidt, &quot;a type of thematic search that allows consumers to compare prices and see which websites are selling a particular product&quot;.But is it thebest&quot;thematic search&quot; product for doing that? Even though Google is big, it seems unlikely. And that&apos;s the crux of the dispute. The question now is whether Google will shift – or whether the EC thinks that the search company has done enough to satisfy it.• Read:Google&apos;s vertical search proposals: what will be EC antitrust chief&apos;s verdict?• This article was amended on 17 December 2013 to note the fact that Foundem has made a formal complaint against Google to the European Commission. In addition, the article has been amended to more fairly reflect comparisons between Google Shopping and other shopping sites.
&quot;Don&apos;t ask me to give you the arguments about Google&apos;s proposals,&quot; says Joaquin Almunia sharply. &quot;Ask Google. I&apos;m investigating them. I&apos;m not defending them.&quot;Then the head of the European Commission&apos;s antitrust unit chuckles a little. &quot;Don&apos;t make that mistake. I&apos;m investigating them,&quot; he says again.Some of the companies that are complaining about Google&apos;s behaviour in the European search markets – and more particularly in those markets adjacent to search, such as online shopping and news – aren&apos;t entirely sure. The criticism one hears from them is that Almunia&apos;s investigation into Google, which opened at the end of November 2010, has ground on too long – and that it has so far achieved nothing, aside from two proposals from Google, neither of which they find satisfactory.And according to Almunia, speaking in an exclusive interview, it might not be until &quot;the first part&quot; of 2014 that there is a decision – which many have taken to mean April, though it could be as far off as mid-year. It could conclude with an agreed remedy which will tie the company&apos;s behaviour; or a &quot;Statement of Objections&quot; which could escalate to a court case and legally binding action; or even a fine.But those who have complained about what they see as anti-competitive tactics – including Microsoft, which arguably knows well enough what anti-competitive action looks like, having been previously fined around €1.4bn by the EC.Almunia, they feel, isn&apos;t investigating Google in the manner of a detective seeking to solve a crime; instead, they feel he&apos;s letting the American company decide the essence of the investigation – like a bank robber who persuades the detective to overlook the cash in the boot and starts quibbling about whether they deserve speeding points for how the getaway car was driven.Read:Google v European Commission: what&apos;s the issue over &apos;vertical search&apos;?The 65-year-old Spanish chief (who speaks excellent English) of the EC&apos;s DG competition arm, since March 2010, portrays it differently. We meet in the EC&apos;s London offices in Smith Square; he is here to deliver a speech to the LSE, where he will revisit the topics he has mentioned repeatedly down the years: Google, the digital economy, the importance of effective antitrust action.&quot;That Google has a dominant position [in search] is obvious. They have more than 90% of the search market [in Europe]. The way they use their dominant position is the matter of our investigation.&quot;Need for speedThe other cause of tension is the speed – or lack of it – with which he is moving to a conclusion. Earlier this year he suggested that he might have a conclusion by April of 2014; now, in this exclusive interview with the Guardian, he purses his lips and says: &quot;If we finally advance to a decision around [Google&apos;s] commitment ... we can reach a decision mid-next year.&quot;In numerous speeches, Almunia has said that he has &quot;concerns&quot; that Google uses that search dominance to divert traffic to its own offerings – particularly Google Shopping – while suppressing traffic to rival &quot;vertical search providers&quot;.He reiterated this in a speech to the LSE last week: &quot;One of the competition concerns we have in this case is that Google may divert internet traffic through favourable treatment – within its web search results – to its own specialised web search services as compared to the links of competing services; such as those specialised in helping users find restaurants and shops.&quot;The key criticism is that if you search for (as Google suggests in its proposals to the EC) &quot;iPod&quot;, then the first page of search results includes a box which invites you to &quot;Shop for iPod on Google&quot;. It&apos;s the gateway to a shop – but the links there aren&apos;t &quot;organic&quot; (ie there on merit), they&apos;re paid for. So Google is using its dominance for organic search to annexe the &quot;vertical search&quot; business. And there&apos;s no doubt that Google is using its monopoly to control that space: there isn&apos;t a &quot;Google adverts&quot; division which pays the &quot;Google search&quot; division for that space, and – crucially – no external business can buy that space, which competes directly with all the paid-for links just above and to its right.Thelatest proposals, which were leaked to the FT and published(PDF), show that Google is proposing that as a concession to the EC - and rivals - it would, in the outlined box, add small links (without pictures) to other vertical search sites. The sites would have to pay to appear in the box, while Google&apos;s prominent appearance on the site apparently covers no cost, and the items which appear in the box are paid links too. That means, say rivals, that Google would win both ways: it gets paid links from rivals, or from those appearing in the box.Neither answers the question about why Google&apos;s vertical search appears high up in search results, while rivals&apos; are far off.Browser wars revisitedIt resembles Microsoft&apos;s 1990s annexation, through its desktop monopoly with Windows, of the browser market by forcing the use of Internet Explorer: no rival could bid to get their browser installed instead. From one monopoly, Microsoft was annexing another.It&apos;s the same with Google, the EC is suggesting – and Google&apos;s rivals in &quot;vertical search&quot; (for shopping and related activities) such as Foundem, a rival vertical shopping search company, are complaining. Foundem, in fact, formally complained to the EC over what it claims is Google&apos;s abuse of its search monopoly.Almunia continued in his speech: &quot;Enforcing antitrust rules here means preserving choice so that users can pick their preferred services based on their merits. It also means preserving the incentives to innovate across the board, so that users can enjoy new and better services as they appear on the market.&quot;But what does that mean, precisely? The phrase &quot;based on their merits&quot; suggests that Almunia wants Google to stop interposing its box, and instead to compete through organic search for that shopping (and other) business.&quot;Every time that competition is protected, consumers win,&quot; Almunia tells me. So what is his aim from his investigation? &quot;To support the right of the user to get the best result possible when using a search engine,&quot; he rattles out.That sentence hinges of course on the meaning of &quot;best&quot;. Google clearly thinks it means &quot;using a Google service&quot;. Rivals don&apos;t. And they point to Almunia&apos;s oft-repeated concerns about Google preferring its own services, and say that Google&apos;s previous proposals (made in April and roundly rejected by rivals, including Foundem), and its latest ones, don&apos;t address those concerns at all.&quot;I think that in this particular case the proposals are different [from April],&quot; says Almunia. &quot;I think there are improvements. And now we are consulting stakeholders, trying to get their opinion … and in the end we will make up our minds. If you compare what they [Google] proposed in May, and what they proposed in September, the proposals are different. The question is whether they are sufficient to overcome our concerns. This is still to be decided.&quot;It&apos;s at this point, where I ask him to explain how the new proposals deal with his concerns, and how they benefit the consumer, that he makes the sharp retort above. Then he adds: &quot;If there&apos;s an abuse, it&apos;s being investigated [...] our theory of harm is that Google shouldn&apos;t abuse their dominant position by diverting traffic from other vertical search providers to Google services.&quot;That seems pretty clear. In his speech, Almunia pointed out that Google is a &quot;gatekeeper&quot; in the digital economy, and that &quot;one of the competition concerns we have in this case is that Google may divert internet traffic through favourable treatment in its web search results to its own specialised web search services, as compared to the links of competing services such as those specialised in helping users find restaurants and shops.&quot;The question is whether Google is within its rights to put its own shopping services, and links to news sites, in such prominent places. It is Google&apos;s search page, and Google&apos;s results; but what happens if the way it presents those results hampers rivals so much that they go out of business?Key testsThe key tests in the US of behaviour that merits antitrust strictures are the combination of: having a market monopoly; using that monopoly to annex other markets; harm to the consumer. All three are necessary for an antitrust case to succeed.In the US, the Federal Trade Commission carried out much the same investigation as the EC is doing. It opened its investigation in June 2011, andconcluded it in January 2013- with the FTC&apos;s chairman at the time, Jon Liebowitz, saying that it would take no action over Google&apos;s manipulation of search results. In its conclusion, the FTC commissionerswrotethat they &quot;concluded that the introduction of Universal Search, as well as additional changes made to Google’s search algorithms – even those that may have had the effect of harming individual competitors – could be plausibly justified as innovations that improved Google’s product&quot;.So the key test – of harm to the consumer – wasn&apos;t proven in the FTC&apos;s eyes. Yet if competitors are harmed, how isn&apos;t that harmful to competition, and hence prices, and so consumers?Asked how he thinks the FTC&apos;s explanation that Google&apos;s moves might have harmed competitors but not harmed competion, Almunia says: &quot;It&apos;s a philosophical question.&quot;He won&apos;t discuss it any further, though, on the grounds that it&apos;s the FTC&apos;s decision; he still has his own to make.But the pressure is growing. David Wood, a counsel for Icomp, a lobbying group which has complained about Google&apos;s proposals, and whose members include Microsoft and the Premier League (and Foundem), says: &quot;This should have had a resolution earlier. And we can&apos;t see why Almunia thinks these are significant improvements on the ones made in April. They&apos;re worse, in at least one respect – users can turn off rival links that are shown in Google&apos;s shopping box. They seem like backward steps from what was already a very poor set of proposals [in April]. It doesn&apos;t even begin to address the concerns about the manipulation of vertical search results.&quot;Google, for its part, is unimpressed. A Google spokesperson said: &quot;We&apos;ve made significant changes to address the EC&apos;s concerns, greatly increasing the visibility of rival services and addressing other specific issues. Unfortunately, our competitors seem less interested in resolving things than in entangling us in a never-ending dispute.”UnsettledBut at Foundem, where of course the issue in effect began, Shivan Raff, its co-founder, sees things very differently. As a small company at risk of being squeezed out by Google&apos;s proposals – because, like any business, Foundem prefers to get unpaid &quot;organic&quot; search clickthroughs rather than pay for ads – she feels the process is being dragged out by Google in its own interest.&quot;It is easy to understand why Google would doggedly pursue a settlement based on these proposals, under which Google would become the main beneficiary of any traffic it sends to rivals,&quot; she told the Guardian. &quot;But it is difficult to understand why the Commission would even entertain it.&quot;She points to Google&apos;s proposal of the box with paid-for links from advertisers and search rivals: &quot;If adopted, Google’s proposals would effectively hand Google a five-year mandate to extend its monopolisation of horizontal search into a monopolisation of internet commerce.&quot; Unsurprisingly, she&apos;s against it.The opponents to Google&apos;s proposals have until the end of November to respond – and Almunia&apos;s team will then consider what to do. He hasn&apos;t ruled out a Statement of Objections, which would embroil Google in legal requirements, something it surely doesn&apos;t want.But Google might be disappointed that Almunia hasn&apos;t been satisfied, as the FTC was, with its claims about competition and innovation. That might give some clue that he isn&apos;t happy with the proposals. We&apos;ll only find out, though, some time in 2014.• This article was amended on 17 December 2013 to note the fact that Foundem has made a formal complaint against Google to the European Commission.
The Xbox One is a games console pretending to be the computer from the USS Enterprise. A hypothetical Star Trek: The Next Generation episode where Commander Riker says, "Computer, tell me how handsome my beard is" and it obediently shows him mugshots of his face before he logs into Forza Motorsport 5, is sort of what they are aiming for.But Xbox One is not running on spaceships and it has no holodeck yet. At least, that is not written on the fact sheet that I was given. Perhaps the holodeck is DLC. What I do know is that Microsoft wants to conveniently integrate every living room service – TV, games, apps and internet browser – into one black box the size of a breeze block and have you sternly give it instructions like it's a naughty puppy.This is more exciting than I've made it sound: the joke where you say, "Xbox, sit. Good Xbox. Xbox, go to Bing. Xbox, search for Google," actually has more longevity than you might first assume – not least because voice commands really work now. But it does come off as an incredibly nosy piece of surveillance equipment – sometimes you wonder if all this integration is just so that metrics can be taken on how long you can stand watching someone murder a hit song on X Factor before you boot up Call of Duty to shoot virtual people in the neck.But such a feat of technological wonderment as a next generation-console takes hard work to conceive, execute, manufacture and distribute. I asked Phil Harrison, corporate vice president at Microsoft EMEA, on his feelings about the launch logistics of his beast of the future, the Xbox One. "It's a fascinating exercise of orchestrating and conducting an amazing array of talent and engineering resources," he told me. "You've got hardware engineering creating a future, you've got creative and engineering around the software that makes your hardware show up in the most incredible way, you've got the online services and cloud set up to support the online experience."You also have the logistics of building hardware and operating systems and content, all at the same time … and now, it's the logistics of shipping the hardware all around the world into retail stores and ultimately into people's homes. That's really where it culminates into this enormous crescendo where the people we've built this for get their hands on the experience."Which all sounds pretty exciting.Snap, switch, shareEverything has moved on since the Xbox 360, that old clunky overheating beast of the last generation. The new incarnation gets a 64-bit x86 architecture, with a whopping 8GBs of RAM, a Blu-ray drive and a 500GB onboard hard drive and all manner of other flibbertigibbets. Two virtual machines and three operating systems run on it. One machine handles your games, the other deals with entertainment applications. The extra operating system – or 'hypervisor'! – handles switching between functions, so you can seamlessly flip from a Skype chat to TV if the conversation is boring, or from the Machinima app to a multiplayer game as soon as your friends appear online. It works smoothly and quickly, and is much less hassle than juggling remotes.The ability to 'snap' one window to an already open window also means that you can watch TV in the top corner of your screen as you play a game, or Skype call someone as you search the internet. You can do two things at one without having to switch any inputs or wait until it's convenient. This console gets plus-12 on a scale from 'none' to 'smoothly integrated TV, games and apps', if you need some sort of scoring system.On top of this, and similarly to PS4, new apps give the ability to extend content made in your living room straight to the gaming community. "From launch," Phil Harrison assures me, "the consumers, the players, the gamers will be the people who give our games personality online. They will be using features like Upload, our personal broadcasting system inside of the console, to share and edit their own video creations with the world. Now it's the community that takes Xbox One to the next level."Ready to rumbleThe gamepad apparently has 40 (yes 40!) improvements. I got a bit bored of counting them after just two. The things you need to know are that the analogue sticks are smaller, more sensitive and have textured edges for comfort; the X, Y, A, B buttons are closer together ("it's better for thumb transit," Keith Stuart tells me) and more press-enjoyable than the last set. The battery pack has been moved inside the body, making the backside more toned. Stop it. And trigger buttons have individual rumble motors in them! That's right. They can rumble you individually, and there's also a greater increase in grades of rumbling. They can simulate a heartbeat, or a gun running out of ammo, in Forza, they simulate the tyres on either side of your car losing traction when braking too hard or over-steering. And Microsoft calls them "impulse triggers". All in all, a score of fifty-squillion comforts out of rumbles.Pester PowerIn June this year, the Xbox One teamreceived heavy criticismfor announcing digital rights management policies restricting the sharing of Xbox One's games, and the requirement of daily online authentication of the console. Many decisions werehurriedly reversedto give the consumers the choice they demanded.According to Microsoft's statement, "After a one-time system set-up with a new Xbox One, you can play any disc-based game without ever connecting online again." In addition to that, the company was keen to point out that it would now enable gamers to gift, resell, share or rent any Xbox One game titles without limit. And there will be no region locks on any of the games. An unusually positive triumph for consumer entitlement.For Phil Harrison, Microsoft's willingness to listen to its consumers and enact change has given the Xbox One owner a real advantage. "We have given [players] the ability to choose how they consume content, whether it's on disc as a physical media, or online through our store," he said.Added in to this is the fact that anyone in your house can access your digital games even if you're not at home or signed in. You can also sign in on a friend's Xbox One and access your own digital games.The Xbox One receives five stars out of no DRMs.Venting and plankingThe Xbox One allows horiziontal orientation only – planking across your living room. Photograph: KeystoneUSA-ZUMA / Rex FeaturesTo address the problems that the360 had with cooling, the entirety of the Xbox One console resembles one giant air vent. The side of the console looks like those air conditioning slits in your car dashboard but on a large scale. Heat is being taken seriously.At the same time, Microsoft has made the sentimental pastime of kicking the console over from its vertical perch difficult this time round. Xbox One allows HORIZONTAL ORIENTATION ONLY, planking supine across your living room. This means that it will be less likely I will kick the console over accidentally when drunk, laser burning my Hamish Macbeth DVDs. I give this console 28 horizontals out of 32.The biometric systemYou can voice command your Xbox One, TV, set-top box, and AV system via the Kinect, which comes bundled with the Xbox One. The Kinect, for those that don't already know, is a motion and audio sensor, and this version is much more powerful, having the ability to track six different people at once in a variety of lighting conditions and much smaller rooms. The camera is apparently so precise, it can track individual fingers from three metres away.The previous version could hardly figure out what was arse and what was elbow and was terrible at scoring me at Just Dance. However, this new sensitivity has allowed the creators of Just Dance 2014 to add six-player choreography, including human pyramids. And the new gameXbox Fitnessuses Kinect like a heart-rate monitor. According to Microsoft, the technology, "detects micro-fluctuations in your skin optically to read your heart rate, absolutely touch free, from up to 10 feet away".Assessing arousalThis led me to question what else the new Kinect can tell about my body from far away. Can it detect an unborn child's heartbeat? If it can see far away fingers and take a pulse, can it detect let's say "fluctuations" in … intimate areas? As a journalist, I decided it was necessary for me to see if this was possible. Nick Burton, development director and Kinect specialist at Rare was my unfortunate victim, sorry, chosen specialist. He said, "Kinect for Xbox One cannot detect skin heat – rather it can detect skin colour, using RGB and Active IR, and human blush response from that. Coupled with player movement analysis, you could potentially infer excitement levels, but we could not speak to the accuracy of this data right now."That's an acknowledgement of possibility, I'd say. I would like someone to use this information to make a game that amounts to arousal chicken, where the person who gets turned on is out. This may be somewhat unrealistic though, and I accept that even if this game were possible, it would probably only sell to me. However,recent reliance on metrics to gauge player attentionopens up the possibility that in future, Kinect information could be used to manipulate players' excitement in new ways. Yes, it is all rather daunting to think about.Light blastingKinect 2: The Return works so well because it includes an infrared blaster array, which they assure me is perfectly safe despite its name. In other words, it drenches your whole room in infrared light, allowing accurate control of your TV, console and set-top box with voice and movement. From your home screen, you can tell Xbox One to load up a game or to find your favourite TV show, or you can say "Xbox Mute" if it's making a nuisance of itself. Skype functions in fullscreen HD in conjunction with Kinect, and the Kinect camera can follow you around the room mid-call, as though you're delivering a soliloquy. You can pin preferred Skype contacts, games, films, albums and apps to your homepage, creating a custom front-end.Every person in your household can have a sign-in, and you can both have a jolly good fight with each other by yelling '"Xbox show my stuff!" to see whose voice it will obey more fervently. It's impressively good at recognising and picking out separate voices, immediately changing the user setup for the last person who shouted at it.After a while "show my stuff" seems like an oddly intimate command, and you're not sure you want it to show too much stuff. Unless you're me.Butt RecognitionAs soon as you have made a biometric profile of your appearance, it can sense that you are in the room and logs you into your personalised home screen automatically. I've done tests to see if I can sneak past it without it noticing. I entered the room arse first once and indeed, it failed to recognise me. From this I deduce that the Kinect login recognises only facial features, and that my arse thankfully doesn't resemble my face. This also means that if the Xbox One rises up against us one day, we can fool it just by walking butt-first everywhere.Paranoid androidThe powerful capabilities of the Xbox One can come off as quite creepy. Wander into the path of the Kinect's vision during the configuration process and it'll put a little tag above your face on the screen to say it's seen you. Once it knows you, the camera follows you around the room as you go about your embarrassingly mundane tasks, silently judging you as you pick your nose and drink orange juice out of the carton. And while Kinect doesn't have to be connected up for the Xbox One to function, if you do leave it on, it's always listening so you can tell your console to turn on via voice command.Part of me wonders whether, if I'm on the phone to one of my many boyfriends describing unspeakable things, it may be spitefully searching Bing for chastising terms to attack me with when I start the console up. However,this succinct post by Microsoftattempts to put all my Kinect paranoia to rest with a sweeping finality:"The system will navigate you through key privacy options, like automatic or manual sign in, privacy settings, and clear notifications about how data is used. When Xbox One is on and you're simply having a conversation in your living room, your conversation is not being recorded or uploaded.""You are in control of when Kinect sensing is on, off or paused: If you don't want the Kinect sensor on while playing games or enjoying your entertainment, you can pause Kinect … When the system is off, it's only listening for the single voice command – "Xbox On," and you can even turn that feature off too.""Your conversation is not being recorded or uploaded" does have a somewhat haunting vibe to it, though.The future‘I just can’t let you beat me at Dead Rising 3, Dave.’ Photograph: Ronald Grant ArchiveI'm slightly conflicted: this is the stuff of the future, and it is amazing when you can ask Xbox One via voice recognition to switch seamlessly between game, TV or app – but it's problematic when you regard exactly how much information it's possible to store about yourself. Biometric information isn't any minor thing. Microsoft claims that no personal details leave the console to be stored in the cloud without explicit permission, and has assured us privacy is taken very seriously.But all I remember is the last timeSony was hacked, or how HAL just can't do that Dave. If the Xbox One became sentient, the chances are all it would know is that I like to make my desktop bright pink and login to my profile with my bum, but, well, recently governments have beengetting really cosy with technology companies. I am increasingly sensible of how we slowly adapt to each new technological intrusion until it's normalised. Then, companies change the terms and conditions we are accustomed to by updating before sending us a dialogue box that we'll click 'Yes' on without reading. They want us to buy it, and they ask us to say yes to amendments later, when we're drunk on its magic.And yet, Zoo Tycoon is so very, very magic.The gamesThe real reason we're all here is for the games, right?"We've got the best launch line-up of any console," Phil Harrison tells me, incredibly confidently. And this may be true, particularly for what everyone calls the "core" gamer, who is broadly interested in killing things. Ryse is certainly a beautiful game about Ancient Rome, if entirely made up of creatively stabbing people in the neck using quicktime events, and Dead Rising 3 looks like a larger-mapped, more extravagantly-outfitted zombie-slaughter game than the previous two capable Dead Rising titles. Call of Duty's there too, if you like war-shooting and that.Forza Motorsport 5 features the unique technology of the 'Drivatar',described on the Microsoft Research siteas a "clone" or a "replicant" of you, the player: a driving avatar that can learn and mimic your own driving style and then recreate it in AI form. "You teach it to drive like you do and you can keep on training it until it reaches the dizzy heights of perfection," according to the website. You can also download your friends' Drivatars from the cloud and race them. But I woke up in a cold sweat the other night thinking about what if my Drivatar came to envy my fleshly body, and offed me in the night by possessing next door's Volvo and driving it over my bed.By far the most wonderful launch title on the Xbox One is Zoo Tycoon, created by Frontier Developments, the company founded by industry legend David Braben. A game essentially about creating and running a zoo in the vein of Simcity, Zoo Tycoon also works closely with Kinect capabilities, so that you can walk around the wildlife idyl you have made, and then interact in first person view with the animals by gesturing in several different ways. You can feed them, wash them, and even prat about making silly gestures for them to copy. I spent an hour last week making faces at a virtual monkey, winking and waving and giggling at the furry thing's mirror expressions. It's almost like a kind of very gentle therapy."I actually just find myself watching the animals to see what they get up to," David Braben says, like a technologically advanced David Attenborough. "Just putting two animals in an enclosure and waiting to see them together, seeing how an animal and a baby interact, or how two animals interact. A lot of it is quite subtle – it's not the sort of thing that you can expect from a game. And yes, we don't have a gunsight. And that for me, in many ways, is a positive."And much of the games that might not have included the traditional gunsights could have been independently-made games. Though Sony has made a big deal of courting independent developers, not much has been said by Xbox One about indies apart from about theirID@Xbox scheme, which is a gatekeeping process that invites indies to register, to receive development kits, submit game information, and then publish on Xbox One Marketplace. It also provides studios with a free licence to develop using the popular Unity engine.There has been some positive progress. Microsoft's London-based Lift Studio is currently 'incubating' the small indie developer Dlala, founded by industry veteran, Aj Grand-Scrutton. "The relationship we are in right now is this mixture of co-development, mentoring and publishing," he explains. "The support we've received as a studio has allowed us to be able to grow the team and it's helped us adapt and get ready for next year when we go out into the big scary world again."We're personally really excited for Xbox One. It's a fantastic piece of hardware and MS are really putting some force behind the indie push. The fact they are looking to make all consoles dev kits at some point next year, the free Unity licences and the support network they have in-house all mean it's a great console to develop for."But this isn't a universal viewpoint. Independent developer Byron Atkinson-Jones' experience of submitting to the Microsoft process hasn't been entirely positive so far. "I've given up on actively pursuing Xbox One developer status," he said by email, "and I've set Microsoft a challenge – the only way I will believe that they are truly being indie friendly is when I see an Xbox One dev-kit arrive at my front door within the next month. They know where to find me. Until that happens, my feeling is that they are treating most indies as second-class developers. Sony aren't doing that – they are embracing us with open arms and being incredibly supportive."More should become next year when the ID@Xbox program really kicks into gear.Final thoughtsRumours that the Xbox One will be delivered to your house by one of these are totally untrue.  Photograph: Chris Polk/WireImageDiscussing with Phil Harrison what sort of vision he had for Xbox One, I say it's interesting that they want to make a games console that can become such a focal point for the living room, a futuristic hub of our times."We think the largest screen in the house, typically in the living room, is the place where the most amazing entertainment experiences are always going to be," Phil replies. "Whether it's playing games, whether it's watching movies, or whether it is using Kinect as a communication device with Skype – being able to put Skype in HD in your living room transforms the nature of communication in a really amazing way."That's what we wanted to do with Xbox One, to create an entertainment device that was the best place to play games, was the place where all of your entertainment, including your television, could be enjoyed, and to have the power and simplicity and ease of use to allow any user to get the most out of the system, whether they're a core gamer, or someone more interested in the entertainment offerings."Part of me wonders quite what we're getting ourselves into, and part of me really does want to live on the USS Enterprise.
Iceland’s attempts to become a free-speech haven risk floundering in the wake of revelations regarding the extent of internet monitoring by the US and UK intelligence agencies.The Icelandic Modern Media Initiative (IMMI) has spent the last three years working protections for whistleblowers and investigative journalists into the country’s constitution. But the knowledge that monitoring of digital communications is far more widespread than previously thought makes it difficult to promise safety to sources who might have hoped otherwise.“When we were making IMMI, even if we were aware that there had been spying going on, on all our devices, I don’t think any of us at the time – late 2009, early 2010 – anticipated that it was so invasive,” says Icelandic MP Birgitta Jónsdóttir, one of the driving forces behind the initiative.“I mean, not even the most paranoid of my hacktivist tribe, except maybe Richard Stallman, could fathom how extensive this is. And so we didn’t write anything into IMMI about privacy.”Before she was an MP – originally for the Citizens&apos; Movement, a grassroots campaign born out of the Icelandic economic crash – Jónsdóttir was a volunteer for WikiLeaks, and in 2010she worked with the organisation on the launch of the “Collateral Murder” video. She says the aim of IMMI was to “legalise WikiLeaks”.“What I loved about WikiLeaks in its original days was that the whole idea behind it was that it was a digital dropbox, and anybody could drop the ‘brown envelope’ there, and we would never know who it was. That was the entire beauty of it.”“And the aim with IMMI is to legalise that. That it is up to an editor if he processes information from a source, he doesn’t have to know the source.”After the release of the NSA files, however, it has become clear that IMMI’s goals cannot be met through the legislative arena alone.“With the revelations from the NSA, it is obvious that it doesn’t matter if we have the best source protection laws in the world. It just doesn’t matter.” With surveillance so much more widespread than was previously assumed, it no longer seems possible for a source to stay anonymous purely through legislative protection.Jónsdóttir emphasises that the primary goal of the law was never to protect sources, but to protect their right to publish, and their publisher’s right to keep them anonymous.“I was very surprised when Edward Snowden, for example, said when he appeared for the whistleblower behind the NSA [leaks] that he believed that he would have an automatic refuge in Iceland because of IMMI, because what I have always said is that the intent with IMMI would be to legalise the functions of WikiLeaks, or to make sure the Tibetan blogger who risks his life to tell us what’s going on will remain up, no matter what. Unaltered.“But we could never save that person.”The best model for IMMI is one not particularly enamoured of transparency campaigners: that of the tax haven. “My aim is to prevent these international law firms, that specialise in going after stories even years back in time,” from coming to Iceland, she says. “You can register the company with one person accountable in that country, and that person is going to be the front for more than one media organisation.“That is an option that people can take, and it’s already happened – there are Icelandic citizens that front hosting companies. If it’s OK for tax havens to do it, why isn’t it OK for people that want to protect sources?”For all that massive international surveillance eats away at IMMI’s successes, however, there’s a bigger threat on the horizon. Some nations have responded to the news that the US and UK monitor the net by splitting themselves from the anglophonic web, a move that concerns Jónsdóttir.She hasspoken against Brazilian attempts to wall the country’s internet offfrom foreign interference. “They have some great ideas, and I’m hoping to go to Icann and encourage them to do the other stuff they were going to do. But of course, we need to come up with ideas that exclude that specific one.“The reason I’m worried about this balkanisation of the internet is that it is already in some countries. Iran and China have their own versions [of the web], and Iran wants to go completely off the net. That is very dangerous, and that idea … we do have to decentralise, but that’s not only about the idea of dealing with the extensive capacities of the NSA.”•The court order that allowed the NSA surveillance has been revealed for the first time.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe multitudes of social &gt;&gt; stratēcheryBen Thompson:Facebook would do better to continue investing in improving theiradvertising signal. As I'vewritten previously, Facebook is sitting on a display ad gold mine; they just need the targeting to match. That's why Waze wassuch a loss. If they want to buy out a competitor, better to focus on one that either threatens their public-permanent space, or others - like Instagram - that are a great fit for their display business.Most of all, though, Facebook needs to appreciate that their dominance of social on the PC was an artefact of the PC's lack of mobility and limited application in day-to-day life. Smartphones are with us literally everywhere, and there is so much more within us than any one social network can capture.Anatomy of a stalemate: why is everyone still fighting about WebRTC? &gt;&gt; GigaOmWebRTC is an HTML5 standard for video calling. But:participants in the working group agreed that there should be a mandatory video codec for WebRTC, meaning that the same video format would be implemented by everyone who was going to use the new standard – not necessarily to use it every time someone does a video chat, but to always have one codec to fall back to that works with every browser and every device.However, the group could never agree on what that codec should be. Google, which has been one of the biggest drivers behind WebRTC, wants to use VP8 — a codec the company acquired when it bought the codec specialist On2 Technologies in 2009. Google open sourced VP8 in 2010, permitting everyone to use the codec for their own projects without the need to pay any licensing fees.The move was meant to offer a viable alternative to H.264, the predominant video codec that's been used in Flash and by many online video services.Curved display analysis: smartphone innovation running on fumes &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:I guess you can argue that some consumers need the 41-megapixel camera that Nokia introduced a few months ago. But the number of people who care about that is a sliver of the overall market. Things get even murkier with the Samsung Galaxy Round and its curved display. Technically, this feature does have marginal utility. When you rock the phone as it lies on its convex side, you can glimpse messages on the display if you happen to be looking at it sideways. This is pretty much the definition of "grasping at straws" when it comes to feature innovation.Two out of three Samsung smart TV users use TV apps &gt;&gt; ETNews"Smart TV function's connection rate and use rate are increasing year after year around the world," said VP Kim Hyeon-seok. "The number of smart hub visitors has more than doubled this year. The increase rate grows every year." He also emphasized that it is not just happening in Korea, but it is a global phenomenon. The smart TV connection rate is defined as coming to the smart hub, Samsung Electronics' smart TV portal, and using contents provided by the smart TV, such as apps. How often they downloaded contents was not disclosed, but the smart functions of the smart TV are becoming more widely used. Along with the smartphone and the smartpad, the smart TV is transforming itself into a smart device. If popular contents called 'killer apps' are developed, the life patterns of users may be changed. "We must pay attention to the fact that TV app development is increasing in North America," said VP Kim Hyeon-seok. "Many popular TV apps are made in the US."How the Feds took down the Silk Road drug wonderland &gt;&gt; Wired.comWhile investigators in New York focused on gathering evidence around the drug sales, law enforcement in Maryland began mapping the operation. They focused on identifying and nabbing two groups connected to Silk Road: the top 1 percent of sellers and the moderators and system administrators, whose computers and credentials, once seized, could open the door to the site's private communications and account details."Moderators and admins were our main objects," one law enforcement official says. "We identified some of them. That led to some information to help us understand the inner circle of Silk Road. We also took down drug traffickers and those selling IDs and guns. From there we gained a lot of intelligence about the people involved."This is all very hazy, and won't dissuade anyone who thinks that "intelligence" could mean "intelligence agencies" from thinking they were involved in some part of this.This phone is infuriatingly bad &gt;&gt; How the fuck did the Q10 ship?I am now weaning myself off this phone and onto a Nexus 5. This has been a *terrible* experience, Blackberry. I was one of the few folks in the venture community rooting for you. You have done a miserable job with this phone. Absolutely miserable.That's how the ecosystem crumbles.Snap out of it: kids aren't reliable tech predictors &gt;&gt; WSJ.comFarhad Manjoo:Here's a thought exercise. How many of the products and services that you use every day were created or first used primarily by people under 25?A few will spring to mind, Facebook the biggest of all. Yet the vast majority of your most-used things weren't initially popular among teens. The iPhone, the iPad, the iPod, the Google search engine, YouTube, Twitter, TWTR -1.59%  Gmail, Google Maps, Pinterest, LinkedIn, the Kindle, blogs, the personal computer, none of these were initially targeted to, or primarily used by, high-school or college-age kids. Indeed, many of the most popular tech products and services were burdened by factors that were actively off-putting to kids, such as high prices, an emphasis on productivity and a distinct lack of fun. Yet they succeeded anyway.Google's broken promises &amp; who's running the search engine? &gt;&gt; MarketinglandDanny Sullivan has watched Google (and search) since before 1998 and points to numerous broken promises and reversals:Maybe it does make sense that Google shifted to a paid inclusion model for shopping search, despite its earlier stance against this. Maybe Page and Brin were naive to think that a bad search engine wouldn't sell giant graphical units to brands for their own names, especially when brands themselves seem willing if not eager to buy.But these were still dramatic changes in Google's philosophy. You'd think they caused some internal debate. Was there anyone at Google saying that if giant graphical units at the top of search results are useful to searchers, then maybe Google should be offering those for free, to ensure a consistent experience for those searchers? Was there anyone at Google saying that maybe a shift to paid inclusion was a bad move for shopping and other search products, because it opens up every search product to that possibility?I assume there must have been some debate. I sure hope there was.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
The UK's key internet monitoring service is to begin investigating illegal child abuse material on restricted parts of the internet that it does not have access to.TheInternet Watch Foundationdoes not at the moment pursue images and videos on so-called peer-to-peer networks because it lacks permission from the Home Office. But it was announced on Monday that the watchdog would begin a six-month pilot scheme in collaboration with Google, Microsoft and the Child Exploitation and Online Protection agency (Ceop), so that IWF can develop procedures to identify and blacklist links to child abuse material on P2P services.P2P networks allow users to share material amongst themselves without the need for searches on the open web.The pilot one of several announcements at the prime minister's internet safety summit on Monday, but the only one designed to tackle the distribution of material on private, peer-to-peer networks where the vast majority of child abuse material is shared online.Separately, David Cameron said the "dark net", a general term for areas of the internet not accessible through search engines, was policeable. And he said that the government listening serviceGCHQ would be brought in to tackle child abuse images."There's been a lot in the news recently about the techniques, ability and brilliance of the people involved in the intelligence community, in GCHQ and the NSA in America. That expertise is going to be brought to bear to go after these revolting people sharing these images [of child abuse] on the dark net, and making them available more widely," the Cameron told the BBC's Jeremy Vine.Ceop was unable to provide the Guardian with a precise figure on the scale of the problem on P2P services, but Ceop research from June stated that 50,000 people in the UK were involved in downloading or sharing photos or video of child abuse during 2012. The number using P2P networks increased by two-thirds during the year, representing one of the largest annual increases globally.A No 10 spokesperson said the details of the project had yet to be confirmed but "roles and responsibilities between IWF and the National Crime Agency" would be clarified in due course.One industry source said the government needed to address the relationship between its departments in order to match its demands on technology companies. "Plenty of work needs to be done around the national image database which has no global source, so there's a political process that needs to happen there."The P2P taskforce will involve teams in the UK and US and after seeking approval from the Home Office to allow monitoring of links to P2P content, is likely to explore the metadata of torrent files and the context of those links.David Cameron has called on "the big brains" of the technology industry to address the challenge of child abuse material online, but Jim Gamble, former head of Ceop, said the agency had suffered with a budget cut in real terms. "Ceop's budget has been frozen at £6.4m but they have been given responsibility for missing children, and reports have increased from 700 a month two years ago to 1,700 a month now. Many of the most experienced staff have left and there are too few people there doing a very horrible job."Nobody actually knows how much child abuse material is on the dark net, but the vast majority is shared on P2P. I think the government is masking the problem by not investing in real human resource." IWF itself currently has only five staff monitoring the internet, though it has been given approval by its 110 industry members for a bigger budget, following a large donation by Google, and more resources from April 2014.
Yahoo will add encryption to all its products by spring 2014, chief Marissa Mayer has announced, in a bid to tackle users’ privacy fears in the wake of reports that the National Security Agency had accessed the tech firm&apos;s data centres.In ablogposton Monday, Mayer said: “We’ve worked hard over the years to earn our users’ trust and we fight hard to preserve it. As you know, there have been a number of reports over the last six months about the US government secretly accessing user data without the knowledge of tech companies, including Yahoo.“I want to reiterate what we have said in the past: Yahoo has never given access to our data centers to the NSA or to any other government agency. Ever. There is nothing more important to us than protecting our users’ privacy.”Mayer’s move comes afterthe Washington Post reported last monththat the NSA had broken into the main communications links that connect Yahoo and Google data centres around the world.According to documents obtained from formerNSAcontractor Edward Snowden and interviews with officials, the NSA, in partnership with its British counterpart GCHQ, has been copying large amounts of data as it flows across fibre-optic cables that carry information between the companies’ worldwide data centres.After the story broke, Yahoo said government attempts to circumvent its online security systems offered “substantial potential for abuse”. Eric Schmidt, Google’s executive chairman, called the news “really outrageous”.Yahoo recently announced it was beefing up security on its email service by introducing https (SSL – Secure Sockets Layer) encryption with a 2048-bit key across its network by 8 January 2014.The company said it would now:Encrypt all information that moves between its data centers by the end of the first quarter of 2014;Offer users an option to encrypt all data flow to/from Yahoo by the end of Q1 2014;Work closely with international partners to ensure that Yahoo co-branded mail accounts are https-enabled.Google too is racing to encrypt its data. Executives at the tech giant refer to an “arms race” with US authorities and others who want unauthorised access to its users’ data. Executives say the company has been improving and extending its encryption of data since the Snowden stories first broke, doubling the length of its digital keys and implementing new measures to detect fraudulent attempts to access its information.Similar moves to add greater encryption and other security measures are under way at Apple, Facebook and Microsoft. All the tech giants feel that their reputations have been damaged by the Snowden leaks and insist that they never hand over information to the NSA without a legal order.The tech firms are currently lobbying to be allowed to make more disclosures about the number of NSA orders they receive. Currently those orders are dealt with under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and the companies are gagged from disclosing details.
AChange.org petition to end the integration of Google+ and YouTubehas received over 180,000 signatures, as users revolt Google’s decision.The petition, posted on 7 November, received almost 50,000 signatures in its first day, and looks set to achieve its goal of 200,000 petitioners.“Google is forcing us to make Google+ accounts and invading our social life to comment on a YouTube video and trying to take away our anonymous profile,” writes the petition’s anonymous creator. “They are also trying to censor us unless we share the same worldview as they do.”The 180,000 signatories have some high-profile supporters, including Jawed Karim, one of the co-founders of YouTube.Karim askedP:“Why the fuck do I need a Google+ account to comment on a video?” before changing his avatar to read, simply, “Google+ SUCKS”.Google’s stated aim in rehauling YouTube comments was to sanitise a site famous for having some of the most abusive comments on the internet, as well as enable a more personalised discussion on the site.“You’ll see posts at the top of the list from the video’s creator, popular personalities, engaged discussions about the video, and people in your Google+ Circles”, the companyexplained in a blogpost.But many suspect that the company’s actual aim is to boost adoption of its social network.Google doesn’t share details about take-up of Google+, but it does give information about vaguely defined “activity” on the site. Before the YouTube integration, it cited 540 million users who take “some sort” of activity each month.Now that the users of that site have been added in, the number is likely to increase enormously – but that still says very little about actual users of Google+.•Why is YouTube&apos;s comment system causing such anger?
Bitcoin hit new highs on Monday, as the Senate held its first hearing on the controversial virtual currency.The currency topped $700 on the MT Gox exchange, where it is traded, as the Senate discussion began. In April the currency hit a high of $266. Two years ago, Bitcoin was valued at $20.Before the meeting Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, gave his cautious blessing to the currency. In a letter to the Senate homeland security and government affairs committee, Bernanke said such currencies “may hold long-term promise, particularly if the innovations promote a faster, more secure and more efficient payment system”.But the Fed chair also warned that he had little power to regulate online currencies.“Although the Federal Reserve generally monitors developments in virtual currencies and other payments system innovations, it does not necessarily have authority to directly supervise or regulate these innovations or the entities that provide them to the market,” he said.The hearing before the Senate committee was entitled Beyond Silk Road: Potential Risks, Threats and Promises of Virtual Currencies. Silk Road was an online black market known as “Amazon for drugs” that used Bitcoin for transactions and was closed by the FBI in October. Bitcoins can be traded anonymously and trades are difficult to track.Law enforcement officials and others testified about the dangers of the currency at the hearing but did not announce any new initiatives and stopped short of calling for new laws. Mythili Raman, the acting assistant attorney general of the Justice Department, said virtual currencies “offer legitimate financial services and have the potential to promote more efficient global commerce”.&quot;We have also seen, however, that certain aspects of virtual currencies appeal to criminals and present a host of new challenges to law enforcement,&quot; she said. Raman said that their anonymous nature and the impossibility of reversing transactions made virtual currencies highly attractive to criminals while making it difficult for law enforcement to “follow the money”.Raman said there were clearly legitimate uses for virtual currencies but they needed careful vigilance. “Our experience in the last few years has shown there is good reason for that vigilance,” she said.Ernie Allen, the president and chief executive of the International Centre for Missing and Exploited Children, told the hearing of his concerns about the anonymous nature of Bitcoin.“For the past year I have consulted with law enforcement and financial experts worldwide. While much of the evidence is still anecdotal, there is consensus that commercial child pornography, sexual exploitation, sex trafficking and other crimininal enterprises are increasingly moving to a new unregulated, unbanked digital economy,” said Allen.Jerry Brito, senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, said the Bitcoin technology was not unlike other emerging technologies, like 3D printing, which could be used for good, like cheaply make prostheses, or bad, like undetectable firearms. “The challenge for policymakers is to address the risks posed by emerging technologies while doing no harm to the innovative potential of that technology,” he said.Patrick Murck, general counsel for the lobby group Bitcoin Foundation, argued that the currency does not “pose a unique or unsolvable challenge to law enforcement or existing regulatory structures”. He said Bitcoin innovation would move overseas if it was too&quot;Bitcoin can facilitate private and anonymous transactions, which are resistant to oversight and control,&quot; Murck said. &quot;This by no means implies that using Bitcoin can or should provide anyone immunity from the law.“Though it has sometimes been portrayed as such in careless media stories, Bitcoin is not a magic cloaking device that allows criminal actors free reign. It does offer enhanced privacy protections, however, which is the just desert of hundreds of millions of law-abiding Americans and billions of law-abiding people worldwide.”Can you explain Bitcoin to a senator – in 15 seconds or less?
David Cameron has made a personal mission of being seen to rid the internet of child abuse material.InJune, he berated web&apos;s biggest technology firms to do more to tackle the production, distribution and accessibility of abuse material online, and summoned Google, Facebook, Yahoo and others to a &quot;council of war&quot; in which he demanded that they provide more funding and technical support to identify and block images of child abuse online.On Monday, Cameron called together senior ministers and technology executives for acyber-security summitto announce the latest progress in identifying and blocking child abuse material from the internet.Who is there?Search firms Google and Microsoft will attend the meeting at Number 10, broadband providers BT, TalkTalk and Virgin Media, charity the NSPCC, web monitoring firm the Internet Watch Foundation and the UK&apos;s National Crime Agency.How big is the problem?The exact number of indecent images of children, both photos and video, is hard to pin down, but research by the UK&apos;s Child Exploitation and Online Protection agency (Ceop) notes that the number of individual pieces of content runs into the millions, while the number of children abused in the production of the material is thought to be tens of thousands. UK police seized 2.5m pieces of content in 2011. By far the biggest threat is from material spread on private networks, or peer-to-peer, where individuals can share files with each other directly and which bypass safety filters and search indexes. The vast majority of indecent and illegal imagery is distributed this way.What kind of content is being shared?As well as an increase in the volume of content, Ceop&apos;s research has found that photos and video of child abuse is becoming more violent and sadistic, and involving younger children and toddlers that would not be able to identify the abusers. The majority of content involves white children and perpetrators, and images are sometimes used by abusers to normalise the abuse and encourage children to reenact the activity. Offenders, Ceop notes, are generally socially skilled, educated individuals with access to children through family, work or their home.What&apos;s the difference between &apos;child abuse material&apos; and &apos;child pornography&apos;?&apos;Pornography&apos; attempts to legitimise the material. In the words of the NSPCC, the term gives &quot;a misleading and potentially trivialising impression of what is a very serious crime&quot; and favours the term &quot;child abuse images&quot;.Photos and video of sexual acts with children document a criminal act – the abuse of a child – and need to be labelled as such. One victim told Ceop of the terror of being pictured in abusive material: &quot;I am scared because there are photos of me on the internet that other paedophiles know what I look like. I don&apos;t know if they know where I live.&quot;What is being announced?Google and Microsoft have expanded systems to block child abuse material from their search engines. Google has dedicated 200 engineers to ramp up these technologies, and is also sending a small number of engineers to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) which investigates URLs that reportedly link to abuse material. Google now more strictly controls search results for 100,000 terms related to underage sex abuse, and has edited its auto-complete feature, and will point searches for the most explicit search terms towards warnings and links to expert help.Google has developed a Video ID tool which uses digital fingerprinting technology to identify and block child abuse videos, even if they have been edited and repurposed. Microsoft says it is looking at implementing Video ID on its own video services, and has a similar tool for photos called Photo DNA.Crucially, Google and Microsoft are working with Ceop and the IWF to explore how to identify and stop distribution of material on P2P networks by removing direct links to content.How does this affect parents?The changes announced by Google and Microsoft today should make child abuse material harder to find and easier and quicker to remove, but very easy access to legal, adult content online is a different issue. Anyone taking out a new broadband contract by the end of 2013 will find age-appropriate safety filters automatically switched on, but concerned parents with existing broadband contracts can switch on their ISP&apos;s own filters now. Parents can use various guides to internet safety, such as theNSPCC&apos;s resources, to find out the risks and safety tools available to children on social networks, mobile services and how to activate age-restricted safety features.What happens next?The next step is for Google and Microsoft, working with Ceop and the IWF, to investigate and develop a reporting process for links to content hosted on P2P networks. Currently, the IWF only has a remit for investigating and blacklisting URLs of content on the open web which is indexed by search engines, which accounts for only a small minority of child abuse material. With an expanded remit and extra staff, the IWF could then begin to unpick &apos;the dark web&apos; where content is shared with impunity.Another major challenge is to tackle grooming on public areas such as social networks, where conversation may appear benign but where abusers groom children and eventually meet offline.•Who exactly attended this web summit?
GCHQ will be brought in to tackle the problem of child abuse material being shared on peer-to-peer networks, the prime minister has revealed.Following the announcement thatGoogle and Microsoft are to step up efforts to remove links to child abuse material from search results, Cameron has turned his attention to less conspicuous methods of sharing illicit data.Talking to the BBC&apos;s Jeremy Vine, Cameron argued that the &quot;dark net&quot;, a general term for areas of the internet not accessible through search engines, was policeable.&quot;There&apos;s been a lot in the news recently about the techniques, ability and brilliance of the people involved in the intelligence community, in GCHQ and the NSA in America. That expertise is going to be brought to bear to go after these revolting people sharing these images [of child abuse] on the dark net, and making them available more widely,&quot; the prime minster said.&quot;You use technology which is able to get into the dark internet, that is able to decrypt encrypted files, and that is able to find out what is going on. Like all these things if you put in the resources and the effort, if you use the best brains – the brains that are, as it were, the inheritors to the people that decrypted the Enigma code in the second world war – if you take those brains, and apply it to the problem of tackling child abuse online, you&apos;ll get results.&quot;I&apos;m confident, having sat in the cabinet room, listening to the internet service providers, and having listened to the national crime agency, having talked to the team that are going to be negotiating with the Americans to work out how we best bring our joint expertise to bear on this, I&apos;m confident that we can make some real progress.&quot;Asked whether people would be comfortable with the invasion of privacy that would result from the move, Cameron responded that &quot;people understand that a crime is a crime whether it&apos;s committed on the street or the internet&quot;.•The four biggest UK ISPs will start making existing users decide whether to filter adult images
Top technology executives from across the UK including BT, Sky, Virgin and TalkTalk, as well as Microsoft and Google representatives, have met for David Cameron’s cyber-summit in Downing Street.The Downing Street summit on Monday saw the prime minister announce a joint operation by British and US law enforcement agencies to jointly target online child abuse by monitoring those who operate on the hidden internet. A transatlantic taskforce will identify ways of targeting criminals and paedophiles who use secret encrypted networks to distribute images of abuse.Senior representatives from the UK’s internet service providers (ISPs), including BSkyB chief executive Jeremy Darroch, BT chief executive Gavin Patterson, TalkTalk chief executive Dido Harding and Virgin Media chief executive Tom Mockridge, met the heads of the National Crime Agency, NSPCC and the Internet Watch Foundation to discuss what can be done to tackle child abuse online, as well as how to tackle issues such as cyber-bulling and access to adult entertainment online.Joint venture formed for child safety awareness campaignThe UK’s four biggest ISPs, BSkyB, TalkTalk, BT and Virgin Media, pledged to form a new joint venture to lead an awareness campaign around child safety with a marketing expenditure in excess of £25m next year.“We’ve been focused on the issue of online safety since we developed the world’s first Cleanfeed filter to block child abuse images and made the technology available free to other ISPs across the world a decade ago,” Patterson said.Most major UK ISPs now offer extensive parental controls for filtering online access aimed at protecting children, including Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin. BT is also set to launch a new “whole-home” filter in the very near future.&apos;Awareness, expert advice and support are crucial&apos;Having the tools in place is one thing, but awareness of what they do and how to use them is crucial, especially in an opt-in environment rather than an on-by-default setting.“Awareness, expert advice and support are crucial in making sure that parents feel confident in using the protections that are offered by ISPs”, Patterson said.The four ISPs forming the national online safety campaign joint venture together supply broadband to about 90% of households in the UK.• In November, Google announced that it hadcommitted a 200-strong teamto clean up Google search and identify YouTUbe videos made by paedophiles
Apple has bought PrimeSense, an Israeli company which provided 3D sensors for the first generation Microsoft Kinect, according to reports in Israel.PrimeSense&apos;s systems generate a three-dimensional representation of the space in front of the sensors using reflected infrared light, so that digital devices can effectively &quot;see&quot; a scene and recognise elements in it. The first-generation Kinect uses it to locate players and observe their movements.The deal, said to be worth $345m (£213m), wasreported by Calcalist, an Israeli financial newspaper which has a good track record on acquisitions in the area. It was the first to report that Google had bought the Israeli traffic mapping company Waze in June.Apple&apos;s decision to purchase the company will heighten expectation that it is working on some form of application for the living room, where a sensor could work with its Apple TV set-top box and allow users to control a TV remotely. Alternatively it could be fitted to a phone and used to recognise faces - perhaps as an adjunct to its fingerprint unlocking system introduced on the iPhone 5S in September, or a feature in an entirely new deviceSense and synchroniseFounded in 2005 and with about 150 staff, PrimeSense, which has raised a total of $85m in venture funding,saysthat its sensing technology &quot;gives digital devices the ability to observe a scene in three dimensions. It translates these observations into a synchronised image stream (depth and color) – just like humans do. It then takes those synchronised images and translates them into information such as identification of people - their body properties, movements and gestures; classification of objects such as furniture; location of walls and floor.&quot;The company claims that its technology is used in 24m devices around the world. A large number of those will be the first version of the Kinect. Microsoft used a different supplier for its second-generation Kinect.Apple tends to buy comparatively small companies for their technologies. In 2012 itbought Anobit for $390m, another Israeli company, for its expertise in working with solid state storage technology, which is a key part of its phones and tablets, and a growing number of its computers. The Californian company reportedly has three research and development centres in Israel.But the many projects that PrimeSense is working on with third parties are likely to be curtailed, as happened when it purchased the fingerprint sensing company Authentec in July 2012. That technology took more than a year to appear in Apple&apos;s phone technology, suggesting that any plans the company has for it might not appear for some time - although it is not known whether the two companies were collaborating ahead of Apple&apos;s buyout.The company said: &quot;PrimeSense is the leading 3D technology in the market. We are focused on building a prosperous company while bringing 3D sensing and Natural Interaction to the mass market in a variety of markets such as interactive living room and mobile devices. We do not comment on what any of our partners, customers or potential customers are doing and we do not relate to rumors or re-cycled rumors.&quot;Apple didn&apos;t respond to a request for comment.
Filesharing indexing sites that operate like search engines for piracy links, are taking to the dark web to escape the clutches of copyright owners.A new piracy indexing site funded solely by Bitcoins, NewsNab+, has set up shop within theTor network– commonly referred to as the dark web due to the fact that it is not indexed by search engines and cannot be accessed via the open internet or Google – using its anonymity to protect the piracy site’s location and identity from litigation from copyright owners and their representatives like the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA).&quot;By using Tor as the base of operations, we have reduced the risk of our users being discovered, as well as the risk of the site being discovered, therefore providing a more reliable, long-term solution for indexing,” the administrator of NewsNab+ known only as Tyriontold filesharing news site TorrentFreak.NewzNab+ offers links via Tor to download copyrighted media using the usenet filesharing service.TheTor project is a non-profit organisationthat conducts research and development into online privacy and anonymity. It is designed to stop people – including government agencies and corporations – learning your location or tracking your browsing habits.It offers a browser that bounces internet users&apos; and websites&apos; traffic through &quot;relays&quot; run by thousands of volunteers around the world, making it extremely hard for anyone to identify the source of the information or the location of the user.Anonymity protection for both administrators and usersHiding within Tor affords both the administrators of the site some anonymity protection as well as its users. However, it isn’t entirely foolproof, as actiontaking down the online drugs marketplace Silk Roadin October, which also operated solely within the Tor network, proved.Tyrion describes the use of Tor as like having a heavy bouncer on the door of a club – he only lets in clientele that NewsNab+ wants through the door, but given enough resources and manpower, he could be overwhelmed. The amount of effort required to overwhelm the Tor protection would be prohibitively expensive, at least that’s what Tyrion hopes.Recent action by media groups, putting pressure on payment providers like Visa, MasterCard and PayPal, resulted in several high-profile usernet indexing pirate sites like NZBMatrix folding due to lack of funding. NewsNab+ hopes to avoid that kind of situation by adopting bitcoin as its primary funding strategy, accepting donations in the digital peer-to-peer currency and not relying on ads or other funding sources.Forced undergroundThe move further underground has been fuelled by increasing pressure from media groups like the MPAA, the Recording Industry Association of America, the BPI and the Federation Against Copyright Theft. It is unknown whether other sites like the notorious Pirate Bay would follow suit, or whether NewsNab+ is likely to be popular.Tor was relatively unknown until high-profile siteslike Silk Roadand NSA whistleblowerEdward Snowden’s use of the anonymity network hit the mainstream media, but now it is slowly becoming more well known as more and more allegedly illegal sites move into the dark web to escape monitoring and prosecution by the authorities.•Tor is a privacy toolthat hides your location and internet address from surveillance by bouncing your internet requests through multiple computers
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 16 November 2013PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Call of Duty: Ghosts (16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (32)Xbox One (10)PS4 (3)22 (–)Lego Marvel Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (30)3DS (9)Wii (6)703 (4)Fifa 14 (3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (32)Wii (3)Vita (3)84 (3)Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag (18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)35 (2)Battlefield 4 (18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (34)PC (7)36 (5)Grand Theft Auto V (18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)97 (8)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)218 (10)Skylanders Swap Force (7+)Xbox 360 (38)Wii (34)PS3 (19)Wii U (3)59 (6)Batman: Arkham Origins (16+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (37)Vita (5)Wii U (5)310 (13)Professor Layton and the Azran Legacy (7+)DS (100)611 (11)Just Dance 2014 (3+)Wii (86)Xbox 360 (8)Wii U (4)PS3 (2)712 (7)WWE 2K14 (16+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)313 (12)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (42)Wii (29)PS3 (19)Wii U (6)1314 (9)Football Manager 2014 (3+)PC (100)315 (15)Pokemon Y (7+)3DS (100)616 (14)Pokemon X (7+)3DS (100)617 (16)Tomb Raider (18+)Xbox 360 (82)PS3 (17)PC (1)3418 (18)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (17)3DS (15)Wii (13)7019 (20)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (100)2020 (–)Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask (7+)DS (100)4UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
What, exactly, has been the difficulty about recognising that people go from particular search terms to particular websites? After all, Google does this sort of tracking as a matter of course: that's how its ranking algorithm works, in part. If you click on a search result link, reach the site and decide it's rubbish or otherwise not for you and hit the "back" button, Google records this and downgrades that site in its search rankings (at least for you; for others it may rank it differently).Google likes to suggest that it can't be held responsible for what people put up on the web; it's just the disinterested person helping out when a lost driver asks for directions. But it's not that simple. If it's going to take credit for the good – as it does in itsrecent TV advertshowing how a skate park in Hackney Wick was built, it seems, by doing lots of web searches – then it has to take responsibility over the bad too.The list of websites which contain child-abuse imagery is not hard to identify. (And let's not squirm around trying to call it "child pornography", as if that somehow brought it into some space just below the realm of adult "pornography", so that you could then argue about whether something is "child" or "adult" or "inbetween" or needing recategorising. These are images where children, who can't consent, are abused sexually.) The list of keyword combinations that are used to go to those websites is known.So it's puzzling, really, that it has taken all this time for Google, which services about 95% of searches throughout Europe – and probably more in the UK –to take this action. Was it having trouble collecting the list? Are there too few people using its service to try to find such sites? Evidently not, if it can collect 100,000 search terms that it's confident enough to block.Google itself hasn't given any reason, though it's notable that Eric Schmidt, its executive chairman (though a better term would be diplomat-in-chief)toldthe Daily Mail that "We've listened". What – they weren't listening before?But where, the call may come, is freedom of speech? Where is the freedom to type what you want to into a search engine? Where is the freedom to use the internet for anything you want? There is a part of the American libertarian fringe which insists that child abuse websites don't actively harm anyone; that they are "speech" in just the same way that encryption code is speech, and that newspapers writing about spying is speech. I once had lunch with an American programmer who insisted exactly that: child abuse sites are fine and nobody's "harmed" by them. I couldn't decide whether to kick him or empty his plate over his head, though in the interests of politeness – and free speech – I did neither.It's a nice try, libertarians, but it won't wash. The key difference is that speech doesn't harm people directly. Whereas these are sites and images of people who have been harmed through what has been done to them. The "speech" couldn't exist without the harm being done to another person. And I've had enough tedious arguments with libertarians to know that the one thing they won't countenance is one person infringing another's "property rights", of which the one they hold in the highest regard is the person themself. (And usually after that their guns.) So if a child has been abused by an adult to create "speech", it's a bad thing, even on the libertarian axis.Nor is it as though these searches have some intangible benefit which we're being denied. As David Cameron points out, the murders of Tia Sharp and April Jones were carried out by men who began their path to accessing extreme material via simple searches in the main search engines. Nobody who wants to read Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita searches for it by adding "sexy pics" on the end.Some of the early denizens of the commercial web thought that it would be an open playground where absolutely everyone could post absolutely everything. That was a pipe dream – the sort that comes from those who haven't encountered the darker avenues of the human psyche, and perhaps couldn't imagine how the apparent anonymity of being online, alone with a keyboard, would transform some peoples' mentalities.The reality is that the laws do apply, online as well as offline. Google keeps bumping up against it: in SeptemberMPs criticised it for its "continued failure"to remove links to infringing material. But it's not as if there aren't people trying to get those links up there: so far this yearGoogle has taken down 200m piracy linksto films, TV shows and songs. There's plenty of illegal activity out there. Google is just, finally, starting to behave like a good citizen. For a 15-year-old company, one might argue that it's about time.
A Twitter service letting emergency services and government agencies send out push notifications and text messages to their followers launched in Britain and Ireland on Monday.Following theirintroduction in the US and Japan in September, Twitter alerts are now available for 58 organisations in the UK and Ireland, including the Environment Agency, the Foreign Office and all 47 of the UK’s police forces.The service lets the organisations mark certain tweets as alerts, highlighting them with an orange bell on users’ timelines. Those who follow the account have the added option of signing up for notifications directly to their phone, through a text message or a push notification from the Twitter app.“Getting fast and accurate information to the public in a major incident or terrorist attack really could make a life-saving difference,” says the Met police commander David Martin.“Using social networking sites, including Twitter, gives us additional ways to talk directly to the public. Twitter alerts means that our messages will stand out when it most matters.”The alerts fulfil a similar function to themobile phone alert systemtested by the UK government in September. That system also lets organisations send short text messages to users in emergency situations.But the governmental system, currently being tested in three parts of the UK, automatically messages every person in the affected area. As a result, its use is limited to pre-specified “civil emergency” events, including disease pandemics, coastal flooding and terrorist attacks.The British proposals contrast with Twitter alerts, which are an opt-in service that can be used for any purpose the account-holder sees fit. That should reduce the likelihood of complaints, like those which followed the California Highway Patrol’s use of its “amber alert” systemto find two missing children.•Twitter is rolling out new features rapidly following its successful IPO
Google is targeting 100,000 terms associated with online child sexual abuse in a move hailed by David Cameron, who will announce a series of measures to tackle the problem at a cyber-summit in Downing Street. The prime minister said that Google and Yahoo had "come a long way" after the internet firms announced a series of initiatives to try to block access to images of child sexual abuse.Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, has announced that a 200-strong team has cleaned up Google Search to target 100,000 terms that can be used to locate child sexual abuse images. The changes will soon apply to more than 150 languages. The company is also showing warnings at the top of its search results for 13,000 queries.In a groundbreaking move, YouTube engineers have created new technology to identify videos made by paedophiles. Google has been working with Microsoft to identify child abuse images.The announcement came the day before a Downing Street summit at which the prime minister will announce that British and US law enforcement agencies are to jointly target online child abuse by monitoring those who operate on the hidden internet. A transatlantic taskforce will identify ways of targeting criminals and paedophiles who use secret encrypted networks to distribute images of abuse.Schmidt says that the changes introduced by Google show that his company is listening. In anarticle for the Daily Mail, which has been campaigning to clean up the internet, the Google executive chairman writes: "We've listened, and in the last three months put more than 200 people to work developing new, state-of-the-art technology to tackle the problem. We've fine-tuned Google search to prevent links to child sexual abuse material from appearing in our results."A spokesperson for Yahoo said the company had a "zero-tolerance policy when it comes to child abuse content online. Our dedicated governance and safety teams remove all illegal content across Yahoo properties. In our search partnership with Microsoft, each search is checked against Ceop's [the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre] blacklist of search terms and no results leading to child abuse images, videos, or abuse-related file sharing sites are shown."The prime minister praised Google and other internet companies. "Google and Microsoft have come a long way," hetold the Daily Mail. "A recent deterrence campaign from Google led to a 20% drop off in people trying to find illegal content, so we know this sort of action will make a difference."The new Anglo-American law enforcement initiative extends already close co-operation between the UK  and US in monitoring internet communications. The FBI and other US agencies will be asked to co-operate with their UK counterparts, including the new National Crime Agency.Joanna Shields, the chief executive of London technology investment agency Tech City, who previously worked for Google and Facebook, will lead an industry group of experts exploring ways of targeting illegal activity online.Shields said: "It's vital that governments and industry work together to eradicate child abuse content from the internet, and that we mobilise the best and brightest in the technology industry to come up with innovative solutions."The government estimates that 20,000 people are using encrypted and anonymous networks, such as the Tor anonymising service, to communicate. Many of these will be carrying out perfectly legal activities.Awareness of the threat to privacy and knowledge of the "dark web" have increased since news of the US National Security Agency's activities surfaced. But the dark web is also a favoured tool for those involved in distributing child abuse material, who have an interest in keeping their identities hidden.The dark web is so called because sites are hosted in such a way as to be inaccessible through the open internet, and cannot be found by standard search engines.In order to access them, users must first download special software. When they access the sites, the technology used means that they do so with a high degree of anonymity. The location of the server used to host a particular site is also protected by layers of encryption.Downing Street said: "Child abuse online is not restricted by international borders and so neither must our response be."The meeting at No 10 will be attended by representatives of BSkyB, TalkTalk, BT, Virgin Media, Google, Microsoft, the National Crime Agency, the NSPCC and the Internet Watch Foundation.It comes four months after Cameron promised to tackle online child abuse, saying it "pollutes the internet". He vowed to end the proliferation of child abuse images on the internet and ensure that children were protected from viewing damaging material.• This article was amended on 18 November 2013 to correct Eric Schmidt's title from chief executive to executive chairman
Over 2m Raspberry Pi computers have been sold globally since going on sale for around £30 in February 2012.It took a year to sell the first million of the card-sized barebones computers, but sales accelerated in 2013, with the 2m milestone being reached in the last week of October.&quot;It took us almost exactly a year to sell the first million Raspberry Pis,&quot;wrote Liz Upton from the Raspberry Pi Foundation. &quot;Going on that basis, we calculated that we might, if we were lucky, reach the second million around January 2014, or slightly afterwards – we were confident we’d get there by the end of February 2014.“It was a bit of a shock at the end of last week when we got the latest sales figures and discovered that the 2,000,000th Raspberry Pi was sold in the last week of October,&quot; Upton continued.A basic computing platform for hobbyists, teachers, pupils and corporations alikeThe Raspberry Pi is a credit card-sized, bare-bones computer that uses a smartphone-like ARM processor to provide a basic and extensible computing platform for hobbyists, teachers, pupils and corporations.The small computer has USB ports for a keyboard and mouse, an Ethernet port, a SD card slot, and an HDMI port for connecting to a monitor or a TV. It runs a variant of the free open-source operating system Linux, which powers many web servers and Android smartphones.Nearly 40,000 Raspberry Pis produced a week in WalesIn October,it was announcedthat 1m Raspberry Pis had been manufactured in Britain.The initial batch of the computer weremade in China, but a partnership between the Raspberry Pi Foundation, RS Components and Premier Farnell saw all Raspberry Pi manufacturingmoved to a Sony-owned manufacturing plantin Pencoed, Wales, in September 2012.Since June 2012, production of Raspberry Pis at the Pencoed factory has been ramped up from just 204 a week to nearly 40,000 in April 2013.&apos;More work to do to ensure that schools are ready for this new wave of mini-computers&apos;The Raspberry Pi has often been hailed as the affordable, programmable computer for schools, and while it certainly is a step in the right direction, school IT infrastructure isn’t keeping pace.“Since its launch last year, the Raspberry Pi Foundation has been on a mission to transform the education experience for students, but is it delivering? The reality is that there is more work to do to ensure that schools are ready for this new wave of mini computers,&quot;explained Nick Williams, senior product manager at networking specialist Brocade.“Whilst the devices on offer to schools have taken a quantum leap in affordability and accessibility, schools still exist with 20-year-old networking technology and the sums just do not add up,&quot; Williams said.• In November, an affordable 9in high-definition screen for use with the Raspberry Pismashed its funding goal in just 50.5 hours
The next generation of video game consoles has got off to a seemingly rousing start. Sony claimed on Sunday that it had sold 1m PlayStation 4s after the machine's North American launch on 15 November –an achievement largely predicted by strong global pre-order figures. The consumer electronics giant is expecting to sell 5m units wordwide by 31 March 2014. Media analysis firm IHS predicts sales of 2.4m by 31 December.The figure makes this one of the most successful console launch periods in the modern era. Nintendo's Wii, the biggest selling machine of the previous generation, took eight days to sell 600,000 units in the US.But it hasn't all been good news for Sony, which is counting on PS4 to boost its troubled consumer electronics business. Specialist technology and game sites have given mixed reviews to the launch lineup of games, with lead exclusives Killzone: Shadow Fall and Knack earning Metacritic score averages of just 74 and 60 respectively.Praise for the machine itself has varied from ecstatic to guarded. Stuffannounced, "We're not going to beat around the bush: the PS4 is awesome," and Engadgetproclaimed, "this is just the beginning with PlayStation 4, and it's a hell of a start." However, major US gaming site Polygon was more critical: "Right now, this is a game console without a game to recommend it. Early adopters of the PS4 this fall are buying potential energy. We're just waiting for a place to spend it."It was a view reflected by another influential US source, Kotaku: "The PS4 seems like a hell of a console, but it's mostly potential and a bunch of new tools in need of some awesome games for them to work on." Reacting to the early game reviews, Sony Worldwide Studios chief Shuhei Yoshida told GamesIndustry.biz, "It's disappointing but I don't think it's worrisome for the launch of the system."There have also been technical issues with the initial rollout of machines. Some purchasers are complaining that the console's blue led light is continually blinking to indicate a hardware fault. According to comments on sites such as Amazon and Twitter, affected machines have intermittent audio and video faults while others power down randomly. The phenomenon has already been nicknamed "the blue light of death", a reference to the "red ring of death", a series of overheating problems that affected the Xbox 360 console. Other technical difficulties have included mis-seated hard drives and HDMI ports slightly obstructed by metal components.Sony hasposted a troubleshooting guide on its US websitebut claims the problem is contained to a small number of units. Ina statement to game site IGN, the company said: "There have been several problems reported, which leads us to believe there isn't a singular problem that could impact a broader percentage of systems. The number of affected systems represents less than 0.4% of shipped units to date, which is within our expectations for a new product introduction."But for the new console owners involved, the experience has been frustrating, with the usual onslaught of angry messages on social media, games forums andSony's own feedback pages. "Just brought home my brand new PS4 and when I turn it on all it does is blink blue," wrote one user on the Sony site. "No white light ever came on.&nbsp;I am upset that I spent most of my day waiting in line in the cold."Certainly however, this has already been a more successful rollout than the PlayStation 3. Sony was forced to delay the arrival of its previous machine due to manufacturing problems with its Blu-ray drive, and then staggered the global launch over several months. It took two months for the machine to ship 1m units in the US. That console was also expensive to produce due to its proprietary Cell processor, andSony lost almost $5bnon the machine in its first four years on sale. PlayStation 4 is about eight times more powerful, but its hardware set-up is much more conventional resembling a PC rather than a proprietary piece of hardware.The PlayStation 4 launch process continues on 29 November with the machine's arrival in Europe and Australia – although there is a significant event before this. 22 November sees the multi-territory launch of Xbox One, and Microsoft claims to have strong pre-orders for its own next-gen entrant. With both machines aiming to dominate living room entertainment by offering HD movies and TV shows as well as games, the battle is set to impact far beyond the traditional gaming demographic. Analysts have been predicting the demise of dedicated games machines for a number of years, pointing to the rise of smartphones, tablets and even smart TVs. Shifting 1m consoles in a day suggests that reports on the death of the console may have been greatly exaggerated.• This story has been updated with a wider array of press reviews and comparative Wii sales.
With the PlayStation 4 now available in North America, this week belongs to the multi-territory roll-out of the Xbox One. Although the console rivals are currently playing it nice witha series of tweeted congratulations and good luck messages(bless!), Microsoft will be looking to make a major impact before 29 November and the second phase of Sony's launch plans.And while Xbox One has had a troubled gestation, the hype machine is stuttering back into life, with some decent launch games and the likes of Titanfall and Project Spark on the way. The big question now is whether the machine has the graphical power to compete with PS4 in terms of pure HD performance.Well, that's the big question if you care lots about native 1080p. If you don't, you may just want to know what the ten most important launch titles are. And we can help you there.Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag, UbisoftUbisoft's tale of stealth and piracy on the Caribbean seas has been visually upscaled for the next-gen machines with more impressive sea warfare effects and little scenic touches like foliage that flutters in the direction of the wind. But Xbox One owners will be missing out on the three extra missions exclusive to the PS4 version. Definitely a worthy launch buy, however, with hours of exploration, battle and run-ins with real-life buccaneers such as Blackbeard and Charles Vane.Battlefield 4, EAWith the new Frostbite 3 engine and an emphasis on dramatic environmental destruction (or, ahem, 'levolution') the latest military blaster from EA Dice was always going to be an important next-gen showcase. Running at 60 frames-a-second with 64-player maps, the game also supports Kinect's head-tracking capabilities, allowing participants to peek round corners by actually, well, peeking round corners. Xbox One owners will also get the Second Assault DLC, with four new multiplayer maps, before their pals on PS4, thanks to a timed exclusivity deal.Call of Duty: Ghosts, ActivisionThe latest Call of Duty blockbuster found itself at the centre of a framerate war in October when gamers discovered that the PS4 version runs at 1080p, while the Xbox One edition runs at 720p. This was taken as a major failure for Microsoft's machine, but if the terms 1080p and 720p mean nothing to you, you probably won't notice the difference. What you're more likely to see is that the first Ghosts DLC pack will be a timed exclusive on Xbox One. Or you may just stifle a yawn at the whole idea of an invaded America relying on spec-ops goons to fight back against the odds. The multiplayer, though, is still as twitchy, unforgiving and compulsive as ever.Crimson Dragon,Created by Yukio Futatsugi, the director of Sega's Panzar Dragoon series, this on-rails fantasy shooter is a throwback to a previous era of game design. Available for download from day one, it follows a group of human colonists fighting for existence on a hostile planet writhing with giant mythological creatures. Unless you're a veteran of the Sega Saturn era, riding around on a dragon shooting stuff while being directed along a theme park-like route is probably going to be rather perplexing – but it does look nice and there's a co-op mode if you can find two equally nostalgic chums.Dead Rising 3, CapcomThe latest in the improvisational zombie slaughter series has a darker tone than the others – possibly due to its move to a Western developer, Capcom Vancouver. But the familiar action is still intact, with mechanic Nick Ramos having to uses his skilled hands to survive a zombie apocalypse, mostly by crafting ridiculous weapons out of various easily-available objects. New here is the vast open-world setting and some intriguing SmartGlass functionality, which allows the game to phone players with new missions.Fifa 14/Madden, EABoasting ten times the animation depth as their current counterparts, together with much more realistic crowds and stadia, EA's tent pole sports releases have been fully updated for the next generation. But it's not all about cosmetics – we're also promised more complex AI and physics to make use of those eight-core processors. Plus, if you've gone for Xbox One of Fifa rather than PS4, you get the 40 Ultimate Team legends including Pele, Freddie Ljunberg, Ruud Gullit and Gary Linekar. No Shaun Goater yet though. Bit of an oversight.Forza Motorsport 5, MicrosoftVisually stunning and jammed with beautiful cars and astonishing scenery, this is the killer app for graphics connoisseurs as well as staunch petrol-heads. The line-up includes 200 models from 50 manufacturers (including classics like the McLaren M23 and Ferrari 312T) as well as 14 intricately detailed circuits. The interesting new addition is the Drivatar system which creates an AI version of you to race against others online – winning you points even when you're not around. A weird but possibly prescient feature.Ryse: Son of Rome,Developed by Crytek, this bloody Roman romp is a sort of swords-and-sandals take on Call of Duty – all furious battle scenes, flying limbs and tightly controlled narrative action. Originally planned as a Kinect-only title, the key moves have been switched to the controller now, although you can still shout commands at your soldiers – much to the imminent chagrin of your neighbours. Although the quicktime-led combat won't appeal to all, this is up there with Forza as a graphical showcase.Skylanders: Swap Force, ActivisionRunning in native 1080p resolution on both Xbox One and PS4, the latest in Activision's $1bn series was already the best looking so far, but now it's joyously vibrant and crisply detailed. Featuring the new swappable action figures and a more complex action RPG experience, this is a key family game for launch, competing against the equally luscious and entertaining Lego Marvel Super Heroes.Zoo TycoonCambridge-based Frontier Developments made one of the best original Kinect titles in the cuddly form of Kinectimals – now the studio is bringing its animal magic to Xbox One. On paper, this is  straightforward business sim with players building and running their own zoos. But the Kinect 2.0 touches – like being able to pull faces at the animals and have them pull the same faces right back – adds to the fun and of course the sense of hands-on interactivity. You can also clean up their poop.• PS4: the 10 key launch titles• PS4 or Xbox One? A parent's guide
Put down your packet of crisps, switch your phone off and get ready for the most energetic game of the year.Just Dance is the world’s best-selling dance game – the first four editions have already sold 40m copies, and Ubisoft is following numbers 1,2,3 and 4 with Just Dance 2014.This time it’s very much about the latest hits, and you can bop your way to the top in head-to-head dance competitions with online players anywhere in the world.The aim of the gameBoogie your way through the game by matching your moves to the dancers on the screen. Make the right movement at the right time to beat your opponent or earn points to buy new features. This is a one to six player game, with different moves for each dancer on Xbox One. It&apos;s a great game to play with your friends and family, and suits all ages – I’ve played with my 4-year-old sister and my 70-year-old granny.MusicThe summer’s top anthems are there – from Daft Punk’s Get Lucky; Robin Thicke’s Blurred Lines; Katy Perry’s Roar; and for those who like a bit of 1D, Kiss You makes an appearance. For mums, dads – even grannies – there are plenty of classics from the 1970s and 80s: The Village People’s Y.M.C.A, Michael Jackson’s Blame it on the Boogie and Ray Parker Jr’s Ghost Busters.And, believe it or not, it also has Prince Ali, from Disney’s animation of Aladdin, which is actually very fun to move along to. For extra cash, you can update with newer hits – I’m saving to buy Avicii’s Wake Me Up.New featuresThe 2014 version features more complex choreographies and a wider range of props for the on-screen dancers.New this year are the on-stage versions, which let you not only lead backing dancers but, if you have a Wii U, use GamePad as a mike and sing along karaoke style as the words appear on screen, to earn bonus points.There are lots more cute avatars for players to chose from. Just dance 4, which I’ve played a lot, had them too but the selection was limited and a bit boring. This time they’re in colour and funnier: I noticed a Viking and even an adorable smiling pineapple.&quot;World Dance Floor&quot; lets you duel with other dancers, whether it&apos;s real-life friends or random players strutting their stuff in living rooms around the world, and build up your global rankings.All games consoles with a camera can now use Autodance, which lets you create your own dance video to share your best – and worst – moments with other players around the world.Highs and lowsCompared to Just Dance 4, which I’ve been playing since last Christmas, this game has alot more hit singles, and wider range of genres.I wish that I could see live footage of other opponents on the world dance floor feature, although you might not want to broadcast yourself looking like you’ve been dragged backwards through a hedge first thing on a Saturday morning.It’s also quite difficult to copy the dancers on the screen, even if you’ve been playing Just Dance for a while. At the bottom of the screen, little stick men show what move to make next, but they aren’t always clear enough.The special effects have been improved, for example in Y.M.C.A the dancer in the sombrero takes out his gun and starts shooting all over the place – when you move your arms sparks fly and you really feel like your in the game.VerdictThis is the title to get if you haven’t already got a dance game. If you have one of the earlier editions but want a blast of new music, then just sell your old game on eBay and use the money to buy this one. You can totally cheat if you want to, as it only tracks the hand that your remote is in. So you could just sit there and wave your arm around, but that would just be daft. The game isn’t really about earning points, I’d rather get up and dance, even at the risk of looking like Ricky Gervais.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid and iOS demographics in the US &gt;&gt; A VCFred Wilson (one of the VC investors in Twitter, and a strong advocate of developers writing for Android first) got looking at the most popular apps on the two platforms in the US:Nine of the top 40 apps on Android are utilities vs three of the top 40 on iOS. This really jumped out at me when I was looking…What I take from this work is that if the popularity algorithms on iOS and Android are similar (I don't know), then the user bases for these two operating systems in the US are fairly different. That may be true even if the algorithms work differently.The picture that emerges for me is Android users are a "barbell" with young pre-teens and teens using cheap phones that won't cost a lot to replace when they are lost or destroyed and old folks like me who want a large screen and care more about utility than having fun. iOS owns the college kids, the post-college kids, and the folks who getting married and starting familes. My bet is Android is sub-18 and post-40 and iOS is the 18 to 40 crowd.Geolocated tweets reveal international patterns of human travel &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewTo get an idea of the penetration rate in each country, they also calculated the ratio between the number of Twitter users and the total population. Interestingly, this ratio is not the same for all countries.Instead, it scales with the GDP per capita in each country. So wealthier countries have more Twitter users per capita.Next, Hawelka and co worked out the percentage of users in each country that visited at least one other country throughout 2012. It turns out that the places with the most mobile users are Hong Kong, Belgium and Austria. That's not surprising given that these are small territories with easy access to other countries.Apple Further Trims iPhone 5c Production as Customers Continue to Prefer iPhone 5s - Mac RumorsAccording to Chinese site C Technology [viaUnwired View], Apple is continuing to reduce its orders for the iPhone 5c with suppliers, still working to balance production with customer demand that has remained very strongly in favor of the higher-priced iPhone 5s.The report claims that Apple's main assembly partner ProTek (Pegatron) has slashed production from 320,000 units per day in October to just 80,000 units per day. Similarly, Apple's backup assembler for the iPhone 5c, Foxconn, is operating at only a minimum capacity of 8-9,000 units per day.Data all seems to agree that the 5S is outselling the 5C by around 3:1. Production of 80,000 per day works out to 7.2m over a 90-day quarter if it's seven days a week; 5.1m if it's a five-day week.Microsoft just killed its controversial employee review system that killed morale &gt;&gt; Business InsiderStack ranking was a bad system that caused widespread problems for Microsoft.Essentially, the way it worked was that Microsoft managers had to rank their employees in order of 1-5 in ranking. No matter how good the employees were, some of them had to get the low ranking of a 5. Seeing even good employees get a 5 hurt morale at Microsoft.You don't have to think hard to realise how destructive that would be. Yet it persisted inside Microsoft for more than a decade.Exclusive Interview: Steve Ballmer on his retirement as Microsoft CEO &gt;&gt; WSJ.comMonica Langley explains how Ballmer tried to create change from January under pressure from other board members:Qi Lu, an executive vice president, submitted a 56-page report on applications and services. Mr. Ballmer sent it back, insisting on just three pages—part of a new mandate to encourage the simplicity needed for collaboration. Mr. Lu says he retorted: "But you always want the data and detail!"Mr. Ballmer says he started to realize he had trained managers to see the trees, not the forest, and that many weren't going to take his new mandates to heart.In May, he began wondering whether he could meet the pace the board demanded. "No matter how fast I want to change, there will be some hesitation from all constituents—employees, directors, investors, partners, vendors, customers, you name it—to believe I'm serious about it, maybe even myself," he says.His personal turning point came on a London street. Winding down from a run one morning during a May trip, he had a few minutes to stroll, some rare spare time for recent months. For the first time, he began thinking Microsoft might change faster without him."At the end of the day, we need to break a pattern," he says. "Face it: I'm a pattern."That's a remarkable admission; credit to Ballmer for making it. (Article is paywalled.)Half of all computer malware is written in Chinese… &gt;&gt; QuartzAccording to Eugene Kaspersky:in terms of numbers of attacks, Chinese-speaking malware, Chinese-speaking criminals, they are more than half of the attacks. Second place: Spanish and Portuguese…in some cases we don't know, is it Spanish? Portuguese? Those are close languages.So, number 1 is…Chinese-speaking malware. Number 2: Spanish/Portuguese-speaking malware. Number 3: Russian-speaking malware. But Russian-speaking malware is the most complicated.Why did Google make an ad for promoting "Search" in India where it has over 97% market share? &gt;&gt; MediumHimanshu Gupta points out that overall mobile internet traffic has passed desktop traffic in India:whereas earlier a search for Restaurant for an evening-out with friends might have started with "Restaurant in South Delhi serving Chinese food" on desktop browser, today a user is more likely to do it via Zomato app (a Yelp like service in India) while being on the move. Similarly, a query for "buy Samsung Galaxy Note 3" might have been easier to type on a desktop browser but on a touch smartphone, it's much more difficult to type and thus a user would prefer to open an Amazon or Flipkart mobile app and reach to Galaxy Note 3 via just 3-4 taps on small mobile screen (Home-&gt;Mobiles-&gt;Samsung-&gt;Note 3) since the experience is much more visual and faster.Which is why Google is offering indexing in apps in KitKat (and earlier). The problem of people using apps rather than search remains, though.Fix your boring slides &gt;&gt; Waxy.orgAndy Baio offers advice for those who will do presentations. Including:Never have more than four or five words on a single slide. Any more than that, and people will start reading them instead of listening to you. If it's a longer passage or quote, you're going to have to read it out loud anyway for the back rows, so you might as well leave it off the screen.Not a hard and fast rule, but generally a good one.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's the first Monday of the new console generation! Do you feel different?
Amid the debate about television stealing the film industry's thunder, another entertainment form has crept up unnoticed, further threatening Hollywood's creative hegemony: video games. With a new, much more powerful generation of games consoles poised to arrive – Microsoft'sXbox Onegoes on sale on Friday, with Sony'sPlayStation 4due a week later – the games companies reckon they finally have the ammunition to shake off the perception that their digital epics are inferior to movies.I'm in a place that could not reinforce that impression more emphatically: the historic Ealing studios, where classics such as The Lavender Hill Mob and The Ladykillers were filmed. But I'm here to experience the process of making a video game calledRyse: Son of Rome, an epic tale charting the Roman conquest of Britain, which will be a launch title for the Xbox One. And the studio is nowadays home to The Imaginarium,an outfit co-founded by Andy Serkis, who – asGollum in The Lord of the Rings– is perhaps the world's leading exponent of performance-capture, in which every nuance of an actor's performance (specifically movement, voice and facial expressions) is recorded and mapped on to a video game character.Serkis says: "There was probably a time when people in the games industry wanted to emulate films, but now it's very much the other way around: the technology is driven by video games. So, for instance, virtual production, pre-vis, many of the tools we use in the film industry have come out of the games industry." Peter Gornstein, global cinematic director at Ryse: Son of Rome developer Crytek, argues that the sheer power contained within the Xbox One finally allows what techies call the "uncanny valley" – the idea that, in computer-generated realism, little details that are slightly off render proceedings creepily unrealistic – to be bridged: "That has been a big problem with games in the past. But what we can do now, in real-time, is produce imagery and emotional experiences within a game, at a level where the uncanny valley is left far behind."Intrepidly, I don a tight, grey, reflector-studded motion-capture suit, grab a sword and shield made of plastic rods covered in DayGlo tape, and enact some gladiatorial combat with a stuntman. What's stunning is that it involves merely a couple of minutes moving different parts of my body. On a monitor by the stage, I can see my movements driving those of a Roman in full armour.Apart from accidentally connecting with the stuntman, sadly my movements aren't sufficiently macho and emphatic to pass muster convincingly. I quiz actor John Hopkins (familiar to devotees of Midsomer Murders and the RSC), who plays the game's heroic lead, for tips about moving like a Roman: "They put about 10kg of weightbelts on our chests to simulate the feeling of wearing armour, which shifts your centre of gravity and makes your shoulders rotate while you're walking." Hopkins enjoyed the process. There are cameras at every angle, "so a five-minute scene with eight actors, which would take a day or two to shoot conventionally, can be done in five minutes. It becomes a much more theatrical experience." To emphasise that point, The Imaginarium shot 93 minutes'-worth of performance in just 17 days.Serkis is in no way abandoning film: The Imaginarium, for example,is preparing to make the movie version of Animal Farm. But he believes that video games have finally shrugged off any inferiority complex: "I was listening to Classic FM this morningand the third top-ranked piece of music created uproar, because it was from a video game. It just goes to show where convergence is at. Video game technology and video games are acknowledged by Bafta now, and are rightly getting credit for what they are, which is extraordinary pieces of art."
Price £20,945MPG 52.3Top speed 130mphThis summer an ordinary-lookingMercedes S-Class drove the 62 miles between Mannheim and Pforzheimin Germany. It was a&nbsp;typical rush-hour commute on busy roads. So far so very normal. But there was one crucial difference – the big Merc "drove" itself. The "driver" simply sat with his arms folded watching the countryside flash by. Safe, accurate, autonomous – it's one of the first in a&nbsp;new generation of "robocars".Vehicles that pilot themselves have long featured on the further shore of our motoring fantasies, but it is now a certainty that in the near future affordable, intelligent cars that can think, navigate and problem-solve will be parking themselves on our driveways. And we as drivers will become passengers.Google has been a major trailblazer with this technology. Its fleet of modified Toyota Priuses has so far covered more than 300,000 miles on public roads and, last year, a&nbsp;blind man named Steve Mahaneven "drove" one home. And, this week, Milton Keynes has announced plans for a&nbsp;driverless scheme for 20 "pods" which will by operational by 2015.The extraordinary thing is that much of the laser scanners, radar units and road-mapping programmes harnessed by robocars are already in use in many modern cars. It's just that the systems haven't been affordably linked together by a master computer. This newVolvo V40is a&nbsp;great example. It's the cheapest and smallest of the current Volvo line-up, every member of which has been revamped in the past 12 months, yet it boasts a formidable arsenal of driver aids. All of which make driving easier, safer and far more relaxing. The V40 wants to do the work, so why not sit back and enjoy the ride?He's behind you!: an image showing the way the Volvo uses its radars to inform the driver about other road users. Photograph: Henrik Ottosson"Ah, here you are at last. I've been waiting for you. I know it's you as I can sense the key fob is in your pocket – don't bother getting it out, I've already unlocked the doors and primed my engine. That's it, in you get. I know who you are by your weight so I'll move the chair and mirrors to the position you like. There, how's that? Oops, belt up! I'm in charge now, naughty, so you're not going anywhere until you clunk and click. Right, where shall we go? Tell me and I'll instruct that useless satnav to find a scenic route. Much nicer than sticking to the motorway like he always does. OK, how about a bit of music? You know I like a bit of jazz. Please, God, not Magic again… Come on, talk to me… Capital, really? Well, OK, you're the boss. Right, let's get go… whoa watch out, there's someone coming up behind you. That's my upgraded blind spot information system there. Great isn't it? Ah, here's the rain, I'll flick on the wipers, and, as it's dark, I think I'll turn on my lights. Don't worry about dipping them, I'll take care of that. OK, that's it, next left. And now we're on the open road. What speed do you want to cruise at? 70mph! Well, I'd say that was a bit quick for these conditions, but I'll keep a&nbsp;safe distance from the bloke in front and my lane-keeping device will stop you swerving all over the white lines like you did yesterday. Hang on, are you feeling sleepy? Your head's wobbling. I'll vibrate your seat, ha, that gave you a surprise didn't it? Wake up! Clearly you can't be trusted to park so I'll do that, too, just let go of the steering wheel for a mo'. Right, we're there, how was that? And next time, why don't we listen to a bit of jazz?"Homes on wheelsRaise the roof: the winning Livingstone motorhome by Rolling Homes.It may not be the weather for camping, but the cold doesn't keep motorhomers stuck in their driveways. NowWhich Motorhome, the UK's number one magazine for motorhome testing, has announced that the Livingstone fromRolling Homesis the winner of its biggest ever group test of 11 VW campervans. The Livingstone was picked as the winner because of its high-quality cabinetwork, bespoke touches and attention to detail. Peter Vaughan, the editor, said: "After a whole week's testing, the Rolling Homes Livingstone really did stand out as a seriously impressive campervan." So, what are you waiting for – time to head outdoors…What powers Jenson Button?Mobil 1 has released a video that features an exclusive interview with Jenson Button in which he talks about the benefits of using synthetic oils. New regulations coming into place in 2014 have raised concerns that Grand Prix racing will be dominated by fuel savings. But Jenson says this won't be the case…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
British technology firms continue to grow at a rapid pace despite the uncertain economic environment, pushing into areas from television and media to payment processing and internet dating.Now consultancy firm Deloitte has published its Technology Fast 50, which charts the 50 most rapidly growing tech companies in the UK. Their combined annual revenue is a relatively modest £672m but the average five-year growth rate is 1,382% – a number any bricks-and-mortar company would die for. Here's the top 10:1. Infectious MediaGiven Google's astonishing growth, it is no surprise that a firm linked to internet advertising comes out on top. Based in London, with offices in Paris and Hamburg,Infectious Mediawas founded in 2008 and has achieved a stellar growth rate of 9,774%. It specialises in real-time bidding for website advertising, processing more than 40bn advert decisions per month.2. AvectoThe second-fastest growing company has capitalised on the flipside of technology – the growing problem of cyber-security. Based in Manchester,Avectois a Windows security specialist and has posted a growth rate of 4,731% over the last five years.3.AlertMeThe third-placed company has benefited from the booming demand for energy meters, which monitor power use in homes and are at the forefront of attempts to drive down bills. Based in Cambridgeshire's Silicon Fen,AlertMespecialises in cloud-based services that allow consumers to control and monitor their homes. Partnering with companies such as British Gas, with massive customer bases, AlertMe has grown 3,393% since 2008.4. Mobile Account SolutionsCan't tell the difference between an iPhone 5S and an iPhone 5C, or worried whether BlackBerry will be around next year?  Hertfordshire-basedMobile Account Solutionsanswers those questions by providing and managing mobiles for businesses – and has grown by 3,332% since 2008.  It keeps up with rapid changes in mobile technology, replacing handsets within 24 hours if needed.5. Lovestruck.comGiven the success of online dating sites, it is inevitable that one would make the top 10. The dating company for busy people, Lovestruck aims to "help you find other gorgeous singles who live, work – or simply are – near you". It accomplishes this through geo-targeting, or matching you to people close by.  Operating in London and the home counties, Lovestruck's growth rate has been 2,658%.6. MonitiseOnline payment has made billionaires of entrepreneurs like Elon Musk, co-founder of PayPal, but it is a field that is still breaking new ground.Monitiseis a company that helps make banking, paying and buying with a mobile device possible. Based in London, it has grown by 2,319% over the last five years.7. Sixteen SouthBelfast-basedSixteen Southspecialises in children's TV programmes and its hits includePajanimalsandDriftwood Bay. The latter uses software that replicates stop-motion animation, bringing Ray Harryhausen into the 21st century. It has grown 2,214% since being founded in 2008.8.  FreeAgentFreeAgentexists to banish that bugbear of every freelancer and small business: the tax return. The Edinburgh-based accounting software service allows users to send invoices and manage expenses, and has grown by 2,128%.9. Equal Experts UKLike a digital version of Savile Row, London-basedEqual Expertsemploys a network of freelance developers to produce bespoke software. Clients include O2 and the British government, helping the business achieve growth of just over 2,000%.10. Backbone ConnectBackbone Connectspecialises in data centres, offering services ranging from cloud storage to internet connections and virtual private networks. It has grown 1,810%.
Someone once said that one of the advantages of religion is that it offers security in return for obedience. This point was not lost on the late Steve Jobs, the co-founder, saviour and high priest of Apple. And it led Umberto Eco, in anessay published in the 1980s, to describe the Apple Mac as a Catholic machine, in contrast to the IBM PC, which Eco characterised as a Protestant device.His reasoning was that the Mac freed its users/believers from the need to make decisions. All they had to do to find salvation was to obey the Apple way. All the important choices, including whether a mouse should have one button or two, had been made for them, whereas the poor wretches who had to use a PC had, like the Calvinists of yore, to make their own salvation: installing expansion cards, anti-virus software, wrestling with incompatible peripherals and so on.Poor Steve has gone to the great computer lab in the sky, but the church he founded endures. And it still knows what is best for its adherents. Recently, the company launched the latest release of its OS X operating system, codenamed Mavericks. What happened was this: one day, while millions of the devout were tapping industriously on their keyboards, a small dialogue box appeared on the top right-hand corner of their screens. It informed them that important upgrades were available for their computers.For members of the Apple communion, such a message has much the same status as a text from the Vatican would have for devout Catholics. So they acted upon it. And lo! It came to pass that their computers were upgraded. Many of them were then enjoined to update their copies of Apple's iWork package – Pages (Apple's word processor); Keynote (the PowerPoint equivalent); and Numbers (the Excel competitor) – and they dutifully complied.At this point, the ordure hit the rotating blades. For it turned out that these "updates" were not quite what the believers expected. And they're not all naive users. For example, Lawrence Lessig, the celebrated Harvard professor and founder ofCreative Commons, is one. "The latest version of Keynote," he blogged, "breaks my slideshow (eg the deck that produced my TED talk now won't work)." Given that Lessig is one of thebest lecturers in the business, one can imagine why this would be a really big deal for him.But there was worse to come – with his copy of Pages. "Right away," he writes, "I confronted a truly insane 'upgrade': Apple has added an ability to automatically smartify quotes – as you type them at least. But a functionality that used to exist – where you could search and replace single and double quotes and the replaced quote would be a smart quote – has been removed. So now, the only way to smartify those quotes… is to manually search for a single or double quote and then retype it. I can't imagine this is a feature and not a bug."Apple is like the Vatican in that it finds it very difficult to admit that it has screwed up. (Just think of how it bungled the aftermath of the Maps fiasco.) But this time it was sufficiently moved to offer, if not an apology, at leasta grudging explanation. "These applications were rewritten from the ground up," it explained, "to be fully 64-bit and to support a unified file format between OS X and iOS 7 versions." In the rewriting, it continued, "some features from iWork '09 were not available for the initial release. We plan to reintroduce some of these features in the next few releases and will continue to add brand new features on an ongoing basis."To which the obvious response is: "OK, but why didn't you tell us this before encouraging us to upgrade?"The second response is to ask why weren't the tech media on to it earlier? Given the remarkable expansion in the number of people using Apple computers, you would have thought that any disruption, intentional or otherwise, in the software ecosystems on which they depend for work would be regarded as news. Serious, careful reviewing of changes in operating systems, for example, doesn't require rocket science – just hard work and attention to detail, as inPixel Envy's review of iOS 7.But in general, technology sites and newspaper tech sections seem to be still obsessed with gadgets and novelties. This was understandable 15 years ago but the world has moved on. Breathless puffs for a new smartphone or yet another way of "sharing" photographs or movies don't make up a useful signal any more – they're just noise.
I secretly hoped that this latest crossover sports offering would be vaguely seditious, using the iconic mascots and their associated characters to criticise or lampoon thecontroversial Russian Winter Olympics. Indeed, such unlikely politicking would have at least made this game noteworthy; as it stands, it's merely another mini-game collection to add to the pile.That's not to say it's all bad. Dozens of sports are included, with sledge racing, bobsleighing, snowboarding and ice hockey all particularly good fun. It also offers great implementation of the Wii U'sMiiverse, interviewing you after each win and letting you leave tips for other players. Online play is odd though, with only a handful of events.Controls are confusing throughout. Some events require the Wii U's GamePad, some the Wii remote, and switching is frustrating given the brevity of each match – it's better suited for local multiplayer than dedicated solo play.
Another year, another instalment ofCall of Duty, and it's business as usual for gaming's most successful war machine.Ghostsdoesn't reinvent the wheel, but it does offer millions of sofa-based soldiers a great-looking wheel to play with. A spectacular, explosion-filled game that takes the slick FPS action under the sea, into tanks and helicopters, down skyscrapers and even into space…The single-player campaign boasts the space battles, a playable attack dog called Riley and a faintly preposterous storyline of the near future. America is under attack from the sinister Federation, a collection of South American states that has taken on the good ol' US of A for no adequately explained reason. So a plucky little (yet curiously well-equipped) force of Yankee super-soldiers takes the fight back to their geopolitically incorrect foes. Cue a series of somewhat linear yet fantastically impressive set-pieces.But multiplayer is whyCODis still the biggest gaming franchise in the world, despiteGTAV'srecent record-breaking antics, and it certainly delivers. New, bigger maps and plenty of new modes and features add a range of gimmicks to the core experience of having your posterior handed to you on a plate by 12-year-olds of all nations.There are seven new competitive modes to try, and while some do little more than change the pattern on that plate, others such as "cranked" really up the ante, by giving you a speed boost after each kill but starting a countdown during which you must land another shot… or explode.Co-op multiplayer also gets a shake up, with the thumb-punishing "extinction" mode in which four players protect a drill from wave upon wave of aliens. Just like the rest ofCOD: Ghosts, it's relentless, noisy, slightly refreshed and a lot of fun.
When Nintendo delivers a new Zelda sequel a paradox is born. For each is an exercise in nostalgia: an evocative return to the proven formula of the RPG series's previous releases. And so it is that players can experience over and over a game that is brilliant because of familiarity, which in turn is the game's weakness – undermining innovation.A Link Between Worldscompounds that dilemma. At a glance it appears to be a carbon copy of 1991's masterfulA Link to the Past. Closer inspection reveals completely reworked dungeons, distinct new abilities, and a reasonable divergence in tone and style. It absolutely presents a magical place to escape to, and looks glorious in 3D. ButA Link Between Wordsremains very much a creature of its forebear's gene pool. It is a fantastic game, but one many will feel they have played before.
There are so many causes. This is forcibly brought home to me outside the Houses of Parliament one day, back in July 2013, where I am trying to locate a "Don't let Burma Become the Next Rwanda" protest. I find it eventually – there is a tableau vivant of tombstones and a&nbsp;pair of people dressed as Burma's president Thein Sein and David Cameron with outsize papier-mâché heads– but I'm distracted from stories of potential genocide by the activities of Stonewall and the London Gay Chorus who are also protesting, just yards away. It's a crucial day for the gay marriage vote, and while the Burma protestors are brandishing placards and chanting slogans it's a tough gig: the London Gay Men's Chorus launches into a multi-part acapella version of "I Need a Hero" and Peter Tatchell has appeared and started dancing.But then, this is the reality of 21st century protest: it's a beauty parade. A competition for the thing that we all seem to have less of: attention. The TV cameras do show up, though, and a young Rohingya woman from Burma's Muslim minority gives moving interviews to journalists about the terrible human rights abuses her family have endured. And a dozen or so mostly fresh-faced young people show up to offer their support. The protest has been organised byAvaaz, an online activist organisation, and these are Avaazers. They may have just signed an online petition, or "liked" a&nbsp;cause on Facebook, or donated to a campaign – to save Europe's bees from pesticides, or to defend Masai land rights in Tanzania, or to "stand by" Edward Snowden. And, depending on who you believe, they're either inventing a new type of 21st-century protest or they're a bunch of idleslacktivistswho are about as likely to start a revolution as they are to renounce their iPhones and give up Facebook.In just six years, Avaaz – which means "voice" in various languages – has become a&nbsp;global pressure group to be reckoned with. It's a new kind of activism that isn't issue-led, it's issues-led. It's human rights abuses in Burma, or it's the Syrian civil war, or it's threats against the Great Barrier Reef or it's homophobia in Costa Rica. It's whatever its supporters, guided by the Avaaz team, choose to click on most this month. And if you hadn't heard of Avaaz before, it's probably only a matter of time.Back in July, when I went to the Burma demo, I wrote in my notebook that it had 23 million "members". In September, I interviewed its softly spoken Canadian founder,Ricken Patel, and noted in the transcript that it now had 26 million. By the time I actually sit down and write this in October, I check the site and find it has 27,865,177. And by the time this piece appears in print in November, that number will be hovering around the 30 million mark. If it's a bit shameful that five million people have joined a cause in the time it's taken me to put hand to keyboard, the counter at the top of its website, Avaaz.org, shows that even in the length of time it's taken me to write this sentence, another 172 people have signed up.But then, being a "member" of Avaaz is not like being a member of Greenpeace. You might have signed a petition, or subscribed to an email. You might not remember doing anything at all. And yet you're still part of what has become a global phenomenon: the rise of online protest – otherwise known as "clickativism". And while its critics dispute what Avaaz has actually achieved – many of what it claims are its greatest successes have been in areas that other organisations have been working on for years – there's no doubt it has become a huge and influential player on the world stage. "For all its bluster, and there's a lot of bluster, it is bloody big," one ex-staff member told me. "And heads of state pay attention, I can tell you that. There's a lot of contentiousness, and jealousy, on the part of traditional charities such as Oxfam, but it raises huge questions about the future of liberal activism."‘A Utopian nerd-god who’s trying to save the world’: how a former employee describes Avaaz boss Ricken Patel, pictured. Photograph: Mike McgregorAvaaz's explosive growth is just one part of what makes it entirely unlike traditional charities or campaigning organisations. Plot its progress on a chart and it looks like a rocket taking off. But it's the product of a networked age and its evolution has been more like that of a YouTube video than the early years of Amnesty. The original business plan – to reach five million supporters in five years – had to be torn up after 18 months. Its growth is exponential: they've gone from nine employees in year one to 100 now (its head office is in New York, but staff are dotted everywhere). When I ask in how many countries, Patel doesn't actually know."Everyone is everywhere and everyone is moving all the time. We probably have staff in 30 to 40 countries." And from what I see of the London office, where a desktop PC lies mouldering in the corner like a relic from another era, they're generally hip, young Mac slingers who hold their office meetings on Skype and are as likely to be collaborating on a Google document with a colleague in Brazil for a campaign in Portugal as they are to be working on a&nbsp;UK issue with the person sitting next to them.Avaaz is both global and globalised and its approach is less bleeding-heart liberal than hard-headed pragmatist. It doesn't launch a campaign – to save fin whales from being butchered, or to free trapped migrant workers in Bahrain, or to bring peace to Palestine – because Patel, or the staff passionately believe in it (though they might). They launch a campaign that they think will fly. It's tried out on a&nbsp;sample of members and then they gauge the response. Patel says it's a way of ensuring that the members have the ultimate power, that they're the boss, not him.And it saves time: Avaaz doesn't back no-hopers. If it launches a campaign, it throws its resources at it – and a chunk of its $12mbudgeta year, all donated from individuals – and there's a fair chance it will have an impact. (In 2011, when news wasn't getting out, it armed the Syrian opposition with satellite modems and camera phones; this year, an email and ad campaign, opinion polls and personal approaches to the president succeeded in getting the sentence of a young rape victim in the Maldives who had been ordered to be floggedoverturned(though there is not, as yet, peace in Palestine.)What Avaaz is doing is trying to unlock the secrets of the internet – of what makes one video of a cute kitten falling over go viral, but not another – and to bring those skills to bear not on Justin Bieber's career or Lady Gaga's album sales, but potential genocide, forced rape, species extinction."We're like a laboratory for virality. For every campaign we test perhaps 20 different versions of it to see what people want." It tweaks and it tweaks and it tweaks, changing the wording, pictures, call for action, and only then does it send it out on public release. Sam Barratt, Avaaz's head of press, shows me the previous versions of its email about the Burma campaign. "Changing the meme at the top, or the photograph, massively affects the number of clicks. Eighteen versions were tested. People think we just chuck it out there, but there's a huge amount of data sophistry into how we design the campaigns." And, just as Amazon and Google try to predict our behaviour, and adjust their offerings based on our past preferences, so does Avaaz. It uses algorithms to detect things we perhaps don't even know about ourselves."It's a tremendously evolving science, internet engagement," says Patel. "But we develop a picture of someone from their previous engagements with us. So, for example, we can see that a certain set of people, based on their previous behaviour, might be interested in starting a campaign, and another set won't be, but may be interested in signing something. We can tailor it to the individual."Everything is viral now, says Patel, "from financial crises to health epidemics to ideas". And learning the lessons of that and of how to garner attention from some of the most attention-deficient people on the planet – young people with electronic devices – has been Avaaz's masterstroke.But it's too much for some. It's precisely the sort of "slacktivism" that makes critics of what's called "techno-Utopianism" despair. Why Malcolm Gladwell claimed "The Revolution Will Not Be Tweeted"in a strongly argued piece in theNew Yorkerin which he claimed: "Fifty years after one of the most extraordinary episodes of social upheaval in American history, we seem to have forgotten what activism is." Evgeny Morozov put it even more baldly in his latest book.To Save Everything Click Here,  he called it. The subtitle?The Folly of Technological Solutionism.Is it a folly? "Liking" a Facebook page isn't going to save the world. But five times as many people in Britain are members of Avaaz than they are of the Labour Party. And 30,000 people donate money to it every month. Money that has been spent on ads and stunts and what Patel claims are "some of the best, most skilled advocates in the public sector today. Advisers to President Obama, and Presidents Lula and Dilma and the prime minister of Japan. There are fairly simplistic online petition organisations out there, especially commercial sites that have zero expertise and understanding of politics, but that's not us."Visual gimmicks – like the papier-mâché caricatures of Thein Sein and David Cameron – are an Avaaz hallmark. As is its notion of what Patel calls a "Toc". A what? "A theory of change. How do you get from A to B credibly? How is someone clicking through and making a phone call to this leader actually going to change the world? If that's weak, people aren't interested, they don't engage. We always have a very well developed theory of change."And everything is quantified. This is the science of movement building. "We even have a formula for how we write our emails. We always have forward-looking immediacy. So we say, 'in three days'. Then it allows people to say, 'OK I need to do this in the next three days.' And then we describe a 'crisistunity'."A crisistunity is another Avaaz-ism. "Though I think we originally got it fromThe Simpsons," says Patel. "It's a mixture of crisis and opportunity. We're at this extraordinary moment in history. We have the power to wipe out our species. But at the same time,  we've had tremendous progress in the past 30 years. We have more than halved global poverty. We've radically increased the status of women. There are tremendous reasons for hope and optimism."There is something very Avaazian about the crisistunity, I come to think, in that it's borrowed something slick and witty from popular culture and re-purposed it for something which used to be called the Greater Good. And then given it a thick dollop of added earnestness.Danger zone: French photojournalist Remi Ochlik, killed in Homs last year along with fellow journalist Marie Colvin. Avaaz had helped smuggle them into Syria. Photograph: Julien de Rosa/EPAPatel is earnest, though not in a hey-dudes-let's-save-the-planet sort of way. Or a I-feel-the-people's-pain of a politician up for re-election. He's thoughtful and reflective and has an impressive CV – he worked as a conflict analyst for organisations such as the UN and the Gates Foundation in places like Liberia and Afghanistan. He isn't a wide-eyed still-wet-behind-the-ears college student. Nonetheless, he does want to change the world. And he believes he can.Getting cross isn't a&nbsp;very Ricken Patel thing to do but he almost does when I&nbsp;ask him if he's an optimist by nature. "I really don't think I&nbsp;am! I've asked myself that question. I have no respect for naive activism. We take hard positions. When I was working as a&nbsp;conflict analyst I would recommend military action when I thought it was appropriate. I&nbsp;think, honestly, that I'm quite clear-eyes and I think that the fatalism that I&nbsp;see in the world is lazy and unsourced. People assume that cynicism carries with it a&nbsp;kind of expertise and I've never believed that."It's Avaaz's high ideals and unbureaucratic nature that have drawn a lot of staff to it who were fed up with the strictures of working for big traditional aid agencies. "A lot of the people who work there found it incredibly liberating," says an ex-Avaazer. "You could say, 'This is a&nbsp;mess' on Monday and do something about it by Wednesday." But, there "is something of the cult about it. There's a lot of men working there who think that technology will save the world."It's had its share of criticism, too. It took an active part in smuggling journalists in and out of Syria but was attacked for over-stating its role inhelping Paul Conroy, the photographer travelling with theSunday Times's  Marie Colvin when she was killed, to escape.Others believe there's only a finite amount of empathy to go round, and its success has come at the expense of falling revenues for traditional NGOs.That Avaaz is a global organisation with global ambitions probably isn't a coincidence. Patel was brought up in rural Canada, west of Edmonton "or Deadmonton as it should be known", the son of a&nbsp;Kenyan-Indian father and an English mother of Russian-Jewish descent, and went to school on a&nbsp;native Indian reservation. And he was, he tells me, "a precocious child". I&nbsp;should say.Who were your heroes, I ask him. He doesn't hesitate: "Dag  Hammarskjöld." Dag Who?"He was the second secretary general of the UN. I readMarkings, his diary to himself, and I&nbsp;just think he's a very sincere, public-spirited figure that grappled with a difficult time."In this, the age of personality, I'd expected something else from Patel, or Ricken, as he is to his staff and supporters.Peoplemagazine included him in an article on the world's most eligible "Hot Humanitarians". And when theEconomistput him on the cover of theirIntelligent Lifemagazine, his stubble-covered jaw defined by mood lighting, there was more than a touch of Hollywood dreamboat about him. Even Al Gore, the activist's activist, has praised Avaaz as "inspiring". When I interview an ex-Avaazer, she asks me, "Is he still single? When I&nbsp;worked for him, he must have been the most hotly pursued man in New York. I've just been reading Dave Eggers's latest book and he has a character who's a Utopian nerd-god who's trying to save the world and it's Ricken, basically."But once a quiet Canadian, it seems, always a quiet Canadian, even if he followed the same route into public life as the likes of Ed Balls and Yvette Cooper – PPE at Oxford (where he organised a university-wide protest against tuition fees) and then Harvard School of Government (where he was one of the leaders of a living-wage campaign). Because with all his talk of "journeys" and the fact that he thinks women's rights have changed the world and that he believes his sense of public service is because his own mother "just gave me this tremendous amount of love, just overflowing, unconditional love", he's something of a rare beast: a man in public life who's not afraid of emotions, and yet his proudest achievement for Avaaz is not saving whales or babies or rape victims, it was sticking it to Rupert Murdoch.Avaaz led a campaign against his takeover of BSkyB and during the Leveson Inquiry, subpoenaed emails showed that "Jeremy Hunt's primary concern was the Avaaz campaign. We knew he was afraid of judicial review. So we hired top-notch counsel and we promised him judicial review. That made him more careful, and then we had our members send 35,000 legally admissible admissions. So he had to hire a team to trawl through them. We knew the [phone hacking] scandal was coming long before it hit, so our strategy was to draw out Hunt's decision until it hit. And it played out beautifully. I don't think we ultimately won on Murdoch. He's in a very good position right now. But it would have expanded his empire by 50% and I'm proud that we helped to stop it."Were you waiting for a big front-page piece against you? "I'm still waiting for it. I&nbsp;think Murdoch's will come… Everybody told us don't do it. They'll lynch you. It's brand suicide." He shrugs. Maybe slacktivism has its advantages. Maybe Avaaz and its members are less constrained, less scared. Maybe you can save fin whales and Edward Snowden and bring peace to Palestine, too. And in the time it's taken you to read this article, another  500 people or so will have joined Avaaz. To save the world clickhere.
There is a new spot on the tourist trail in south Stockholm, for a particular kind of visitor.The office of the Mojang company in Södermalm houses only 31 employees, along with a lot of leather sofas, a pool table and a fridge full of high-sugar energy drinks. But it is now a hallowed spot for video gamers, who travel across Sweden's capital to have their photograph taken outside the building, which is the headquarters of the producers ofMinecraft, the computer gameset to dominate gaming sales this Christmas.It is heading towards 13 million sales for Macs and PCs alone, with 70 million people playing it, and is one of the most unlikely – and most successful – stories to have emerged from this brave new era of internet entrepreneurship.With its block-like graphics, lack of rules and no way to win or lose, Minecraft was made, not at the cost of millions of dollars by a multinational Silicon Valley company, but by a mild-mannered amateur programmer in Sweden who left his job to create the game on his bedroom computer.At 34, Markus "Notch" Persson is now a millionaire dozens of times over and a "video god". That he did badly at school, was mocked for his interest in computer games and was the son of a drug addict father has only enhanced his hero status.Minecraft is,at its heart, a building gamewhere players construct their own world out of blocks, making anything from a forest to the Eiffel Tower, like a kind of digital Lego without an instruction book. In a world of shoot 'em up games with ever sharper graphics and more realistic gore, Minecraft stands out as a quirky outsider.It's called a "sandbox" game in tech parlance and schools in the UK, Australia and Canada are looking at bringing some aspects of it into the classroom. Monsters, zombies, "creepers" and spiders hinder players' efforts, but can be avoided in the creation of colourful, blocky worlds complete with animals, clouds and waterfalls,all of which must be built from scratch.Markus Persson, Minecraft's creator, is being hailed as a 'video god' after its phenomenal success. Photograph: Emma Johannson/Press Association ImagesMinecraft is not just a global sales phenomenon: it is being hailed as a turning point in technology, a Cinderella story for the internet age. There are 4.5m YouTube hits about a game that had no marketing budget.Academics study it, and this weekend there was a bidding war over the UK rights to a book detailing Persson's own life and his development of the game from the summer of 2009 to its appearance in its current form in 2011. The same year Mojang hosted a conference in Las Vegas calledMinecon, attended by 4,500 people from 23 countries. It is now to become an annual event.Persson made his first TV chatshow appearance this month, on America'sThe Late Late Show, where he admitted shyly: "I now have more money than I can ever spend."Because of the small number of employees and lack of outside investors, his company is probably worth more per head than Facebook or Twitter, says Linus Larsson, who with Daniel Goldberg has writtenMinecraft: The Unlikely Tale of Markus Persson and the Game that Changed Everything. A reprint of the book was ordered within days of publication in the US and Random House should be bringing the book out in the UK before Christmas."Minecraft is remarkable in that it was created by one person," said Larsson. "It's essentially an open-world game that challenges you to come up with where you want to go. There's pretty much a complete lack of built-in goals. When we were researching the book, we talked to many people in the games industry here in Stockholm and they all admitted they would never have accepted the idea of Minecraft if it had been pitched to them. It's a creative game with no violence – completely against what everyone thought people wanted. The cost of making most Hollywood films pales into comparison to what these major games studios are spending in developing video games. Minecraft says a lot about how the internet is changing, about how startups can work."Larsson's co-author, Daniel Goldberg, said: "It's a huge boost to people to see how a creative idea can flourish in such a way on the internet. Essentially because there were no rules, players formed forums to talk about how to play this crazy game and it spread and spread so quickly. The lack of a manual for a game which can be insanely complex means there is a need for a community."It's hard to put a figure on what it is worth. Persson set up his company for Minecraft with a handful of his friends and with such a small team it has to be one of the most profitable companies in history. In 2012 its revenues were about 1.5bn Swedish kronor, or around £140m, and it's mostly profit."Stockholm is one of the world's key digital capitals. Within a few blocks of Mojang is King.com, maker of smartphone sensation Candy Crush,  the building where Skype was invented and the sites where the servers for WikiLeaks and Pirate Bay were located."It is a hugely iconic place but of course only if you are a video gamer – and that world exists parallel to the other world, where people like Notch Persson are total unknowns," said Goldberg. "One thing is certain: Minecraft is a milestone. It shows that small-scale creativity and ideas can be sustained by the internet."For fans such as 12-year-old Finn Purdie from Sussex, the attraction of the game is its freedom from rules: "It's like you are in a different world where everything is made by you. You can connect with your friends and you're living like you normally live, but you have to build your own house and your own shops and trees and keep getting better at it."The best bits are that I have four wolves and I like being able to fly."
The car world goes nuts for a bit of initialism. Especially when it comes to safety. Take this one. I've gotABS, obviously, but this ABS has additionalEBD. There'sESP, too (most cars have a bit ofDerren Brownabout them these days, and can read your mind; nothing very special about that). I've gotELR seatbelts, andHIDXenon headlights. What else? Well, there'sRISE(possibly an&nbsp;acronym, this one), andLDW,ACC,FCM…Honestly. But WTF does it all mean? That the car is good at stopping, and keeping me stable (physically and mentally). The seatbelts allow me to move around, but will lock in an emergency (TBF all cars have that), and the lights are nice and bright. I may be OK if I'm crashed into from the side or the rear, and the car will tell me if I drift into the wrong lane. It also knows how fast the car in front is travelling and will keep a safe distance, and if I'm going to hit something, then it will try to stop me doing so. What if I want to, though, as part of some dodgy insurance scam? Well, maybe I can turn off the Forward Collision Mitigation; I didn't find out, I'm afraid. Or else it's a car with principles as well as a protective personality.Impressive, huh? On a car that isn't even very flash. The opposite, in fact; there's something very unflash about a Mitsubishi Outlander, even this top-of-the-range GX5 model. It looks like a&nbsp;bit of a box on the outside, or a&nbsp;brick, perhaps, especially in this brown. Inside, it's functional, practical, sensible. It may have all these things keeping me safe, but it's not doing much to make me feel cosy. No-nonsense, utilitarian, honest. That's the way it drives, too; the 2.3-litre diesel engine is grunty enough, but it certainly won't make you squeal with joy. Where's this pigginess come from suddenly?The Outlander is not a car you're going to buy because you fall in love with it, or because you want other people to fall in love with you. Nor is it a car you're going to buy because you love cars or driving. You're going to buy this car because you want a 4x4 with heaps of space for stuff and kids, etc. A third row of seats appears miraculously out of the floor, but they are really only seats for children (having just about squeezed in, I didn't want to spend long there).You quite possibly want to tow something, too, such as a boat, or a&nbsp;caravan (I'm afraid I didn't try that out, not having either). You want it to be good value to run, too, which the Outlander is, because in eco mode it uses 4WD only when it needs it; mostly it's just the front wheels doing the pulling. You're not, don't forget. Not pulling anyone.Mitsubishi Outlander GX5Price£33,999Top speed118mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption48.7mpgCO2 emissions153g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating5/10
Under the strip-lit, soulless shell of the Earls Court exhibition centre, a queue is forming. Towards the front of this winding mass of flesh and denim sits a small boy. A huddle of pallid and paunchy men in black T-shirts keep sneaking peeks over each other's heads towards the young prince encased in a futuristic carriage. It's not North West or Harper Beckham or Prince George. It's just a little runt playing Drive Club, but the fact that he's playing it on the soon-to-be-releasedPlayStation 4has made this technological starchild the temporary envy of men 40 years older than himself.Since its launch in 1995, PlayStation was always more than another one of Sony's electronic playthings: it changed the idea of what a videogame could stand for. It birthed characters that defined their eras: Lara Croft, Crash Bandicoot and Solid Snake. It helped to make a worldwide phenomenon of the Fifa series and the endless moral panics surroundingGrand Theft Auto. More than that, it was gaming's first lifestyle brand, one to one to rank up there with Nike, Coke and Ikea.But at the turn of the millennium, Microsoft, the all-conquering giant of "proper" computing, entered the videogame world with its own wired-up Venus De Milo: the Xbox, a more powerful, more serious, more intimidating console originally aimed at those who took their gaming very seriously.For a decade or so, PlayStation and Xbox fought out it with updated consoles, flashier games, celebrity voices, technological innovations and newer tricks.&nbsp;There was a clash of the titans going on, a landgrab for the vistas of our imagination.But in the cold, Apple-dominated world of 2013, both consoles stand as slightly diminished figures. Despite trying to branch out into other media, they never did become the mainstream home-entertainment hubs of feverish prediction. The games industry is still racking up the numbers: a few months back, GTA V sold an astounding 1.57m copies in the UK on in its first day of release, while roughly 80 million people around the world own a PlayStation 3, and it's a similar figure for the Xbox 360. But Sony and Microsoft have always craved more than just profits; they want their machines to make a cultural impact, to become central to our lives. It's why the PlayStation v Xbox console wars ultimately superseded those of Sega v Nintendo, companies focused on fun gameplay and child-friendly characters.Drive Club, one of PlayStation 4's titles.Now, perhaps aware that interest in their phoney war is waning, Sony and Microsoft have chosen to go head-to-head for the first time ever, with both next-generation consoles – PlayStation 4 and the iconoclastically named Xbox One – about to be released within a week of each other. Yet all that this confrontational posturing has done is to highlight how similar these two consoles are. Both have the same flagship games, both claim to prioritise social gaming, and both are heavily internet-based. Any allegiance that gamers might once have had to the "cooler" PlayStation and more "serious" Xbox seems to have dissipated.At an Xbox press event, a game developer working independently from both companies quietly confides that "there isn't much difference at all between the two of them". When pressed to venture anything that might determine a victor in this contest, he says that "obviously the Xbox has theKinect[its camera-based motion sensor] built-in, but you can buy the add-on for the PlayStation. Supposedly the Xbox is more powerful, but really, it's all about the games." And with most developers now willing and able to code for either machine, it simply becomes a case of which company can haggle for the best exclusives. As far as I could tell, the aspect of their console that the Xbox crew were really trying to sell was the voice-recognition system, where you can make your Xbox do your bidding by shouting commands like "Xbox volume up!" like the owner of an unruly dog.Later, I chat to Phil Harrison, current vice president of Xbox's corporate division, whose previous job at Sony makes him a veteran of the console wars. Naturally, he insists that Xbox One is the technologically superior beast and reckons that online functionality is the key battleground. "We have the best multiplayer and online service backed by the power of our Xbox Live cloud and we bring you all your games and entertainment, whether on-demand or live, in one place," he tells me with an almost cult-like sincerity and conviction. "We believe that we have built a truly new generation console for the next decade and beyond."On the other side of the barricade, Murray Parnell, the marketing director for PlayStation UK and Ireland is similarly bullish about the graphical and gaming capabilities of his new console but when I ask him about the forthcoming battle with Xbox One, he sounds slightly more measured. "We are aware of the fact that PlayStation is just one of many technologies that compete for people's time and money. The good news is that by any reasonable measure, the hype and expectation for the next generation of home consoles is huge, so the opportunities are exciting for everyone." He emphasises that PlayStation 4 is £80 cheaper than its rival, which could well be a clincher for many in a credit-strapped Christmas.Despite the consoles' techno-gimmicks, both teams insist that the actual experience of gaming is something they'll never lose sight of. "The tradition of gaming is still core to what we do," says Pannell. "In many ways the PlayStation 4 is a console built by gamers, for gamers."  Similarly, Harrison stresses that "Xbox is, at its core, a gaming brand. It's our heritage and we'll never lose sight of that or compromise our commitment to gamers."So what about the games, then? At the Gadget Show Live, the most popular gaming exhibit on offer was Battlefield 4, the latest instalment of the militaristic first-person shooter franchise that began life on the PC. It's an impressive, engrossing shoot 'em up – but single-player missions are clearly secondary to the seven multiplayer modes, supporting up to 64 players simultaneously. The Xbox's Forza Motorsport 5 is similarly online-inclined. Even in its single-player mode, the game utilises other people, getting rid of the predictable patterns of artificially intelligent computer drivers and using those of other gamers taken from the cloud, with all their weird grudges and idiosyncrasies.&nbsp;Battlefield 4 will be available for both Xbox One and PS4Bringing that idea of social interaction to even a game's basic one-player mode is a slightly foreboding but logical extension of videogaming's latest fascination. The successes ofCall Of Dutyand GTA V's online modes (a friend told me he ended up robbing a virtual bank with a team of sleep-deprived American frat boys) prove that games are no longer just a solitary or immediately social experience. They're as much social media as they are entertainment now. Whereas once there was something oddly cold and almost Kubrickian about racing a computer around a circuit, with next-gen consoles, you're always surrounded by other people. Always online, never alone, which is somehow just as chilling in its own way.On a personal level, I wonder if the new generation of games lack the kind of depth and emotional investment of the ones I grew up on. I'm no "retro gamer" purist, but I remember being genuinely chilled when creeping through the corridors of the first Silent Hill, and close to tears when Snake and Otacon hugged it out in Metal Gear Solid: Sons Of Liberty. Obviously playing against your mates or tweaking hillbillies online can be emotionally involving, but not in the same way.&nbsp;It's more like playing a game of table football than watching Die Hard.I'm not entirely sure about the future of games. The next-generation games are very impressive to look at, and engrossing in a basic way as a result, but in terms of cultural impact, I can't help but feel we're a long way off seeing anything like Lara Croft on the front cover of The Face again. At the turn of the century, videogames were starting to look like they could be the new cinema. Now they're just games again.Xbox One is out on Fri; PlayStation 4 is out on 29 NovPlayStation 4ProsIt's a tiny bit more powerful: for example Call Of Duty: Ghosts runs at 1080p on PS4 and 720p on Xbox One, not that you'd notice without a TV the size of a double bed. You'll also be able to use a PS Vita handheld to play PS4 games when someone else is using the TV, which in most households will be extremely handy.ConsAlthough the quirky Knack, interesting-looking Drive Club and probably-OK Killzone Shadow Fall will be exclusive to PS4, Microsoft's exclusive games – the superb racer, Forza 5, and next spring's first-person-shooter-come-mech-driving-simulator, Titanfall – are perhaps more exciting. Other than that, their launch lineups are indistinguishable, as are their built-in social features, Blu-ray players and desire to rule your sitting room.Nick GillettXBox OneProsThe Xbox One joypad, with its vibrating triggers and multiple design tweaks has a slight edge over Sony's still-brilliant DualShock 4. Xbox One also integrates slightly more fully with cable and satellite TV, although so far that's limited to offering social interactions while watching live sport and is hugely Ameri-centric.ConsXbox One is £80 more expensive than PS4, and that's mostly because you'll be buying Kinect 2.0, Microsoft's motion-sensing hardware, which you'll get whether you want it or not. On the strength of the original Kinect, you probably don't. Its motion-sensing abilities were so gravely limited it failed to spot all but the most dramatic full body movements. We shall see whether the new Kinect follows the same futile path.NG• This article was amended on 22 November 2013 because it contained several errors. The introduction described someone playing the new instalment of Gran Turismo on PlayStation 4; the latest release has not yet been developed for the new PlayStation. The article referred to Forza Motorsport 4; that should have been Forza 5. The name of Xbox's camera-based motion sensor, Kinect, was misspelled as Kinnect. A picture caption described Drive Club as one of PlayStation 4's launch titles, when the game is scheduled for a 2014 release.
Games out this week includeWii Sports Club(Wii U), which offers remakes of Wii classics, tennis and bowling – expect shinier graphics, refined controls and more sports next year;XCOM: Enemy Within(Xbox, PS3, PC) is an expansion for last year's brilliantly realised strategy game Enemy Unknown, that gives its campaign a new lease of life via extra tactical choices to take out those naughty aliens;LEGO Marvel Super Heroes(Xbox, PS3, PC, Wii, DS, 3DS, Vita) gives you 150 immaculately recreated Marvel characters to play with in a huge, puzzle-strewn open world;Stuntman Eddie: Motorbike Daredevil(iOS) does its best not to let freemium mechanics get in the way of its tidy little mobile stunts; whileBarbie Dreamhouse Party(Wii, Wii U, DS, 3DS) provides a sickly pink barrage of gender role reinforcing mini-games featuring fashion and horses.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYou arrive hovering over the sea near a deserted island that you're free to explore, its multicoloured trees, flowers, animals and mysterious ruins spread out before you. As you wander about you realise everything makes a sound, from tinkling raindrops and trees to quietly hooting animals. Although there are no enemies or conventional puzzles, there's a distinct trajectory to the game and an ending that packs an unusual poignancy. Proteus is a unique experience.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewA federation of South American countries makes the mistake of deciding to invade North America. With everything from attack helicopters to satellite weapons to a massive Berlin-style wall through Los Angeles, the USA fights back. Despite being written by Oscar-winning Stephen Gagan, this game is mostly about virtually unstoppable American soldiers running through exploding buildings, shooting everyone they see. There are two zero-G shootouts in space and a memorable battle on a moving monorail, but Call Of Duty is never really about single player. This time the usual tactics-free multiplayer free-for-alls are joined by Squads, where you train up AI teammates to fight alongside you, and the excellent four-player alien-annihilating Extinction mode.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIt might be 3D and use polygons instead of sprites, but A Link Between Worlds is a delightful throwback  to the 16-bit era, with the game's lush green forests and plump little enemies viewed from high up above. Once again Princess Zelda is in peril from an ancient evil, and as usual you'll need to accumulate plenty of equipment  and magical stones to be able to lend a hand. The new ability to merge with walls is used to excellent effect in cleverly designed puzzles and dungeons.
British computer users are being warned of a mass spamming attack that aims to encrypt their computer and extort a £540 ransom – in Bitcoins - to unscramble it.The UK's National Crime Agencyput out an alert on Friday afternoonwarning that emails masquerading as communications from banks and financial institutions are being targeted at small and medium businesses, as well as millions of bank customers.The emails have an attachment which appears to be a voicemail, fax, invoice or details of a suspicious transaction that is being queried.But instead it is a malicious program that, if opened, will encrypt the user's hard drive and then begin displaying a countdown timer, while demanding the payment of 2 Bitcoins - an almost untraceable online currency. At present exchange rates, 2 Bitcoins costs about £540 - but the price has jumped in the past few weeks.The NCA warned that the scam is "a significant risk". Lee Miles, deputy head of the national cybercrime unit, said: "The NCA are actively pursuing organised crime groups committing this type of crime. We are working in co-operation with industry and international partners to identify and bring to justice those responsible and reduce the risk to the public."While such "ransomware" is not new, the Cryptolocker malware being used against unsuspecting usershas become increasingly prevalent. The NCA warned that it doesn't endorse paying the ransom to the criminals involved, and there is no guarantee they would honour the payments.The cybercrime unit is trying to uncover who is sending the emails. Anyone whose computer is infected should report it toActionfraud.Users are advised not to click on any attachments like those described and to be suspicious of any emails that appear to come from a bank.If a computer is infected it should be disconnected from the network and a professional called in to clear the machine – though the current state of encryption technology means it will almost certainly be impossible to unscramble the encryption, and instead the hard drive will have to be wiped and restored from a backup.
Research suggesting that Netflix is responsible for a third of US peak time download traffic is nothing to be proud of, argues BitTorrent, the company best known for creating a peer-to-peer download protocol widely used to share music and movies.The report,produced by Sandvine, shows Netflix to be responsible for almost a third of all US downstream traffic at peak times, with YouTube contributing another 18%. Compared to the streaming video services, BitTorrent&apos;s portion of traffic is minuscule, at just over 4%.The bittorrent protocol has a much larger share of upstream traffic, due to its peer-to-peer nature. Almost every file downloaded using bittorrent is downloaded from another user&apos;s computer, rather than from a central server. Even so, in the aggregated upload and download data, Netflix remains the biggest user of traffic by a large margin.However, BitTorrent argues that the data doesn&apos;t show the domination of Netflix, but rather the incredible inefficiency of the site&apos;s service.&quot;Netflix is hogging all of the bandwidth in North America,&quot; BitTorrent&apos;s vice president of marketing, Matt Mason said in an exclusive interview with The Guardian. &quot;This is a problem for Netflix. They&apos;re talking about [the super-high-definition TV format] 4K, but they&apos;re crushing the network already; if they deliver 4K they&apos;re going to completely grind it to a halt. All the ISPs are pissed at Netflix, because this is an unsustainable situation.&quot;It&apos;s always been funny to us that Netflix go &apos;oh, yeah, look, we&apos;re beating BitTorrent&apos; – meaning &apos;we&apos;re beating piracy&apos;. They&apos;re not beating piracy. It&apos;s definitely a good thing that there&apos;s a legitimate service that&apos;s available, and I&apos;m sure that&apos;s helping on some level.&quot;Mason also hit out atreportsthat have used this data to declare BitTorrent finished. &quot;This bandwidth thing is a complete red herring, and I think Netflix knows that. I&apos;m also disappointed more analysts don&apos;t understand.&quot;Mason argues that a partnership between Netflix and BitTorrent would be in both companies&apos; interest. &quot;Netflix traffic is hogging the network, [whereas] BitTorrent traffic voluntarily gives way to Skype, Netflix, everything else, because we saw that as the right thing to do. We&apos;re being good citizens on the internet.&quot;There&apos;s so many ways you could do Netflix better using BitTorrent, and the reason they haven&apos;t done it is because, in their initial dealings with Hollywood, BitTorrent was the pariah they had to beat. We&apos;re the straw-man of the internet.&quot;If you go on their website right now, in the jobs section, they&apos;re hiring a bunch ofpeer-to-peer engineers. They need BitTorrent, and we&apos;d be happy to work with them, but all this stuff about them beating us is, quite frankly, bullshit. They&apos;re not beating us, we&apos;re getting out of everybody&apos;s way because it&apos;s the right thing to do.&quot;
Jeremy Hammond, the Anonymous hacktivist who released millions of emails relating to the private intelligence firm Stratfor, has denounced his prosecution and lengthy prison sentence as a “vengeful, spiteful act” designed to put a chill on politically-motivated hacking.Hammond was sentenced on Friday at federal court in Manhattan to the maximum 10 years in jail, plus three years supervised release. He had pleaded guilty to one count under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) flowing from his 2011 hack of Strategic Forecasting, Inc, known as Stratfor. In an interview with the Guardian in the Metropolitan Correction Center in New York, conducted on Thursday, he said he was resigned to a long prison term which he sees as a conscious attempt by the US authorities to put a chill on political hacking.He had no doubt that his sentence would be long, describing it as a &quot;vengeful, spiteful act&quot;. He said of his prosecutors: &quot;They have made it clear they are trying to send a message to others who come after me. A lot of it is because they got slapped around, they were embarrassed by Anonymous and they feel that they need to save face.”Most pointedly, Hammond suggested that the FBI may have manipulated him to carry out hacking attacks on “dozens” of foreign government websites. During his time with Anonymous, the loose collective of hackers working alongside WikiLeaks and other anti-secrecy groups, he was often directed by a individual known pseudonomously on the web as “Sabu”, the leader of the Anonymous-affiliated group Lulzsec,who turned out to be an FBI informant.Hammond, who is under court orders restricting what he says in public, told the Guardian that Sabu presented him with a list of targets, including many foreign government sites, and encouraged him to break into their computer systems. He said he was not sure whether Sabu was in turn acting on behalf of the FBI or other US government agency, but it was even possible that the FBI was using Sabu’s internet handle directly as contact between the two hackers was always made through cyberspace, never face-to-face.“It is kind of funny that here they are sentencing me for hacking Stratfor, but at the same time as I was doing that an FBI informant was suggesting to me foreign targets to hit. So you have to wonder how much they really care about protecting the security of websites.”In the interview, conducted in a secure prison meeting room hours before the 28-year-old Chicagoan was sentenced, he was sanguine about his prospects. “I knew when I started out with Anonymous that being put in jail and having a lengthy sentence was a possibility. Given the nature of the targets I was going after I knew I would upset a lot of powerful people.”Dressed in a brown prison jump suit, and with a long wispy goatee and moustache (he planned to shave both off before the sentencing hearing), Hammond was scathing about the way the CFAA was being twisted in his view for political ends. “They are widening the definition of what is covered by the Act and using it to target specifically political activists,” he said.He invoked the memory of Aaron Swartz, the open-data crusader whokilled himself in Januarywhile awaiting trial under the CFAA for releasing documents from behind the subscription-only paywall of an online research group. “The same beast bit us both,” Hammond said. “They went after Aaron because of his involvement in legitimate political causes – they railroaded charges against him, and look what happened.”Hammond has been in custody since March 2012 having been arrested in Chicago on suspicion of the Stratfor leak of millions of emails that wereeventually released by WikiLeaksas the Global Intelligence Files. His sentence is an indication of the aggression with which prosecutors have been pursuing political hackers in the US – other Anonymous members in Britain involved in the breach of Stratfor were sentenced to much shorter jail terms.Hammond stressed that he had not benefitted personally in any way from the Stratfor email release, that exposed surveillance by private security firms on activists including Anonymous members themselves, Occupy protesters and campaigners in Bhopal, India involved in the push for compensation for victims of the 1984 industrial catastrophe. “Our main purpose in carrying out the Stratfor hack was to find out what private security and intelligence companies were doing, though none of us had any idea of the scale of it.”Paradoxically, Hammond insists that he would never have carried out the breach of Stratfor’s computer system had he not been led into doing it by Sabu – real name Hector Xavier Monsegur – the fellow hacker who is himself awaiting sentencing having pleaded guilty to 12 hacking-related criminal charges. “I had never heard of Stratfor until Sabu brought in another hacker who told me about it. Practically, I would never have done the Stratfor hack without Sabu’s involvement.”Hammond discovered that Monsegur was an FBI informant the day after his own arrest. As he was reading the criminal complaint against him, he saw quotes marked CW for “co-operating witness” that contained details that could only have come from Sabu.“I felt betrayed, obviously. Though I knew these things happen. What surprised me was that Sabu was involved in so much strategic targeting, in actually identifying targets. He gave me the information on targets.”Part of Sabu’s interest in him, he now believes, was that Hammond had access to advanced tools including one known as PLESK that allowed him to break into web systems used by large numbers of foreign governments. “The FBI and NSA are clearly able to do their own hacking of other countries. But when a new vulnerability emerges in internet security, sometimes hackers have access to tools that are ahead of them that can be very valuable,” he said.Looking back on his involvement with anonymous, the Chicagoan said that he had been drawn to work with Anonymous, because he saw it as “a model of resistance – it was decentralised, leaderless.” He grew increasingly political in his hacking focus, partly under the influence of the Occupy movement that began in Wall Street in September 2011 and spread across the country.Chelsea Manning, the US soldier formerly known as Bradley who leaked a massive trove of state secrets to WikiLeaks now serving a 35-year sentence in military jail, was a major influence on him. Manning showed him that “powerful institutions – whether military or private security firms – are involved in unaccountable activities that the public is totally unaware of that can only be exposed by whistleblowers and hackers”.Hammond has often described himself as an anarchist. He has a tattoo on his left shoulder of the anarchy symbol with the words: “Freedom, equality, anarchy”. Another tattoo on his left forearm shows the Chinese representation of “leader” or “army”, and a third tattoo on his right forearm is a glider signifying the hacking open-source movement that is drawn from thecomputer simulation Game of Life.He says he plans to use his time in prison “reading, writing, working out and playing sports – training myself to become more disciplined so I can be more effective on my release”. As to that release, he says he cannot predict how he will be thinking when he emerges from jail, but doubts that he would go back to hacking. “I think my days of hacking are done. That’s a role for somebody else now,” he said.
Getting real-life objects converted into 3D models is an expensive affair often costing in excess of £1000, something the £200 Rubicon 3D aims to fix.A simple, yet powerful 3D scanner, the Rubicon 3D uses a webcam and some lasers to turn objects into 3D models using some bespoke software and isavailable for £199 on Kickstarter, having previously lead a successful funding round on Indiegogo and already smashed its £5,000 funding target on Kickstarter.Lasers, cameras and turntablesThe Rubicon 3D aims to be a simple, cost-effective and reliable 3D scanner.The Rubicon 3D uses a standard webcam – something you have to supply – combined with two lasers and a turntable on which your object of choice sits.The webcam captures an image of the object with and without the lasers painting its surface before the turntable rotates by 0.45 degrees and the process starts again.After 800 steps and a full 360-degree rotation, the software compares each of the two images to determine the differences and therefore the shape of the object.The scanned object can then be output either directly as a raw mesh or as a more structured and optimised object ready for replicating using a 3D printer or modelling in software.The Rubicon 3D is powered by a arduino and takes about three minutes to complete a full scan of an object.Why it might not workThe Rubicon 3D can only scan objects up to 160mm in diameter and 250mm tall, which means larger objects can’t be scanned easily by the current set up. It also requires that you provide your own webcam, which can affect the resolution and therefore quality of the scan.Why it might take offCompared to most other 3D scanners on the market, including the MakerBot Digitizer, the Rubicon 3D is one-quarter of the cost, while operating faster and with a similar accuracy. It is also compact and simple to use, making 3D object scanning quick and easy.There is a real need for easy scanning of objects for 3D printing and 3D modelling. Most 3D scanners are prohibitively expensive, which makes the Rubicon 3D perfectly suited to fill a void.It can only scan small objects, but given that most 3D printers can only print relatively small objects for now, the Rubicon 3D looks perfectly placed to help out 3D hobbyists.Star rating: 5/5• In September, the LumiFold low-cost portable 3D printerexceeded its crowdfunding target
London is to become one of the first cities in the world with its own domain name, when &quot;.london&quot; launches in 2014.The city has been awarded the right to its own top level domain (TLD) name by ICANN, the US-based organisation which oversees the internet.London-based businesses, individuals and organisations will be able to apply first for web addresses on the new domain from spring 2014. Some of the &quot;tens of thousands&quot; of businesses that have already expressed an interest include Selfridges and Carnaby Street.&quot;Adopting the .london suffix will enable organisations to more closely associate themselves with our great city’s powerful global brand,&quot; says mayor Boris Johnson. &quot;This is also an excellent opportunity to expand London’s digital presence, which in turn is set to generate funds to invest back into the city.&quot;But some businesses may feel obliged to splash out on a domain name that they don&apos;t really need, in order to prevent a competitor buying it instead. ICANN attempts to mitigate that risk somewhat by offering a trademark claims service, letting trademark holders prevent third parties squatting on a new domain.The London domain will be operated by a new subsidiary of London &amp; Partners, the capital&apos;s official promotional organisation, called Dot London Domains Limited, and London-basedMinds + Machineswill be providing registry services.
