Passengers on London Underground could be using their mobile phones to get through the ticket barriers and even pay for their lunch within the next two years, after a successful trial of technology in the capital by O2 and Transport for London.The mobile phone company integrated Oyster card technology and a Barclaycard Visa card into a Nokia 6131 handset and gave it to 500 testers who spent six months using the phone as a mobile wallet.They made more than 50,000 tube journeys, either by putting their existing travel card on the device or topping up their pre-pay wallet at machines in underground stations, and bought items from shops such as Eat, Yo Sushi and Krispy Kreme. The phones also gave users access to the VIP section at the O2 arena and the Wireless festival in Hyde Park.Claire Maslen from O2 said the trial was so successful that the company was trying to put together a consortium to launch a full service within two years, well in time for the London Olympics in 2012."The Olympics are an obvious target to aim for, but I think that is a very conservative timeframe for a commercial service," she said. "We would hope to have something up and running much sooner than that."While it may seem ridiculous to turn a mobile phone into a bank card, research has shown that people realise they have lost their phone much sooner than their wallet.The O2 trial used near field communications (NFC) technology. The Oyster card is an obvious example, but bundling travel cards with a mobile e-wallet, which users cantop up from their bank account and use to pay for items under £10, have been mooted for several years.In Japan, such phones have been in use for more than four years. The Japanese railway network has been using the technology since 2001 and millions of cards have been issued. But the technology used in Japan is based on Sony's FeliCa chip technology, which is different from that used in the O2 trial and by Transport for London for the Oyster card.Philip Makinson, at industry experts Greenwich Consulting, said mobile wallets had fallen down in the past because of the number of people needed to make any system viable."It requires cooperation, not just between handset manufacturers and network operators but third parties such as Visa or Mastercard and banks and retailers. To reach critical mass you really need to have at least three of the big operators to be involved or there is not enough in it for the likes of Transport for London or Nokia," said Makinson.Several of the UK's five mobile phone networks are understood to be interested in mobile wallets."There does seem to be consumer demand for it, people are saying they want to carry less stuff around with them," said Makinson.The results of the O2 trial show that people like using a mobile phone to do more than send texts and talk.Nine out of 10 of O2's testers were happy using NFC technology, with convenience, ease of use and the status of having such an innovative device cited as benefits of the service.Top of the testers' wish list was using their mobile phone as an Oyster card, with 89% saying they would use it. The trial showed that having Oyster on a mobile phone led users to make more journeys on public transport.More than one in five who used pay-as-you-go Oyster on their mobile phone reported that they made more journeys on public transport during the trial. More than two-thirds of users said they found it more convenient to use their phone than a standard Oyster card.More than two-thirds of testers also said they would be interested in having the Barclaycard Visa payWave feature on their mobile.Crucially for Nokia, the world's largest handset maker and one of the companies involved in the trial, 87% of the testers said the ability to use Oyster on a mobile phone was likely to influence their choice of phone.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Google opened up another front in its battle with Microsoft last night, with the surprise launch of a new web browser to add to its growing list of applications.The search giant said Chrome had been created to better handle interactive applications and resource-hungry web pages such as video clips and online games. It is also less likely to crash, it claimed.And analysts predicted that Chrome, which was announced at the same time as new YouTube-like video communications services from Google, could take market share from Microsoft's Internet Explorer, as well as other browsers such as Opera and Firefox.Details of Chrome were rushed out last night after someone at Google accidentally senta comic bookannouncing the browser to a website that tracks the company.Ina blog posting late last night, Google said its engineers had decided to "completely rethink the browser" because the web has evolved from offering mainly simple text pages to rich, interactive applications."What we really needed was not just a browser, but also a modern platform for web pages and applications, and that's what we set out to build," said Sundar Pichai, VP product management, and Linus Upson, engineering director.Early reaction from bloggers and industry analysts was broadly positive.Roger Kay, president of Endpoint Technologies Associates, said Chrome would help attract computer users to Google's range of web-based applications."This gives Google another opportunity to protect its flank and to create a new branding position,'' said Kay."We like this move by Google and believe it can help to increase or at least maintain its leading search market share."Needham &amp; Co analyst Mark May said the move would allow Google to claim a significant slice of "online real estate"."The market share gains by Firefox in a short period of time show to us that users are looking for better browser experiences," he said.Open-sourceChrome is open-source, meaning developers can access and make changes to its underlying source code. Typically for a Google offering, it isavailable in test format as a beta.Like other browsers it offers tabbing, letting the reader keep multiple web pages open. But with Chrome each tab runs as a separate process, so the applications should be more stable and secure."By keeping each tab in an isolated 'sandbox', we were able to prevent one tab from crashing another and provide improved protection from rogue sites," said Pichai and Upson.According to recent figures, Internet Explorer has around 58% of the browser market, followed by Firefox with 19%. Google dominates the search market, with around 64.1% of all searches in August.Video for businessGoogle also announced yesterday that it has added a video component to its Google Apps Premier Edition, a package of business software aimed at corporate users.It will allow employees to share speeches, product training, sales meetings or other employee video messages without risking unauthorised disclosure outside the company."What YouTube did in the consumer world, Google video for business is going to do in the enterprise," said Matthew Glotzbach, product management director of Google's enterprise division, the unit responsible for Google Apps.Google video for business is available from today for Premier Edition users, and will be available to Google Apps Education Edition customers from Monday for a free six-month trial.
John Lilly, chief executive of Mozilla Corporation, hasbloggedabout the launch of Google's promised Chrome browser (below). Basically he welcomes the competition and says: "Chrome will be a browser optimized for the things that they see as important, and it'll be interesting to see how it evolves."Lilly also addresses the obvious questions: How does this affect Mozilla? and What does this mean for Mozilla's relationship with Google? He says:On the technical side of things, we've collaborated most recently on Breakpad, the system we use for crash reports -- stuff like that will continue. On the product front, we've worked with them to implement best-in-class anti-phishing and anti-malware that we've built into Firefox, and looks like they're building into Chrome. On the financial front, as has been reported lately, we've just renewed our economic arrangement with them through November 2011, which means a lot for our ability to continue to invest in Firefox and in new things like mobile and services.In the end, of course, Google is just another capitalist multinational megacorporation with paid programmers and a proprietary software base, and its purpose is to make billions of bucks for its owners and shareholders. Lilly says:Mozilla's mission is to keep the Web open and participatory -- so, uniquely in this market, we're a public-benefit, non-profit group (Mozilla Corporation is wholly owned by the Mozilla Foundation) with no other agenda or profit motive at all. We'll continue to be that way, we'll continue to develop our products &amp; technology in an open, community-based, collaborative way.Still, Google has been a prime Firefox promoter and distributer, and the source of its (comparative) wealth, so Google's focus on Chrome will inevitably diminish its support for Firefox. Whether Chrome will hurt Firefox more than it hurts IE or Safari remains to be seen.On the other hand, Firefox could benefit if there's a backlash against Google. Google is a search engine company invading everybody else's space, and it's likely to optimise Chrome to work with Google properties, and Google applications. It is also a way of getting Google Gears widely installed. I doubt there will be a backlash any time soon, but things that can be seen as attempts at world domination tend to provoke them eventually.
Grab your holiday reads - we've gottheplaces to go in computer games!If you recall, we asked readers to submit short travel guide-style descriptions of their favourite places in computer games for ourRough Guide to Videogames competition. Out of a pool of approximately 25 entries, from Chop Chop Master's dojo in Parappa the Rapper to a secret tropical hideaway in Second Life, we've selected our final winners. Keep reading to see the places your fellow bloggers recommend.All our winners receive copies of the newRough Guide to VideogamesbyKate Berensand Geoff Howard.Neil Golightly, Marcuria fromThe Longest JourneyBiggest city in Arcadia, chief port and capital of Ayrede, not for nothing is Marcuria nicknamed "Jewel of the Northlands".The bustling metropolis is dominated by the Temple of the Balance at its centre. The Temple is the oldest building in Marcuria, reckoned to be 12,000 years old, but still active as the headquarters of the religious order known as the Sentinel. The highlight is a series of ornate murals inside the temple, which tell the story of the twin Earths and the Balance. The Sentinel also run the Enclave to the east of the city, with a library housing many rare or unique books. Visitors are welcome, but please make a appointment via the Temple.In the Temple square is a hectic market. All humanity is here, and indeed non-humanity too. If this is your first visit to a magical land, remember, it's considered rude to stare, even at blue-skinned people and talking birds. Be wary of games of "skill" designed to part the tourist from their money.The docks, outside the city gates to the south, are also worth a visit. Ships from across Arcadia dock here and many sailors have true stories to tell of the seas. Well, for a given value of "true", anyway.The city is best navigated on foot, and maps can be bought from the Guild of Tourists (note that the Guild is closed during feast days). The best place to stay is the Journeyman Inn, where innkeeper Benrime Salmin welcomes guests with her famous mulled wine.North of the city is the mysterious Riverwood. Rumours of "mole-men" here abound so travellers should keep their wits about them. Beyond Riverwood, don't miss the magnificent floating castle of mad alchemist Roper Klacks. You may never leave!Andrew Armstrong, Hydro fromTeam Fortress 2June 1968 declassified US Government Intelligence Report Area codename: HYDRO REF: ZYZZY/01304Located in the Nevada desert, the Alpha Electric Dam powering the local farms is the front for a Builders League United ("BLU") run intelligence gathering facility located in the engineering area, where the vast majority of the hydroelectric power goes to BLU radar operation.Reliable Excavation Demolition ("RED") instituted a underground base hidden at the main entrance used to stage a take over the facility. RED had previously detected BLU's spying activities, and so tunnelled a secret entrance without their knowledge to counterspy before attacking the facility outright.Constant fighting to take control of the entire facility took place once RED attacked half the facility, the Dam and Radar, cutting off the main entrance to the facility in the process. BLU retained control over the Turbines and engineering area.Special security doors were put into action by BLU to stop RED's access to all areas apart from ones BLU wanted to retake, although they also stop their own movements. Access to each of RED or BLU's hardened bunker facilities is only allowed once the rest of the facility is taken due to the power required from the Dam to force open the entrances to the intelligence bunkers . Even once the facility controlled, reinforcements from the opposing side airdropped in to retake half the facility again, restarting the battle afresh.The entire facility was finally destroyed when the Dam was blown in a espionage activity by both RED and BLU personnel simultaneously leaving the area flooded.Intelligence pictures obtained from BLU and RED agencies, contracts SPY/083875 and SPY/083876.Props for the pics Andy - but we could only use one!Speendle, The Balcony fromBladerunnerStressed? Annoyed? Go and relax on the balcony in Bladerunner (Westwood studios, '97) - listen to the mournful music and the rain, reeeelax and unwind. Then go and find some replicants to kill or just run away with. Marvellous.David Kidger, Hillys fromBeyond Good and EvilThe fact that this game is still cruelly overlooked despite it's amazing story and gameplay, pails against the wonderful world that Michel Ancel created for this series. From the bustling city center to the wonderful tranquility of the gardens around the Lighthouse (see attached) I found Hillys not only a beautifully designed world, but for the first time ever, a place I actually wished I could visit (minus the DomZ of course!).The emotional story played out across this location, and the fact that you're constantly hunting in the hills and sparkling waters for rare photo opportunities really pulls you into the world of Jade and the IRIS network. The first time you can take the hovercraft out for a spin, or the later stages where you have the ability to fly, reveals the detail and spectacle of the planet as it reveals even more hidden areas and unique views.I particularly like the day and night cycle where you can look up at the stars as the sun sets and they're actually named... genius.I do believe that Michel Ancel actually said once that there are still places in Hillys where he liked to go and watch the sun rise, and I can certainly understand what he's saying. In creating Hillys he truly created a classic gaming location, and one I can only hope will feature in some form in the follow-up game.Congrats to all our winners and many thanks to everyone else who submitted!
The UK FOIA requests (that's Freedom Of Information Act) blog has been pursuing an interesting topic recently: where does the government ban you from taking photos in the UK?It's part of what the blog calls the "War on Tourism and against Photographers' Rights, currently being waged by untrained private security guards, Police Community Support Officers and even by Police Constables."(For some background, and an explanation of why the 'war on photographer' is daft anyway, read columnist Bruce Schneier's piece "Is photography really a threat?")Now, there has to be a list of places that the government bans photography. It's usually a bit itchy, for example, if you pull out a camera near or inside places like GCHQ, its nuclear facilities, and so on. The UKFOIAR blog thought that if it could acquire the list of places where you're *not* allowed to take photos, well, that by extension (perhaps syllogism) tells you where youcantake photos, and so tell obstreporous security guards, community support officers and even police constables not to get so het up.Its first request was to the Home Office, which - perhaps surprisingly -said it didn't have such a list. But the Ministry of Justice might.So they asked the MoJ - which replied that itwould need to think about that. That was the start of August.Then on August 21 theMoJ turned down the request- on the grounds of excessive cost (it would take more than one person working 3-and-a-half days to find out).So now FOIAR istrying to limit the search a bit:We shall try again, just concentrating on the name and location of any 'Prohibited Places' declared under the Official Secrets Act 1911; specifically by Order of a Secretary of State, which are currently in force.We'll try to keep tabs on their progress.
Vivendi cheered investors yesterday with a rise in second-quarter profits thanks to strong growth at its videogame and pay-TV businesses, and news that it will not be launching a refinancing to fund a recent spate of deals.But Universal Music, the world's largest music company and part of the Paris-based Vivendi empire, saw revenues decline 5.3% and profits drop 9.2% in the three months to the end of June, as CD sales continued to slide and revenues from digital downloads failed to plug the gap.Chairman Jean-Bernard L&eacute;vy said that despite "a tighter economic environment" the company would stick to its forecast of profit growth similar to last year.The company had shown "very good resistance to this slightly tense economic situation", he said, although analysts admitted they still had reservations about the potential impact of a prolonged period of economic downturn on the company.Vivendi has been beefing itself up through acquisitions this year. In April it spent &euro;4.5bn (&pound;3.6bn) buying out Neuf Cegetel, the French fixed-line telecoms company, so it could add residential broadband services to the portfolio of products offered by its SFR mobile phone unit.Vodafone has a 44% stake in SFR and has long wanted full control, as France is the only major western economy in which it does not own a mobile phone business. Vivendi, however, also wants control of the business.In July Vivendi merged its computer games business, the creator of the world's most popular online role-playing game World of Warcraft, with its US rival Activision, owner of the popular Guitar Hero franchise, to create Activision Blizzard.Vivendi had suggested it would finance these two deals through a rights issue of as much as &euro;2bn. But yesterday Levy said: "We are today in a position to affirm that we won't need to call on the market to finance these acquisitions."The company is not, however, looking for any more acquisitions.The Cegetel and Activision deals helped boost Vivendi's second-quarter results. SFR saw sales increase by a third to just under &euro;3bn, but profits before financial charges were roughly flat at &euro;716m as a result of the cost of integrating the Neuf Cegetel business. Vivendi's computer games business saw revenues rise 6.7% to &euro;223m with profits of &euro;42m. Its French pay-TV business Canal Plus increased revenues by almost 5% to just over &euro;1.1bn, with profits up 31% at &euro;181m. Last year it snapped up Television Par Satellite.But Universal Music, which recently signed a deal with the Rolling Stones, snatching the band from EMI, saw revenues ease 5.3% to just over &euro;1bn and profits drop 9.2% to &euro;148m.Overall Vivendi yesterday reported a 15.1% increase in revenues to just under &euro;6bn for the three months to the end of June, and a 3.2% increase in profits to &euro;1.36bn.
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone company, will launch an all-out assault on Apple's iPhone today with a new range of phones that will give music lovers access to an unlimited service.Anyone willing buy a Nokia Comes With Music pre-pay phone will be able to download up to 2.1m music tracks - about a quarter of the number available from Apple's iTunes - onto their computer for no extra charge for 12 months.Those tracks can be loaded onto the Nokia phone and after a year users will need to buy a new device in order to continue downloading new releases. In contrast to other so-called unlimited music services, however, if they choose not to buy a new device, they can keep all the tracks they have already downloaded.They will still play on the user's computer and handset, which will also still be able to send texts and make calls.Nokia, which is hoping the phone will be popular this Christmas with parents seeking to make their children's music file sharing legal, will today announce that the UK will be the first market to get Comes With Music.The first phone will be its 5310 handset, although at least one more device will be announced in time for Christmas.The company has signed up Carphone Warehouse, which has more than 800 shops, to stock the phone. Carphone Warehouse is also Apple's sole independent stockist of the iPhone.Nokia's UK managing director Simon Ainslie believes the Nokia Comes With Music range will be "the number one selling product at Christmas"."This is a unique proposition. Nobody has launched an unlimited music service that allows you to keep your music with no catches," said Ainslie. "What we are trying to do is bring back some value to the music industry from people who are not paying for music. There are a lot of parents who would like to legitimise their children's purchasing of music."Already some internet service providers (ISPs) have sent letters to persistent illegal file sharers warning them that their activities have been noticed, having reached a deal with industry body the BPI. For many parents this will be the first indication that their children are doing anything illicit on the internet.Nokia Comes With Music, which was first mooted last year, is a gamble for the Finnish handset maker, which supplies four out of every 10 phones sold worldwide. It risks further damaging Nokia's already fraught relationship with many of the major mobile phone companies. Last year it provoked their ire by announcing its own suite of mobile services - under the Ovi brand - which operators saw as a direct attempt to undercut their relationship with mobile phone users.In fact, Nokia does not yet have a mobile phone partner for Comes With Music. As a result anyone buying the phone will have to put their existing SIM card into it or sign up for a SIM-only deal such as O2's Simplicity.All five UK networks have held talks with Nokia about Comes With Music but none has found the service attractive - or lucrative - enough to sign up. All the operators have their music download services and see no reason to subsidise a handset that connects users with Nokia's own music store rather than their own. But Nokia still hopes to persuade an operator to subsidise the cost of the phone, which is why it will not set the price of the first handset until next month. It is expected to cost somewhere between &pound;100 and &pound;300.Nokia has decided to press on with its unlimited service because of the threat posed to its dominance of the industry by Apple, according to mobile industry insiders. Sales of the iPhone are still small - with analysts forecasting 45m will be sold by next year compared with a global market of about 1bn handsets - it could soon be made available on more networks as the original exclusive network deals it signed in the UK, France, Germany and the US come up for renewal over the next few years.Nokia will pay the music companies a licence fee to make their catalogues available to customers and for the three major labels that have already signed up - SonyBMG, Universal and Warner Music - the service is another attempt to try and claw some revenue back from the illegal file sharers. But Nokia has yet to reach a deal with the UK's host of independent music labels or EMI."Comes With Music is a way for Nokia to add extra value to its handsets and generate more stickiness for its brand," said Carolina Milanesi, research director at Gartner. But Nokia has tailored the service to the economic downturn in its major European markets."The 5310 handset is definitely more aimed at the mid-tier of the market - this is not the high-end device that people were expecting to see for Comes With Music," she added. "They are responding to the trend we are beginning to see in Europe of people switching towards the mid-tier because of the economic climate."Explainer: Music unlimitedNokia Comes With Music is the latest attempt to makedigital musicpay by bundling the cost together with another service or product - in this case the cost of the handset. There are already numerous subscription-based unlimited music services such asNapsterandMusicStation; even Apple is rumoured to be working on one foriTunes. Rather than charging a separate subscription, the Danish internet firm TDC has bundled the cost of unlimited music with its broadband service.BSkyBrecently signed a deal with Universal that could lead to a similar service in the UK. In France,Orangehas launched MusiqueMax, which allows users to download up to 500 tracks a month for &euro;12 and keep them as long as they like. All these services have some sort ofdigital rights management(DRM) software that prevents tracks being played after a subscription expires or means they can only be transferred to certain devices. Nokia Comes With Music usesMicrosoft DRMtechnology, so downloaded tracks cannot be played on an iPod. Others in the music industry believe the future of digital music lies in offering DRM-free tracks that can be played on any device. Such tracks are already sold by iTunes, Amazon and handset maker Sony Ericsson in the Nordic region.
Samsung has been showing off its forthcomingX360 laptopat the IFA exhibition in Berlin. At 1.27 kg, it's lighter than a MacBook Air at 1.36kg. (There are lighter machines such as the Toshiba Portege, but with 12.1inch instead of 13.3inch screens.)Samsung says: "the X360 sets a completely new standard in mobile computing -- offering a comprehensive set of features unlike anything of its kind on the market."Well, it has more features and ports than the heavily compromised Air, including a 7-in-1 card reader, three USB ports, PCI Express Card Slot (34mm), HDMI, VGA, RJ45 (Ethernet) and a docking slot. You can also have either a Solid State Drive (64GB or 128GB) or a traditional 120GB drive. Other features include a fingerprint reader, webcam, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.Unlike thesometimes-overheating Air, the X360 also has a proper ULV (Ultra Low Voltage) processor -- probably not cheap -- and X4500 graphics. With an SSD and 6-cell battery, this enables Samsung to claim a battery life of "up to 10 hours", depending on use. But I'll be impressed if I get more than 5 or 6 hours.....From what I can see of the various IFA videos andphotos, the battery projects at the back, like most 6-cell packs. This gives Samsung no hope of getting anywhere near the "thinnest" machine. The X360's thickness is 1.67-3.09cm, which compares with the MacBook Air's 0.4-1.94 cm. Not that it makes the slightest bit of difference in reality. (Well, not from the point of view of portability. Thinner is just worse -- less usable -- if it means giving up ports, expansion slots and a removable battery.)From the photos and videos, it also looksextremelyglossy, which may not go down too well with the comfortably-matt ThinkPad crowd.The X360 is expected to reach Europe next month. Samsung hasn't stated a price. I reckon it's unlikely to cost less than £1,200 with a hard drive, but it could be in the same ballpark as the Air.
Google is going to get into the business that, five years ago, you would have thought was dead as a dodo, not worth doing, over: browsers.It's working onChrome, a new browser based on Webkit, the open-source rendering engine that was adopted by Apple (which also vacuumed upDave Hyattfrom theKDEMozillaproject [thanks NeilTurner in comments]) for its Safari browser back in, gosh, January 2003. (Firefox didn't happenuntil 2004.)The explanation is given in cartoon form, drawn byScott McCloud(whose style reminds me a bit ofArt Speigelman's Maus).I have to say, it's rather smart doing it in comic form. I doubt anyone but the nerdiest would bother to read it in word form. In cartoons, the story can be told in a way that people might stick with. (Tell us in what ways it's a distortion, of course.)The Blogoscoped server is a bit stressed, so you could read the short versionhere.Anyhow, if you've got the patience while the pages load, Chrome is promised to be a browser which will separate each tab into an independent process, so that the ones which chew up memory and process time can be identified; which won't suffer memory leaks (at least, not that will kill your memory); will have acompilingJavascript engine, rather than an interpreter as used by every other browser. There's all sorts of other promises - stability, speed - and Google does have lots of stored sites to test it on.One interesting point: thedefault pagewill be a group of your nine most-visited pages. Just make sure it's something you can show your mum - though there is a setting for an "incognito" tab: what happens there, stays there.That doesn't mean though that it won't go to beta. Apparently it can't be automatically tested on password-protected sites... so there's still a role for humans.So what's the point? To get Google in front of more people. To track us. To take share away from Microsoft - and if Google can translate its search share into browser share, Microsoft may have cause to feel its collar concernedly.Your guesses please for when Chrome will emerge from beta. (Note: Google Mail, introduced in 2004, is still officially in beta.)
Time for one of those comedy internet memes, which got started quite by accident, but could provide some light relief and give you the chance to show off your abilities.It goes like this. You'll recall the poemFirst They Came, about the silence of those who could make a difference during Nazi rise to power (somewhat appropriately, today is the anniversary of the day when Germany invaded Poland, triggering the second world war).OK, so now let's apply it to the internet. On Twitter, Paul Carrbegan: "then they came for the Twitter developers, but they were unavailable."In response, Isuggested"then they came for Microsoft's search engine team, but they couldn't find them."And: "then they came for the key Twitter people, and rounded up 140 characters."So continue the idea. Then they came for who? And what happened?
At Technologizer,Harry McCrackensearched for some pretty obvious topics at Google's Knol to see how well it is doing, and the results are less than impressive. First, it failed to find some articles on a standard search, and then some it did find (Steve Wozniak, Sarah Palin) were based on Wikipedia entries.Which brings up the "authors" of the two entries which crib from Wikipedia: The Palin one is credited to Sam Goldfarb and the Woz one to Jean Jacques Frapsauce (actually "jean jacques frapsauce".) It's possible that these gents contributed to the Wikipedia articles that they appear to have cut-and-pasted into Knol, but they certainly weren't solely responsible for them. They're taking credit for the work of others, and because their Knol versions of the entries aren't editable, they're not just copies of Wikipedia's entries - they're fundamentally flawed copies.To sum up: Knol has some poor quality articles, and features poor quality articles on its home page. Some articles are basically ripped off from Wikipedia, and "the Knol search engine in its current form seems to be broken".
Now you can take that round-the-world trip from the comfort of your home, and see not just the obvious tourist sites but people having parties or playing with their kids in the back garden. All you need is a web browser andEarth Album – an online photo album that covers the whole world.Earth Album doesn't actually have any of its own photos, of course: it takes them from Flickr, the popular photo-sharing website. Nor does it have a map of the world: it uses Google Maps with a hybrid satellite view. What Earth Album does is take these two giant internet properties and link them together in what's called a mashup.It's easy to use. You start with a map of the world and zoom in on the area you want. Earth Album takes any Flickr photos associated with that place – perhaps by geotagging – and displays them in a scrolling strip across the screen. You can click on any photo to see a larger version, along with its caption, if it has one.The results vary according to what's available. If you focus on a small or desolate region you may not find anything. Zooming out increases the chance of finding at least a few images, and the country-level views have some stunning images. The major cities and tourist spots are well covered, as you'd expect, but some areas are very badly served. Google Maps' coverage of Georgia, for example, is poor, and it can be hard to find many photos except for Tbilisi.There are shortcuts, and you can find a place by typing in the name or entering an address. If you want London Ontario, Paris Texas or Boston Lincs, you have to be specific. Curiously, York takes you to New York instead of the city in Yorkshire.You can also search by keywords and find things like mountains and sunsets. In this case, Earth Album seems to be picking up cues from titles and captions.There are one or two annoyances. The main one for me is the scrolling of the picture selection. This works well as you go from right to left, bringing up more photos, but clicking the left arrow takes you right back to the beginning. This seems bizarre on a site that has been around for two years.A very minor complaint is that there should be a more obvious way to jump from any photo to its home on Flickr (clicking the title works). Flickr often gives you the background to a picture, and access to a stream of related images.Earth Album's results may seem somewhat voyeuristic, because they can include personal snaps taken at parties and weddings, at work, at home or in pubs. On the other hand, it's interesting to see the same sort of snaps from Santiago, Singapore, Sapporo and similar places. In the end, Earth Album is giving us the chance to see and share our common humanity, and that must be a force for good.
Monday's Chatterbox
It seems Microsoft realises it has missed a trick by relying on the capitalist free market to distribute applications for its mobile phones, and it should have gone for a closed, locked-down model like Apple's where it could trouser 30% of the sales revenues.Long Zhengobserves:If one of the most compelling features of the iPhone are the third-party applications then it's a sad fact for Microsoft since Windows Mobile has supported third-party applications since the last ice age.Side by side, there's an impressive 18,000 applications (hopefully at least a 1:5 gem-to-crap ratio) for Windows Mobile compared to just over 2,000 for the iPhone. The exception being there's only one iPhone marketplace and about a bazillion WM marketplaces. Personally I've avoided purchasing any WM applications because of this.Long Zheng then reprints a couple of job ads for people to work on "the v1 launch of an applications marketplace service for Windows Mobile 7."Microsoft already uses this approach, both from Danger (which has had an applications catalogue for Sidekick since 2002), and from Xbox Live Marketplace, which supplies applications to Xbox 360 users, and Zune Marketplace. However, I doubt its app-store will actually be as closed as Apple's, since the people who run the "bazillion WM marketplaces" would immediately start complaining about monopoly abuse.Anyway, Windows Mobile 7 is probably a year away, so don't look for an app-store anytime soon. Until then, people who are rendered incapable by having to make choices can always useHandango, which is a well-established purveyor of apps for Windows Mobile, Palm, Symbian , PSP and other handheld devices....Update: And I should obviously have mentioned the "Android Market -- an open content distribution system that will help end users find, purchase, download and install various types of content on their Android-powered devices," announced onThursday.
Did you like the idea of getting 2GB of free storage from BT when you signed up for its broadband service? Seems some people did. We're not sure who - wecomprehensively rubbished itwhen it launched in October 2006 - but nevertheless there must have been some people, perhaps egged on by that BT advert. You know, the one with the bloke who wasNathan Barley.. in My Family(thanks CSClark in the comments).As we warned: "But hang on. BT will, in effect, be holding your stuff to ransom. What happens if you decide to stop coughing up? Will the jerky videos of the cat be lost forever?"Now the broadband behemoth has decided either that there are so many people doing it who rely on it so heavily that they can be turned into paying customers, or that the free game's not worth the candle. (Or both.)It has sent out an email pointing out that people who sign up with BT now no longer get the free service; and also pointing out that if you want your data to survive, you'll have to cough up:We wanted to let you know we will be withdrawing the BT Digital Vault Basic (2GB) product shortly. This means you'll need to upgrade to BT Digital Vault Plus within the next 60 days to access, upload or share your stored files.Upgrade to BT Digital Vault Plus for only £4.99 a month...We'll switch off your BT Digital Vault 2GB service on the 30th October 2008, so make sure you upgrade now to get continuous protection for all your precious photos, files and more.(Got to love that "we wanted to let you know". It as though they're telling you your shoelace was undone or something.)Except it's not as simple as that, as Chris Edwards (a regular contributor to the Technology section - have you read XXX yet? -points out. More BT emailery:"We'd like to assure you that any data you currently hold in your vault will continue to be stored safely. Your free Digital Vault Basic (2GB) account will be converted to a free 1GB Digital Vault Basic account automatically in the next 60 days."Er, right, so if you've got more than 1GB up there?"You can continue to access all your stored files from your free 1GB Digital Vault Basic, however you won't be able to upload any new files until your total usage falls below 1GB or if you are a BT Total Broadband customer you can upgrade to Digital Vault (5GB) at no extra cost."Still not clear about what happens to the amount that's above 1GB. Is it visible? Does it get chopped off at the knees, and if so on what basis? Oldest? Newest? Largest? Smallest?As Chris says, "If BT customers weren't confused, they probably will be now. I don't know why the company couldn't just come out and say: 'Sorry, we messed up. It was a bad idea to offer a free service and then just kill it, so we've changed our minds about switching off the 2GB service. Here's 1GB as a consolation prize.'"This doesn't though answer the question of what BT thought the value of the Digital Vault was to it. If it's halving the free space, then it's decided that the Vault isn't sufficient a come-on to people to make them consider changing their provider. (Unsurprising, really, since anyone changing provider might by now have heard of companies called "Google", "Microsoft" and "Yahoo", each of which offers forms of online cloud-based storage for free. There's also Apple, but its online storage is costly and, of late, flaky.We'll put a call in to BT, but thought you might all want to rush out and buy memory sticks or similar to store those 2GB on. I think a fiver would about cover it. Carry them - password-protected or encrypted, please - around in a pocket. It's as effective as BT's service, and you won't have to wrestle with confusing marketing ads.I think this one generally falls underSchofield's Second Law of Computing:data doesn't really exist unless you have at least two copies of it.If you've got more than 1GB in that free BT Digital Vault account, there's no telling which part of it is really safe. (Pedants note: yes, data should be plural there, but the word is fast becoming a plural singular.)Thanks to Chris Edwards for the pointer. As he puts it, "BT continues hopeless search for a clue".Update:Chris Edwards asked BT, whichtold himthat the purpose was to get people to upgrade - though it wasn't clear about why the 1GB difference would make that happen. BTinsiststhat "We're not running out of space, it's just a question of how we allocate it." In a pricey manner, if you ask me.
So I've been playing withPlayTV- the Freeview PVR add-on for the PS3 - over the weekend and the good news is that recording a TV show in the background while playing a game seems to have no impact on gameplay. Well not that I noticed anyway. But given the interest, or at least curiosity, surrounding PlayTV I've organised a Q&amp;A with Sony. So if you have any PlayTV questions you want answering - HD? PSP transfer? Will the tuner cope with future changes to Freeview? - then please stick them in the comments below. But don't hang around as I'll be sending them to Sony tomorrow morning (Tuesday 2nd Sept).
The social networking website Bebo has once again turned to Google to bolster its senior management, hiring Nicole Vanderbilt to drive its ambitious international expansion plan under its new parent, AOL.Bebo has tapped former top Google talent on several occasions to build its international management team and has hired Vanderbilt from the search engine giant to fill the newly created role of vice-president of international.Vanderbilt, formerly Google's head of industry marketing in Europe and later India, will be responsible initially for developing Bebo operations in France, Spain, Italy, Germany and the Netherlands.AOL has made international expansion of the social networking website a priority since acquiring Bebo for $850m (£486m) in March.Vanderbilt, a former director at American Express, will report to the Bebo chief executive, Joanna Shields, also a former senior Google employee in Europe."Nicole comes to Google with more than a decade of experience in developing creative, innovative marketing programmes for top global companies," said Shields."As we continue to grow internationally, she is an ideal candidate to drive Bebo's expansion in key international markets," Shields added.Vanderbilt's hiring comes less than two months afterBebo hired Kate Burns, Google's first employee outside the US and its first UK managing director, to be managing director of its European operation.Bebo was acquired to form the bedrock of AOL's newly created People Networks business unit, which it hopes might give it the scale to take on Facebook and MySpace.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
It was 11.05pm and the queue outside the exclusive Embassy nightclub in Mayfair, London, was getting restless. A young man nervously adjusted his tie as a blond woman scanned the list of names on her clipboard. Two young women flounced away after being refused entry. But one phrase could guarantee immediate passage past the velvet cordon: "I'm ASW."ASW, or A Small World to the uninitiated, is an invitation-only social networking site for the international jetset - think Facebook for Forbes list - that lets only the most elite, connected, and moneyed into its ranks.Sipping on a mojito and looking through the window at the line of hopefuls standing miserably outside, Nicola Cavallo, an investment banker from Milan, explained the attraction. "Everyone gets access to Facebook, but only a small number are invited to join ASW," he said. "ASW is the best place to find the best people and the best parties."Julia Hausman, an investment analyst from German, explained that she recently skipped the waiting list for a &pound;4,000 Hermes Birkin bag thanks to her ASW membership. "I still use Facebook, but to be honest ASW is just a little more exclusive," she said.In a world where more than 90 million people are on Facebook, ASW is part of a new wave of niche social networking sites springing up in cyberspace, said Mike Butcher, editor of technology website TechCrunch UK. "We're a few years into the social networking phenomenon now and what we are increasingly seeing are sites that attract a niche audience by meeting particular needs," he said. "There is definitely a trend towards luxury and exclusivity that hasn't been seen before."And although the audiences of sites such as ASW may be small, they are desirable. "In normal circumstances advertisers are mainly interested in numbers, which is why Facebook is so attractive, but ASW provides access to highly influential people in an elite hothouse and that is worth a fortune," Butcher said. "It's also a very powerful platform for building a brand."Founded four years ago, by Erik Wachtmeister, a former investment banker, ASW aims to provide a hidden corner of the internet where members - often affluent, educated and with multiple residences - can swap tips on everything from investing in Cambodia to partying in Uruguay without worrying about anything as crass as being poked, high-fived or spammed. Members have their own profile page. Free to join, its users are young, the average age is 32, with somewhere between 65% and 70% coming from Europe. Users who step out of line, by either contacting members they don't already know, aggressive marketing or celebrity-stalking (Tiger Woods and Naomi Campbell are among the glitterati) are banished.One of the site's main features is an active forum, and a quick browse around the threads leaves the visitor in little doubt that ASW is not only a small but also a different world. "Buyer is looking to buy gold bars [bullion] by the metric ton. Must be 999.5 of fineness or better," reads one. Among the Bentleys and small hotels for sale in the high-end classifieds, a shopper looks for a "150+ft yacht for the week of the SuperBowl in Tampa, FL".On signing up to ASW, members are reminded of the site's maxim: "We live in a small world, and we want to keep it that way." But since its inception the site has grown from 500 to about 325,000 users in more than 200 countries, and in recent months there has been growing dissent. A recent thread entitled "Death of ASW" sparked 8,600 responses. One consultant from Milan complained: "Definitely ASW was a better place when I joined in September 2004 ... now you can find personal assistants/secretaries ... is this supposed to be an exclusive site???"But Wachtmeister is confident the site can grow comfortably to a million users. In a recent interview he said: "Our goal is to grow very, very carefully ... If we employ the right methodology, we can grow to a million people and still be as exclusive as we are today. The world is a big place."Back at the Embassy bar, Stor Skekare, a sharply dressed  Swede, was unconvinced.  "I've had about four invitations but I turned them down," he says. "Exclusive?  As soon as people know about it - it's dead." To push the point home he asked: "Did you manage to get into the site?" Yes, we admitted. "Exactly," he said. And turned away.
"Glad that @joan_holloway caught me in the hall. @bobbie_barrett is in my office again. Sounds like a good time to head to the bar w/ Roger."Can there be a more perfect modern moment than Mad Men Twittering? It's Web 2.0's stream of consciousness applied to the martini-fuelled milieu of Madison Avenue circa 1960. Fans of the excellent US period drama about ad execs have taken it upon themselves to translate the boozy office lives of Don Draper, Peggy Olson and Roger Sterling into a collection of Twitter feeds.If the Twitterverse has so far passed you by, it's probably best described as a kind of mobile micro-blogging. Twitterers text thoughts to the Twitter site on anything from their latest sandwich to first impressions of Obama's speeches. If you like someone's Twitter (or actually know them in the offline world) you can choose to be one of their "followers" and you get an alert every time a new "tweet" is posted on their feed. The only rule is that all tweets must be 140 characters or less, creating a concise digital haiku form.AMC, the US cable channel that produces Mad Men, initially tried to clamp down on fans taking their characters on these off-piste online adventures, asking Twitter to take the feeds down. But, perhaps in recognition of the added cultural cachet that comes when characters literally take on a life of their own, it has backed down and the Mad tweets are back up.What is it about this show that produces such obsessive fandom? The Jossip blog is offended that it "dares use the shitty font Arial to spit out its closing credits". Arial, you see, wasn't invented until 1982.Perhaps it's best to leave the final word on Mad Men Tweets to Don Draper himself (courtesy of a blog entitled What Would Don Draper Do? that works as a surreal in-character agony uncle service).Dear Don Draper, what would you do if a television network discouraged the free advertising written by fans on a social networking site?"This reminds me of yesterday: Salvatore mentioned something oddly loaded about a bird. I told him to get the door on his way out ..."
The new Nikon D90 digital SLR camera has a feature called Live View, which means you can frame pictures using the screen instead of the viewfinder. (This is, of course, dead common on snapshot cameras, but they don't have a mirror blocking the way to the sensor.) And as David Pogue points out inThe New York Times, this means it's the first DSLR that can shoot video:High-definition video, at that. Stunning, vivid, 720p, widescreen, 1280-by-720, 24-frames-per-second video, with the color and clarity that only an SLR can provide.Evidently, it occurred to some engineer: "Hey, we're already showing a video image. Isn't that, in essence, what Live View is? Maybe we could figure out a way to record it!"So you buy a DLR and you can do bits of hi-def video on a camera with interchangeable lenses:With a huge telephoto lens, sitting in my bleachers seat at the Pilot Pen tennis tournament, I was suddenly filming what other people could capture only as still images. (You can see sample stills atnytimes.com/personaltech.) Independent filmmakers, rejoice.Not sure I'd be willing to pay extra for video on a DSLR, but I'd certainly be interested in trying it....Added: The D90 records video inMotion JPEGformat with mono sound.
We don't inprint, but online do have room for all your letters and blog pingbacks. Here's what we selected from. People were particularly concerned about insect soldiers...ROBOT SWARMS&gt;&gt; The problem with our type of cleverness is, of course, that it so often translates into ever more ingenious ways of killing other humans...As it stands, we can only hope, that when our robots truly become intelligent, they will not also inherit our innate and very human viciousness.gal.darkervision.com&gt;&gt; "In just over five years, the swarms of robots in the British armed forces will outnumber the soldiers." Oh great…ruleset.org&gt;&gt; The MoD must be very, very pleased. Its Grand Challenge, which I've blogged about previously, has won tremendous coverage. (robots, urban warfare, Salisbury Plain - you remember). This piece in today's technology section of The Guardian is very good. Not least because it doesn't go for the obvious let's-talk-to-the-winners angle.takingoutthetrash.typepad.co.uk&gt;&gt; These military advances are increasingly necessary because Western audiences cannot stomach human losses in war anymore. But more importantly, miniscule, expendable insect-like robots can track down terrorists in urban settings without putting soldiers in harm's way and reducing collateral damage to civilians. The fear becomes whether an enemy can infiltrate your control system or if the robots become so autonomous that they are out of your control. In 10-20 years, military forces will be completely transformed. This is just the beginning.gottliebreport.blogspot.comOS LOBBYINGWe are more than happy that the Guardian has shown this interest in the way that Ordnance Survey communicates about the important work that we do.  Ordnance Survey data helps underpin life in Britain.  It is relied on by business and society, from battling the effects of climate change to the sat nav in millions of cars.  Our data is mapped down to the nearest few centimeters and updated up to 5000 times a day. It is this consistent level of quality, currency and detail that makes it so vital for public services, ranging from emergency planning to the delivery of everyday services on the ground.  It is because Ordnance Survey data is so vital that parliamentarians and other important stakeholders expect us to communicate with them about our work.  That is why we engage with politicians from all parties who care about the services that we provide.  We have a duty to inform them on our role collecting the data needed to map every feature on the landscape, and how we intend to maintain the quality of this sophisticated data going forward.  We're committed to the best possible communications with all our stakeholders, now and in the future. Nicole Perry head of public affairs, Ordnance Survey&gt;&gt; I'm not at all surprised to learn that OS are paying political lobbyists, but it does feel completely underhand. These people are supposed to be professional civil servants for Christ's sake. They're supposed to be impartial; their input into government is supposed to go through the proper chain, through their department and their minister. Their input into the political process should not go through a bunch of hack lobbyists, paid for out of the public purse, simply because the management of OS are not up to the job of making a decent case with their minister. It's unconscionable. I've long referred to the trading fund model as nothing more than legalised money laundering and this does little to make me change my mind.sawyl.livejournal.comPIRACY?The article ("Computer game pirate to pay US firm £16,000" ) mentions briefly the closing of tv links, a website that hosts no infringing data, but does provide links to said data. You should be aware that while the website was closed for a while it is open again at a different URL and has been from about a month after the closure of the previous site. It is worth mentioning to your readers that this portability is the reason that enforcement against software music and video piracy will bear no more success that the war on drugs. Only when demand is no longer there will supply dry up. Martin Pruszynski by emailThe article cites a decision against "a woman" made by "a judge" at the "patents county court in London". Having checked HM Court Service records, I cannot find this judgement anywhere. Are you able to provide a case reference? These are not matters of confidentiality (court cases are matters of public record), and the law firm referenced in the article, Davenport Lyons is known for its somewhat expansive theories of liability. The BBC has also reported the same case, and similarly omits any details which could be used to check its validity. Neil Dunbar by emailPODCAST DATINGPLEASE could you include the date at the start of each podcast. Sometimes I have several backed up on my MP3 and knowing their sequence would be very helpful [when I cannot get to read display, eg when driving] Enjoy the programme, keep up the good work Thanks to all the team Peter Williams by emailPICTURE THISSorry for the pedantry but the dreaded "red ring of death" only has 3 of the sectors lit. You're showing the "red ring of we didn't plug in an AV cable". Steve Cartwright, London
Photo by Dave Winer shows why he likes the Eee PC (right) as a reporting notebookI had a negative reaction to the Asus Eee PC keyboard after finding that I couldn't touchtype reliably on the tiny keys. Dave Winer shared my fears but he still bought one, andhe blogs:the keyboard works, even though I have huge hands and fat fingers. You can learn how to touch type on this keyboard, as I write this I'm loooking out the window at the traffic on 16th St, and only had to look at the key board to ffind the numeric keys. Otherwise, I l4eft the errors in so you could see how accurate you can be with this keyboard.The appeal of the Asus for moving around is that it's much smaller than his 17-inch MacBook Pro, as his photo shows.....Spotting the three (?) typos should not be a problem for Guardian readers....
According to today'sObserver,Stephenie Meyerhas abandoned her popular series of vampire books (more than 5.3 million copies sold) after an unfinished draft of the last book was leaked on the internet. She says:"I did not want my readers to experience Midnight Sun before it was completed, edited and published. I think it is important for everybody to understand that what happened was a huge violation of my rights as an author, not to mention me as a human being."So where does this leave Midnight Sun?"My first feeling was that there was no way to continue. Writing isn't like math; in math, two plus two always equals four no matter what your mood is like. With writing, the way you feel changes everything. If I tried to write Midnight Sun now, in my current frame of mind, James [a vampire tracking Bella] would probably win and all the Cullens would die, which wouldn't dovetail too well with the original story."In any case, I feel too sad about what has happened to continue working on Midnight Sun, and so it is on hold indefinitely."What The Observer doesn't mention is whether Meyer might have been influenced by some ofthe response to the previous book, Breaking Dawn, which "sold 834,000 copies in one day". (As Stephenie Meyer had said, that was actually the final book from Bella's perspective.)At Christian Science Monitor,Marjorie Kehecomments:It's enough to make one wonder who has the courage to become a bestselling author these days. With the ocean of opportunity to vent spleen and disappointment created by the blogosphere, writers have little choice but to continually go nose-to-nose with disgruntled readers. It's hard for me to believe that such encounters necessarily energize creative people.Well, the internet has no shortage of self-righteous assholes, as we know only too well. But at least Meyer is now rich enough to forgo the millions of dollars that Midnight Sun would bring in.
StageNureyev dances Romeo at the Royal Ballet, 1966You may prefer Rudolf's Swan Lake duet with Miss Piggy (also on YouTube). But a more traditional pas de deux with Margot Fonteyn from Prokofiev's Romeo and Juliet delivers a glimpse of Nureyev's sublime physicality as a dancer; the balcony scene in particular gives him plenty of room to flex his muscles, with lifts and leaps aplenty.tinyurl.com/6efb2uDocumentary on Trevor Nunn's Nicholas Nickleby, 1981The RSC stage adaptation (by David Edgar) of Dickens's novel was eight hours long, featured a cast of 39 and was a landmark success. The South Bank Show that charted its progress through from rehearsal to performance casts a richly illuminating light behind the scenes, particularly on the tensions (and bitching) that arose when, after seven weeks of workshops, casting began. Not everyone got the parts they wanted and six cast members duly quit.tinyurl.com/6f9mqxPina Bausch's Bluebeard (Barbe Bleue), 1977Posted (in 12 parts) in its entirety, Bausch's 'tanztheater' piece based on Bartók's opera Bluebeard's Castle is typical of her assault-on-the-senses style of choreography. A meditation on male-female relations perhaps, the piece is interspersed with snatches of Bartók's opera, features a stage carpeted with dry leaves and a cast of 28, and opens with a scene of repeated attack/ravishment. Disturbing and engrossing in equal measure.tinyurl.com/6rrll8DV8's Dead Dreams of Monochrome Men, 1990Adapted for film from their original 1988 stage show, physical theatre company DV8's dance work for four men is loosely based on the story of serial killer Dennis Nilsen, who murdered up to 15 men between 1978 and 1983. On being gay and the tragic consequences of homophobia, it's bleak but at times also rivetingly beautiful. Russell Maliphant, Lloyd Newson, Douglas Wright and Nigel Charnock star.tinyurl.com/5ugfrhInterview with Eugène Ionesco, 1961At age three, French dramatist Eugène Ionesco wanted to sell chestnuts. Who'd have thought it? Other curious insights about the French absurdist playwright crop up in this interview given at the age of 52. 'Theatre for me must be simplified and grotesque. To me, the world seems that way.'tinyurl.com/6s4c5fPeter Brook's Mahabharata, 1989Acclaimed director Brook worked on his adaptation of the epic Sanskrit poem for up to 10 years before it reached the stage in 1985. The abridged TV mini-series aired a few years later. Key to its vision was its international multicultural cast, the point being how universal this story was. A marvel that so much of Brook's almost six-hour TV version has been posted on the web.tinyurl.com/5frp33Donna McKechnie in the original show of The Chorus Line, 1976Incredibly grainy, but you can still pick out McKechnie's jazzy moves and oh-so-high-kicks (a colour version of the same number from 1988 is also on YouTube). As the original Cassie, the star on the slide who's desperate to get into the chorus (a role based largely on herself), McKechnie won a Tony. One helluva singular sensation...tinyurl.com/6glr8xJazzJohn Coltrane performs 'My Favourite Things', 1961The title song on Coltrane's seminal album My Favourite Things really is the bomb, all 13 minutes of it. YouTube's longest version, at just over 10, comes from a live performance in Baden-Baden, Germany, and weaves in improvs by pianist McCoy Tyner and flautist Eric Dolphy, as well as Coltrane on the soprano saxophone, which he took up for the first time on this album. This is a long long way from The Sound of Music.tinyurl.com/2kwnxmBillie Holiday sings 'Strange Fruit', 1959Apparently Holiday used to break down every time after singing 'Strange Fruit'. Seeing her perform it here (five months before her death), with that agonising, cracked voice of hers, you understand why. She invests so much in it. Based on a poem about the lynching of two black men in the American South ('strange fruit hangin' from the poplar trees...') the song, which she originally recorded in 1939, went on to become her biggest hit.tinyurl.com/34g3b3Ella Fitzgerald duets with Dinah Shore, 1960s'How's this?' asks Ella, clicking her fingers to a mid-tempo beat. 'It seems good. A nice beat like that, I think I'll give it a sound,' answers Dinah before both of them launch into the most gloriously upbeat 'blues' medley ever. Ella was a regular on Dinah Shore's TV show and an earlier duet from 1959 (also on YouTube) shows off both singers' dazzling virtuosity just as well. Breath control to die for.tinyurl.com/5bnrqzCharlie Parker and Dizzy Gillespie perform 'Hot House', 1952Parker and Gillespie firstmet in 1942. Ten years later, they happened to pitch up at the Dumont TV Studios in New York to be handed two Down Beat magazine awards. Host: 'You boys got any more to say?' Gillespie: 'Well, Earl, they say music speaks louder than words so we'd rather voice our opinion that way.' What they did turns out to be the only footage extant of Parker playing live.tinyurl.com/57bpjbBarbra Streisand on The Tonight Show with Jack Paar, 1961Streisand's first television appearance is proof of what a natural performer she was even then (both as singer and comedienne). She was 19 years old and the host Orson Bean, standing in for Jack Paar, had spotted her performing at Bon Soir, a gay bar in New York's Greenwich Village, and booked her on the strength of it. Here she sings 'A Sleepin' Bee' before chatting on the couch.tinyurl.com/5g8czjPop, rock and folkSid and Nancy on New York cable TV, 1978Morose, foul-mouthed and dismissive, a shirtless Sid Vicious is joined by a very vocal Nancy Spungen (with co-guests Stiv Bators and Cynthia of the B Girls) on a live New York cable TV show recorded shortly after the break-up of the Sex Pistols. When a drippy female caller flirts with Sid over the phone, Nancy wades in: 'You better keep your fucking hands off him...' A slanging match ensues. Viva la punk.tinyurl.com/5hjcdcMadonna at the Danceteria, 1982The first ever live performance of 'Everybody', Madge's first single, at the downtown nightclub where she was a regular and got a demo of the song played. Her three backing dancers - in matching shorts, blazers and pork pie hats - were her friend Erica Bell, former roommate Martin Burgoyne and black dancer Bags. Gotta love those moves.tinyurl.com/6p77zfOasis's TV debut with 'Supersonic', 1994There's also footage on YouTube of early Oasis rehearsals at the Boardwalk pub in Manchester, where the band played their first live gig in 1991. But Oasis's first appearance on TV, on Channel 4's shambolic late-night show The Word, delivers a headier dose of live entertainment, nostalgia and Terry Christian. Loud and in yer face (and that's just the decor).tinyurl.com/6oda2nThe Who and Hendrix equipment smashing, 1968In a clip from the slightly po-faced TV show All My Loving, the Who and Jimi Hendrix provide an extreme masterclass in onstage destruction 'The cost of a pop group's equipment... is about a thousand pounds,' the narration offers, by way of context presumably, before the Who totally trash both stage and equipment. By way of encore, Hendrix then humps his guitar. Totally rock'n'roll.tinyurl.com/6fprx5Aretha Franklin's Lady Soul TV Special, 1968That was Aretha's year, when she scored some of her biggest hits with 'Respect', 'Chain of Fools' and '(You Make Me Feel) Like a Natural Woman', which all get an airing in this funky black and white Swedish TV broadcast recorded at a concert held that year in Stockholm. She's on stonkingly good form. Not just a little bit, just a little bit...tinyurl.com/6zt2ghJoy Division do 'Shadowplay', 1978The band's TV debut on Granada Reports, the show, as Tony Wilson puts it, dedicated to showcasing 'the most interesting new sounds in the North West', has a peculiarly forlorn efficiency to it, each band member stranded on a pill-like blue podium, yet adding to the effect. A neat counterpoint is a live performance of the same song at an Altrincham pub, with more of Ian Curtis's shimmying, which is half the pleasure, surely.tinyurl.com/6kmsb9tinyurl.com/5etumaJoan Baez and Bob Dylan sing 'With God on Our Side', 1963Around this time Baez and Dylan became an item off stage too but on stage it was really this duet at the Newport Folk Festival that set the tone for their many future collaborations. Plaintive and heartrending, their voices are a perfect complement. Their personal relationship ended a few years later, thankfully not to the detriment of their professional relationship on stage.tinyurl.com/5w68vsDolly Parton sings 'Dumb Blonde', 1967The perfect country song for Dolly to launch her career on. Certainly she's spent the rest of it ironising the title. Because, of course, if there's anything we know for sure about Dolly Parton, it's that she ain't dumb and she sure ain't blonde. Here she is, making her TV debut on The Porter Wagoner Showtinyurl.com/6czjh6Nirvana rehearse in a garage, 1988Before they hit it big (with their 1991 album Nevermind) and minus drummer Dave Grohl, Nirvana got down to bassist Krist Novoselic's mum's house for a jam through 'Love Buzz', 'Scoff' and 'About the Girl'. Hangers-on drink beer and smoke in the background, Kurt sings into the wall and someone turns on a strobe light for effect. Grunge in the making.tinyurl.com/22alpdBette Midler and Barry Manilow at the Continental Bath, 1971Who's better suited to perform at a New York gay bathhouse than the Divine Miss M (aka Bathhouse Betty)? With that voice and raunchy banter, she had those boys wrapped round her finger. Drop in Barry Manilow on piano (sometimes, like the punters, in no more than a towel) and you couldn't get it any camper. Poor quality footage but top quality versions of 'Fat Stuff', 'Easier Said Than Done' and 'Marahuana'.tinyurl.com/5te2vtJames Brown and Pavarotti sing 'This Is A Man's World', 2002Who and who? Yep, it's certainly an odd pairing. And off the bat you worry this duet might tip over into the disaster area of other opera-pop couplings. But not a bit of it. A slow build through one of the most enduringly brilliant songs ever finishes with one of Brown's signature funk yowls. And then the clincher, Luciano and James pull together for a final touching man-hug. Aww!tinyurl.com/2bwu5qThe Beatles Rooftop Concert, 1969Staged up on the roof of their recording studio building, the Apple headquarters at 3 Savile Row, the Beatles's rooftop gig was filmed to be an ending for their 1970 film Let It Be. The band was already drifting apart and this was their last live performance before effectively splitting in December 1970. Not a bad swansong though.tinyurl.com/2fmj2xLiteratureJack Kerouac reads from On the Road (called Project 2), 1959US TV presenter Steve Allen liked to do things differently. When he invited Kerouac on his show to read from On the Road, Allen decided it was a good idea to give him a jazzy piano accompaniment. It shouldn't work but it does, thanks largely to Kerouac's inordinate skill as a reader, his intonation curiously in tune with the slightly daft tinkerings in the background.tinyurl.com/5jla3kZora Neale Hurston sings 'Uncle Bud', 1939Author Neale Hurston started off studying anthropology and, according to this posting, the footage here comes from one of her own anthropological films, presumably shot while at university. Overlaid, in her joyous voice, is a 'jook' song (ie dive-bar dancing song) popular at the time in the South called 'Uncle Bud': 'Uncle Bud's got gals long and tall/ And they rock their hips like a cannonball, Uncle Bud.'tinyurl.com/5rq9lmVladimir Nabokov discusses Lolita, 1950sOn the Canadian Broadcast Corporation's Close Up, Nabokov defends his 'shocking' book in the company of literary critic Lionel Trilling and the show's bow-tied host. 'I don't wish to touch hearts or affect minds. What I want to produce is that little sob in the spine of the reader.' The set-up recalls three gentlemen scholars in a conversational cut-and-thrust in the drawing room. Nabokov, reading off his trademark file cards, is clearly amused by his own florid explanations. In two parts.tinyurl.com/5htjogtinyurl.com/6xr292William Burroughs on cut-ups, c1980Gaunt and spectral (aged about 65) in this BBC documentary, Burroughs recalls the time he spent in London during the Sixties and his artistic interest in cut-ups: a collage technique of cutting up pages of prose, pasting them back together at random and transcribing the resultant mishmash. An archive recording of one of his cut-out poems pops up as does Allen Ginsberg. Then Burroughs name-checks Wittgenstein. Meaty stuff.tinyurl.com/5cuo7wSylvia Plath reads 'Daddy', 1962Unfortunately no footage of the poet reading herself, just a kind of morose interpretative montage and Plath's voiceover, but what a rendition. Plath's mesmerising voice - refined, meticulous, scathing - gets stuck into 'Daddy' with considerable bite. There are also versions on YouTube of 'Ariel' and 'Lady Lazarus' if you really want to depress yourself.tinyurl.com/6s3v64FilmMartin Scorsese's Back on the Block, 1973Worth checking out just for the shot of Martin Scorsese tucking into a plateful of meatballs with his white bee-hived mother. Eat up, Marty. This six-minute documentary, an extended trailer for Mean Streets, sees the director reminiscing about the scrapes he and his friends got into growing up in Little Italy. You can practically smell the grime and machismo.tinyurl.com/6rbl67Kurt Russell's Star Wars audition, 1975Just think. Kurt Russell could have been Han Solo ('Look at those radiation readouts. It's impossible!') if Harrison Ford hadn't completely outclassed him. Same goes for drippy teen idol Robby Benson up for the role of Luke. For Mark Hammill, alas, we now count our blessings. Extra titbit: George Lucas and Brian De Palma held joint auditions for Star Wars and Carrie; rumour has it Lucas's first pick for Princess Leia was actually Sissy Spacek. You can see Carrie Fisher's audition for Leia too.tinyurl.com/5w43gztinyurl.com/5ksebwKatharine Hepburn gives a rare interview, 1973'Can't we have a stationary table?' thunders Katharine Hepburn, 66, to one of the producers on The Dick Cavett Show. Hepburn rarely did interviews. When she did, she wanted it just so. In this case, in prep for the actual recording, Hepburn went on set to veto a wobbly table ('nail it down!') and joke about the garishly russet-coloured carpet: 'Gee whiz. Put a rug over it. Who's idea was that?'tinyurl.com/6f4ykxJames Dean and Paul Newman screen test for East of Eden, 1954Just 40 seconds but a real gem. Then newcomers Dean and Newman, both impossibly good-looking, face off in a screen test for East of Eden. Dean got the role (Newman's big screen debut came in 1954's The Silver Chalice), but it makes you wish they'd starred together for real. Dean: 'Kiss me.' Newman: 'Can't here.'tinyurl.com/6793ykMarlon Brando screen tests for Rebel Without a Cause, 1947Brando was 23, weighed 170lb, was 5ft 10in and had three years' stage experience (at least so the marker plate tells us) when he auditioned for the role that went, years later, to Jimmy Dean. Still, Brando nails it. After his scene, there's a chat about his career to date. With his bashful smile, you can see why he melted hearts.tinyurl.com/32onosDavid Lynch interviewed on Scene by Scene, 1999When the interviewee begins by saying they hate being interviewed, it bodes pretty ill. So, asks BBC Scotland broadcaster Mark Cousins, why are you here? Lynch grins widely, pats young Cousins on the back and, like a father indulging his son, says 'to do you a great favour'. What follows (over five instalments) is truly revealing and, Lynch is actually a real charmer.tinyurl.com/6bu95hEveready Harton in Buried Treasure, 1929Comic book art or seminal smut, we give you the first ever porn cartoon. Parental caution advised because, animation or not, this is a still pretty explicit tale of well-endowed Harton and his efforts to get it off. Supposedly drawn by a group of animators for a private party in honour of fellow animator Winsor McCay (an inspiration to Walt Disney).tinyurl.com/6je9l9The Seashell and the Clergyman, 1928Less well known than that other surreal benchmark Un Chien Andalou, which followed a year later, this work based on a screenplay by French auteur Antonin Artaud is nonetheless considered the first surrealistic film. The story covers the erotic fantasies of a priest lusting after a general's wife.tinyurl.com/599y2kMarlene Dietrich's screen test, 1929In this screen test for the role of cabaret singer Lola Lola in The Blue Angel, Dietrich steps on to a piano, kicks out a leg, rolls up a flesh-coloured stocking and jauntily wends her way through a rendition of 'Wer wird denn Weinen, Wenn Man Auseinandergeht?' ('Why Cry at Parting?') the toe-tapping title song from a popular German musical comedy. Pure showmanship.tinyurl.com/ysznbzFilm by Samuel Beckett, 1965Shot in black and white, Beckett"s only cinematic project (supervised by him but directed by Alan Schneider) stars the aged Buster Keaton. Entirely silent (apart from an extended 'shh' near the start), it's a creepy tale about voyeurism in which Keaton tries to avoid being seen by an all-seeing eye. So acutely unnerving it could be a horror film.tinyurl.com/6f3cy9ArtJackson Pollock drip paints outside his East Hampton home, 1951Though German-born photographer Hans Namuth didn't much rate Pollock's work, he was fascinated by the man. Having taken over 500 photographs of him already, he turned to film. His resulting documentary captures the artist dressed head to toe in black, a cigarette hanging from his lip, drip painting on to glass. Best of all is Pollock's curiously droning narration: 'The method of painting is a natural growth out of a need.'tinyurl.com/2zd8raAndy Warhol's Blow Job, 1963Titillating or just plain dull? Warhol's original black and white silent film stretches to all of 35 minutes and frames the face of a pretty young man (DeVeren Bookwalter, who just happened to be lolling round the Factory that day) while he's fellated off screen by person or persons unknown. This version lasts an adequate eight minutes. Honestly, who's got the time?tinyurl.com/6dxudgFrancis Bacon interviewed, 1985About half way through this excellent South Bank Show on Francis Bacon, the interviewer Melvin Bragg and artist sit down to lunch. In Bacon's case that's really a liquid lunch through which he proceeds to slur his way. 'Cheerio,' he clamours, presumably meaning cheers, while topping himself up. Then it's off to the Colony Room for more. ('I'm not one of those made-up poofs...' he toots at another punter). Priceless.tinyurl.com/5uf6a4Jean-Michel Basquiat interviewed by Glenn O'Brien, 1978Basquiat, aka SAMO, was about to become a New York art sensation and all-round celebrity thanks in no small part to his regular appearances on this live public access show called TV Party. Slapdash and piss-takingly earnest, it ran until 1982 and was hosted by Glenn O'Brien, also rock critic for Andy Warhol's Interview magazine. In 1981 O'Brien scripted a thinly veiled biopic (about Basquiat) starring Basquiat called Downtown 81, a trailer for which is also on YouTube.tinyurl.com/5zpsmcMarcel Duchamp's Anemic Cinema, 1926Shot in Man Ray's studio and officially the brainchild of Duchamp's female alter ego Rrose Sélavy (a pun on 'Eros, c'est la vie' and my, how convincing Duchamp was in drag) this hypnotic short film features a rapidly spinning disc on which a series of punning phrases appear. As much spiritual meditation as work of Dadaist anti-art. Man Ray's dotty Le Retour à la Raison makes an interesting companion piece.tinyurl.com/6j325bBill Viola's The Reflecting Pool, 1977-1979American video-artist Viola has carved out a very definite niche: ultra slow-motion films, imbued with an almost painterly quality, and often tackling twin issues of mortality and spirituality. This early film fixes on a woodland pool and a man frozen mid-air over it. With intimations of birth and death, it's ultimately both creepy and moving.tinyurl.com/5tjqgrClassicalMaria Callas in Zeffirelli's Tosca, 1964First staged at the Royal Opera House in 1964, Franco Zeffirelli's production of Puccini's Tosca became a benchmark. It's rousing stuff, particularly with its original cast, Callas near perfection in the title role (it was her last stage role before she retired in 1965) and good friend Tito Gobbi as Scarpio. Callas used to say she had a 'love affair' with the London public; from the rapturous post-show applause you can tell it's mutual.tinyurl.com/5mn369Karajan conducts Beethoven's Fifth, 1966Of all the recordings made by the notoriously demanding Austrian conductor Herbert von Karajan during his 35-year tenure at the Berlin Philharmonic, you'd be hard-pushed to plump for just one. His renditions of Brahms, Bruckner, Strauss and Wagner amply show off his skill for extracting that agonisingly beautiful 'Karajan sound'. But for sheer edge-of-seat showmanship, Beethoven's Fifth gets top billing.tinyurl.com/67pke6Bernstein conducts West Side Story, 1985When Deutsche Grammophon asked Leonard Bernstein to conduct a new version of his West Side Story, with every member of the orchestra and chorus hand-picked, it's a shame he settled on opera singers Kiri Te Kanawa and Jose Carreras for the leads. Maria and Tony? Not really. This documentary about the recording still gives us plenty of Bernstein - jaunty, emotional and brilliant.tinyurl.com/5lwj7qGlenn Gould's The Art of the Fugue, 1980Gould was one of classical music's standout eccentrics and in this studio-based performance and commentary given by him (aged 48) on the works of Bach, you see every bit of his strangeness (and genius) as a performer, with him hunched over his Steinway, muttering who knows what to himself. Among the pieces he plays are Bach's Fugue in E Major, Partita No 4 and Art of Fugue.tinyurl.com/69qlyfStravinksy conducts the Firebird Lullaby Suite, 1965The premiere of Stravinsky's Russian folk ballet was performed by Diaghilev's Ballet Russes in Paris in 1910. Young Igor was just 28 and Firebird was his breakthrough. (Over the next three years Stravinsky, in collaboration with Diaghilev, came up with Petrushka and his masterpiece The Rite of Spring.) Here he is at 82, looking every bit his age, conducting the New Philharmonia Orchestra in London. Marvellous.tinyurl.com/5s6vz8
Hellboy: The Science Of EvilXbox 360 (reviewed),  PS3, PSPArriving in tandem with Guillermo del Toro's visceral Hollywood sequel, Hellboy, with his red eyes, horn stumps and long tail, does appear to cut an unlikely figure as a hero, which is at least part of what might be called his charm. In the game at least. The other part is Ron Perlman's splendid vocal skill, which stands out as a single chink of light in an otherwise depressingly standard pound 'em-up that follows every other half-arsed movie tie-in straight round the U-bend. In this paint by numbers setup you control Hellboy, bereft of co-stars and supporting characters, smashing his way to victory by hammering the punch and kick buttons. Overcome all obstacles by repeatedly tapping X to get the big orange fella to smash, lift or prise apart whatever irrelevancy happens to be in your way before continuing to the next lifeless fist fight. Its murky, mostly mud brown environments do little to lighten the mood in this wilfully prosaic, invention-free bore fest of underwrought violence. Oh Konami, for shame.• Konami, &pound;39.99Driving Theory TrainingNintendo DSContinuing Nintendo's recent innovation of making software for self-improvement that isn't really a game but is still marketed as though it is (Brain Training, Wii Fit, the abysmal and utterly pointless Sight Training), Driving Theory Training contains everything you need to know to pass the written part of a UK driving test. This not-so-thrilling but certainly educational ride includes all the rules of the Highway Code, every road sign and several different ways to test yourself, including a mock exam. It also includes mini games of surprising awfulness, with the parking simulator at the bottom of that barrel, featuring a wholly misguided interface where you use the stylus to control a steering wheel on the touch screen - a design clanger that turns a straightforward exercise into protracted torment. Given the brutally terrible simulated driving controls, Renault's product placement may not have been a very good idea, but for &pound;20 this will probably help you pass your test. Just don't expect much fun along the way.• Atari, &pound;19.99
My laptop has been running very slowly. Are there any simple suggestions about what to do?There are lots of reasons your PC may be slowing down, such as a lack of free memory or too much going on at once. It could even be that you're just pushing it too far.Your first port of call is to use a program such as AVG to check that there's no malicious software or viruses hiding on your system. After that, try trimming everything back: get rid of those programs you've downloaded but never use; shift old files you don't really need on to a CD or external hard drive; check you don't have lots of programs that automatically start every time you boot up. The more space you can free up, the better.Still struggling? Google to check whether there are known bugs with any of the programs you use, or existing conflicts you should know about. If all that fails, you're left with boosting your computer's RAM - or admitting that your old PC is struggling with the pace of programs written for more modern systems.&#183;email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
A long, long time ago, I can still remember how that music used to make me smile. And I knew if I had my chance... No, it doesn't feel right. I don't even know if there is a levee to drive to round here, in the Dollis Hill area of north-west London. And anyway, this Epica is the wrong kind of Chevy. It's really a Daewoo, rebadged after the Korean conglomerate's motoring branch was swallowed up by GM. Drove my Daewoo to the levee, but the levee was dry... That's not right, either.It's a problem with a lot of cars now - they don't feel as if they're from anywhere, no national characteristics. This one has an American name, an engine designed in Germany, and it's made in Bupyong in South Korea. The result is it has no character at all.There's nothing wrong with it. It's roomy and comfortable. The four-cylinder, two-litre diesel engine is refined rather than exciting (you certainly wouldn't guess that its German designer was Porsche). And there are more buttons than you normally get on a car of this price. It helps me to park by increasingly frantic beeping as I reverse towards the car behind. I can make Don McLean, or Madonna, sing louder without my hands leaving the steering wheel. And I can heat up my girlfriend's arse, on the hottest day of the year, for a little joke.But I don't want to do any of the above, simply because I don't want to be in this car in the first place. I mean, look - it exudes dullness. This is a car for a moderately successful middle manager, now retired, living in Bromley. I can picture him - no woman would ever want this car - washing it on the drive on a Sunday morning, even though it isn't dirty (he cleaned it last weekend after all, and he's only been to a Masons meeting since). When he comes to buff the tacky gold Chevrolet bow-tie insignia on the grille, a satisfied smile lights up his face. "Mmmmm," he's thinking. "I've made it."Well, sir, if that is making it, you may as well die now. Anyway, I need more opinions, to go with my own prejudiced snobbishness. In the absence of local levees, I drive my girlfriend out for lunch. Does she like this smooth, dark blue executive saloon? "I don't think so, I don't know," she says. "To be honest, my arse is incredibly hot for some reason, and I'm finding it hard to think of anything else." He he he.We pick up my mate Andy; a ride in exchange for some pithy comments from the back. He's surprised to find an ashtray, in this day and age.That's it? I need more. "I dunno. Nothing. It's horrid." Be specific. "I hate this," he says, running a finger along a strip of brushed aluminium. I know what he means. They probably thought they were being cool and modern, but it looks as if it's come from a Lambert &amp; Butler packet. This is definitely a smoker's car.We go to Hugo's for lunch, but I park a little way down the street. No complaints from Andy or my girlfriend, they understand. Hugo's is kind of an organic place, its clientele not good ol' boys drinking whiskey and rye but wanky Guardian readers (and writers) drinking lattes. Outside are bicycles, the odd scooter, Hugo's own electric G-Wiz smug buggy. I don't think the Chevrolet Epica is the right vehicle in which to turn up at Hugo's. To be honest, I don't think it's the right car to turn up anywhere.Chevrolet Epica LT 2.0VCDiPrice£16,995Top speed124mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.7 secondsAverage consumption46.3mpgCO² emissions169g/kmEco rating5/10At the wheelAlan partridgeIn a wordBlandtastic
Slandering brands on YouTube is something of a global sport, but big corporate responses are as varied as they are telling. Nike's reaction to an anonymous internet poster's assertion that Liu Xiang, the hurdler they sponsor, may have pulled out under pressure from Nike rather than because of an injury was met with the slightly terrifying statement that they had asked "relevant government departments to investigate". Contrast this with Electronic Arts' riposte to Levinator25, whose YouTube video of a glitch in Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08 shows the player taking a shot, "Jesus-style", from the surface of a water hazard. Rather than respond in an intimidating manner, they made their own video of the real Tiger doing exactly that, claiming that it wasn't a glitch, merely that Woods does walk on water. Simple, elegant and EA didn't need to invoke a repressive communist dictatorship to get its point across. Magic.tinyurl.com/5ze7ld
Last week I looked at the remarkable rebirth in the fortunes of Nintendo, a renaissance engendered by two products - the DS, a pocket gaming device, and the Wii, a larger living-room machine.The Wii arrived in Europe last year and demand has been allowed massively to outstrip supply, causing howls of anguish from those who, like Veruca Salt and me, always want it now. You can buy a basic Wii from any old Woolworths, but the Wii-Fit add-on is still made, as the saying has it, from purest unobtainium.Wii is white and dinky. It connects to your TV by ancient Scart connectors, for heaven's sake, eschewing 21st-century HDMI. Its graphics, power and storage capabilities are nothing like as impressive as those on a PlayStation or Xbox, it can't even play back basic DVDs - but it has a USP that makes up for all that.The Wii Remote is the magic wand that transforms the Wii into the most exciting mass-market device for years. Filled with accelerometer, sensor and motion feedback technology, this pointing device (about the size of a late-80s mobile phone) is strapped to your wrist like an &eacute;p&eacute;e (sometimes with its companion piece, the fearsome-sounding nunchuk) and within minutes it is an extension of your body. You play tennis with it, you pick things up, put them down, putt, swat, bowl, swipe, climb, jump, run and fly, all with waves of the wrist. It seems like magic at first. This is a gaming system that can make you sweat with effort and have your heart pound with honest exertion, rather than dampen you with the usual hot, sick sheen of fear that attends conventional video-game experiences with their unrelenting panic and din.Nintendo has supplemented this exercise element by launching the Wii Fit, which features a "balanceboard" on which you can do yoga, step aerobics and ski slaloms, and have your BMI calculated, achievements logged and stamina challenged. At the moment this item is rarer than hen's teeth and I have yet to try it. But no matter, the basic version can give you a daily workout regimen. I started with a physical age of 63 (according to their calculations) and have managed in a week to bring it down to 58. I expect to be a rorty 17-year-old with accompanying acne and attitude in time for Christmas.For me and millions of others, anything approaching walking, running or lifting for fitness has always been out of the question on account of the way time slows down so mercilessly. But if our health-giving routines can be made part of some witty, graphically impressive, compelling game, think what this could do for the health of the nation.The Wii allows Wi-Fi connections to the internet and the inevitable proprietary Market Place whence software can be downloaded. Users can also design an avatar called a Mii for themselves and their online or flesh-and-blood playing partners. The Wii only truly comes into its own when you play with someone else. The first thing you have to do when you buy a Wii, therefore, is purchase at least one more remote. Don't be fooled into buying the add-ons that turn the remotes into simulacra of baseball bats, steering wheels and tennis rackets - these are a pointless waste of money.If your wife, mother or lover has a china ornament you have always hated, make sure it is within a 10-yard radius of the TV and you can be sure it will be smashed within a fortnight. Another Wii service for which we can all be truly thankful.Nintendo's recrudescence is yet further proof that the market (ie the population) wants machines that don't frighten, but befriend. The snarling roars of the feral Xbox and the brutal PlayStation are impressive, but Nintendo understands that while play does involve competition, territoriality and rehearsal for war, it also involves silliness, laughter and fun.Acronyms of the weekScartThat 21-pin connector we Europeans used for connecting videos and DVDs to TVs before HDMI (explained last week) and Component Video took over. Stands for Syndicat des Constructeurs d'Appareils Radior&eacute;cepteurs et T&eacute;l&eacute;viseurs.USPUnique Selling Point, but you knew that.BMIBody Mass Index. Something horrid made up by doctors to make me feel ashamed.· stephenfry.com/blog
What's your favourite piece of technology?I know you're going to find this amusing, but I am going to say my mini-torch. I use it so very often, it comes in handy so many times. From finding the keyhole after a night out to minding my step in a darkened backstage area it really is so very, very useful – and it is gorgeous, too! Not exactly "high-tech", I know, but for me it's the best.How as it improved your life?It's a torch, darling! It hasn't really improved my life apart from the fact that I probably don't trip up, or stub my toe, as often in dark areas.What additional features would you add if you could?It would never need batteries and it would constantly emit a dim glow so that I could always find it at the bottom of my handbag.Do you think it will obsolete in 10 years?No, I think there will probably always be torches in the future.What one tip would you give to non-torch users?This is all starting to sound very silly now, I wish I hadn't chosen my torch as my item. But I would just say "get one" – you never know when you may find yourself alone in the dark!Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a Nerd?I'm somewhere in the middle, really. I can't say I am totally up to date with the latest technology, but at the same time, I would say that I am very good at working out how to use technical items. I'm not quite at the age where I have to get my 10-year-old niece to set everything up for me, although I am sure that day will arrive soon.What is the most expensive piece of technology you have ever owned?I have just purchased a fabulous 52-inch Sony high-definition TV – I don't know why really because I work in London such a lot and am seldom home,  but I absolutely love it. At the moment, every evening is like a trip to the cinema.Mac or PC?At the moment it's a PC. I know everyone tells me that Macs are great, but I've worked on PCs for so long now and I can't see the point (at this moment) of learning the intricacies of the Mac to do the same things I am currently doing now, on my PC.What song is at the top your iPod's top 25 most played list?Well, the new man in my life used to be the drummer with 70s hit recording group Liquid Gold and, at the moment, I just can't stop playing their No.1 hit Dance Yourself Dizzy. I've discovered the heady days of the 70s all over again.Will robots ever rule the world?As long as they do exactly as I say that would be fine by me. Never having to hoover, cook, clean or do any task I don't want to would be heaven. Mind you, I would be very nice to them and would probably feel very guilty that I had them doing all my work.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The robot in the previous question. But failing that, my management team are supplying me with the latest iPhone. I'm quite looking forward to getting to grips with that.Jane McDonald's new album, Jane, is out now
I'll admit it. I'm fascinated by Vista, principally because I don't have to use it. In that I'm very similar to lots of people in all sorts of companies; and perhaps many home users. I enjoy watching the car crash of Microsoft's repeated efforts to tell peopleVista is great even as it fights off class action lawsuits about its selling practicesandprepares a replacement (Windows 7).But I was particularly struck by a phrase ofDave Winer (RSS pioneer). Vista, he said, has "the smell of death".Eh? "I don't believe Vista will be around much longer. I don't want to be one of those people who has a computer that runs Vista, anymore than I wanted to use OS/2 when Windows 3.x was in its heyday. I remembered too well what it was like to use an Apple III when it failed to take over, as expected, from the Apple II. Operating systems can fail, and Vista shows every indication that it is one of those operating systems."He's certainly right that operating systems can be failures. Microsoft has had its fair share: Windows Me was the most recent, and does anyone remember trying Windows 1.0, Windows 2.0, or Windows 3.0? I did use Windows 2.0 on a laptop with an 80286 chip once. It was an exercise in patience; I got a lot of coffee made. As for Windows Me, it was the Microsoft Bob of operating systems.Apple has had its stinkers too: in the old "classic version", which started at 1, version 7.5.3 was as reliable as a chocolate teapot, and OS X 10.0 – in all its versions – was pretty much rubbish, not because it was unstable (it wasn't) but because itcouldn't do anything useful – such as burn discs or connect to Windows networks. It only lasted six months, but for anyone using it full-time (I only dabbled), they were the longest, darkest nights of the soul imaginable.And now Vista is looking to be superseded by Windows 7, which Microsoft clearly wants to get out of the programmers' hands and into stores as fast as it can (listen to theTech Weekly podcast earlier this week for some more Windows 7 analysis).But the most interesting question is this: why has Vista done so badly that it can't carry the day? People who've used it and gotten used to it are now ready to say – even point out – that it's better than XP. Yes, it's actually gaining some word of mouth (the most effective, and cheapest, form of advertising.)Yet even now, when you can get acomprehensive set of tweaks to make Vista work better,there's a missing element. It's still too complex. And getting Jerry Seinfeld – a comedian who was famous in the 1990s – to riff about it isn't going to help, asDan Lyons – formerly of Forbes and the Fake Steve [Jobs] blog, soon of Newsweek – points out on his own blog: "Kids who are 18 today weren't born when the Seinfeld show first aired in 1989. And they were only eight when the show went off the air. Geddit? They never watched it. They have no idea who Seinfeld is." (The voice of Bee Movie? Hardly identifiable, is it?)Although Vista has been the default operating system sold with new Windows PCs for more than 18 months, and Microsoft says it has sold more than 150m licences, that doesn't actually mean all of those machines arerunningVista. Companies (which are the majority of buyers) and individuals have taken advantage of the fact that they can downgrade – in their minds, "sidegrade" – to XP to get that on their new machines instead. Especially corporations, which have to test everything before shifting over to a new version of anything.And there's a lot to test. There are too many versions of Vista. Too many choices. We get paralysed by choice. Apple, with a far smaller market, has at least made the choice much simpler: you buy the server, or the client version. And you set it up, with an interface that limits you unless you really start digging around.There's not that much you can do with a Mac out of the box unless you resort to all sorts of not-recommended practices: you can't skin the browser or media player or operating system, and many useful tweaks remain out of reach without third-party software. (If you have a Mac, I can recommendTinkerTool, which does give that access, but in a fixable way.)Vista has failed, inasmuch as it's failed to do what an operating system nowadays should do: make life simpler. All the comics in the world, all the rebranding, all the fake demonstrations (rememberMojave?) won't change that.Still, at least there's one ray of hope. Winer only said it has the smell of death about it. When that turns into the stench of death, it's time to run. Run what? PerhapsUbuntu. At least it's cheap.
Friday's Chatterbox
Ofcom, the UK communications regulator, has launched aconsultationon Mobile citizens, mobile consumers (PDF), and if you want tohave your say, you have to do it by November 6. Incidental to this, Ofcom also offers "The mobile sector in 2007 at a glance":* Number of network operators: 5 * Number of mobile connections: 74 million * UK mobile retail revenues: £15.1bn * Number of mobile voice calls: 115.6 minutes per month per subscriber * Number of SMS and MMS messages sent: 59.1bn * Average time spent texting and calling per mobile connection: 10 minutes per dayAverage usage for voice calls, then, is just 3.8 minutes per day....
Business Week recently claimed (below) that Amazon would launch a new version of the Kindle ebook reader before Christmas, but it isn't true, according to Amazon. TheDow Jonesnewswire reports:"Don't believe everything you read -- there's a lot of rumor and speculation out there about Kindle," said Amazon spokesman Craig Berman. "One thing I can tell you for sure is that there will be no new version of Kindle this year. A new version will come out sometime next year at the earliest."This could also mean that the UK launch is some way away, based on myassumptionthat Amazon will "go global" only when it has a revised and probably cost-reduced new model. That assumption could, of course, be wrong.
The first thing that strikes you when you unboxPlayTV, Sony's digital TV add-on for the PS3, is how cheap it feels. We're talking light, plasticky and generally underwhelming with none of the shiny machismo of the PS3.Sony have just called to confirm that you CAN actually record while playing games. There will be a message in the final build of the code that will ask you to reboot your PS3 to enable the background recording functionality. This rather important bit of info was missing from the review build I have been using! Lovely. I'll have a look over the next few days and see what, if any, impact recording has when playing a game but clearly this makes PlayTV are far more interesting proposition.Ok, given the news that you can actually now record while playing - even though my "review" kit didn't make this clear - I've amended my review and will add in some more impressions next week once I've tested how gameplay is affected by recording.So potentially good news about the record/play but the PSP transfer is still a shame. Simple transfer to the PSP was seemingly dropped at the last minute - the manual I got with the review copy suggests you can easily transfer TV content onto your PSP. Ouch. Yes, you can transfer content over but it involves a fiddly conversion process - familiar to owners of Freeview PVRs like the Humax 9200 - and is not something that the majority of owners will probably bother with. The better news is that remote play worked well. Watching your recordings or live TV when on holiday is perfectly do-able though the quality depends on your net connection. Also it depends on what you are watching - last night's Uefa Cup football, for example, was too pixellated to appreciate.The good news is that PlayTV is easy to setup and use. Simply plug in your aerial, connect to the PS3 via USB (no additional power supply needed) and switch on the console. After a quick software update and channel search you get "TV" added to yourXMB. Click on PlayTV and you get taken to an intuitive home screen with menus that allow you to watch live TV, check out your recordings and access the EPG. This is all pretty self explanatory and easy to use, although a remote, rather than a pad, is recommended.And for basic use the PlayTV is fine. Recording, scheduling and pausing live TV will feel like a revelation to those used to a basic Freeview box. Unfortunately you can't record two programmes at once - you can record one channel and watch Live TV on another though - which feels a little restrictive. Also, annoyingly, you seem to need to have PlayTV connected to actually watch your recordings.It's hard to see who PlayTV is aimed at. Gadget fan early adopters are likely to have Sky + or a Freeview PVR. Maybe it would work better on a second TV though you need a fixed aerial unless you have super strong Freeview signal. The lack of quick PSP transfer is a blow but could it be outweighed by the ability to record TV and play at the same time? I'll let you know next week.
Gary McKinnon, the British computer hacker who cracked open the Pentagon and Nasa systems in the US, has lost his appeal to the European court of human rights and could face immediate extradition to the US to stand trial. His lawyers indicated last night that they were urging the home secretary to allow McKinnon to stand trial in the United Kingdom as he had recently been diagnosed as suffering from Asperger's syndrome.McKinnon, 42, from Bounds Green, north London, who has been described in the US as the biggest military hacker of all time, faces a series of charges in the US in connection with hacking activities that took place nearly 10 years ago. He is alleged to have broken into 53 US army, 26 US navy and 16 Nasa computer systems and to have caused $700,000 (&pound;380,000) damage to the systems, in which he left disparaging messages about their security arrangements.He lost his appeal against extradition in the House of Lords following a hearing last month in which it was argued that if he were to stand trial, it should be in the UK. He was granted a temporary stay by the European court on August 12 after applying to it for "interim relief". The temporary stay was lifted yesterday. "The offences for which our client's extradition is sought were committed on British soil and we maintain that any prosecution of our client ought therefore to be carried out by the appropriate British authorities," his lawyer, Karen Todner, said yesterday. "Our client faces the prospect of prosecution and imprisonment thousands of miles away from his family in a country in which he has never set foot."Todner added: "Our client's case highlights a worrying trend where UK citizens are at the mercy of the ever-increasing tendency of overseas prosecutors to extend their jurisdiction to crimes allegedly committed in this country." As McKinnon had been diagnosed as suffering from Asperger's syndrome, she was writing to the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, inviting a prosecution in this country.James Welch, legal director of Liberty, said: "It is a shame that the court of human rights will allow his extradition even as they consider whether US extradition measures were fair."McKinnon, 42, was inspired as a teenager in 1983 by the film WarGames, in which a teenager hacks into the Pentagon system. He started hacking into American military and space computer systems because he believed they contained information about UFOs. His alleged hacking activities took place between 1999 and 2002, when he was arrested. He denies that his activities threatened US security.He also declined a deal by the US authorities in which they would agree to a short sentence which could be partly served in the UK if he agreed to be extradited and plead guilty. Technically, he could face 60 years in jail in the US although the actual  sentence is likely to be much shorter.
Ofcom wants to plug the remaining holes in Britain's mobile phone network, bringing coverage to remote areas that have never received a mobile phone signal.Launching its first ever comprehensive review of the mobile phone industry in Britain yesterday, the regulator also proposed scrapping the complex system of fees levied by mobile phone companies to connect calls, a move that could herald the sort of "all you can call" packages seen in the US and Germany and wipe billions from the networks' revenues.Mobile phones have become an everyday item in the UK, with Ofcom estimating that some time over the next two years, Britons will spend more time on their mobile phone than they do on a home phone. Already more people have a mobile phone than a fixed-line connection.Coverage in parts of Britain is still patchy even for basic text and voice calls, with large areas of Scotland, west Wales and Yorkshire without a signal. When it comes to getting mobile broadband services, the networks have only covered 80% of the population, which means almost no coverage in most rural areas."As mobile becomes ever more important and ever more central to people's lives, coverage is important," Ofcom boss Ed Richards said yesterday.In its consultation document, which the industry has until November to respond to, Ofcom suggests mobile users should be able to use any available network in remote areas, to avoid all five networks having to spend hundreds of millions of pounds carpeting the country with masts.Already several operators, such as T-Mobile and 3, are sharing 3G networks or sites, but to get better coverage more cooperation is likely to be needed.The news will be welcomed by local pressure groups and MPs whose constituents find themselves outside the mobile networks but do not want to see the countryside plastered with masts. Ofcom's consultation document, meanwhile, also discusses the thorny issue of mobile termination rates - the charges the networks levy on each other and fixed-line providers such as BT to carry calls. These charges account for about 20% of the mobile companies' revenues and Ofcom has already introduced a series of price caps.The networks have launched legal challenges to these caps and the matter is also being investigated by the Competition Commission. Richards admitted yesterday that the whole issue needs a rethink before the current caps run out in 2011.EU telecoms commissioner Viviane Reding recently suggested the rates should come down by 70% to the sort of levels charged by the fixed-line operators - around 2p a minute.Richards said the industry needed to look at whether the charges should be scrapped, or a new system introduced such as that in the US, where the person called has to pick up part of the cost."We don't want to just have a debate about whether the price should be five euro cents or 4 euro cents," said Richards. "We have got to ask about the future. That may be uncomfortable for some people but I am not going to apologise for that."Ofcom hopes to publish its proposals in the spring.In its consultation document the regulator also raises questions about the number of complaints consumers have about their mobile phone service. "While the vast majority of us are happy with our mobiles and enjoy the experience there is a small but significant number who are dissatisfied," Richards said.
Missed this yesterday, but MTV hasan articleon how hackers are gaining access to Xbox Live accounts, and may have been for three years or so; apparently, Halo 3 multiplayer producer Joe Tung is a recent victim.It seems social engineering is the key tactic, with hackers tricking details out of both users and customer support operatives:The danger stems from the apparent failure of Microsoft customer service to keep track of repeated account access, our expert said. This allows hackers employing social-engineering tactics to call support lines without being tracked. A hacker can then use this information to gain access to a user's Xbox Live gamertag, which typically has a credit card attached.Access to a gamertag can also mean access to a Windows Live account. Windows Live is Microsoft's proprietary log-in service. You use it when accessing account information on Xbox.com, but users who strictly use their Xbox 360 might not even know what Windows Live is. With Windows Live access, a hacker can change which gamertag and e-mail is associated with that Windows Live account, preventing a user from recovering their gamertag and creating a mess of confusion for customer service when investigating.Have any Gamesblog readers encountered socially manipulative crooks while playing online? Actually, has anyonenot?
Videogame247 has avery short pieceon Sony worldwide studio boss Shuhei Yoshida who has given 'clear indication' that Team Ico is about to announce its latest project - although he wouldn't confirm whether this revelation would happen at the Tokyo Game Show.When I talked to Yoshida-san several weeks ago for the Official PlayStation Magazine, I discovered that he was the exec who greenlit Ico. Ueda presented the concept to him in the form of a graphical demo and Yoshida - then head of the Japanese Sony studios - saw enough in it to give the game the nod - despite Ueda's lack of experience. Yoshida joked that he refered to the Ico creators as Team Olympic, because they only produced a game every four years. We've still got quite a wait on our hands then - although he gave me the same guarded hints that an announcement was nigh.So what do you reckon? Ico 2? Shadow of the Colossus 2? Or something entirely new?
Guy Kawasaki, former "Apple evangelist" (seriously, that was his title) is now a venture capitalist, but still enamoured of things Apple. And while Bloomberg has let Steve Jobs know how he'll be reviewed after he shuffles off this mortal coil, plenty of iPhone owners are wondering why their gizmos die, mayfly-like, after just a day of use.By comparison, my Sony Ericsson - which admittedly can't surf the parts of the net that the iPhone can, but can play music, videos and do photos; oh, and Bluetooth - can usually sit about for seven days without a recharge.(Of course Apple is aware of this, and hasbought the semiconductor company PA Semi with the explicit aim of lengthening iPhone battery life, and plenty else besides.)Anyhow, Kawasakiexplains in a detailed postthat the key to what you might call longevity is, um, not to talk too much, only fetch data each hour, turn off Bluetooth and location services and turn off 3G reception.He says:I don't talk much on the phone--"talk is not cheap" in my book. I am totally an email/tweet centric person. This clearly contributes to my standby time. I consider my iPhone a "tinytop computer that can also send and receive phone calls" as opposed to a phone that can "do email and browse."Hang on, though - no 3G, no location, hourly data, limited calling? Sounds to me like he might as well have bought an iPod Touch... and a proper phone. Don't you think?
Kid Rock's album Rock'n'Roll Jesus isn't on iTunes and has sold 1.7 million copies in the US alone, which is very profitable business. In response, Warner's Atlantic Records has removed an album by Estelle from iTunes in the hope that it will sell more CDs, reportsThe Wall Street Journal.Maybe there is more money to be made from selling albums than selling individual tracks online, even though that's what consumers seem to prefer.The story says: "Label executives, managers and artists chafe against the iTunes policy that prevents them from selling an album only" -- which is something Amazon's download service allows."In so many ways it's turned our business back into a singles business," says Ken Levitan, Kid Rock's manager. Mr Levitan says the rise of iTunes is far from being a boon to the industry; instead, he calls it "part of the death knell of the music business."Other groups have benefited from avoiding iTunes, and the WSJ cites AC/DC and the Beatles as examples:The Australian hard rockers sold an estimated 2.7 million CDs world-wide last year, up from 2.55 million in 2003. The band has consistently sold more than one million CDs in the US alone, year after year. Overall US album sales -- of both CDs and digital downloads -- declined 21% to 500 million copies in 2007 from 2003, according to Nielsen SoundScan.Since the beginning of 2006, only the Beatles have sold more "catalog" albums in the US than AC/DC -- also without licensing their music to iTunes. Among the six best-selling catalog artists during that period, the act that sold the most individual songs digitally -- the Rolling Stones -- sold the fewest albums, digital or physical. That is important because while the Stones' six million single tracks sold may seem impressive, they represent low-cost, low-profit transactions.One obvious problem is pointed out by David Goldberg, former head of Yahoo's download service: "On certain albums, you can justify it, but you're also going to push people to the illegal stuff."
Bloomberg decided to update its Steve Jobs obituary, and inadvertently published it. It was, of course, soon retracted, but not before people had saved it, and it's all onGawker.It's pretty much a business story -- hardly any personal details, because Bloomberg is a financial service -- and contains little or nothing new. However, major publishers keep stuff like this around and then update it as required, when the need arises. So it doesn't tell you what Stevie is going to die of, or when.As usual, some of the claims made are not entirely adjacent to the truth. I particularly like the one that kicks off the obit: that Jobs "helped make computers as easy to use as telephones". The best comment along these lines was made by a great computer scientistBjarne Stroustrupin around 1990: "I have always wished for my computer to be as easy to use as my telephone; my wish has come true because I can no longer figure out how to use my telephone."Charles Arthur adds:Dan Lyons, the ex-Forbes journalist who wrote the Fake Steve blog, notes that the mistake was probably prompted by an update to the obit following Jobs's gaunt appearance in June - after which his healthbecame an issuethat knocked millions off Apple's value.Lyonscommentshow would Apple PR handle it? I suppose for a while they could just stonewall by saying they weren't here today to talk about Steve, they were here to talk about how excited everyone is about [FILL IN NAME OF NEW PRODUCT HERE] and maybe they could buy themselves a year or two during which the Apple faithful would continue to believe Steve was really alive despite having seen reports to the contrary on the news. But eventually people would start to notice that they hadn't seen Steve around for a while, and they might even start to doubt Apple's line about Steve missing Macworld because he was stuck in traffic. And then what happens? It makes me shiver to think about it. For this reason alone, this cannot happen. Steve Jobs cannot die.It makes you wonder quite how Newsweek is going to cover Apple stories once Lyons starts there.. in four days' time.
The launch of a controversial new government database containing details of every child in the country is to be delayed for technical reasons, it was revealed today.ContactPoint, a £224m computer system carrying personal information about all under-18s, was due to come online in April this year. It will now be delayed until January next year, children's minister Kevin Brennan said today.This is the second time the index's start date has been put back. Concerns over data security following the loss of child benefit details by HM Revenue and Customs forced officials to delay its coming online from April to October.Officials from the Department for Children, Schools and Families said that the delay was not about "security" issues, but user issues such as drop-down menus.The spokeswoman said: "We are working hard to iron out glitches before it goes out to users. This is not about security issues."David Laws, the Lib Dem children's spokesman, condemned the whole project. "Instead of delaying the launch of the database, this intrusive project must be scrapped altogether."A recent independent review has already undermined all of the government's assurances that the database will be secure. The discovery of further technical issues does not bode well for the future. The government has proven itself untrustworthy with large databases containing sensitive data. Parents have every right to demand that their children's personal details are not put at risk."Last year senior social workers wrote to government officials outlining their "significant" concerns that the database, containing the address, medical and school details of all under-18s, could be used to harm the children whom it is intended to protect.The personal details will be available to an estimated 330,000 vetted users. Some of those allowed to check records, such as headteachers, doctors, youth-offender workers and social workers, are uncontroversial, but critics have questioned why other potential users, such as fire and rescue staff, will have access to the database.ContactPoint, which is costing £224m to build and a further £41m a year to run, was set up after the official report into the death of Victoria Climbié. Lord Laming concluded that the eight-year-old's murder could have been prevented had there been better communication between professionals.A House of Lords select committee warned last month that "the enormous size of the database and the huge number of probable users inevitably increase the risks of accidental or inadvertent breaches of security, and of deliberate misuse of the data … which would be likely to bring the whole scheme into disrepute".Concerns increased with the admission that, while every child under 18 in England will have a record, some children, such as the offspring of some politicians and celebrities, could be left off the main database.Children's rights campaigners say that this amounts to an acknowledgment that the database will not be secure and computer security experts say that with such widespread access it would be virtually impossible to stop individuals misusing the information.Maria Miller, the shadow families minister, said: "This looks like further evidence of the chaos at the heart of government. We repeatedly warned the government of the problems with ContactPoint but they pressed ahead regardless, ignoring our calls to allow time to sort them out."There were clear indications in February of significant security concerns with this database. Only now, with just weeks to go until the project is supposed to go live, have they finally agreed to pull back to try to iron out some of the problems. Ministers now need to come clean and confirm whether this delay is because children's personal information is at risk."
IE8's new Safety buttonA few brave souls are now downloading the newbeta 2 version of Internet Explorer 8, which brings quite a few changes. Some of them, of course, are catching up with Firefox, but the extra security and continued move towards standards makes IE8 an important release. In this case, it includesAcid2-complianceand moves to support draft standards such as HTML 5 Draft DOM Storage standard and the Web API Working Group's Selectors API.Beta 2 includesWeb Slices, which arrived in beta 1. Microsoft says:Developers can mark parts of Web pages as Web Slices and enable users to monitor information they rely on as they move about the Web. With a click in the Favorites bar, users see rich Web Slice visuals and developers establish a valuable end-user connection.For example, eBay is using Web Slices. The basic idea is that when part of a page changes -- eg someone makes a bid -- a notification button lights up. You don't have to go to a page to see if it has changed, and it's less geeky than subscribing to an RSS feed.The main changes for ordinary users include greatlyenhanced Find(with, at last, results highlighted) and the so-called "porn mode,"InPrivate browsing. This lets you visit your bank account or whatever without storing any URLs, passwords, temporary files etc -- though you can opt to retain the cookie. Another welcome if late addition isReopen last browsing session, for which many multiple-tab users have adopted IE7Pro crash-protection.There's aCompatibility Viewbutton for use with sites designed to work with IE7.Another welcome feature isPer-site ActiveX, which includesPer-user ActiveX. One reason why Firefox was more secure than IE was that Mozilla never implemented ActiveX support, and therefore Firefox failed to work with any ActiveX sites. (This is like avoiding car-jacking by leaving your car in the garage. It works, but still....) Unfortunately, ActiveX is too heavily used on intranets for Microsoft to be able to dump it, but per-site control is a good compromise. Users will be able to block it everywhere except for the couple of sites that may still require it.... and parents will be able to block it on their kids' accounts.The enhanced security features include aSmartScreen filterto improve phishing protection (Safari please copy), aCross-Site Scripting (XSS) filter, andData execution prevention (DEP)turned on by default.Finally, corporate users get "more than 100 new Group Policy settings" to provide even more fine-grained control of their users' browsers from the DP centre.There's more about Beta 2 at theIE Team Blog, and Microsoft's press office has aFact Sheetandscreen shots.Microsoft fell a long way behind in browser features and standards support by taking five years off, but IE8 beta 2 seems to get it more or less back in the pack. Since it's almost two years since IE7 came out (October 19, 2006), one can only say "about time, too". But there are still plenty of sleepyheads on IE6.....
Gary McKinnon, a computer expert who hacked into dozens of US military computers, lost his appeal to the European court of human rights today and faces extradition to the US in the next fortnight, his solicitor said.McKinnon has fought a long battle with authorities over his extradition to the US, which has dubbed him the "the world's most dangerous hacker".McKinnon broke into the Pentagon's system from his north London flat and left a message saying "your security is crap".Last month, he lost his battle against extradition in aHouse of Lords ruling.McKinnon turned to the European court of human rights, complaining about the conditions he would face if convicted in the US and was granted atemporary delay.The court didnot give reasons for refusingMcKinnon's request today.Karen Todner, from Kaim Todner solicitors, said her client was "distraught" about the decision. She appealed to the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, to intervene."Mr McKinnon has recently been diagnosed as suffering from Asperger's syndrome. As a result, we will be writing to the home secretary again inviting a prosecution in this country," she said."Our client now faces the prospect of prosecution and imprisonment thousands of miles away from his family in a country in which he has never set foot."Our client's case highlights a worrying trend where UK citizens are at the mercy of the ever-increasing tendency of overseas prosecutors to extend their jurisdiction to crimes allegedly committed in this country."Using the codename Solo, the 42-year-old hacked into 53 US army computers and 26 US navy computers, including those at the US naval weapons station Earle in New Jersey, which is responsible for replenishing munitions and supplies for the Atlantic fleet.The US military said he left 300 computers unusable at a US navy weapons station immediately after 9/11.He was caught in 2002 as he tried to download a grainy black-and-white photograph he believed was an alien spacecraft from a Nasa computer at the Johnson Space Centre in Houston, Texas.He was easily traced by the authorities because he used his own email address.Mark Summers, an official representing the US government, said McKinnon's hacking was "intentional and calculated to influence and affect the US government by intimidation and coercion".American officials claim he caused $700,000 (£354,000) damage and threatened national security.If extradited, McKinnon faces up to 70 years in prison and his lawyers have argued he could even be given "enemy combatant" status, the same category applied to terrorist suspects interned at Guantánamo Bay.McKinnon, an unemployed IT worker from north London, has consistently argued that he was merely a "bumbling computer nerd" who caused no damage but was merely searching for evidence of extraterrestrial life."It got a bit silly,"he told the Guardianin 2005. "I suppose it means I'm not a secretive, sophisticated, checking-myself-every-step-of-the-way type of hacker."Between 2001 and 2002 he scanned thousands of US government computers from his bedroom, looking for loopholes which would help him get inside their networks in order to prove his contention that the existence of aliens had been covered up by the CIA.After last month's House of Lords decision, McKinnon said the case had proved devastating in the six years since he was arrested. With his bail conditions barring him from using the internet, a return to his previous work in IT had been nearly impossible and potential employers were scared off."I've lost two jobs because of this; my bosses just didn't want to be associated with the publicity," he said.Todner denied McKinnon was a terrorist or a terrorist sympathiser and said his case could have been dealt with by our prosecuting authorities in Britain where the hacking raids were conducted. "American officials involved in this case have stated that they want to see him fry. The consequences he faces if extradited are both disproportionate and intolerable and we will be making an immediate application to the European court to prevent his removal."McKinnon would face a much shorter sentence under Britain's computer crime laws. The defence has argued he is being unfairly targeted because his work embarrassed the US security services, and that an attempt by US prosecutors to make a deal with McKinnon - in which he would be offered a six-month sentence for his cooperation - constituted an unfair derailment of British legal procedures. That contention was rejected by the law lords, who said granting the appeal would "imperil the integrity of the extradition process".Lord Brown of Eaton-under-Heywood said in the written judgment: "The difference between the American system and our own is not perhaps so stark as the appellant's argument suggests."Computer security experts said it was unlikely US prosecutors would give up their pursuit. "The US is making a clear stand that anyone making any attempts to compromise its computers and data will face the consequences," said Graham Cluley of the IT security company Sophos.McKinnon's extradition was brought under the controversialExtradition Act 2003, which was designed to deal with terrorist suspects but has been applied in cases where terrorism has not been the primary concern.Under the act, America authorities are able todemand a Briton's extradition without having to provide evidence. However, Britain has to prove its case in a US court to extradite US citizens to the UK.The so-called Natwest Three were extradited under the same legislation in 2006 andthis year sentenced to 37 months' imprisonment.Among the act's critics is the former Tory MP Boris Johnson, now the London mayor, who in 2005 called for extradition of British citizens to the USto be suspended.
Good lord: apparently West Wing supremoAaron Sorkin is writing a movie about Facebook. Yep, you heard right. The days of dotcom excess are clearly here if thisFacebook page is accurate- although at least it can't suck more than Studio 60 On The Sunset Strip. But who should be cast in this movie? Who would play Mark Zuckerberg? Our best suggestion: Dustin Diamond, aka Screech Powers from Saved By The Bell. He's put on a few pounds in recent years, but I'm sure he could do the role justice.
Taiwan's HTC has done well out of making Pocket PCs (eg the Compaq iPaq) and Windows Mobile phones (eg the XDA) for sale under a wide variety of names. Its latest model, the 3G/quadbandHTC S740, is aimed at the people who do lots of texting and email on the move. The main feature is a slide-out keyboard that gives you a little machine with a horizontal 2.4 inch screen. It also has Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS, a MicroSD expansion slot, and a 3.2 megapixel camera. The size is 116.3 x 43.4 x 16.3mm, and it weighs 140g.It's basically a slightly-slimmed down version of the HTC Touch Pro, except for not having a touch screen with a TouchFlo interface.HTC reckons it will be available in the UK next month, and doesn't mention a price. However, theSuperGPS shopreckons it's due in October and it's offering the black UK version SIM-free for a penny under £500.Expansysdoesn't have a price, but it offers theTouch Profor slightly less than that. Since you're getting a smaller screen and giving up the touch interface, I'd have thought the HTC S740 needed to be noticeably cheaper. However, some people may think that saving around 2mm of thickness and 25g is worth while.
