In the first month of the millennium, new doors will be opening for the internet in Britain. Two recent announcements, both of them underplayed in the press, could vastly increase how long we spend in cyberspace and improve the quality of our experience when we are there. BT - British Telecom - has finally promised to offer unmetered access to the net for a flat monthly fee. This move follows pressure from the government, business and BT's rivals. Under the deal, customers will get unlimited access at weekends   for &#163;6.99 a month. Full and unmetered access at any time will cost &#163;34.99 a month.Net users have long complained that the amount BT charges for calls linking home users to the net have held the net back in the UK. Surveys consistently show that the main barrier to consumers browsing the web is cost - the knowledge that the meter is ticking every minute they are online. As a result, UK users spend less time surfing than do their counterparts overseas. British users are online for an average of four hours a month, against five and a half in the US.The hope is that, with the meter removed, net users will be encouraged to take longer trips, exploring the burgeoning e-commerce sites and integrating the net into daily life. They will spend more and the e-economy will grow.Yet another recent announcement may have   more impact eventually, not just on how long we spend online but what we do there. Oftel has told BT to give up monopoly control of the "local loop" (the wire that runs from the telephone exchange to customers' homes) to allow rivals to operate their own services over it.Opening this last part of the phone network to competition is significant. By July 2001, telecom operators will be able to buy access to the local loop at a reasonable price from BT and to put their own equipment in telephone exchanges. This opens up the possibility of rival delivery of high-speed asymmetrical digital subscriber line (ADSL) services to homes, part of what is called "broadband". ADSL will revolutionise the way we use the net and also how we receive entertainment. ADSL connections run 10 times faster than the fastest existing modem links. They are always on - the line is   always connected, meaning there is no need to dial up to go online.This new fast connection removes the bottleneck in the link between the high-speed lines of the net and your computer. ADSL transforms the net experience. It will also change the nature of the web. Today, most sites are designed with modems in mind. Graphics and multimedia elements are used sparingly, so the full page will load before the typical web user's notoriously short span of attention can fade. ADSL is capable of delivering those pages quickly enough to satisfy even the most jaded surfer.Full-motion video, which is now restricted to flickering and matchbox-sized images on modem-linked machines, could grow to broadcast television size and quality. Television itself will be transformed. You will be able to order news bulletins and films on demand, no longer   at the mercy of the television schedulers. Online gaming, where players compete across cyberspace will be transformed, and net downloads will be so fast that even swapping large files will become a trivial task.The British e-commerce industry is waiting for broadband - high bandwidth - to arrive. Suddenly, three-dimensional modelling and   virtual sales assistants will become available to home users as well as all those office workers who are now making illicit use of their employers' high speed connections.BT has been accused of trying to protect these high-speed links - the leased lines to big companies - at the expense of innovation. The first rung of the higher band width service now available, the ISDN, is six times more expensive here than in some other European countries. BT charges &#163;133.75 a quarter for it, including &#163;57.50 of free calls. In Germany, the service costs &#163;43.78 a quarter, with a connection charge of only &#163;31 (connection costs &#163;199 in the UK). ADSL will cost consumers around &#163;50 a month, with no call charges.BT says it is only acting in consumers' best interests even if they do not appreciate this. In a speech earlier this month to telecom managers, BT chairman Sir Iain Vallance likened the company to a lollipop man or woman: it was BT's task to "restrain the over-exuberant children" (BT's customers) and "ensure that the crossing is made safely and in an orderly fashion".BT, and some analysts, says that in countries where the local loop has been "unbundled", it has not proved the hoped-for leader of   competition. Telecom companies preferred to bulk buy lines indirectly from the incumbent telecom providers, rather than physically go and install their own equipment at telephone exchanges.Valid or not, Sir Iain's patronising language annoyed those who were already frustrated by BT dithering over high bandwidth. The fact that BT will be allowed another 19 months of monopoly over the "local loop" irritates them even more. Rivals say BT's grip should be loosened faster, so they can offer competing ADSL services sooner and extend them to areas outside the major cities.But for many homes, the promise of jam tomorrow - unmetered net calls early next year followed by vastly higher bandwidth later in 2000 or 2001, will be enough.&#149; Neil McIntosh is deputy editor of the Guardian's Online section
How vital is the net to retailing's future?It offers an inexpensive, but very effective way of communicating with customers. Waitrose, with a high national reputation but only a partial reach, can attract new customers - 63% of our online wine business is outside our catchment area. What would happen if shops lost 5 to10% of sales to e-tailing? Better to take a controlled cost yourself than let the competition nibble at your profitability!How far behind the US are we?I recently visited RGA in New York (www.RGA.com), which has completed some fantastic CD-rom work. I was less impressed with shopping sites - the soon-to-be released Bed Bath and Beyond site cost millions, but was no better than our wine or flower sites. The key difference is the huge money poured into marketing. It is impossible not to be surrounded by web addresses. One company I met spent $25m in 10 weeks on a new net brand; it failed and is winding up. Asked if they were keen to make a profit, US online companies said: "No, we're investing in global domination!"Is anyone making money out of it yet?If you've a portal like Waitrose.com you have to have a uniqueness and be competent. Money must be spent keeping up and on promotion to hold on to customers and win new ones. So in the short term there is little money there, but ultimately, if your segmentation is good and the volumes adequate, money from advertising and links could be reasonable. As for e-tail, the costs are all back end. Customers expect goods to be cheaper than in the shops and delivered when it is suitable. So retailers which have built a pricing model around customers going to the shop - picking their goods and taking them home - now have to do that as well - for less money!Can you make a profit?Not easily. You therefore have to ask: "Is this a sensible acquisition cost for a new customer or sensible price to hold on to an existing one?", and then work like crazy on reducing back end costs.What makes Waitrose's different?Through our Waitrose@work scheme we sign up companies so that employees can order from work or home, but with deliveries made twice a day to the workplace. So unlike home delivery, which relies on someone being in and on the capacity of a man and a van, we have no restrictions: so we don't charge for delivery.Why give free web access?We teamed up with ITG. Their help desk is excellent. It seemed wrong to take a cut of our customers' call charges so we decided to give the money away to good causes. ITG said it wouldn't charge a fee to operate the help line and so, uniquely, we offer free telephone support. After nine weeks, more than 30,000 people have signed up.Any favourite personal sites?Outside Waitrose.com research I have little spare time. I want a real, not cyperspace, relationship with my wife and daughter. I like CharlotteSt.com - it's very focused. My favourite site is the unofficial Crewe Alex site(www.crewealex.u-net.com): it keeps me in touch with my favourite team.
British websites are looking forward to their first Christmas with a significant amount of e-commerce, but are they ready? Compuware claims that "up to half of consumer sites" will suffer some failures while Roger Higgins, vice president of Keynote in San Mateo, California, thinks "there will be some real shockers in the UK as sites go down."Several big American sites have already suffered "outages", including Microsoft's Hotmail email system, eBay, the online auction giant, and some share-dealing services. The problem for e-commerce sites is that response time is money. Keep users waiting and they will go elsewhere, and a site that's gone down isn't taking any money at all.But companies are developing solutions. Keynote, which describes itself as "the internet performance authority," is offering website analysis and monitoring. The Californian company has already picked up a dozen UK subscribers, including TNT, PricewaterhouseCoopers and the BBC, via its US office. This month it hired someone to set up a European office in Paris, but it faces competition. Last week, Compuware, a large American software supplier, launched e-Assurance site monitoring in the UK.   They're different services, but both use automated software to monitor a site's performance.Peter Mulreid, managing director of Compuware Professional Services in Slough, says e-Assurance can produce a "an industry index of quality" by measuring the download times for pages, and by finding broken links and other errors.In the first round of tests, Compuware found that 41% of the sites surveyed had pages that did not display as intended on the first download, while the second most common error was broken links. More than 10% of the sites had slow pages.Compuware's project manager Gavin Spier says that when they see the results, firms will strip out graphics and change the site plan to provide quick links to popular pages. "Think of your website as a supermarket where you want to optimise the use of shelf space."Where Compuware may check a site daily, weekly or monthly, Keynote's "software agents" will check it every three minutes, every 15 minutes, or perhaps every   hour from different cities. More frequent checks cost more money, but the starting price of &#163;75 per month pays for four or five agents run hourly. The agents work from hundreds of Dell PCs running Microsoft Windows NT, attached to internet backbone connections. Higgins says Keynote is already making 13 million measurements a day. Subscribers can be alerted by pager or by email if their site has problems.Keynote's agents will measure the time taken for the first byte to arrive from a site, the time for a whole page to download, the time taken to execute a transaction, and so on. "We'll measure whatever there's a sensible market for," Higgins says. Future offerings will probably include timings for access via dial-up connections, and performance with "streaming media" such as sound and video.Keynote often compares measurements for a group of competing players - online banks, say, or supermarkets - and offers the results to the press. This shows up companies with   slow sites. "You make a lot of enemies really quickly doing this," admits Higgins, "but they usually come back."Keynote's US customers already include "70% to 80% of the top 50 sites" such as Amazon, American Express, Bank of America, Dell, eBay, Microsoft, and Yahoo.Both companies say the move to e-commerce is what's driving the measurement of web performance. "There shouldn't be much problem these days keeping a site up," says Higgins. "It's the back-end database &#91;where transactions are processed&#93; that's more likely to be a problem."Pages are pumped out by "server farms" of PCs that can be expanded fairly easily, or pages can be distributed dynamically across the net. However, the transactions may be concentrated in a database on a single computer that may not be able to cope with peak traffic levels.The move to measuring site performance may also prefigure a shift in power from designers to IT and network staff. It's more important for e-commerce sites to work than use "cool" effects.How many UK sites will slow down or fall over in the Christmas rush is, of course, open to doubt. The sales pitch is that most website owners can't be sure either: they haven't had them tested.
Kmart outsmarted its rivals yesterday when America's third largest retailer announced it would team up with some of the biggest names on the web to form its own internet company, providing consumers with free internet access. BlueLight.com, named after the discount group's advertising jingle, will offer free internet access and a broad range of Kmart goods to shoppers.Softbank, the Japanese internet investment group, is to invest $62.5m (&#163;38m) in BlueLight, which will be 60% owned by Michigan-based Kmart. Yahoo, the web navigation company, will provide users with a range of news and other services free of charge.Other companies involved in the deal include Cisco and Spinway, while Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, the living and style group, is to make a "strategic investment" in BlueLight as well as provide a range of goods for sale.The alliance is expected to spur other retailers into similar deals. WalMart has been widely expected to announce a tie-up with America Online, the largest internet service provider, for the past week.Floyd Hall, Kmart's chief executive, said yesterday that he expected AOL to react to the deal. Analysts believe the tie-up could be significant in the fast-changing online retail market. One analyst said: "If they are announcing a free service and delivering something high quality, that could make a big difference."AOL announced a market ing pact with Circuit City, the consumer electronics retailer, yesterday but its mooted tie-up with WalMart, the world's biggest retailer, is expected to be far broader.Discount stores are particularly attractive for online companies because they offer access to a huge and relatively untapped market. An estimated 180m customers shop at Kmart, which operates more than 2,000 stores in the US as well as stores in Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, and Guam.Jeff Mallett, president of Yahoo, said yesterday that the deal was a "big step" for Yahoo largely because of the potential number of new customers.But Mr Hall said that he hoped to attract new customers for Kmart, too. Yahoo has tended to shy away from offering an access service to its customers. Analysts said that yesterday's deal could allow the California-based company to tap into a new market without the need to market membership and subscription services in the same way as AOL.The new Kmart service, set for an official launch in the late spring or early summer of next year, will offer special promotions and a wide range of in-store products. New internet kiosks will be installed in Kmart stores to allow shoppers to access the web if any outlet has run out of what they want.The company, which is to be based in San Francisco, will also use Kmart's customer database of 85m names built up over the past two years.Shares in Kmart were down almost $1 yesterday morning at $11<+> 5/<->16.Yahoo and Cisco were both trading down too.
Four countries remain on the government's "blacklist" for possible disruption over the new year because of the millennium bug.Official advice is to avoid non-essential travel to Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Mongolia.A foreign office insider said: "If the electricity and water systems there fail because of the millennium bug, people will have a pretty miserable time."The government will open a website on December 29, to carry live news throughout millennium weekend.Initial reports from Fiji and New Zealand will arrive shortly after noon on December 31, British time. Subsequent reports will be filed from each local station to a control centre in the basement of the foreign office.John Battle, the foreign office minister, said he hoped the control centre would have "a very boring time indeed". Staff there will monitor TV and internet news feeds, as well as incoming bulletins from consular staff around the world.They will also contribute continuous updates to the website (www.millennium-centre.gov.uk),which will be run by the cabinet office.
The mobile that thinks it's a browserA two-day hands-on trial with the first of the new generation of web-enabled mobile phones showed their huge potential, even if the services currently available are limited.I spent most of the time using the Nokia/Orange 7110e for downloading live news feeds and was surprised how easy it was to adjust to reading screen-size chunks of five lines containing around 15 to 17 words (courtesy of ITN).Moving the rollerball (which doubles as a scroller and action button) for the next   screenful I soon got through 450 words on the reorganisation of John Prescott's department - enough to get the gist. Moving from one story to another was quite fast - and can only get better when broadband arrives.Stories changed painfully slowly but the facility to call news, the weather, traffic updates cinemas, restaurants and so forth was addictive. But why were football results only available half an hour after the matches finished?I even wondered if I could read a book this way .This handset costs &#163;129.99p plus the cost of whatever service you sign up for. The WAP (Wireless Application Protocol) services - news, sport, business, entertainment etc - are free until the end of January after which they will be charged at 5p a minute.Other manufacturers will follow Orange and services like shopping, home banking and even video-conferencing, are around the corner. And after that? Customised information, news, video and music from the internet to a your mobile.Victor KeeganThe vac that goes by itselfDyson's robotic Dual Cyclone vacuum cleaner, now going out on home trials, may be the most intelligent domestic appliance ever produced. The DC06 has more than 50 sensors, and its three built-in processors make 16 decisions a second as it steers itself around cleaning the floor. Dyson says it's too smart to fall down stairs, and it will pause if a child or a dog gets too close. It even has "moods", shown by indicator lights: blue for happy, green when it's steering round an obstacle, and red when it feels in danger. However, the 9.2kg device is even more expensive than Sony's Aibo robotic dog: it costs "around &#163;2,500".Don't call us...AT&amp;T, America's phone company, and Tribal Voice last week took up the battle to make their instant messaging service work with America Online. Earlier this year, Microsoft and Yahoo tried but were frustrated by AOL's blocking moves. The Washington-based group Hands Off the Internet described AOL's actions as "the worst case of corporate hypocrisy on the web". At least AOL subscribers can still receive email from users of rival services.Linux lunacyThe ludicrous prices paid for shares in internet companies have been upstaged by something that almost makes them look rational: shares in Linux   companies. Red Hat started it when the price of shares in its initial public offering (IPO) in August went up by 286%. VA Linux topped that last week with a first-day increase of 698% - at one stage the $30 shares hit $300. So a company that lost $14.5m on sales of only $17.7m is apparently worth more than $9bn.Java jiveLast week, Sun Microsystems withdrew its Java language from the standardisation process at ECMA, a European standards body. Earlier this year, it also withdrew Java from the International Standards Organisation (ISO) process. Sun has always hyped Java as an open industry standard while being unwilling to make it one.FirestarterOne American's worries about the Y2K "computer bug" almost killed him. Alonzo Anderson had been storing food and propane gas in his concrete basement, but gas leaking from one of the propane tanks led to an explosion. Anderson escaped with singed hair and a burnt cheek. "I don't know how he   survived," said Ken Doroh of the Benton Township Fire Department.The phone to watchSamsung Electronics has unveiled the first mobile phone with a built in TV set. The folding phone, which has a 1.8in colour screen, will be launched in South Korea next month. Users will be able to watch 200 minutes of TV from a fully-charged battery. This year, Samsung has also shown an Internet Phone, Watch Phone and and an MP3 Phone. Samsung's Ki Tae Lee says: "With the successful development of the TV Phone, we have set a new technological paradigm in the area of digital convergence."Jack Schofield
Christmas job cutsHasbro Interactive, video-game subsidiary of the giant American toy company, is closing two development studios in California and North Carolina as part of a restructuring. However, only about 100 jobs will be lost in video gaming, with most of the 2,200 redundancies affecting toy manufacturing. In the UK, the team developing a new version of Dig-Dug, an old Atari title, is being disbanded and the game has been cancelled. Hasbro has recently published a stream of updated Atari games including Q*Bert and Centipede.Snow tracksWhat does Music Television (MTV) have to do with sports games? Not a lot, but publisher THQ International is exploiting the channel's association with music in its MTV Sports range. The first title, developed by Radical Entertainment, is Snowboarding for the Sony PlayStation. It includes tracks from "today's hottest bands" such as Fear Factory, Ministry, and Blink 182.Mexican piqueActivision is to change a Mexican bandit in its Toy Story 2 game, released in the US late last month, after protesters demonstrated outside its headquarters in Santa Monica, California. The character's sombrero, thick moustache and bands   of bullets made him a racist stereotype and an insult to Hispanic culture. The bandit doesn't appear in Disney's Toy Story 2 movie, made by Pixar Animation Studios, and is only in the game to get shot.Driving aheadGTI's award-winning Driver looks certain to be the best-selling game of the year in the UK, having shifted 375,000 units up to November 27. The atmospheric Metal Gear Solid is now trailing in second place with 340,000 sales on the Sony PlayStation only - it would have been first if the publisher, Konami, had followed Driver in producing a PC version. Sony's great rally game, Gran Turismo, is in third place, just ahead of EA's FIFA 99, Eidos Interactive's Championship   Manager 3, and Take Two's Grand Theft Auto. Notwithstanding the arrival of GTA2 and a new version of Championship manager, FIFA is the only game with two titles in the top 10, compiled by games trade magazine MCV. FIFA 99 sold 250,000 copies in the UK this year, and FIFA 2000 has already sold 200,000.Multi mechKesmai, recently taken over by Electronic Arts, has signed up 10,000 testers for its next multiplayer mech-fighting game, BattleTech: 3025 (www.battletech3025.com). Players control fighting machines in a 31st century battle between five Great Houses over the 2,000 worlds of the Inner Sphere. The wargame starts next year.Top 10 games - all formats1.	Tomb Raider 4 -The Last RevelationEidos (PC, PSX)2.	FIFA 2000Electronic Arts (PC, PSX, GBC)3.	James Bond: Tomorrow Never DiesMGM/EA (PSX)4.	Championship Manager: Season 99/00Eidos (PC)5.	Crash Team RacingSony Computer Ent (PSX)6.	Pokemon RedNintendo (Game Boy)7.	Pokemon BlueNintendo (Game Boy)8. 	WWF Wrestlemania 2000THQ (N64, GBC)9.	DriverReflections/GTI (PC, PSX)10.	Spyro The Dragon 2Sony Computer Ent (PSX)Source: compiled by ChartTrack Ltd © Elspa
Have you noticed something about the new breed of young web entrepreneurs? Hardly any of them want to get their hands dirty.Overwhelmingly they have started new services or variations on existing services.They have provided new kinds of booking and delivery services for existing goods and services - books, hotels, toys, wedding presents, wine and so forth - without generating many, if any, new kinds of products for the new age. It is a post-wholesaling experience.In this, they are merely part of Britain's post-industrial revolution culture that looks down on manufacturing as inferior to trade.They can hardly be blamed because the government is encouraging them to avoid industry by acquiescing in a strong exchange rate that puts a penalty of around 15% on manufacturing in Britain.Companies - from Marks and Spencer to JC Bamford - are now realising that the overvalued pound is here to stay and have embarked on a massive strategic shift to source their components abroad rather than in the UK.But no one, and least of all the new web-preneurs, has stopped to think   whether the internet could help rescue manufacturing. How?For a start, the web offers the chance for potential purchasers to gang together to negotiate a group price for something as yet unmade (or maybe even undesigned) whether a piece of pottery or a car. They could then track its progress along the assembly line on the internet - perhaps through web cameras - before taking personal delivery.The final product could either be sent to them or they could arrive at the factory to cut out the middle person (thereby, incidentally, offsetting the extra costs of the strong pound).Curiously, this is the inverse of what is happening now in the "web revolution": retailing where new, expensive delivery systems are having to be built which could more than offset the savings made from ordering online.Rather late in the day, retailers, and particularly supermarkets, are realising what a dream system they have today. The punter drives his or her own car to the "warehouse": they then load their own products from the shelves, queue uncomplainingly at the checkouts to pay, then drive the merchandise home in their own cars and with their own petrol.The idea of changing this system for one where supermarket employees   accept the orders, take products down from the shelves, pack them and load them into a van for delivery anywhere in the country in the hope that someone will be at home would be bizarre if it weren't happening already.It is possible that the savings in not having an expensive inner city site will more than make up for the extra costs - but that presumes they can move all their customers online.What happens if only half their customers want to shop online?It is worth mentioning this because analysts have been inventing paradigms about web companies based on less than five years experience of a phenomenon that has yet to throw up its first casualties.It was a given of the   internet that there would be vast savings through cutting out the intermediaries.Yet in most cases it has merely changed one lot of middle people for another - and often superimposed a whole new delivery system on top.The only area where it has been universally agreed that there are huge savings is where products that are wholly digital in form - like video or digitised music - and so can be pumped straight from the publisher to your desktop computer - cutting out all the intermediaries en route.No one would argue with that paradigm.Um, err . . . Last week Jeremy Silver, vice president of new media at EMI Recorded Music, told Wired News that consumers thinking that net-based distribution might lower the price may be sadly disappointed.He observed: "People have been talking about 'disintermediation' &#91;where record labels will be replaced by more efficient virtual labels&#93; for a while, but that's not going to happen".The net, according to Silver, actually causes   "re-intermediation" as even more people are put between the artist and the consumer. Things like web hosting, music directory, streaming technology, security, watermarking, and transaction companies all have a role in digital music.He adds: "The more hands, the higher the cost."All of this helps to explain why hardly anyone is making money out of e-commerce, as opposed to e-business - where companies link up with their suppliers and each other to cut costs. (Far more money is being made by providing the hardware for the web than the software.)Whether this remains true in future remains to be seen. If big profits are made, it will be only after an almighty clear-out of today's movers and shakers.Meanwhile the internet has moved from its first phase - the world's biggest experiment in mutualism and free exchange of information - to its secondary phase: a system of enforced mutuality in which everyone is trying to make money, but nobody can.
Does it exist?I wasn't gratified to see the WAP enabled Nokia 7110 featured in Online's mobile phone feature (Make the right call, December 9). I've been seeing the damn thing in   teaser campaigns, films and magazine features for months now. I'm salivating for one, but trying to get Orange to sell me one is impossible.A release date of November 22 came and went, with no sign. Has anyone actually got one yet? Orange seems to maintain a total ban on giving any useful facts about when they'll hit the shops. Even its official shops and website are clueless.It's annoying, because I've got the Nokia WAP developers toolkit (free download from Nokia by the way) sitting on my PC, ready to start building WAP services.Orange should ship the product, and if it can't do that, tell us when it will. It's damaging the credibility of WAP, Orange, and Nokia - which is a pity, because all three are clearly the best in their respective fields.Sort it out guys!Sam Loudsam@samloud.freeserve.co.ukWe have spotted one in the wild... see What's New.Just drop it...Martyn Prendergast's letter struck a chord with me.My bank account was   being fraudulently debited by US$24 each month from a web service that I could not reach with the addressing information that came with their debits.When I called my Visa card provider (Barclays Connect) they first said that the onus was upon me to sort it out directly with the company concerned. When I said I had no knowledge of the company, nor of any legitimate reason for the debits, they seemed to take the view that it was I who was attempting to perpetrate a fraud.Eventually, reluctantly and after some weeks delay, they sent me forms to report the   fraud. After two further months I saw the amounts re-credited to my account, but the provider has not contacted me even to acknowledge my complaint.My impression was that they would very much have liked me to pay up, shut up and drop the matter. The credit card issuer has been very successful in promoting the idea that you are safe from fraud in its hands.Now we are almost all dependent on our plastic pals, hope that you don't have to test the theory.David Whelandwcreativesys@easynet.co.ukMore painAlan Roberts has raised a very important and often ignored point about the cost of using the internet (Phone Pain, Feedback, December 9).  Not only does failure to connect raise the cost, but so do slow connections when visiting a web site. This often happens at periods of peak use. Thus it can take several tries to download information required.Alternatively you can get up at 3am and save money as connection is more likely to be effective at such times.As I do not intend to use the net at 3am, and cannot afford to make numerous reconnections because of the added expense on the phone bill, my use is restricted almost entirely to email.There is much babble among the chattering classes about the revolutionary nature of the web and e-commerce.But the price of phone calls will have to be cut, and efficiency of bandwith improved to speed up downloading before use of the internet can become more widespread.Otherwise it will remain beyond the means of much of the population.Dr A Strouthousandy@strouthous.freeserve.co.ukFurther to the letter from Alan Roberts about the shock of receiving one's (especially first) online phone bill: I can empathise, as I have also been there.However, I have discovered a way of softening or preparing for this painful blow. BT provides a little known and probably never advertised free service called Charge Advice.To set the service up on your landline, until you cancel it or run screaming from the house, just dial "*4 11#". To cancel dial "#4 11#". Make a note of the last one because it can drive you mad after a couple of days.Once set up, after each call is finished, or internet connection failed or closed, the telephone will ring and there will be the BT automated voice telling you: "The last call lasted for x minutes and cost y pence, exclusive of VAT or other call discounts."After using this service for over three months now I am probably a hopeless case. I often find myself playing a sort of game with myself to see if I can make a call within the 5p (plus VAT) minimum, which is usually a minute on a local call, during peak rate times.It can be done - if you get an immediate human response, speak very quickly and don't let the other person get a word in. Obviously such circumstances are very rare.SM Huntersuze@felinity.freeserve.co.ukHits all wrongGovernment minister Ian McCartney announced proudly in the Commons this week that the new NHS website has received one and a half million hits on its first day of operation.On the same day my websitewww.webswonder.co.ukreceived 6,146 hits. However my hits only represented 571 visits by web surfers. How so? because, quite simply, hits and visits are different things.During a visit to a website a visitor may view say five different web pages which might contain a total of 10 different graphics.This one user session has thus made five page views and 15 hits.Precise figures for any site are admittedly difficult to ascertain because of the way web servers assign IP addresses and cache web pages, and also the caching (storing and re-using of) web pages by web browsers.However, the terms hits, user sessions and page views do have meaning and to pass one off as the other is a dishonest yet common practice by those selling advertising space and political credibility.Jeremy Clulowjeremy@webswonder.co.ukOld AppleToday is August 27 1956, according to my Mac LCIII. I switched it on to do some scanning - I have no USB scanner so I've networked the old Mac for that. It used to keep up with the date quite well.It's down, of course, to the demise of the internal battery. They cost about &#163;15, are supposed to last eight years and never do. So 1999 became 1956, 32 bit became 16 bit and the network was reset.But why 1956? I think I have the solution. Steve Jobs, Apple's founder, is a fan of 1956 stars, and the default date is a tribute to these songs: Rock Around the Clock (Bill Haley); It's Almost Tomorrow (Dreamweavers); Memories Are Made Of This (Dean Martin) and, the Apple motto, Whatever Will Be Will Be (Doris Day).Copland Smithcoplandsmith@lineone.net
Super Smash BrosNintendo 64 £44.99HAL Labs/NintendoIf you've ever wanted to bash Nintendo's Mario character with a baseball bat, or kick a Pikachu in the posterior, this game is for you. It features a dozen of Nintendo's best-known characters - Donkey Kong, Link, Fox McCloud etc.The fights take place on mid-air platforms based on the earlier games, such as Planet Zebes from Metroid, Pikachu's Saffron City, and Yoshi's Island.The single-player game is easy and you should beat all the other characters and the "boss" in half an hour or less. After the credits roll you can fight the first "hidden character", the pink Jigglypuff from Pokemon, and things get a bit more serious. But not much.The game has some powerful weapons - light sabres, blasters - but kicking and throwing your enemies off the   platform is a better idea. Or if you play Yoshi, you can swallow them and lay them as eggs. In other words, this is a cute, comedy cartridge more like Mario Kart than Tekken 3.And like Nintendo's great    karting title, Super Smash Bros (www.smashbros.com) is best played by two to four human players, instead of letting the computer control the other characters.The multiplayer mode justifies the flat, 2-D presentation and lack of camera movement. Well, it's hard enough to follow four characters zipping round the same screen at the same time without making things more complicated than necessary.If you have time to wonder which character you are playing, or where you are, you're as good as dead.Especially if someone else has that baseball bat.Rugrats Mystery AdventuresPC CD-rom/Mac, £29.99Nickelodeon Software/The Learning CompanyThis is the latest in a long line of software starring the two-dimensional tots, aimed at ages six and up. All too often this can mean tedium for supervising adults, but here, as with the TV series, there's enough to keep the grown-ups grinning too.The core of the game is a spoof detective story in which Tommy, Chuckie, Angelica, Phil, Lil and Dil play entertainingly juvenile variations on film noir characters. There are 10 mysteries in total, with titles like   the Case of the Sand in the Sippy Cup and the Case of the Missing Crayons. In order to solve them kids must interrogate and "bribe" playground suspects with chocolate bars, won by completing one of several mini-games.While easy enough to grasp, these subgames become a little repetitive after a while; given that it'll take around 40 bars to complete the game, it would have been nice to have a few more than six ways of obtaining them.The littluns' banter, on the other hand, is endlessly amusing - "After that, Angelica spent a lot of time in the Big   House. Where her mummy and daddy live" - and, being voiced by the original TV cast, will lose no credibility in critical young eyes.Fun it certainly is, although it may not offer as much educational value as it claims. According to the bumf, the various activities help develop deductive reasoning, problem-solving, memory and strategy skills, but most of them seem to be a matter of basic coordination. There is one necessary skill the press release fails to mention. The dialogue is so chock full of Americanisms - diapers, pails, dust bunnies, faucets, binkies - that the game also serves as an introductory course in translation.Uefa StrikerInfogrames, Dreamcast, £39.99Sega Worldwide SoccerSega, Dreamcast, £39.99With the Fifa series enjoying its biannual sales frenzy to the PlayStation masses, it is not surprising that Dreamcast owners would want a piece of the action. In fact, soccer games are crucial in breaking any system into Europe and already there are two titles vying for a starting place.Uefa Striker is an update of the old Amiga title, Striker, which deserved some attention when Sensible Soccer or Kick Off 2 were out of reach.The strictly "no frills" presentation leads into some solid action which will appeal to those purists who appreciate measured build-ups and gritty defending. Unlike the basketball scores run up in other games, Uefa makes you appreciate any hard-won goals, especially as shooting is tough.However, the vagaries of licensing can lead to some interesting clashes involving the North London giants of, er, Highbury against the Scottish champions, the Glasgow Blues. Floaty controls and haphazard tackling also detract, but this is a solid kick-about for the more patient fan.Sega Worldwide Soccer is a similarly good-looking affair   with the added bonus of Premiership teams.Again, those who enjoy 6-6 draws will be disappointed, as goals are a hard-earned commodity. Thoughtful passing and speedy wing play are the key to silverware although sometimes things can get a bit sluggish. Still, this is preferable to the pinball style so commonly utilised elsewhere and the effective through ball soon livens proceedings.Unfortunately expectations were high for the first "next generation" football games, and while both titles are covered in regulation Dreamcast polish, neither tries anything revolutionary.Still, who cares about innovation when you get back from the pub?
E-dventWhen a colleague wrote about Advent calendars in Webwatch recently, Online was deluged with e-mail complaining he'd left out Electric December,www.electricdecember.org.This stylish 31-day version was created by Bristol's arts, music and media industry to count in the Millennium. Each day's window can be opened starting from midnight, and all the previous windows are there to open as well. Some are very commercial - the BBC's window, for example - and there's heaps of Macromedia Flash.Contributors are as  varied as web artist Yasser Rashid, a Bristol/Tbilisi arts collaboration called Here Nor There and jazz sax player Andy Sheppard.Cash pointsJust in time to help you prepare a proper budget before you blow it on holiday overindulgence, the Financial Times has a new personal finance website,www.FTYourMoney.com&lt;/A, which says it helps people organise their money around "life events". It provides all sorts of calculators, news and   comment, and "personalised action plans". The perfect, sobering, morning-after-the-office-party activity, perhaps?On the flyIf you love to browse the web, then Flyswat, atwww.flyswat.com, is just the download for you. It is a small application that analyses the contents of any web page, identifies a range of keywords, then generates further links from those words. Keywords become "flycons" and are underlined in green. Click on a keyword and Flyswat offers   a menu of categorised links. If you're trying to narrow a search for information, Flyswat claims to make the job much easier than using a search engine.Gift of tonguesAlas, you don't understand Japanese and therefore have never been able to buy that special someone a cool, cutting edge gizmo from a Japanese website. A new UK site, the Global Gift Guide,www.TheGGG.com, utilises translation technology to translate French, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian and Japanese gift sites into English.   Sounds great, but the site timed out before it translated any of the provided links to webpages in Italy and Japan; perhaps you'll fare better.Poor studentAnother site that doesn't seem ready for prime time is Student24-7, atwww.student24-7.com. Simple Minds ringleader Jim Kerr is a backer of this site aimed at the student market. With its chat and dating sections, a magazine and news area, plus shopping, books and jobs online, the site looks like a good idea for roping in the student pound. But annoyingly, much of Student24-7 content is still in the works and some bits are out of order - links are mixed up between the shopping and jobs sections, for example. So why is the site already issuing press releases announcing its launch?Classy helpEnglish teachers have a new online resource in Teachit,www.teachit.co.uk.Designed and run by Siobhain Archer, a teacher from Bath, it offers secondary level English teachers professionally produced lesson plans and schemes of work so they don't   have to spend hours of their own time creating them.Viva VegasVisit the capital of tack and learn about its history at the Las Vegas Strip History website,www.lvstriphistory.com.Beginning with pictures of the first nightclubs in the 1930s, the site takes you through to the corpulent extravagance of latter day developments such as the Circus Circus and hotel "re-creations" of Luxor's pyramids and sphinx, and this year, Paris (with mini Eiffel Tower). and Venice.Six of the bestDigital postcardsSugary cybercard veteranwww.bluemountainarts.comDNA-O-Gram Generatorwww.dna2z.com/Chronicle Books eclectic imageswww.chronbooks.com/Adult/Flashcardswww.shockrave.com/flashcards/Literary postcardswww.just-so.comThe tacky postcard archivewww.tackymail.com
Maybe it's time to finally ditch that Filofax. The annual ritual of swapping pages is fast approaching, and it's getting quite bulky. But it's an essential part of your life. If only you had a copy ...This is where a palmtop computer comes in. It connects to your desktop computer, so you can always keep a backup. Palmtops can store years worth of notes and appointments, and also have alarms. Most are smaller than the average Filofax, too.Palmtops come in two styles. Personal Digital   Assistants (PDAs) are pocket-sized, with touch-sensitive screens but no keyboards. Text is entered using a stylus. Handheld PCs are usually bigger than PDAs but have keyboards and fold in half to travel.There are three main types:Palm PDAsThe first PalmPilot was an instant hit. 3Com has since launched several updates, but the concept never changes: a lightweight, shirt pocket-sized PDA with a black-and-white screen that runs for weeks on ordinary alkaline batteries.Palm organisers have the usual basic features built-in, including a notepad, an address book, diary with alarms, to-do list, email and a calculator. To send and receive email directly, you need a modem or a cable to connect to your mobile phone, though you can also download email from your desktop computer.To enter text, you write one character at a time on a small area at the bottom of the screen. Palm recognises a special symbol alphabet called Graffiti. This sounds clumsy, but it's actually very quick and easy to learn -  Graffiti symbols are mostly just regular characters written with a particular order of pen strokes.The characters you write are recognised instantly, and so you can enter text quite swiftly.3Com currently sells two families of Palm organisers - the Palm IIIe (&#163;199) and IIIx (&#163;229) are a similar shape and size, whereas the Palm V (&#163;299) is a smaller, silver-finished model.Psion handheld PCsPsion has made popular palmtops for many years. The current range consists of the Series 5, 5mx, 7 and Revo. Ericsson sells the MC218, which is essentially its version of the Series 5.The Revo (&#163;299) is barely larger than a PDA, but has a keyboard. Its screen is small but clear. The Series 5mx (&#163;429) is similar but larger, with a wider, deeper screen and a better keyboard, along with more memory. You can connect some mobile phones by infra-red links to these machines to email, or use an external modem.The Series 7 (&#163;699) is more a miniature laptop than a palmtop. Closed, it's about the size of a hardback novel. Open, it reveals a large colour screen and very good keyboard. It works with an ordinary modem card. Its built-in web browser is compatible with most web sites that don't need plug-ins like Flash. You can load the browser on the smaller Psions but their   screens and slower processors make it harder work.They all have a built-in word processor, spreadsheet, database, diary and contacts file - similar to those found on desktop computers. PsiWin software connects to your PC and converts files to and from Microsoft, Lotus, or Corel Office programs.Windows CE devicesMicrosoft designed Windows CE for a whole range of consumer and industrial devices. Many larger PC manufacturers sell CE-based PDAs and Handheld PCs including HP, Compaq and Casio.On screen, Windows CE looks very much like Windows 95, with a Start menu and a taskbar along the bottom of the screen. However, software from your PC won't run on a CE-based palmtop. Nevertheless, the   similarity makes Windows CE easy to learn, though CE devices can sometimes feel cramped because the interface takes up a large amount of valuable screen space.CE-based PDAs look like fatter Palms, though some offer colour screens, such as the Compaq Aero 2130 (&#163;399). This does mean much shorter battery life compared to mono machines. They offer handwriting recognition using a regular alphabet, which is easier but less accurate than the Palm's Graffiti system.Most CE-based Handheld PCs are a similar shape and size - when closed, they're slightly smaller than a VHS cassette. When opened, you get a letterbox-shaped screen, usually colour, and a reasonable keyboard. Typical is the HP Jornada 680 (&#163;599). They usually come with pocket versions of Microsoft Office applications, including Pocket Word, Excel, Outlook, and Internet Explorer. These look and work much like their full-size counterparts.Although it has been around for three years, Windows CE has not been vastly successful. Only around 20% of palmtops sold are CE. Philips and LG are to discontinue their CE products. However, Microsoft has a new version due next year.What to buyWhat did you use your Filofax for? If it was mostly to keep hold of your diary and contacts, a PDA is ideal. The 3Com Palm V is the smallest, flashiest-looking machine - if you can afford it. But the Palm IIIx is best value: although larger, it fits in your top pocket, and has more memory. Try and get this machine instead of the similar Palm IIIe, which   can't be upgraded. The Windows CE PDAs are more sophisticated but have much shorter battery life, and if you want more than a Palm, you probably want a built-in keyboard too.If you made lots of notes in your Filofax, you'll be best with a Handheld PC. The Windows CE machines are at their best if you use all the Microsoft Office applications on your desktop computer. But the Psion machines also integrate very well with Windows, and work better with non-Microsoft Office software.Psion's software feels more purpose-built for organisers, and is slicker. The Revo is the smallest machine with a genuine keyboard and is good value. The Series 7 is pricey but good enough to attempt serious work on - and yet is still smaller and lighter than the best laptop.Connecting to your PCAll three types of palmtop come with cables and software to connect to a Windows-based PC.You connect PDAs by dropping them in to a desktop cradle, whereas most Handheld PCs just plug in with a cable.When they are connected, you can make backups, copy files to and from your computer, and add extra software to your palmtop.For Mac owners the choice is somewhat narrowed - only the Palms have good connection software. A rather rudimentary file transfer utility is available for the Psions, and nothing at all exists for the Windows CE machines.
Sharp VNEZ1Here's a webcam that can truly give you a world view. The Sharp VNEZ1 is pocket sized so you can take it on your travels. It stores an hour of video and audio in the new MPEG-4 format which can be played back on your PC or be streamed quickly to a website for all to see. Using Microsoft's Advanced Streaming Format the movies you shoot can be downloaded almost instantly. The VNEZ1 will shoot stills as well, and stores its data on removable SmartMedia cards. It comes with Pix Lab software to prepare your films for broadcast across the web.Gadget factor:Silicon SpielbergPrice:&#163;500Contact:www.sharp.co.ukor 0800 262958Panasonic DVD L50Imagine your own private cinema. Then shrink it and stick it in your pocket. That's   just what Panasonic has done with the DVDL50EB. It plays the latest Digital Video Discs on a five-inch wide-screen display with Dolby Digital surround sound. DVD not only lets you watch movies at a quality that makes VHS look like the local flea pit, but the discs also include tons of extra info on the movies, so it's like having Jonathan Ross with you as well. The L50EB also plays normal CDs and can be plugged in to your home TV.Gadget factor:Is that a movie in your pocket or are you just pleased to see me?Price:&#163;799.99Contact:www.panasonic.co.ukor 0990 357357Samsung YP-E32"Yepp" MP3 players are the audio gadget of the moment. No moving parts means uninterrupted jog-free music on the move. Samsung's YP-E32 Yepp stores 32Mb or around one hour of music on a Smart Media card that you can either rip from a CD using the PC software supplied or download from the net. Unlike other MP3 players, the Yepp also has a built-in microphone that can store up to 128   minutes of voice recording. All this is in a box the size of a pack of cards. Additional Smart Media Cards cost around &#163;79.99 so you can carry a catalogue of music in your wallet as well.Gadget factor:move and groovePrice:&#163;149.99Contact:0800 521 652BRD Game Frame ProTurn your bedroom into Brands Hatch with the ulltimate PC racer setup. BRD's Game Frame Pro features a pukka Cobra race seat within a special chassis that houses your PC monitor and keyboard plus a set of pedals and a quick-release steering wheel with gearshift paddles just like a real F1 car.Gadget factor:be a Grand Prix legend in your own living roomPrice:&#163;449Contact:01293 863511Draganflyer Flying SaucerWatch the skies. Flying saucers are landing all over the planet. But you needn't fear as they're not from Mars, but Canada. Draganfly makes a range of radio-controlled saucers and airships for indoor and outdoor flying. Top of the range is the gyro-stabilised Draganflyer which features four rotors to make it ultra-manoeuvrable. Electrically powered and eerily silent, the Draganflyer is the perfect gift for budding   Mulders and Scullys. For those without an FBI-sized budget Draganfly also makes helium-filled indoor airships and saucers starting at &#163;40.Gadget factor:The X-fliesPrice:&#163;430 approxContact:www.draganfly.comGo Ped HoverboardSadly it doesn't actually hover, but the Go Ped Hoverboard is still a pretty cool way to hit the streets. This electrically powered foldaway scooter has a 14mph top speed and a range of 10 miles on a charge.   It has front and rear brakes and cantilever suspension to absorb potholes. The downside is that it weighs 18kg thanks mainly to the hefty battery. Go Ped also produces less eco-friendly petrol powered scooters. They're faster and lighter and some can even go off-road.Gadget factor:a lot less bother than walkingPrice:&#163;659Contact:www.goped.comor 0128 571 3888Estes 30th Anniversary Apollo 11 Saturn VForget Buzz Lightyear: this Christmas you can play at being Buzz Aldrin with your own Apollo 11 rocket. Standing 110cm tall and with a 10cm diameter, the Estes Saturn V uses real solid rocket motors to soar hundreds of feet in the air before separating into different stages which parachute gently to the ground for use over and over again. It's a complicated kit to build, though, and first-time rocketeers might be better off with one of Estes many ready-to-fly rockets which start at just &#163;6.99.Gadget factor:Fly me to the moonPrice:&#163;69.99Contact:www.estes.co.ukor your local model store
'Tis the season to be surfing. When you're not following the cricket live from South Africa, booking a last-minute holiday or trawling the online stores for a few stocking fillers, you're probably sharing the latest post-office Christmas party gossip via email. Suddenly you can find yourself spending a dangerous amount of time using the internet for a vast array of personal purposes. Suddenly you can face the sack.It's a sensitive topic. Last week, Tony Blair admitted he visited Newcastle United's website, but quickly added: "not during office hours". This month, 23 workers were fired from the New York Times' accounting department in Virginia, for sending emails deemed "inappropriate and offensive". Earlier this year Xerox dismissed 40 US workers for violating its internet policy. In June, Cheshire IT manager Lois Franxhi lost her claim for unfair dismissal after being sacked for using office time - less than two hours, she claimed - to search for a holiday.We are dedicated cyber-slackers. Just 1.8% of respondents in an email study led by Professor Helen Petric of Hertfordshire university claimed to use email only for business purposes. A study by the computer security organisation InfoSec says that employee surfing can cost international companies up to &#163;3m a year, while every surfing employee earning &#163;20,000 costs their employer &#163;2,500 each year in working time lost to the internet alone. US company SurfWatch, which makes software for filtering web content, estimates that one third of workers' internet time is dedicated to pleasure, costing US firms $1bn in wasted computer resources alone.Bosses aren't best pleased. "Every time there's a story, the tendency is to become more aggressive on email monitoring," said the American Management Association's Eric Rolfe Freenberg after the NYTimes sackings.Large British corporations, such as PricewaterhouseCoopers, Lloyds-TSB and Guinness, have inserted internet clauses in their employment contracts. Many British bosses are rushing to employment law specialists, such as Stephen Fullman, of Jeffrey Green Russell.He regards the internet as a much bigger legal headache for firms than personal phone calls. Unlike the telephone, emails can transmit obscene images and they can also be libellous - as Norwich Union found out to the cost of &#163;450,000 in damages to a rival who had been insulted in an internal email.People also use email in a more informal way. While few people make obscene phone-calls, "we all receive emails with the odd dodgy picture attached or the odd dodgy joke", says Fullman. He doesn't believe excessive personal internet use is likely to lead to the dismissal of an employee, but "if you send pornography that is classed as 'obscene' - you're committing a criminal offence, which could be a sackable offence."As well as covering themselves legally, many companies are turning to surveillance systems. A survey of large US firms by American Management Association found that 27% now monitor employee's emails, compared to 15% in 1997. Surveillance software is becoming ever more sophisticated. The Ascentor, launched in the UK in June, goes beyond a search for obscene "keywords" in analysing companies' email traffic. Searching in context, it is able to conclude whether an email concerns legitimate company business and whether it could constitute fraud, deception or espionage.Some firms have fairly illiberal ideas of where employees shouldn't surf. SurfWatch's filtering software is directed to block pornography and hate speech, but it also produces technology that employers use to block innocuous news and shopping sites popular with workers. According to a former employee of the AA, its company firewall used to prevent some departments from accessing the website of its rival, the RAC. This "typically small-minded   attitude" also meant that the sites of other insurance firms couldn't be accessed, even when checking up on a rival could be a valid and useful task.There's a lot of company paranoia, says Petric, whose study of 38,000 emails found a vast number of words written in the office dedicated to personal affairs. "I think employers would be very foolish if they worried because a lot of these emails were 30 to 50 words, only taking a few seconds to type. They are probably much less intrusive to your work than making a personal phone call from the office."Colleen Byrum, managing director of Amazon.co.uk, agrees. "I think it's really bad business for an employer to be really restrictive about employees' use of computers," she says. Amazon doesn't have any contractual constraints on workers' web habits: they are akin to "restricting employees' access to literature while at work", she believes. And she's not just saying this because she is fearful that an employers' crackdown on internet use could potentially reduce book sales to office truants. With home usage on the increase and the prospect of cheaper telephone connections, "I just don't see that as a concern at all," she says.She also provides internet access for workers not usually regarded as in need of a terminal. Amazon's new distribution centre in Milton Keynes has special work stations to "encourage our employees to go online and to shop", Byrum says. "Employers should ask themselves the question: 'Gee, do I want my employees taking an extra hour to get their Christmas shopping done or do I want them to take 15 minutes online?' "Chris Pilling, managing   director of the Datanet Group, also acknowledges that allowing employees free rein on the internet can cut down on their leisure activities - as well as helping their work. "I have a policy of education and negotiation," says Pilling. Even if workers are visiting a leisure site "there are things being done on those sites that are very clever and can be useful to us".Like Amazon, Datanet eschews any formal rules governing internet use. But, Pilling adds, problems do arise when workers take up (costly and finite) bandwidth by circulating large files around the office for fun. An IT manager for a London-based consulting company says he gives employees a rollicking "about twice a week" for downloading huge files that slow the transfer of data and brings the firm's network grinding to a halt.While companies rush to cover themselves legally, it seems that workers are dependent upon the goodwill of their bosses for their internet "rights". There is very little protection for employees against dismissal for using the internet at work, argues Carolyn Jones, director of the Institute of Employment Rights (IER), an independent charity.A recent IER report found that surveillance of workers is becoming "more widespread, more continuous, more intense and more secretive". It calls for a law requiring employers to inform workers when they are being monitored - as well as making secret surveillance a defence against unfair dismissal. Jones believes that article eight of the Human Rights Act, which belatedly comes into force in Britain next October, will probably not protect workers' from internet surveillance, although "at least it will be an arguable case".But are employees afraid that their cyber-slacking will be watched or could lead to the sack? A wealth of websites devoted to time-wasting at work, from IShouldBeWorking.com to Mybosssucks.com, testifies to a willingness to disregard company rules on internet use.Professor Petric discovered that email is an unruly, subversive force in the workplace, with employees using it to sound off about their bosses. Workers "don't think   their email is being bugged, because you wouldn't put some of the things people write about their bosses in emails if you had an inkling that the boss was going to look at them," says Petric."Despite repeated warnings such as 'email on company computers must be devoted to company business. It can and will be monitored', most Americans seem to go on their merry way," says Wendy Leibowitz, a US lawyer specialising in IT. "The NYTimes folks were fired for circulating pornography, for Pete's sake. What did they expect? To be nominated for artistic creativity?"Useful linksPrivacy and Human Rights 1999 - An international survey of privacy laws and developmentshttp://www.privacyinternational.org/survey/SurfWatch www1.www.surfwatch.comThe Institute of Employment Rightswww.ier.org.uk/InfoSecwww.infosec.co.uk/page.cfmWatching Them Watching Us:WWW anonymity?www.spy.org.uk/anonf.htmIShouldBeWorking.Comwww.ishouldbeworking.com/MyBossSucks.Comwww.mybosssucks.com/Work Unlimitedwww.workunlimited.co.uk/
The serious fraud office yesterday charged six people with offences involving funds raised by two start-up firms - internet access provider Free Dot Net and discount telephone calls company Discount Telecom.The charges are the first of their kind involving an internet start-up company in Britain and they come only days after the financial services authority and the securities and futures authority, the main City regulators, warned investors about the dangers of dealing in small stocks, especially those in the high-technology sector.The SFO has charged Jon Brody, Brian Harry Atkins, and Peter Henry, all directors of Free Dot Net, together with an associate, Marios Andreas Nicolaides, under the financial services act 1986.The four men are accused of conspiring between May 31 1996 and April 28 1998, to make statements in prospectuses which they knew to be "misleading, false, or deceptive or which dishonestly concealed material facts".The public were invited to invest in Free Dot Net though prospectuses in September 1996, October 1997 and March 1999. About &#163;4m was raised.The four men, together with Gerard William Kavanagh and Katherine Louise Diggins, were also charged with conspiring to defraud the shareholders and investors in Free Dot Net and Discount Telecom by dishonestly diverting money for uses other than those for which it was raised.Discount Telecom, set up in April 1997, raised more than &#163;800,000 after a prospectus was issued in July of that year. Jon Brody and Brian Atkins were directors of the company.An SFO investigation into the two companies - started in June 1998, and carried out with the help of the Metropolitan Police - followed a referral from the department of trade and industry.An SFO spokesman said: "There are people who want to take advantage of gullible and ignorant people."No date has yet been set for a court hearing.
Asda, the grocery chain bought by American group Wal-Mart earlier this year, yesterday said it plans to launch free home delivery for goods bought over the internet.Allan Leighton, the Asda chief executive now heading Wal-Mart's European operation, threw down the gauntlet to rivals with the promise of a significant online investment.The grocer recently announced plans to expand its home shopping service by opening 12-15 delivery centres in the next three to five years.At present it charges for home delivery unless shoppers spend more than &#163;150, but Mr Leighton said the aim was to remove the fee altogether. "Access will be free. I think it will change the way food shopping is done."Tesco, the UK market leader, claims to have more than 200,000 customers using its internet shopping service. It charges &#163;5 for delivery and takes stock from store shelves instead of special delivery centres. The average order is &#163;95.A spokesman for Tesco shrugged off the Asda challenge. "We already have many thousands of customers using our service who are happy with the value."Smaller player Iceland delivers online orders free if customers spend more than &#163;40.Mr Leighton said of the net: "This is an absolute revolution, this is not evolutionary -this is an industrial revolution in a microsecond."Wal-Mart has already had an impact on store pricing at Asda, with the British chain announcing an &#163;8m pre-Christmas promotion on electrical goods.
Later this week the German computer software maker SAP is expected to roll out the first in a series of online markets aimed at key industries.The move is part of SAP's strategy of competing in the rapidly expanding business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce sector. No one can be quite sure just how big B2B e-commerce is likely to become but enthusiasts are already counting in billions of dollars.SAP is not that specific but as spokesman Herbert Heitmann noted yesterday: "We believe that there is huge development potential."It is not just big business which is seeking to cash in. In Britain, Mondus.com, started by Rhodes scholars Rouzbeh Pirouz and Alexander Straub, is tapping the potential of small and medium sized enterprises. SMEs know they cannot ignore the potential of the internet but many lack the expertise or even the budgets to get themselves online.Mondus.com offers a database of service and product providers into which it will tap on behalf of buyers, providing a range of quotes from which to choose. Intriguingly the most requested service is for internet site designers.Mr Pirouz, too, is confident about the potential for B2B e-commerce. "I think it could become tremendously big."American B2B stocks, which aim to be first-stop sites for industries seeking suppliers such as Chemdex or VerticalNet, are   trading on over 100 times this year's revenue. Consultants McKenna Group point out that the B2B marketplace could be worth nearly $500bn (&#163;308bn) in 2003 - more than twice the size of consumer-focused sites.SAP is already a leading player in multi-billion dollar market for software for companies in-house purchasing and manufacturing processes but critics say it has been slower off the mark in the B2B sector. Others have been quicker. Ford has signed up Oracle and General Motors has teamed with Commerce One to create portals through which billions of dollars of business will flow from car parts suppliers to the car makers.However, SAP is now seen to be responding and the share price is reacting   accordingly. Though SAP began delivering its new internet integration mySAP.com software recently, what appears to have excited the market is news that SAP is close to rolling out internet-based markets for specific industries.The theory is relatively straightforward. Companies operating in the same area have similar needs. By creating an electronic marketplace, software companies like SAP can make it easier for suppliers to find the companies which require their services but can also allow the companies to use their combined buying clout to their best advantage."If you look at the oil and gas industry in the Nordic sea, they have similar requirements - helicopter shuttles, outsourcing human resources," Mr Heitmann said.SAP is already looking at 10 such electronic marketplaces. One will be pitched around the German chemicals industry and another is likely to cover the automotive industry. SAP won't confirm the latter but acknowledges it would be a logical industry to include.SAP believes that technology is removing some of the barriers which have previously constrained business."In the past, providers had to decide on a strategy. Did they offer maximum service to a small number of consumers or offer a minimum service to a wider number of consumers. There was a physical restriction. Now with the internet we have the possibility to break the restrictions _ to offer maximum reach and maximum richness of service," Mr Heitmann said.
Shares in Sports Internet, the online information and betting service, climbed another 6.5% yesterday to 767.5p after the company confirmed market speculation that is close to sealing a deal with Yahoo, the world's leading search engine and directory service.The company issued a statement saying it was in talks about "a commercial arrangement regarding the distribution of content". It is understood that Yahoo will carry information from Sports Internet's new generic football website, Optasoccer.com, which offers a combination of news and statistics. The Yahoo site will offer a direct link to Optasoccer, which began recently to rival the likes of Soccernet and 365 Corporation.The statement followed a sharp rise in Sports Internet's share price last week, up 100p to close at 725p on Friday, and follows a year of astonishing growth. The company's share price has raced up by more than 800% so far this year.Sports Internet operates official websites for 20 English soccer clubs through its planetfootball.com site.The company plans to start an online betting service in the first quarter of next year and the partnership with Yahoo could provide a substantive international audience for the business. Last month the Harrogate-based company poached a team from more traditional bookie William Hill to spearhead the launch.The UK's &#163;7bn sports betting market is increasingly shifting to the internet with Hilton Group's Ladbroke, Britain's largest bookmaker chain, recently starting its own website. Online betting makes it easier for companies to move offshore to take advantage of lower tax rates.Hits on the Sports Internet sites generated by the link to Yahoo will also enable the AIM-listed company to improve advertising revenues.Sports Internet chief executive Jeremy Fenn declined to comment on the statement.
Bank of England governor Eddie George sent out a "buy" signal to investors yesterday by appearing to endorse the sky-high values achieved by new-technology stocks.In an abrupt change of official stance, Mr George said the stocks' role in propping up the overall equity market might be justified. Central bankers have tended to be cautious in the past about soaring hi-tech stocks, labelling them a lottery.But, speaking after a regular meeting of the world's top central bankers in Basle, Switzerland, Mr George said: "On the whole the discussion suggested that the particular strengths of high technology stocks in equity markets provided a better underpinning of equity values than perhaps had been appreciated."The tone of his comments was in stark contrast to Alan Greenspan's at the beginning of the year. Then, the chairman of the United States Federal Reserve struck a much more sceptical note in testimony to Congress.While acknowledging that there was some fundamental basis for investor interest in hi-tech stocks, Mr Greenspan said that the majority were destined to be worthless.Since then the equity market has roared ahead, with hi-tech stocks posting some spectacular gains.Mr George's remarks at a press conference at the Bank for International Settlements appeared to signal a more sanguine attitude to the sector.Many internet firms have yet to post a profit, with critics saying they are like a modern-day gold rush. But investors are hopeful that their gamble will pay off in the long run.They point to the experience of the United States, where productivity has soared in recent years thanks to investment in new technology, enabling firms to increase profits without adding to costs.Even Mr Greenspan has highlighted the potential of the internet to cut out the middle man in distribution chains for goods and services.Despite Mr George's backing for hi-tech stocks, the City regulator is urging investors to think carefully before buying heavily into "dot coms", warning last week that they can be difficult to trade.The race by private individuals to buy hi-tech stocks has fuelled a stunning rise in their values, along with exceptionally high trading volumes.As a result, the financial services authority said, broking firms - some of which have had difficulty coping with the tripling or quadrupling in demand - should put contingency arrangements in place to cope with the increased pressure on their services.The regulator issued a statement, as did the securities and futures authority, after a meeting with those broking firms dealing with the surge in demand for equities - which the regulator said was partly due to investors new to the market who are interested in smaller, new-technology companies.The FSA said City dealing and settlement procedures were coping "adequately" with the demand but noted that some investors dealing with firms using call centres had experienced delays in placing orders.One of the largest firms, Barclays Stockbrokers, admitted it was only taking on new clients in the evening, once the trading day was over, due to the 100% rise in business it has seen in the past eight weeks.
League of shameSo David Beckham has got himself an eight month driving ban for speeding, following recent bans for team mates Andy Cole and Dwight Yorke. But it's not just Manchester United players who have proved less able behind the wheel than on the ball in the 90s...Feb 1999 - Stan Collymore fined &#163;450 and given six points after doing 82mph in a 40mph zone in Birmingham.July 1997 - Darren Anderton banned for seven days for doing 102mph on the M27.August 1996 - Ally McCoist got a &#163;2,500 fine and a 15 month ban for drink driving.Jan 1996 - Chris Armstrong fined &#163;500 and given six points for doing 104mph on the M54Oct 1991 - Paul Gascoigne fined &#163;85 for doing 60mph on the North CircularDec 1990 - Tony Adams jailed for four months for drink driving.Bash test dummiesFrench driving testers are so fed up with being beaten up after failing people that they have started to send out test results in the post.Quote of the Week"It doesn't matter how many times the RAC say motorists are up in arms, and it certainly doesn't matter how many pages I manage to fill with pro-car news. Phoney Tony has a 170-seat majority, so he can do whatever he damn well wants. And what he wants is to hang you up and bleed you dry."     Jeremy Clarkson, Top Gear
HG Wells, who got a lot of things right, was wrong about London transport when, in 1901, he tried to foresee the future of the circle line. He imagined a series of parallel moving walkways, each a little faster than the one next to it, onto which the commuter would step: the fast track to Notting Hill, so to speak. But the real future was on the road.With a privately-owned or hired motor carriage, he projected, one could do 300 miles a day, have all the small conveniences of first class railway travel, and "add a fine sense of personal independence". He also imagined cars and buses separated from horses and pedestrians, travelling on private roads, probably made of "very good asphalt, sloped to drain". In the face of this competition, he saw railway companies wooing passengers with carriages "sumptuously furnished" and making railway travel "neither rackety, cramped nor tedious".All this, however, depended on the assumption that the future motor car would have a "light, powerful engine, comparatively noiseless, smooth-running, not obnoxious to sensitive nostrils, and altogether suitable for high road traffic".That at least, could be here at the end of the next century. Its prototype was invented by a Victorian barrister called Sir William Grove, but the engine never ran anything until the Apollo space programme began 40   years ago. The fuel cell is still on trial, running buses in Chicago and experimental Daimlers in Germany. It fits the HG Wells bill exactly. It will suit the realities of fuel supply in the next century, when the fossil oil supply really will run out, resources will be stretched and greenhouse warming will be a hot issue.Fuel cells mix hydrogen and oxygen across a catalytic surface and yield energy and water: in their perfect form, there are no other exhausts. That will be fine by 2099. Many countries won't have water to spare to damp the streets. And the one resource that won't run out is hydrogen: the universe is made of very little else.After a series of experiments with hybrid engines, the car will become - perhaps even by 2099 - what many motorists always wanted it to be: a clean, reliable and safe way of travelling. Cars will be clean because electricity suppliers will have switched to photovoltaics and renewables, and there just won't be acid rain and fine particulate matter in the air any more. Manufacturers will increasingly optimise designs and materials to reduce drag, limit   corrosion and slow wear and tear. They will become safe because, on highways and city roads, at least, all motorists will plug into a satellite-monitored, internet-networked, precision-controlled traffic flow system that will keep car-based computers in touch with each other.This system will share information not just about the traffic densities of the moment, but - since every car will tell all the others where its driver thinks he or she is going - about parking spaces and traffic densities at the journey's end as well. Steering columns - if they survive - will be equipped with priggish breath-sniffing equipment and car sensors will monitor the driver for emotional stability, heartrate and unusual behaviour, shutting the whole thing down if they see road rage coming. The really smart in-car monitoring system will convert to robot ambulance mode if the driver has a heart attack: it will also continuously check with the folks at home and at the office and report on its whereabouts.All this will make driving pretty boring, and Bullitt-style car chases almost impossible except in movies, and customised cars with manual override and off-road capability.That's where the residual joy of motoring will remain. The get-you-from-A-to-B tendency will go on making cars look more and more alike. This in turn will provoke a counter-offensive from people who actually love driving round in chunks of composite and steel. If all   cars are the same underneath, then moulded fantasy-bodies will flower. Somebody will market the Hirondelle, as driven only by the Saint. The sinister Oldsmobile V8 saloon will ride again. The Batmobile will take to the road at last. The well-heeled joy-riding household will have at least two cars in the garage: one traffic-functional and one for fun. The fun car is likely to be an all terrain vehicle, but this time manufacturers will mean all terrain: huge wheels, sturdy engineering, auxiliary "legs" and airbag buoyancy will be fit the adventurous for Alpine screes, Louisiana bayous, Australian deserts and Yukon snows.A few fun cars will actually take   off: specialist groups will keep producing new low-flying autos. The first happened in 1948, but another group was testing a Skycar that would take to the road and also take off and land vertically, entirely under computer control, in 1999.How far this trend goes is anybody's guess: probably not far. Hybrids always end up being not quite satisfactory for any one purpose. Skycars that still want to be cars will not fly high; they will also be noisy and madden the neighbours. But they will be around, and enthusiasts will stage rallies. The amphicar, used in the second world war, will probably find a home in some seaside and riverside garages:   it will take to the water like a duck. Unfortunately, it will still take to the road like a duck. It won't be a very practical submarine, either, except in shallow waters: accelerating pressures will make real diving very dangerous.The well-equipped garage of 2099 is more likely to house, besides a car or two, a personal rotomobile: step on to a platform, grab a handle and the twin rotors just above and behind your head will whizz you down the canyons of the city streets, up the outside of your office block to a rooftop parking rack. None of these forms of transport is likely to be particularly fast, or silent.Speed and noise will remain a   feature of motoring. Even if city traffic flow systems see to it that average journey times are at an optimum, something will be missing: that fierce, heady joy of acceleration. There will be a slow end to attempts to claim land-speed records. The laws of physics, aerodynamics and friction will provide a barrier.But the speed fiends will be out there, all the same. There is a dangerous tendency to equate progress with speed. There is also a dangerous tendency in futurologists to extrapolate the present into the future. H G Wells got more right than most seers, but his 1901 classic Anticipations got a merciless ribbing from G K Chesterton in his   visionary novel The Napoleon Of Notting Hill. In his preface, Chesterton observed that the Wellsians thought that just as the motor car was quicker than the coach, so some lovely thing would be quicker than the motor car, and so on.So Chesterton proposed as the ultimate, an "apoplectic old major, who was sent round the world so fast that there seemed to be (to the inhabitants of some other star) a continuous band round the earth of white whiskers, red complexion and tweeds - a thing like the ring of Saturn". Remind you of anyone? Cars will change, but there could be a future, choleric, and bionically preserved, for Jeremy Clarkson.
Whether it's thanks to Sweden's lack of strong cheeses or simply because their cars sell in such relatively weeny numbers, Saab has become the last bastion of the secret car snob. If you yearn for discreet muscle without the pheremonal slosh of a BMW, Merc or Audi, Saab is a natural choice. The only problem is, if you also desire something with the kind of legs to match an M-spec BMW or AMG Merc, Saab has, for the past two years, had no performance flagship to offer.Hence the launch of the 9-5 Aero. How fast is it? Well, Porsche 911 Carrera 2 owners be warned: you'd better move over. As far as critical mass is concerned, Saab has charts to show that the new Aero's in-gear acceleration times of 5 seconds from 40 to 60mph and 7.3 seconds from 50 to 70mph make it a more proficient overtak ing tool than not only a Carrera 2, but also a 3.0 litre Jaguar S-type and a BMW 535. Saab's message is that just because your road-going clothes look a bit M&amp;S, it don't mean you can't rock and roll.Impressed? Being far more easily impressed by looks than content, I wasn't. But it's hard not to get into this inverted-snob thing once you've clunked the heavy door and pressed flesh with the leather wheel. For a start, and unlike the smaller 9-3 Viggen whose torque steer properties conjure images of an out-of-control   dalek, the Aero is a cool tool. If it were a killer in a film, it would be John Malkovitch, blending perfectly into the crowd but harbouring a secret potential for world domination that's obvious only to you.Indeed, apart from the odd bit of scalloping to the body and a pimple badge on its rump, there is little to make you think this Saab might suddenly hoof it over the horizon. But hoof it does: prod the throttle and the turbo slips in with no detectable wheelspin. Suddenly you're away. Okay, it's not going to match the 400bhp nemesis of a BMW M5, but it has the athleticism and balance to give such fare a decent run for your money. And unlike many turbos, this one has been groomed to deliver not a peak of torque but a long, broad table. Saab, quite rightly, likens the power band to Table Mountain.The price is pleasantly lean when judged against the chief rivals. Car makers love to flaunt tedious and dubious price comparison tables, but the Aero is shamelessly cheap. If you are shopping for performance, at &#163;28,000 for the saloon and &#163;1,000 more for the estate, it represents a &#163;9,000 saving on the BMW 535, a &#163;5,000 saving on the Audi A6 2.7T quattro and &#163;13,000 change from a Mercedes Benz E320 Elegance. And none of these cars matches the Saab's swiftness.What's the caveat? Certainly there's no image trade-off and Saab's performance in the price-retention league is up there with its rivals. It comes down to you: if, as Saab bosses tell me, off-the-recordish, you're a successful exec but you don't need to shout about it, an Aero is a wonderfully discreet way of saying you've arrived. Just as long as you give them time to read the message.Saab 9-5 AeroPrice:&#163;28-29,0000-60mph:far too quicklyOn the stereo:Ride of the ValkyrieWhat's it say?I'm smug, but I don't buy German
What do you drive?I don't actually have a car. The bugged car was a Mondeo, but I'm mostly in a Vectra - a nice car, and it's a diesel so that's a big saving.So you're not Mondeo Man?Well I wouldn't vote for the New Labour party, even if I could.Has the bugging made you think differently about your cars?Well at least the Government was in listening mode - it's reassuring to know that at last they are listening to what I am saying.Are you going to be more careful now about where they're serviced?Not really. There's a gentleman called Eamonn who's my driver. He looks after them. He has a fetish about keeping the car clean, jumping out at traffic lights with his sponge and chamois. That's his function - to keep it clean, within the speed limit, and to befriend whoever's in the car. He doesn't like Mondeos.Do you sit in the front or the back?Generally in the passenger seat. I'm a very nervous passenger, especially if I'm tired. Richard McAuley, my advisor, has the Alastair Campbell role and this extends to all matters, including Eamonn's driving. So Richard's always braking and accelerating on imaginary pedals. I just sit there petrified.Why are you a nervous passenger?I read somewhere that the human being could detect acceleration and deceleration but couldn't detect different speeds. I find that very scary. I've been in several car accidents. I was in one accident when a guy I had swapped seats with was killed.Ever experienced road rage?No - except getting infuriated by Richard and Eamonn's rowing. There's a famous book called My Fight for Irish Freedom by Dan Breen. We think Eamonn should write a book called My Drive For   Irish Freedom - which Richard would co-write, and edit, of course.Have you ever had your own car?I actually had a Morris Minor for three weeks, sometime in the 1970s. I swapped my Honda 50 for a Morris Minor. One evening as a scam, some friends put it on bricks and removed all the wheels. I've never owned a car since.Are you sure they were friends?I think so. They have always denied doing it - perhaps it was the buggers.What would be your ideal car?I wouldn't mind my Morris Minor back, with the wheels. Perhaps I could use this interview to appeal to whoever did it to return them. I always wanted was a Morris estate, you know with the wood paneling.Do you ever drive these days?Only on holidays and that's about it.What kind of driver are you?Amazingly safe, well mannered, courteous to other users.Who would you ideally like to have in the car with you?Colette, or Oscar, or Cara. One of   those is my wife, the other two are my dogs.What do you listen to in the car?One of things I insist on is a CD player, with one of those CD boxes in the boot. There wasn't one in the Mondeo.Possibly because there was all that other equipment?Maybe whoever was listening didn't like the music. Right now I like listening to a woman fiddler, Eileen Ivers. And the guy with the big nose who sings, what's his name? Jimmy Durante.What implications has the bugging had for your motoring?Well there were times when I was younger when a car was a place for romantic pursuits, and only the gearstick was an impediment. Now obviously there are other difficulties...Have you ever used a car for romantic pursuits?All of my children have been conceived in cars... Richard thinks I've said enough now.
The sound of piracyTwo French computer experts have earned the dubious distinction of being the first Europeans to be convicted of music piracy over the Internet.Last week, in a case brought by a number of major music labels including Sony Music Entertainment, Island Records and Warner Brothers, the pair were found guilty of illegally distributing music by the likes of Madonna and Will Smith. They were given three-month suspended prison sentences and ordered to pay damages of $15,300. Watch out for similar cases to be heard in Belgium, France, Italy and Sweden in the near future.Favourable oddsOnline gambling is set to be as big in Europe as it is in the US. A new report by Datamonitor forecasts that the European market, currently worth $55 million, will reach $5.5 billion by 2004, equalling that of the US.Beenz mean...Gameplay.com, the Internet games portal in which BSkyB has just taken a stake, is offering users the chance to earn 'beenz' - the nascent web currency that acts as loyalty points. In return for signing up to the site, users earn beenz which can be put towards the cost of video games.Yahoo! yippeeMMXI Europe, the audience measurement company, has released a survey showing which are the most popular websites in the UK. Number one was Yahoo!, with nearly 8 million visitors in October. Freeserve came in second with nearly 3 million visitors, just ahead of Microsoft's MSN portal.Leeds leadsIt had to happen. With most of the UK still undecided about where to spend the millennium some bright spark has launched a new website featuring the latest details on pubs, clubs and bars.www.citynights.co.ukfeatures click-and-zoom maps and in-bar cameras. Leeds is the first city to be subjected to its scrutiny and another 23 cities will follow over the next 12 months.Time lordse-retailer of the week is Nextweekend.com. The company aims to provide a 'simple one-stop shop' which will help all of those desperate individuals who are cash-rich but time-poor plan their weekends. The service, to be launched early next year, will provide information and a ticket looking line, allowing you to buy everything from hotel rooms to gardening equipment.
Carlton and Granada, two steam-age television companies, have just forked out &#163;20 million for a 25 per cent share of Askjeeves.co.uk, a British version of a US search engine that accepts plain-English inquiries such as 'Why are Carlton programmes so ghastly?' This is presumably a ploy to breathe some life into the companies' websites,one of which (Carlton's jamba.co.uk) is brain dead while the other (Granada's G-wizz.net) is just plain dead. Visitors to the latter are currently greeted by an image of a bouncer fending them off with outstretched paw. 'Sorry Mate,' he is saying, 'no pass, no entry. Leave your details with me and I'll let you know when G-Wizz launches.'The problem with Ask Jeeves is that it purports to be clever but is dumb in the way only software can be. By soliciting inquiries in plain English, it gives neophytes the impression they are dealing with a sentient machine. But what it does is pass the inquiry, translate it into Boolean form (along the lines of 'Carlton + programmes + ghastly') and submit it to other search engines such as AltaVista.In fact, all search engines are a sham, in the sense that they promise more than they deliver. They are naively regarded as catalogues of the Net, but are nothing of the kind. A library catalogue is meticulous and comprehensive whereas most search engines are merely casual indexers. And even the best of them cover only a small fraction of the Web. Nobody knows how many web pages there are, but a survey in the journal  Nature some months ago put the figure at 800 million, which is probably an underestimate. None of the current search engines indexes more than 200 million pages, and, after allowing for dead links, most actually reach considerably fewer than that.The fact that search engines reveal only the tip of the Internet iceberg has alarming implications. At the   moment, their incompetence and incapacity is merely a nuisance. But in an online world, their partiality will be a source of great (and unregulated) power. For example, if you start up in e-business but the search engines can't - or won't - index your site then you will effectively be invisible to most potential customers. The temptation will then be to pay the search engines to ensure one's site is indexed. Or for them to demand payment for inclusion. A bit like protection money, really.&#149; Meanwhile Virgin Online has signed up with Google, a clever, fast and minimalist search engine invented by two Stanford graduate students. Richard Branson seems to have decided that the Internet is just the thing to give his ragbag of businesses some kind of coherence. Now he's into cellular telephony with Virgin Mobile, the network that offers 'no catches, no line-rental, no rip-off'. The PR pack that launched this brave new venture, however, featured a pouty young woman on the front cover and the legend 'Pick me up, turn me on, use me to your heart's content'. Presumably Branson intends to sell phones mainly to the  Loaded market.&#149; While negotiations continued between Microsoft and the Department of Justice last week and the DoJ released its legal contention that the company had violated the first two sections of the Sherman Act, the interesting action lay elsewhere. First, Microsoft announced a joint venture with Ericsson, the mobile phone company. This signals Bill Gates's determination to muscle in on the coming boom in wireless computing, and a tacit recognition that the Windows CE portable operating system is a dead duck. And then it was revealed that the latest training programme for Microsoft regional managers is being conducted by the Royal Navy - in the sinking ship simulator at HMS Raleigh in Plymouth.&#149; john.naughton@observer.co.uk
On a wet Saturday afternoon you are sitting in a coffee shop with a friend. Bereft of ideas about what to do for the evening you whip out your mobile phone and access an e-retailer selling concert tickets via the Internet. Not only are you offered a choice of the concerts on that night, you are played video clips complete with CD-quality sound of the bands performing. A push of a button buys two tickets billed to your credit card. The screen changes to show a map of where the concert is, complete with a small advert highlighting forthcoming attractions at the same venue.Welcome to the wireless World Wide Web. A pipe dream? Absolutely not. Next month the Government is to auction off five licences that will allow mobile phone operators to offer these sorts of services. Forget e-commerce - m-commerce is the new buzz.How much of a buzz was revealed last week when software giant Microsoft announced a strategic partnership with Ericsson, the company that builds mobile phones and the networks they use. The deal will see Microsoft put its software - a specially adapted web browser for mobile devices - onto a range of Ericsson phones. Orange, which is launching early next year a smart phone capable of sending and receiving video pictures, also announced that its device will incorporate Microsoft software. BT and Microsoft have formed alliances, too.Not content with providing the world with 97 per cent of PC operating systems, Microsoft now wants to ensure its software is found in every mobile device. The question is: will Nokia and Motorola, the two largest manufacturers of mobile phone handsets, make similar alliances with Microsoft?In the telecommunications world these sort of alliances typify what is known as 'convergence' - shorthand for 'the old gods are dead'. Time was when you knew where you stood in the world of technology. Computers were computers; phones were used for talking; video recorders nestled snuggly under your televisions in the corner of the lounge.But now things are starting to blur. As the Internet has developed, we have been able to access a whole array of new services - from buying goods from online e-retailers to downloading video clips - through our PCs. In parallel to this, more and more people are using mobile phones. Today about 28 per cent of the UK population uses a mobile handset. Penetration levels of around 50 per cent are predicted within 12 months or so.Now the two trends are starting to converge. Mobile phone operators are rolling out a series of new technologies allowing us to do everything we can through our normal televisions or PCs while on the move.At the moment this approach is largely focused on ways of making the spectrum used by the UK's four mobile operators more efficient so that it can carry lots of services, such as m-commerce, as well as normal voice traffic.The move to wireless Internet services will be given a fillip next month, when the Government auctions off a radio spectrum once used by the military. Five licences, expected to cost up to &#163;500 million each are for sale. Companies that own the licences are each expected to have to spend at least &#163;1.5 billion rolling out their new wireless Internet networks, which in the telecoms world are called universal mobile telephone systems (UMTS).Sometimes known as 3G (as in third generation mobile phones), UMTS will not be fully available in the UK until around 2005. However, many   wireless Internet services will be available before then and experts argue the transformation of the mobile phone will be evolutionary rather than revolutionary.Below is a rough guide to the year ahead:Is there really a mass market for mobile Internet services?Mobile phone users are already getting excited about elementary data applications such as short messaging services. The mobile arm of Japanese giant NTT has about 100,000 SMS users a day and has seen its revenues soar. Users love some of the applications, such as being able to download screen savers onto their mobiles.In the UK we send around 100 million SMS messages a month. 'The key thing is that UMTS is going to be as exciting for the mass market as it is for the business community. The early adopters of mobile phones were business people, but this time around there will be a broadening of the appeal,' said Richard Carter of Ericsson.Broadview, the specialist technology investment bank, recently issued a report point ing out that worldwide there are 150 million fixed-line Internet connections, compared with 375 million mobile users. Cr&#233;dit Lyonnais says that by 2005 a quarter of all data will be transmitted over mobile devices, compared with less than 2.5 per cent now.With UMTS five years away, what other technologies will deliver wireless services before then?Stand by for a plethora of acronyms. First up is wireless application protocol (WAP). Think of WAP as a new sort of browser fitted to the next wave of mobile phones, allowing them to access specially adapted web pages. Normal web pages, the sort you look at on your PC, take an age to download onto a mobile and are ill-suited for the handset's small screen. WAP ensures that the pages are configured for mobiles. In the Microsoft/Ericsson alliance, for example, Ericsson provides its WAP browser while Bill Gates's firm provides its own Internet microbrowser suitable for mobile phones - two ways of accessing the Web from one device. More than 600 million WAP handsets   will be shipped over the next five years, according to Allied Business Intelligence.Other technologies?Watch out for high speed circuit switched data (HSCSD) and general packet radio service (GPRS). Currently mobile phone networks operate at 9.6 Kbits per second. HSCSD and GPRS will boost this to 64 Kbits and 115 Kbits per second, respectively. To put this into context, your normal phone line, through which you currently access the Internet, operates at 56 Kbits per second, so we're talking much faster - and more extensive - services. These will be available next year.How does UMTS differ from these services?With transmission speeds of 384 Kbits per second while on the move and up to 2Mbits while stationary, it's a lot faster - allowing us to download videos and CD-quality sound. It is also designed to carry data much more efficiently, which should keep the cost down for users. Uniquely, UMTS allows consumers to make voice calls while surfing the Web.Given all the talk of convergence between devices should we continue to refer to mobile 'phones'?Probably not. Talk now is of mobile 'devices' - anything from small palmtop devices to those built into vehicles. 'Look at the explosion in Gameboys, which are, after all, mini-computers. What's stopping their manufacturer from ensuring the next model can log on to mobile networks?' asks David Gillick of management consultant DS Wolf International.Most laptop computers will be capable of wireless Internet access in the future but this does not mean the death of the PC. 'PCs will continue in the long run but the number of computing devices will go down as the number of mobiles rises,' said Jay Saw, strategic analyst with One 2 One.In addition, wireless Internet offers a new broadcasting opportunity. In the future we will be able to receive digital-quality pictures and sound without the need for wires, posing a potential threat to digital radio and television. The chances are we will also do all our banking over mobile phones in the not so distant future. One day the devices will replace cash altogether.So is this the death of fixed-line telephone operators?No, the predicted explosion in e-commerce means there will never be enough mobile spectrum to do everything we want via wireless devices. In addition, fixed-line services are likely to be cheaper than mobile, at least in the short term. The fixed line operators will, however, have to offer new added-value services, chiefly in the e-commerce field. Just carrying voice traffic will not be enough.&#149; The number of digital mobile subscribers will rise to one billion by 2003 Handset shipments will grow to 535 million by 2002. There will be more than 140 million mobile phone subscribers in Europe by the end of this year - a 55 per cent increase from 1998 Mobile phones, in some places, are already used by more than 60 per cent of the population - in Finland, 62 per cent of the population are mobile phone subscribers. Nearly 30 per cent of people in the UK use a mobile compared with 22 per cent in Germany and 25 per cent in Ireland. The EU average is just over 30 per cent.   There are 150 million fixed-line Internet connections compared with 375 million mobile phone users 10 per cent of e-commerce transactions will be conducted through mobile handsets by 2002. European m-commerce will grow from 323 million euros in 1998 to 23 billion by 2003. Nearly a quarter of mobile applications by 2003 will be devoted to advertising Mobile financial services will account for 21 per cent while shopping will account for 15 per cent So-called 'Smartphones', which will boast a microbrowser to surf the web, will be the standard mobile device by 2002Sources: Broadview, Salomon Smith Barney, Durlacher,  The Observer
Israel's leading expert on the millennium is predicting that thousands of people will attempt to commit suicide in Jerusalem over the first few days of the new year as religious fervour, solar flares and computer glitches all combine to produce a chaos which many will interpret as the beginning of the end of the world.Rabbi and respected television producer Yehoshua Ben-Porat has spent more than 18 months researching and interviewing groups around the world about their plans for the year 2000. His documentary,  The Religious World War, predicts that the event could easily trigger a global conflict, and last week he was   called in by Israeli government ministers to share his grim findings. 'I hope I am stupid,' he says nervously. 'I pray to God that I am wrong. But I do not believe that I am.''From 25 December onwards, all the major television networks in the world will have cameras in Jerusalem. Anyone who wants to make some kind of statement or show knows this is the time and place to do it.''Even a simple symbolic act, such as throwing a pig's head into a Muslim temple or setting oneself on fire, is likely to trigger a violent reaction, especially as 1 January is going to be the most holy day in the Muslim calender, the start of Ramadan.'For the past 18 months, the   Israeli authorities have been deporting people with even slightly suspicious motives for being in the country. More than 1,000 have so far been deported including 100 from Britain and Ireland.Some, such as the 29 members of the Denver-based Concerned Christians cult who were deported from Israel last January, were obvious targets. Their leader, Monte Kim Miller, has predicted that he will die in Jerusalem in December 1999 and be resurrected three days later. Six million tourists are expected to visit the country in the first three months of 2000, three times the number that Israel normally sees during an entire year. Of those millions, around 40,000 are expected to   be long-term pilgrims. They will destroy their passports soon after arriving and then set up home in Israel to await Christ.Israeli officials have been reluctant to discuss their concerns about the apocalyptic groups, but a recent FBI report noted concerns that the Temple Mount, 'an area already seething with tension and distrust among Muslims and Jews, will be the stage for violent encounters between religious zealots'.The Israeli government   has allotted an additional $12 million to upgrade security in the area with more than 400 extra police officers expected on patrol.Despite the predictions, Yair Yitzhaki, the commander of the Jerusalem police, remains confident. 'We are preparing for the possibility of mass suicides, which is relatively new compared with the other threats against the Temple Mount. I very much hope we can cope with it too,' he says.In private, however, government officials admit they are still struggling with the basics such as how to provide toilets and clean water for the estimated 500,000 people expected to crowd on to the Mount of Olives to see in the New Year.Hospitals have been put on alert in case of riots and psychiatric units are also preparing for casualties, including cases of 'Jerusalem Syndrome' - people without previous psychiatric problems who, after arriving in the holy city, believe that they are biblical figures or have a godly mission.The dawn of the new millennium also coincides with what scientists believe will be the most intense solar storm in recorded history.Beginning around 26 December, the sun will reach the peak of its 11-year seasonal cycle with flares equal to the power of hundreds of nuclear bombs exploding across its surface.The bursts of electromagnetic energy this creates could surge along power   lines, burning out equipment. It is feared electrical charges in the atmosphere could knock out satellites or produce phantom signals. Global positioning systems, mobile phones, pagers and radios are at greatest risk.Though no one is predicting disaster because of the solar flares alone, Ben-Porat believes that with so many groups awaiting some sort of sign from God, even the smallest disruption could have a snowball effect.
My constant companion nowadays is the invaluable Guardian Guide To The Internet, by Jim McClellan (Fourth Estate, &#163;5.99). Together with an ear infection and other winter ailments, I have suffered an attack of internet fever. I have a desperate urge to grasp and control the internet in all its infinite richness and complexity. I don't want to be left out. I want to be a fully paid-up member of the global internet community, conversing urbanely with all the peoples of the world and discovering all the secrets of the universe. You can do that, you know, on the internet. You can find out everything there is to know. It is a wonderland at which even Alice would marvel.But unfortunately, you will never be able to grasp or control it for, as Gertrude Stein once said of Oakland, there is no there there. As every internet beginners' guide points out, it isn't a thing. It's just a means of communication, used, at the moment, by about 150 million people with computers. You can no more control the internet than you can control all the telephone conversations going on in the world. Jim McClellan sagely advises us not to be too ambitious. "Getting online is not like signing up for some monolithic crusade," he writes. "You don't have to buy into the whole programme. You can pick and choose."That's all very well, but how do you pick and choose on the internet without constantly stumbling into stupid, unpleasant and cocksure people who poison your view of the world? There is much nastiness out there, and not only of the unspeakable kind that landed Gary Glitter in jail. There is smugness and rudeness and ghastly technological jargon, which are the legacy of the early internet users who tried to hijack the new medium for an exclusive new culture that would frighten off normal people. They wrote ungrammatically and without punctuation. They invented words that only the initiated would understand. They responded to conventional language or technological naivety with sneers and abuse.Recently, I received an incredibly abusive e-mail message from a reader of a column I write for an American online magazine. I replied with studied politeness and was rewarded with a grovelling apology. He hadn't meant any of it, the reader said. Being rude on the internet was just a habit that was very hard to shake. He was truly sorry. Here was evidence that the   techno-elitists are on the run. Their bid for control of the internet has failed. They have been swamped by ordinary people, such as my mother-in-law who, at the age of 84, has started using a computer to send e-mail messages, which she writes with care and elegance and describes heretically as "letters".In fact, the internet is seldom decried nowadays for promoting cultural barbarity. Instead, it has become fashionable to credit it with a revival of old-fashioned literary values. In its current issue, the New Yorker magazine claims that "the internet is the first new medium to move decisively backward, for it is, essentially, written". "When someone tells you that he has been online, what he has probably been doing is reading words that other people have written, and then writing some words of his own," it says.The New Yorker points out that it has caused millions of people who, until recently, were communicating almost exclusively by telephone to start writing letters again. "Those who stubbornly insist that the internet is forward-looking point out that it's good only for a certain kind of writing - the 300-word burst, the quick hit," it goes on. "But this confirms how sublimely reactionary it is. It doesn't just look back - it looks way back, to around 1730. Swift and Pope and Lord Chesterfield, with a Web page apiece, would have been merrily scribbling short essays, anonymous accusations, and billets-doux. "Two of the most popular Web forms - the rant and the quote page, a miscellany of epigram - are pure 18th-century revivals."There remains, however, a large gap between the language ordinary people use on the internet and that of the technical experts who make it work. These people are brilliant, of course, and without them the miracle could never have taken place. But they need to be much more self-effacing. You can use the radio or the telephone without any understanding of the technology behind them. That must become true of the internet as well if it is to embrace the Swifts and Popes of the modern world. I am now able to listen to music on the internet, but only after being instructed to download a tool known as a "Stuffit Expander". A Stuffit Expander? I ask you. This is the internet's great challenge - to get itself to work without telling you how.
With the millennium just weeks away the key issue facing businesses large and small is how well their marketing strategies are in tune with the digital economy. Marketing in the new millennium has to be "dot commed" by seizing the opportunities that the internet offers. If "dot com" is not embedded in the marketing strategy then your company has not realised the world has changed.A couple of years ago marketers were proud when they created a website that allowed people to browse in an online brochure.Today the internet has to be embedded "through the line", from branding to fulfilment, from online transactions to liaising with agencies. It's about "networked marketing". Those who don't understand this will lose market share. Networked marketing is such a fundamental shift that to do it justice it would take a book. Nevertheless, based on my experience at Sun Microsystems, here are some pointers to the way forward.Educationists may have their three R's but modern marketing professionals must grasp three A's: Anything, Anytime, Anywhere. Markets are now global; customers can click round the world for the best product and access information 24 hours a day, seven days a week.The internet demands that marketers must consider customer service as part of every campaign. The basics involve having a quick-to-download site that is always available and builds on your existing brand values.Hamleys.co.uk, for example, is a traditional store where the toys are well illustrated and found in a shopfloor format.Next step is to boost the power of your brands. It is vital that they project the right information, image and service, online. Consumers must have compelling reasons to visit your site. Building a shared set of values and a unique set of offerings is the key. Take Prudential's Egg (Egg.com). Its online success is built on all the right ingredients: image, strong financial products and a high-performance site.With product launches, think and act in internet time. Gone are the days of annual product launches; a year in normal time is equal to three months in internet time. Whatever your normal time to market - halve it and halve it again. Out there on the worldwide web a new start-up can hit you in a matter of weeks and, backed by venture capital funds, out-market you too. So focus on building market share and delivering added value rather than return on investment.That's the essence of value-led marketing, although it's important to focus on your core competences. Customers are demanding more services and the internet provides you with ample opportunity to create added value. This can be in terms of related content, support   groups or online support. One great example of this isBeenz.com- the first online promotional incentive, a sort of web currency where you reward customers for visiting your site.However, in an overcrowded world it's simplicity with passion that will win. It is crucial to keep your ideas simple. Check out sites such asLastminute.comandThinkNatural.com, both based on simple ideas. The former has the premise that many people leave organising their weekends or life to the last minute and this is the place to find the best deals. And to really make it big, be personal and foster loyalty.You need to build a relationship with your customer by creating a personalised site which is rich in content and dynamically changes to match the customer profile. We do this at Sun by creating MySunCentres, personalised sites for our customers and partners giving them access to the information relevant to them - a personal portal.That said, do not neglect your offline marketing drives, as integration is the watchword. Online and off-line campaigns should work together. At a simple level this can be by promoting special offers above the line and backing them with online promotions. When promoting events or sending out mailpacks the customer should have the facility for online registration and follow-up information. The power of networked marketing is the strong foundation that it gives you across the department. Online communication using databases enables more focused and better targeted and more cost-effective campaigns.Every member of the marketing team should question what they are doing and start to think how to dot com themselves - they should start being more imaginative, seek out new ideas and knock down old-established rules. Start-ups likeBoo.comfor sportswear and the Internet Exchange with net cafes are built on passionate, mould-breaking ideas.This is not a cue to junk all traditions, for traditional companies adapting to the new way of doing business do as well. Look at the Co-operative Bank'sSmile.co.uk- the full-service internet bank.The net has to be at the heart of marketing strategies - at Sun, every project is networked, from our sponsorships with McLaren, Pete Goss and Manchester United to our events and partner philosophy.Louise Proddow is marketing director, Sun Microsystems. Email: Louise.proddow@uk.sun.com
The Financial Times was left reeling by a wave of senior staff defections yesterday as the Internet start-up bandwagon swept up the head of its venerable investment column, Lex, and carried away two of the newspaper's top technology writers.After 13 years on the FT, Hugo Dixon is taking one of his colleagues on Lex, Jonathan Ford, off to start what he describes simply as an "online venture", having already won backing from venture capitalists and recruited a number of other editorial staff.Meanwhile, Paul Taylor, a technology writer in London and an FT correspondent for 21 years, is joining forces with David Massey, currently managing editor of AFX, the financial news service - which is half-owned by the FT along with Agence France Presse - to develop a new web-based service analysing the technology sector worldwide. This "business-to-business" e-venture is being partly funded by Durlacher, the small British investment bank specialising in Internet start-ups.In San Francisco, the paper's US technology correspondent Roger Taylor is also leaving to join a new internet-based company in California, details of which remained unclear yesterday.The flurry of defections follows a damaging internal row at the FT in the summer when it emerged that the then political editor, Robert Peston, was seeking venture capital backing to launch an online competitor to the newspaper. Mr Peston, known for his strong links with the Labour party, subsequently dropped the idea and recently moved jobs at the paper, taking up the title of financial editor.Insiders at the paper suggested yesterday that the departure of Mr Dixon, who was Robert McKenna's chief policy adviser at the SDP before he joined the FT, in part stemmed from Mr Peston's new appointment.It was also being pointed out yesterday that the FT has been on an aggressive hiring spree recently, bringing in scores of new journalists to run its web off-shoot, FT.com, and bolster the newspaper. It recently redesigned the UK edition and introduced a new, much-admired Saturday magazine.Last night, Peter Martin, the head of the FT's internet business, said: "In the past year we have hired more than 100 top writers. Our sales are at record levels and our web site is one of the world's most popular financial sites on the Internet."It is always sad to lose talent, but we have had no difficulty in recruiting top people. For those that are going, we wish them the best of luck."
They are calling it the "dot.com" economy and everyone wants a piece of the action.Stock market trading by small investors has trebled in the past four weeks, spurred by cheap or even free online dealing services in a phenomenon that has staggered traditional City stockbrokers. Hundreds of thousands of get-rich-quick investors - average age 37, average trade &#163;3,000 - are scrambling into little-known, often loss-making internet stocks that have soared in value.Driving the surge in trading is the mushrooming of internet "bulletin boards" that have replaced smoke-filled City wine bars as the share tipster's favourite haunt.But the scale of the share-buying spree has rung alarm bells at the City's top regulatory body, which this week told investors to think more carefully about the shares they are buying. Some of the online and telephone brokers are also buckling under the pressure of what some describe as the modern-day equivalent of the gold rush.One, Barclays Stockbrokers, is no longer taking on new customers during trading hours and others are suffering severe administration delays. The regulator, the Financial Services Authority, is now demanding that broking firms put in urgent contingency plans to deal with the swell in business, which is leaving some anxious clients hanging on to unanswered, or engaged, phone lines for longer than usual.The majority of trades are "execution-only", made without any formal advice from a broker, a fact that the FSA's director of consumer relations, Christine Farnish, admits is worrying. She says "counsel and advice" from a broker might help to stem impulsive behaviour. There is no one to calm this new breed of amateur investor.The statistics are staggering. There was more trading on AIM, the stock exchange's market for smaller stocks, in November than there was in the whole of last year, when smaller companies were shunned by traditional share dealers. Crestco, the company that runs the stock market's electronic settlement system, reported 296,000 individual share bargains on November 30, well above the last record when Halifax shareholders cashed in their windfalls.Overall, daily deals on the London stock exchange have boomed from around 60,000 a day at the start of the year to more than 120,000. More than 2bn shares are regularly passing through the market each day.No one is quite sure what kickstarted the frenzy. Some say the extra activity coincided with the launch of techMARK, the stock exchange's technology market, at the beginning of November. Others point to the hype surrounding a Channel 4 programme, Show Me the Money, in which company chiefs were given a slot to persuade viewers to back their company, which fuelled a frenzied demand for certain stocks. Historically low interest rates may also have encouraged investors to take their money out of sluggish deposit accounts.What is not in doubt is that the internet bulletin boards, a new and completely unregulated cyber-world of amateur tipsters, has fuelled the rocketing growth. Yesterday an entry on the "interactive investor" bulletin board told surfers to buy Pacific Media: "Get in there, there's an announcement on the way, cannot say when.""Take a look at Bula Resources, could rocket soon," came another piece of advice, while yet another declared: "I have a mate with a mate who works for NTL, and he says French Telecom is about to announce a further 20% stake. Anyone else heard the same?"Interactive investor helpfully carries a warning at the bottom of every note that the statements may be "misleading, deceptive or wrong".The collapse in dealing costs has also spurred trading. A year ago a &#163;5,000 private share trade cost at least &#163;60 plus stamp duty to transact, and the list of shares most commonly traded were the blue-chip stocks of the "Tell Sid" privatisation and demutualisation generation; BT, Halifax, Abbey National, BP. Now, after the launch of trading services by largely US net dealers such as Charles Schwab, E*Trade and DLJ Direct, the price of a trade has fallen to as low as &#163;5, or even zero during the first 30 days of trading.The new net traders - who number at least 70,000 and are growing by hundreds every day - are spurning the blue chips for previously unknown net stocks. Seven out of the top 10 stocks traded last week through the biggest net broker, Charles Schwab, were previously unheard of companies such as 365 Corporation and Pacific Media.Frenzied buying has sent the share values of net stocks to stratospheric levels, leaving traditional bellwether companies trailing far behind. ARM Holdings, which designs chips for semiconductor manufacturers, began trading on the London stock market only 18 months ago but is now worth &#163;6bn - &#163;2bn more than ICI.The frequency of buying and selling is also beginning to approach the day trading levels common in the US, where the phenomenon began. E*Trade says it expected its investors to trade around 10 times a year when it launched in July this year: already the "trade" frequency is hitting 35 to 40 per investor, the vast majority of whom are male.Richard Hunter, head of dealing services at NatWest Stockbrokers, can remember nothing to rival the surge in share dealing now taking place, not even the privatisation bonanza unleashed by Margaret Thatcher.He said some of the clients ringing up to conduct trades did not even know the name of the company in which they wanted to buy shares. Instead they describe the company from descriptions on the bulletin boards and chat pages on the web.No one knows the scale of profits the new traders are making - or losing. Stories abound in the US of people giving up secure salaried jobs to trade daily on the market, often with tragic consequences. One so-called "day trader", Mark Barton, shot dead nine people at two day trading firms in Atlanta, Georgia, after running up losses of more than $120,000 (&#163;75,000). But day trading on the scale now common in the US is not expected to take off in Britain because stamp duty, levied at 0.5%, eats into profits.The biggest British brokers, while enjoying the spree in business, are privately concerned about when the bubble might burst. The lead may come from the US, if interest rates start to rise rapidly early in the new year. Market historians point to the work of the economist JK Galbraith in his classic study of the great crash of 1929."A broker's valet made nearly $250,000 in the market; a nurse cleaned up $30,000 following tips from grateful patients, and a Wyoming cattleman was buying or selling 1,000 shares a day." When the bell boys in the lifts started buying and selling stock, Galbraith said, the crash was not far behind."You pick up gossip about deals on the bulletin boards. But you have to be careful"Chris Robinson, a mother of three from Nottingham, often spends several hours a night scouring internet bulletin boards in search of share-buying tips, and reckons to have doubled her investment since she started trading in September."They give you a good indication of what's moving because it's being talked about, and what's being ignored. And you pick up gossip about deals," says Ms Robinson, 47. She looks at at least 12 bulletin boards, but concentrates on three, at the websites of motley fool, interactive investor and hemscott.info."You have to be careful. There's an awful lot of ramping going on when people push stocks they already own. And you've always got to be aware that market makers read all the boards - they'll mark up shares if they see a trend forming."Ms Robinson first ventured into technology stock in February 1998 after a holiday in San Francisco, where the tech stock trend was up and running. On her return, she looked at the Market Eye information screen in her local HSBC branch."I liked the look of Pace - it was 42p and had digital TV links and that's the latest technology. Now Pace is over a fiver, so in the parlance it's a tenbacker - you multiply your cash more than 10 times."But it took the Show Me the Money lunchtime TV show to convince her to begin dealing regularly. Now her portfolio includes such stocks as Pacific Media, Baltimore Technology and Fibernet. She has also ridden Freeserve's ups and downs.She does not deal online as she says it can be slow, preferring the &#163;10 a deal Teletrade phone service. Most of her trades are in hundreds rather than thousands of pounds.Ms Robinson believes this week's FSA warning will largely go unheeded. "It's only for the nervous and they shouldn't be dealing," she says. She reckons the tech stock bubble could last until the spring."But it's really a hobby. I do have mainstream shares for my longer-term future, such as British Telecom and Norwich Union. And I plunged into Marks &amp; Spencer at 230p - so I'm ahead on that."Red-hot stocksPacific MediaStarted life as a cinema operator in Asia, now invests in internet firms across Europe and Asia. At the start of November it was selling for 0.75p a share: yesterday closed at 6.8pARM HoldingsDesigns chips used in mobile phones. Joined the stock market 18 months ago with an opening price of 200p: yesterday shares stood at an eye-watering &#163;33365 CorporationSports internet news and content provider. Dealing began on December 2: yesterday closed at 234.5p, up 46% in a week
Britain's financial markets are in the grip of an unprecedented stock-buying fever as punters rush to buy almost any share with a whiff of the internet about it. The City has been caught on the hop and cannot cope with the surge in demand.People report spending up to a day waiting for a free line to some stockbrokers and then having to wait up to an hour more before it is answered. This is a boom that should not have happened. Share trading normally slows down in the run up to Christmas as attention moves from stocks to stocking filling: this year it has exploded - quite a change from earlier in the year when there was concern that millennium bug fears might induce a free-fall in shares. And all this is under a Labour administration dedicated to fiscal prudence and with a puritanical attitude to speculation.No one is sure exactly why it is happening now - but there are a number of pointers. The rapidly falling cost of buying shares has coincided with much easier access to dealers selling them. (You might now be talking to a call centre in Cardiff rather then a stuffy stockbroker in Throgmorton Street.) The internet boom has spawned lots of chat rooms and bulletin boards where rumours and tips are shared with everyone. Last month's establishment of Techmark, the new UK market for techno shares, gave a big boost to share buying. The tipping of shares on Channel 4's Show Me The Money programme is behind some of the recent rises, as are daily hot tips from the City pages of the Daily Mirror.In one sense this is merely the democratisation of insider information formerly limited to a magic circle in the City. But there is no guarantee that the information is correct and, since most of these deals are done on an execution-only basis, there is no adviser to urge caution. It is impossible to know whether web-based tipsters are genuinely sharing information or using false stories to blag shares up so they can make a quick profit. In the short run, success can be self-fulfilling. If thousands of people keep piling into a comparatively small number of shares (often in short supply) then they will rise and rise. That is what is happening now, and it could go on and on... until it shifts into reverse, as have nearly all previous speculative booms.The City regulator is right to warn people of the risks, but that won't be enough to stem this get-rich-quick boom as punters everywhere stake their claims to some of the instant fortunes made by internet start-up companies. Britain is known in Europe as a nation of gamblers - what other countries have betting shops at the end of the road? Maybe this same gambling fever is now moving upmarket as an increasingly prosperous nation (or at least that part of it in employment) seeks the fruits of the next financial Klondike. Or South Sea Bubble.
Boxman.com, one of Europe's largest online CD retailers, has appointed investment bank Morgan Stanley Dean Witter to prepare the ground for a &#163;200m stock market flotation in the new year.The planned flotation comes amid continued frenzy for internet stocks which has seen huge volumes traded in companies such as online auction house QXL and internet service provider Freeserve. Thursday's call from the financial services authority for restraint stalled some shares yesterday, with QXL falling 5% to 885p and sports website 365 Corporation sliding 7% to 234.5p. The TechMark index of hi-tech stocks continued to rise, however, adding 3%.Boxman has also appointed   the financial public relations agency Shandwick ahead of the planned flotation in London and possibly on Nasdaq during the first half of 2000.The business was founded in Sweden in 1997 and counts Scandinavian rock bands Roxette, fronted by singer Marie Fredriksson, and Ace of Bass as shareholders. The shareholder base also includes Bernard Arnault, the French internet investor and head of luxury goods group LVMH.Chief executive Tony Salter is a former president of music group EMI in eastern Europe.Boxman sales have increased from &#163;2m in the first half of 1998 to &#163;5m in the first six months of this year with some 500,000 customers now using the service. It claims to have a 20% market share of online CD sales in the UK,   France, Germany the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway and Denmark. It expects to launch in Spain and Italy within the next six months.It recently signed a landmark cross-promotion deal with music video channel MTV. The latter will direct viewers and visitors to MTV websites to Boxman's range of 500,000 CDs, DVDs and games titles.The company raised about &#163;20m through an equity issue at the beginning of this year, which valued the business at &#163;40m.It subsequently merged with iMVS.com, the British-based online home entertainment group which launched as the Internet Music Shop in 1995. Pro forma sales for the combined group for the year to June 1999 were &#163;10m.iMVS recently rebranded as Yalplay.com and has an e-commerce shop on Open, the interactive TV channel for Sky digital subscribers.Boxman is also providing a retail service for mobile phone users in Finland which it hopes to expand across Europe.The planned flotation follows another wave of internet businesses announcing their intent to join the London market this week.Interactive Investor International, a personal finance website, said it would seek a listing on Thursday while the online dealing service GlobalNet Financial.com rose 80% on its debut. Yesterday it took a modest 16% hit to close on 250p.A spokesman for Boxman declined to comment.
Microsoft is considering taking legal action against a British businessman attempting to auction for at least &#163;2m the internet domain name billgates.co.uk.The US software group founded by Bill Gates bared its teeth last night after the sale of the website address was posted on online auction house Names123.com. The address is registered to an undisclosed person who makes a living from registering and reselling web addresses.In what could produce a landmark case for the still murky legal framework of the internet Microsoft said it was seeking advice on what action could be taken."We have referred this matter to outside counsel for investigation," a spokeswoman said. "We would object to anyone taking unfair advantage of the goodwill and recognition of Mr Gates' name and reputa tion, and would object to any suggestion that he is involved with or endorses use of this domain."The market for web addresses has become lucrative as the rush to set up sites has narrowed the number of memorable names available for use. New addresses are being registered at a rate of 300,000 a week with 13m names in use worldwide.A court case about 18 months ago saw two businessmen forced to hand over to Marks &amp; Spencer, Ladbroke, Sainsbury and Virgin domain names which they had registered with the aim of turning a quick profit. The pair behind One in a Million, both aged 23 at the time, were also told to pay &#163;65,000 costs.Rebecca Harrison, a specialist in internet law at Bird &amp; Bird, said the position for individuals' names was unclear. "You could be sued if it was proved you were trying to pass yourself off as being related to   a person or his business by the web address. But then if your name also happens to be Bill Gates why shouldn't you use it?"Last week the actor Brad Pitt began a lawsuit against two internet entrepreneurs who registered bradpitt.com and bradpitt.net and allegedly approached him demanding &#163;16,000 to hand them over.But industry watchers suggested the Microsoft legal wrangle could be academic given the reserve price set by the owner of billgates.co.uk.A poll of Bill Gateses in Britain showed little enthusiasm for having the name enshrined on the net. The reaction of Bill Gates of Edmonton, north London, was typical. The namesake of the world's richest man, one of seven in London, declined the chance to shell out for the internet domain name billgates.co.uk with a polite but firm "no thank you" before putting down the phone.
Shares in online dealing service GlobalNet Financial.com (www.globalnetfinancial.com), which joined the Alternative Investment Market yesterday, rose 80% on their first day's trading.Issued at 170p, which valued GlobalNet at &#163;283m, the stock hit 312.5p before slipping back to close at 305p, making the company worth more than &#163;500m.It is 12.55% owned by internet service provider Freeserve and plans to use the cash raised from flota tion to expand its money and finance portals.The price rise follows similar leaps by 365 Corp, SDL and Freecom, which made their market debuts last week. It will encourageInteractive Investor International, which announced float plans yesterday.The online personal finance service's main shareholder is Hollinger, the company controlled by Conrad Black which owns the Daily Telegraph.
My husband and I didn't meet online, but the internet played a major role in our relationship when we started planning our wedding. He is from England. I'm from America. We live in London. We agreed to get married in my hometown, Evanston, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. Despite the distance, we did most of the organising ourselves.Chicago Wedding Magazine (www.chicagoweddingonline.com) had a site that came in particularly handy. It includes a list of dozens of Chicago wedding vendors, everything from bakers to videographers, some of whom have websites themselves. The Lonely Planet and Rough Guide websites (www.lonelyplanet.comandwww.roughguides.com) helped us find hotels for our out-of-town guests.But the internet was most crucial when it came time to choose the bridesmaids dresses. If the distance from London to Chicago wasn't bad enough, the co-ordination of my four bridesmaids was made even more com plicated by the fact that they live in four different states - Illinois, Iowa, Massachusetts and North Carolina.Over the grumbles of a few of them, I chose chocolate brown as the colour. Then I selected a designer, and let them pick whichever dress they wanted from that line, as long as it was brown and floor-length. The designer had a website (www.belsoie.com) so each bridesmaid could go online, look at her options, try on a dress in a bridal shop near her then order the one she wanted by phone from a store in Chicago. I spent the month of February co-ordinating the whole thing from London, swapping emails about which dresses they liked.During the year a half of our engagement, the pattern of our lives was moulded by the demands of the wedding. We would spend three months in London faxing, calling, emailing and net surfing in an effort to schedule as many appointments as possible for two or three items on our list - the reception site or the caterer or the invitations. Then we would fly to Chicago for a   two-week wedding bonanza where each day was spent zipping around the city from appointment to appointment.Although I tried to squeeze a little leisure time into our tight schedule, each trip turned into a frantic race to see how much we could do before we had to return to London. My husband often grouses that he has been to Chicago about half a dozen times now and has never gone to the top of the Sears Tower or visited the science museum or hung out in a South Side blues club.During one trips,we were having breakfast with my parents in Evanston when I mentioned that a friend of a   friend of mine had a website for his wedding. My dad smiled and his eyebrows shot high into his forehead. After breakfast, he disappeared. A few hours later we found him in front of the computer in our basement, a copy of a book called something like HTML for Dummies at his side. He was still there after most of us went to sleep and by the next morning he already had a slightly homely picture of me and my fianc&eacute; on the home page accompanied by a tinny version of Mendelssohn's Wedding March.Despite some initial scepticism, the website did turn out to be very useful. It    was the most efficient way to get information to our guests who hailed from a dozen different states in America, Canada, Barbados, England and Scotland - even one from Albania. It had lots of practical information like directions, transport options, hotels, a copy of our wedding list and a link to the Weather Channel site (www.weatherchannel.com) a feature I used obsessively the week leading up to the wedding to watch the weather predictions for the weekend fluctuate   erratically from rainy in the 40s to sunny in the high 60s to blustery in the 50s. It also had some friendly touches like a brief history of Evanston, home of the Women's Temperance Movement, and photographs of the church and reception site.For the technologically challenged, we put essential information, like directions and hotels, on an insert in the invitation. But having the website meant we weren't inundated with calls in the days before the wedding from people who lost the printed directions.Organising a wedding like ours would have been a lot harder without websites and emails. I'll probably use the internet again to plan our next trip to Chicago, this time to find a good South Side blues club.
Stock giftsChristmas is coming, and you could solve all your present problems by buying a cow. Or a goat. Or some chickens. You don't have to worry about what to do with your livestock: Heifer Project International (HPI) will give it to a needy family. Heifers sound good value at $500 but the ark at http://catalog.heifer.org/ offers a range of options with donations starting at about $10. If you insist on a non-charitable approach to Christmas shopping, journalists have sites to help. Richard Longhurst at Rich Clickings has compiled an A to Z of Christmas Shopping    (www.richclickings.co.uk /shopping/atozxmas.html) that covers the market in one page, while Steve Homer's Gift-Net (www.gift-net.com) helps with sending gifts to friends around the world.Jingle sellsBT Internet has just launched what is claimed to be the UK's most comprehensive comparative internet shopping    service, which means users can compare prices in 21 categories as well as order goods from UK and US-based retailers.www.btspree.comcovers more than two million items from 74 retailers including Tower Records, CD Zone, ChocExpress, and 21Store.com. If you want to make your own comparisons, there's a comprehensive set of links to Shops On The Net atwww.sotn.co.ukSeveral new sites are trying to compete on price by cutting out the high street, for example Intersaver (www.intersaver.co.uk), PriceHero (www.pricehero.co.uk) and the most interesting, Letsbuyit.com (www.Letsbuyit.co.uk/en_GB/) a co-operative buying system that started in Sweden about three months ago. The more people buy a product, the cheaper it gets.Make a dateAdvent calendars are tough to do on the net - no chocolates - but this year's efforts by the likes of AOL (www.aol.co.uk) and BOL (www.bol.com) are desperately dull. The Big Breakfast has done its calendar as a screensaver (http://bigbreakfast. channel4.com) but Arehaus has by far the most creative effort atwww.arehaus.com/advent,even though it uses Shockwave.In your areaPublishing giant EMAP is entering the neighbourhood site market with a Yourscreen series of "digital city gateways" with addresses such aswww.yourmanchester.comandwww.yourleeds.com- so far there are about a dozen. Where ThisIs sites are based on local newspapers,    Yourscreen sites serve places covered by Emap Radio's Big City Network. Webhound is panting along behind. It has registered "several thousand domain names of UK towns", and put up a sample site atwww.Hunstanton.co.uk. The idea is to harness local efforts: working independently, the Lancashire town of Heywood town ( www. heywood.org.uk ) is an example. For an international effort with sites in several countries, seewww.wcities.comVideo starsMTV has listed the Top 100 Videos Ever Made. To join in the arguments, go towww.mtv.com/ mtv/tubescan/100videos/There are QuickTime clips of most of the videos, and full-length versions of a few. No prizes for guessing Michael Jackson's Thriller. . . .Walk this wayThus (Scottish Telecom/ Demon Internet) and Avaterra.com have launched interactive virutal communities or VZones in the UK, so you can guide an avatar or on-screen character through 3D chat-worlds atwww.virtualzones.co.uk However, behind the new names and marketing push is the WorldsAway system that first appeared here more than five years ago on CompuServe and atwww.worldsaway.comMusical pitchThe PitchWeb is a "virtual instrument" that anyone can play online by manipulating geometrical shapes on a web page - well, anyone with Macromedia's Shockwave, a robust browser and a little patience. The PitchWeb (www.monroestreet.com/ Cathedral/pitchweb/) is part of William Duckworth's experimental Cathedral site.Little helperSearching the web is a lonely business, but myESP enables people to chat to one another if they're searching for the same sort of thing. The myESP helper applicaton - beta test version now atwww.myesp.com- works like Gooey and ICQ Surf, and can link people using different search engines. In a sense you can't lose, because you still get   the same results from your search engine of choice, as well as a pop-up of "topic buddies". But if your searches are at all specific, you may find no buddies at all.Feng ShuiThere's now a Feng Shui service online, so you can draw diagrams of your rooms and have their suitability assessed - at a price. The service costs &#163;18 for 24 hours access and &#163;36 for a week. Go towww.online-fengshui.co.ukGingerThe former Ginger Spice, Geri Halliwell, has an official website, thanks to Chrysalis label. And it's well worth a visit for Lateral's clever and distinctive design, based on a mosaic of pop-up consoles. Since Geri is a latecomer to the net, the obvious addresses -www.gerihalliwell.co.uk andwww.gerihalliwell.com- had already been taken, so remember to put a hyphen inwww.geri-halliwell.comPisa to pizzaThe Leaning Tower of Pisa has its own website with 6,400 pictures and a 360 view from the belfry using Apple's QuickTime VR. http:// torre.duomo.pisa.it/ is the result of a three year photographic survey. With more than 900 pictures documenting each of the tower's main floors, they did a thorough job, but the result is very repetitive. Dominos will now let you    order a tower of pizza if you register atwww.dominos.co.uk.The site includes a menu, a store locator, and games: asteroids (written in Java) and a sliding block puzzle (Macromedia Flash).DoubleTwistOne day "software agents" will search the web and track developments on our behalf. For a pioneering example, try the preview of DoubleTwist (www.doubletwist.com), being developed at Stanford University in California. Unfortunately it's only of practical use if you're a biologist working on something like genome analysis, but experts should find it interesting to compare DoubleTwist with Genamics.com's GenomeSeek (http://genamics.com/).BraintrackingThe Braintrack University Index could well be the fastest way to find a university or college on the net. The site atwww.braintrack.comhas links to more that 5,000 institutions in more than 150 countries - and if your alma mater is missing, you can add it.Six of the bestEncyclopediasSetting the standardwww.britannica.comMicrosoft Encartahttp://encarta.msn.com/World Book Onlinewww.worldbook.comInformation portalwww.infoplease.comConcise Columbiawww.encyclopedia.comBritish: not all freewww.bt-ern.co.uk/helicon/
What can small shops - little, quirky ones in towns across Britain - do to get themselves online? Can small shop owners really sell their wares over the web, just like the little old Italian woman in the IBM adverts?It's a problem Wendy Barzetovic and her partner, Pete Fitzpatrick, have been pondering for months. Their store was created after Wendy's journey, in 1991, to India, to study Buddhism and to buy some of the silver jewellery she'd seen on previous trips. She was sure it would sell in flea markets or to boutiques in the UK.Today, Purple Lotus Imports is a thriving small business with a shop in Warwick specialising in exotic jewellery, clothing, objets d'art and Buddhist literature. Now Wendy and Pete want a Purple Lotus website to attract buyers from all over the world.Fitzpatrick, an architect, designed the "bricks and mortar" shop and was the first to become interested in   a virtual version. A search for comparable jewellery and gift sites produced specimens varying from flawed amateur efforts to brilliantly conceived and designed professional sites.While Fitzpatrick was comfortable with computer graphics, he had no knowledge of the net, HTML or e-commerce.Hiring a designer was out of the question. A good commercial site - one that looks great and can handle online transactions - can cost between &#163;25,000 and &#163;100,000, including the all-important maintenance needed to stop it becoming stale.He looked at some of the software packages which are commonly available for creating web pages, thanks to a disc attached to Web Pages Made Easy (&#163;3.95http://made-easy.net) The programs - including Microsoft's Front Page Express, Claris Home Page, HoTMetal and Adobe Page Mill - varied in style, functions and ease of use but all seemed suitable for a  beginner with some computer graphics skills. They were enough to build a simple home page, but perhaps a little lightweight to build a good e-commerce site.Fitzpatrick also realised that designing the site is only a small part of getting a business online. For it to be worthwhile, you need a "back end" - a "shopping basket" to help shoppers pick their purchases, then a checkout where customers can pay over a secure connection with a credit card.Then there was the need for a web host, a domain name, and a means to market the site. How could he - a web novice - put the package together?One solution comes from IBM. Its HomePage creator    (http://mypage-products.ihost. com/uk/en_US/) will provide most of the necessary components for a site - web space, graphics, e-commerce capabilities and search engine registration, for &#163;24 a month plus a &#163;21 set-up fee.Fitzpatrick would need to photograph the sale goods, write a description of them, open a merchant or credit account with the shop's bank and upload the information.They thought the package had good features and was simple to use. But they also had reservations - in particular that their new shop could float unnoticed in cyberspace.So what better than to link up with a giant like Yahoo!, the internet directory that boasts one of the biggest net audiences around? Fitzpatrick had seen a link on Yahoo Shopping offering a free online store which would take just 10 minutes to set up, and decided to check it out.Like the IBM package, it offered the necessary facilities within Yahoo's Virtual   Mall. But there were big downsides. The design was bland, he felt, and little opportunity to customise what clients saw. It was free only for the first month and, although Yahoo! is planning a worldwide version next spring, only US based businesses can use the service.Many of the best "virtual malls" are still US only, like Wiworks (www.wiworks.com) which offers almost everything a small business site could need for a monthly fee of $39.99. After joining, a business is offered a choice of 58 design templates, online tuition, all the necessary software and space in the encrypted, family-friendly mall.There is also some marketing and promotion including a linking service and an affiliate programme which the president of WI, Steven Hansen, describes as the "hottest concept in online marketing". Virtual shopkeepers are paid for each new member they bring in - and again for each member those new members bring in.All is not lost for the likes of Purple Lotus, however. Virtual Malls could soon reach these shores, thanks to Freeserve. Matthew Neville, the company's business development manager, confirms it will provide a complete service for small businesses soon: "A solution that will grow with their businesses".Like the American versions, Freeserve will provide credit facilities, tuition, mall space, design software and also the services of a designer if needed at a discounted rate. It will even offer shops a distribution and delivery service.These schemes will revolutionise the small business presence in cyberspace, allowing them to compete effectively with the largest stores, offering specialised inventories or services, and a quick response at competitive prices.Then, perhaps, it will be easier for Britain's wannabe online stores to bag their own corner of the rapidly growing online world.
Richard Branson's Virgin group is seeking to expand its internet, e-commerce and wireless divisions after an extensive internal strategy review suggested its existing internet and mobile phone businesses are already worth around &#163;4bn.Company strategists believe that the company's internet businesses are worth around &#163;2.5bn, while stockbroker Investec Henderson Crosthwaite has valued Virgin's new mobile phone company at &#163;1.4bn. Even Trainline.com, the Virgin and Stagecoach-backed internet train ticket booking service that launched at the start of the year, is understood to have been valued by Goldman Sachs at &#163;300m.Managing directors from all Virgin's businesses were briefed on the plans by Mr Branson at a recent e-summit held at his home in Holland Park, London. Mr Branson has already committed &#163;50m to e-commerce expansion this year but that figure is likely now to be doubled.Virgin Direct's chief executive, Rowan Gormley, will play a key role co-ordinating the efforts through Virgin.com, and the company's branded portal could ultimately serve as a one-stop market for everything from Virgin pensions to cars.The division likely to be expanded first is Virgin Mobile. Although only a little over a month old, Virgin Mobile is looking to expand into continental Europe and Australia and has held talks with continental mobile operators about establishing joint ventures.The UK business is a &#163;100m 50-50 joint venture "virtual network" with Deutsche Telekom-owned One2One, which involves Virgin bulk-buying airtime from One2One.Analysts believe that Deutsche is front runner to be Virgin's partner in the German, French and Italian markets. Spain, Portugal, Finland, Denmark, Ireland, Greece and Yugoslavia are also target markets. Virgin has held talks with Optus, a Cable &amp; Wirless-owned mobile service in Australia.Phones would be sold through Virgin Megastore shops and other retailers on a partnership basis. Each national business would operate autonomously but Tom Alexander, the chief executive of Virgin Mobile in the UK, is likely to oversee the whole operation.Insiders say the Megastores and larger OurPrice music shops will become "diplomatic embassies" for the Virgin empire around the world. They will operate as a focus for the brand and be reorganised to include internet cafes, booking points for VirginAtlantic and VirginExpress airline tickets, and access routes to other Virgin products and services.Virgin plans to open a further 30 Megastores in cities including Shanghai, Bombay, Sydney and Kuala Lumpur. Much of the investment will come from the recent &#163;215m sale of the Virgin cinema chain.Virgin will also look to defend its position in the music and video markets by investing heavily in OurPrice.com and making it a centre for MP3 music downloads.Mr Branson has registered the name virgincars.com and a service offering British customers cars at European prices could be operational by February. The cars would be brought into the country through the "grey market". Marketing will attempt to show how much more British consumers are paying than their European counterparts.
Sage, the market leader in small-business accountancy software, is to expand its internet operations in preparation for an era when it believes small businesses will access files and programs solely online.Paul Walker, chief executive, warned that it could take up to 10 years before small business owners felt comfortable enough to pay a monthly fee to keep their ledgers online rather than install accounting software in their PCs. "It will be slow and existing customers will be reluctant to move for a long time," he said. "It will take quite a change of mindset."However, Mr Walker said it was essential that the Sage brand had an online presence in preparation for the new era. The initial offering will see many of Sage's best-selling software packages available for sale on its website. Some will have added internet facilities, allowing companies to log on and track parcels, verify addresses and check customers' creditworthiness.There will also be further investment in Sage's application service providers, the remote systems that, in return for a monthly fee, allow users to access software programs which sit on the internet. Peachtree, a US acquisition, will be the first Sage company to offer web-based software from the spring. Sage said its e-commerce activities should move into profit during 2000.Shares in Sage, which have outperformed the stock market by 600% over the past three years, closed up 10% at &#163;55.50. Keith Woolcock, an analyst at Nomura Research, said: "Sage is the UK's best IT blue-chip stock - it's the stock that people can hold and feel safe about." Pre-tax profits for the year to September 30 were at the upper end of analysts' forecasts, rising 56% to &#163;74.3m. Turnover rose 60% to &#163;307m and earnings per share were up 46% at 42.24p.The US is Sage's largest single market in sales terms, accounting for 37% of turnover.
The British may be Europe's biggest home computer addicts, with more than half of UK households expected to own one by 2002, but it does not stop us getting fed up with the things.A survey by Microsoft UK, published yesterday, reveals that 10% of Britons get so frustrated by their home computers that they end up lashing out at them.Home PC owners in Britain and Spain spend most time using them - 11 hours a week in both cases, against a European average of nine hours. French and German PC owners use them for only eight hours a week.Europeans, however, are not leaders in cyberspace. They spend more time word processing or playing games than accessing the net. Germans are the biggest games players while the Swedes spend most time on the internet. Spaniards are top when it comes to using PCs for studying and homework, with Britain close behind.But the survey, which covered Britain, France, Germany, Spain and Sweden, showed that Britain is regarded as the most computer literate country in Europe. Nearly half of all those questioned in all five countries ranked Britain as number one.Britain's over 60s, the so-called "silver surfers" are also the most active in Europe, using their home computers for an average of 15 hours a week.The country's strong showing in the Microsoft statistics is expected to please the government which has launched a number of initiatives to encourage the ownership and use of computers and to ensure that the UK embraces information technology and communication technologies ahead of its European rivals.
Capital One, the US financial services company, has linked up with Microsoft Network (MSN) in Britain, becoming its "preferred" credit card issuer in addition to launching a vast online advertising campaign.Capital One, which refused to disclose the financial terms of the arrangement, may extend its relationship to include online banking facilities to MSN.Phil Marsland, head of internet banking at Capital One, said the link with Microsoft was part of its aim to increase its profile in Britain where it has been issuing Visa and Mastercard credit cards since 1996.The deal links Capital One to MSN's online "high street" and will have a direct link to Capital One's website, allowing users to apply for a credit card online.Next year, Capital One also intends to allow its credit card holders to manage their accounts through the internet. Mr Marsland also admitted that the possibility of creating an online banking facility was "an interesting opportunity".
&#149;Betting Web-based betting organisationSports Internet Group said it had appointed five betting professionals to assist in the development of its service. The team will be led by Michael Norris, compiling and liability director of William Hill, who will become managing director of the group's Surrey Racing .&#149;The US search engine group AltaVistaplans to have a pan-European web portal running by the end of 2000, part of its drive to become a global media and commerce network. It also plans free internet access in Europe. AltaVista would continue to expand from being a search engine by buying e-commerce companies and targeting experienced web users.
Worms returnA lot of PCs may fail when 1999 turns into 2000 . . . but not because of the "millennium bug" (a century date change problem). The reason? Symantec, the anti-virus software company, reckons that "Y2K is going to be like the Superbowl for virus writers". It's researchers have found a virus, W32/Mypics.worm, designed to disable PCs when people start them up on January 1. Mypics.worm works like Melissa, and uses Microsoft's Outlook program to email itself to 50 people. The email has no subject line but the message reads: "Here's some pictures for you!"NBC wiredAmerica's National Broadcasting Corporation, NBC, has placed its bet on the internet. The company, owned by General Electric, has put its name and multi-coloured    pecock logo on a group of websites and a new venture, NBCi. The new company will be owned by NBC (47%), C/Net (14%) and home page supplier Xoom (39%). Not part of the package is the MSNBC news channel, NBC's 50:50 joint venture with Microsoft.Dell webbedDell Computer, the second-largest PC manufacturer, has launched a range of consumer-oriented PCs in an iMac-like range of interesting colours.The webpc range, on sale atwww.webpc.com, is a departure for Dell in that there are three pre-configured systems. Usually the company builds machines to order.The webpc.fun has a 433MHz Intel Celeron (Pentium II) processor, 4.3GB hard drive and 15in screen for $999. The pcweb.wild has a 466MHz chip and 6.4GB hard drive for $1,099.The top of the range pcweb.blast has a 500MHz Pentium III, twice as much memory (128MB) and twice as much hard drive space (13GB). It also has a DVD player instead of a CD-rom for $1,499. With an LCD   screen instead of a monitor, the price jumps to $2,349.All the machines run Windows 98 and, Dell says, offer no support for DOS games or other DOS programs.Like the iMac, the pcweb PCs don't have a floppy disc drive, but 120MB floppies are optional. There are five USB (Universal Serial Bus) ports for connecting peripherals.The machines come in Red River Red, Sedona Orange, Tahoe Blue, Sea Island Teal, and Napa Purple.So far there are no plans to offer the webpc range in Europe, according to a Dell UK spokesman. However, if they sell well, they will undoubtedly make it.Firewalls at the readyMore and more homes, schools and small offices now have more than one computer. And more homes, schools and small businesses - though not many - are getting high speed xDSL or cable modem connections to the internet. This could increase the market for products like the WebRamp 700s by Ramp Networks (www.rampnet.com). This combines internet access (technically it's an Ethernet router) for multiple users with a firewall to provide protection against hackers. It can also be used to block   access to "inappropriate sites". It works with both PCs and Apple Macintoshes, and the price for five users is &#163;399.The big showCinema-goers at six American theatres have been able to see Pixar's new computer-animated movie, Toy Story 2, in digital format, instead of conventional analogue file. The theatres were equipped with DLP Cinema technology by giant chip manufacturer Texas Instruments, to promote its Digital Light Processing system. This is based on TI's "digital micromirror" chips: optical semiconductors that have up to 1.3 million microscopic mirrors mounted on a logic chip (www.ti.com/dlp).  Although it sounds an obscure technology, TI says it has shipped a quarter of a million DLP systems and they're used in more than 50 products.  TI plans to install DLP in another six cinemas - including two in Canada - for all-digital showings of Bicentennial Man, which will open on December 17.Just the T9America Online has taken over a Seattle-based software   house, Tegic Communications, for an undisclosed sum. Tegic devised the T-9 text entry system which proved popular on some handheld computers before finding its real home on mobile phones.It has been licensed by 20 companies including Nokia, Ericsson, Motorola and Panasonic, which represents about 90% of the world market. With T9, you use only one keypress for each letter. The software then figures out which of the three letters is intended by using a built-in dictionary.The program - which also adds punctuation automatically - works in 14 languages, including Chinese and Japanese. AOL has concentrated its acquisitions on the messaging market, including Mirabilis (for ICQ) and Netscape.It's toastMicroworkz, the American company that launched the iToaster - one of the first "internet appliances" - has gone out of business without the product ever reaching the market.The company made a splash in the US last April when it promised a $299 computer with a year's internet access.
Once, if your five year old child told you they had a new friend they talked to every evening but had never seen or met, you might chuckle and put it down to the tot's overactive imagination. These days you shouldn't be so quick to dismiss their tales.A survey of 2,000 children across Britain, released today, shows children are disappearing into their gadget-filled rooms and getting technically aware and internet savvy earlier and earlier.It is no longer out of the ordinary to find that children as young as five have bedrooms filled with televisions, videos, games consoles and computers.Among boys aged 14, 65% have a games console in their bedrooms although - highlighting a gender divide shown throughout the survey - only 21% of girls share the interest.PC use is also widespread. Some 96% of five-15 year olds questioned by NOP, which carried out the research, have used a computer at school, while a surprising 72% have used PCs at home.Internet use is also becoming more common with 44% of all five-15 year olds able to log on, with 33% of the age group online at home.Barbie Clark, a research   director at NOP, suggests the web has become a vast "virtual playground" for children kept at home by parents fearful of traffic and crime."When you talk to parents they really are quite neurotic about their child going out, says Clarke. "The two big fears are safety on the roads and stranger danger, so they feel much happier if their child is at home. They're making an active investment in this kit to encourage the children to stay at home."Perhaps as a result, around half of children go online alone, although the research suggests that children are very sociable when they get online."What's really fascinating is the area of kids making virtual friends, so when they go online they're connecting with kids on the other side of the world," says Clarke."They're finding out about other cultures, and other ways of life, so when you say 'is it solitary', it is - but they're still connecting. I've coined the term the 'virtual playground'. They play games with each other but the person might be on the other side of the world."Clarke agrees that the influx of gadgets into children's bedrooms is remarkable. At age 14, 69% of boys and 67% of girls have   hi-fis in their rooms, and 83% and 79% have television sets. Some children even have microwaves.Part of this gadget mania is down to the availability and falling prices of high-tech equipment. But, she adds, parents are also feeling guilty about not spending enough time with their children.To compensate, they're spending money instead. "More mums are going back to work when their kids are still quite young. Instead of staying at home until they go on to secondary school they are now beginning to work when the kids are at primary school," she says. "There's a sense that there's a greater income coming into the home, and parents want some to go back to the children."There's an enormous amount of guilt. When you talk to parents, especially mums, there's this guilt about what they're not giving their kids when, in fact, they're giving their kids more than any other generation."But are all these appliances not going to create generations of pallid geeks, unable to relate to human beings and preferring the solitude of their rooms to outdoors? Clarke, who is also a trained child counsellor, thinks not,   saying that children - as in "real life" - seek out other children online."They will always seek out company in some way, so even if they are more isolated in their homes - being told not to go out to play after school like they used to - they are still communicating, connecting with their other friends," she says."If you look at the kind of sites they like to visit online, a lot of it will about animals, children, chat - the kind of things children have always been interested in."In many ways it is opening up this huge world for them because they are able to find out how this friend they made online coped with the weather in Florida, or the floods somewhere else, and find about things which would have been much more remote even 10 years ago."And, of course, the children are becoming technically more and more aware."We've done some work on website design with children as young as three, four and five," says Clarke. "Just put them in front of the computer and let them get on with it and they had no problem getting online, finding the website, navigating about. And in the evening we did their mums, and some couldn't even turn the computer on. It's just amazing."
Big companies have been promising "movies on demand" for a decade. However, they always think in terms of expensive centralised services based on huge computers. Users, of course, just go out and rent videos.But what about live broadcast television? Wouldn't it be great if you could pause the cup final while you answered the phone or made a cup of tea? What if you could get an instant reply during any programme at any time? What if you could "wind back" Horizon for a couple of minutes to watch something again? And when you   stumble into a good programme half way through, what if you and could skip to the beginning?Two American companies, TiVo (www.tivo.com) and Replay (www.replaytv.com), are already offering television set top boxes (STBs) that will do things like that.In the spring, they started to revolutionise the VCR business by leaving out the cassette tape. Their machines are based on big PC-style hard drives instead. Live TV can be streamed to the hard drive and stored in, say, MPEG-2 format, so it can be "rewound" at will.Being computer-based, tapeless VCRs, can also be set to record the user's   favourite programmes or programmes that feature particular actors or subjects, even if users don't know they're on.They can also note what you watch, "learn" what you like, and record programmes that you might enjoy. (Clearly there would be privacy implications if this information were to be sent back to the supplier - but less than with centralised forms of video on demand.)TiVo's machines will store either 14 hours or 30 hours of televsion for $499 or $999 respectively. The Replay 2020 offers 20 hours of re-usable storage for $699.TiVo also charges users $9.95 a month (or $199 for a lifetime) for a service that   enables their STB to upload their preferences via a phone line each night. It also supplies a programme grid showing programmes for the next fortnight.TiVo - which was founded in August 1997 and started test marketing machines a year ago -calls itself "the creator of personal television". Its machine lets you watch what you want when you want.And once you can buy this kind of STB in your local high street, you won't have to wait for some giant media corporation, cable network or telco to get its act together.
This is the fastest growing area of news business. Bar none," asserted the speaker. "In terms of global distribution this will reach more people in the next five years than are currently served by television or radio, first in English, then in Spanish, and then Hindi."There's nothing new about this kind of sweeping soothsaying. Wild-eyed messiahs of new media have been predicting the fall of tradition since the days when new media meant radios with valves.In this case, however, the speaker was no Silicon Valley stripling from a company with no vested interests in traditional media, but Bob Eggington, project director of BBC News Online. The issue is streaming audio and video.Streaming media has been with us for a while now. The idea is simple enough; originally audio and video were sent over the net as files that had to be downloaded first, then played "locally" from your computer hard drive.Streaming media tries to take out the download wait, traditional thumb-twiddling time, by starting to play the first part of the file before the end of it has finished downloading. That way you can watch the file while it's downloading to your computer or instead of the file being played in situ, it can be played to you remotely.The advantage is that you can watch the video without having to have sufficient hard drive space to store it.For some media, like low quality audio, that works well enough to give the equivalent of good quality radio. For video, however, the low bandwidth available over dial up connections has traditionally meant poor quality images, and a low frame rate. The resulting shaky images put the flicks back into video and   are often dismissed as being of little use for anything other than squinting at pornography. And Auntie Beeb.BBC News Online features 96 hours of audio and video a day, including 40 to 50 video reports. "Our viewers are doubling every four months," notes Eggington, adding that polls and feedback convince him of one thing - "they don't care about the picture quality."Not only the newshounds are turning on the PC, rather than the telly for their latest fact fix. Some sports just don't lend themselves to television. Round the world sailing events, or 24 hour car races present seemingly insurmountable scheduling headaches for television. But not for the net where companies like Quokka and Kabel New Media have carved a niche by giving fans 24 hour access to the latest images.Laughing in the face of late nights and troublesome time zones they provide snapshot video coverage of the latest events and most dramatic moments around the clock. Furthermore they allow fans to drill down into the information, pulling up weather maps, previous laps, statistics, or historical detail. In the case of Quokka's yachting coverage you can even email the boat crews live by satellite link.Fascinating stuff, but while die-hard sports fanatics may be prepared to endure blurry matchbox sized images, those quality restrictions make it hard to imagine anyone plumping the cushions and settling down to enjoy an extended session of streaming media.But what if that bandwidth barrier was lifted? In Amsterdam, Ton van Mil comes home and realises that he has just missed the early evening news. Nothing unusual there, Amsterdam has peak hour traffic trouble just like anywhere else, but where the rest   of us would briefly curse our inability to program the video, before resigning ourselves to blissful ignorance, Ton switches on his PC, selects the just broadcast news, and watches it, full screen, in its entirety.It's hard to say which is more remarkable: the Time Lord-like control, or the fact that this full screen, full motion video is being piped to him over nothing more new fangled than the twisted copper wires of his telephone line.Shrinking the news down to a quarter screen, van Mil brings up a list of the schedules and notices a programme shown nearly 24 hours earlier. It catches his eye so he clicks on it and watches that. It's a service called Delay TV, a feature of the Snelnet (fast net) service offered by NOB Interactive, a company of which he is general manager. The images are streamed to his computer, not stored locally so he himself has no need to store the video, but if he does want a permanent copy there are possibilities open to him.Should van Mil tire of telly he can select the music top twenty. As the last of the Corr   sisters ceases cavorting, or the Belgian techno subsides, a dialogue box appears asking whether he'd like the videos he's just watched to be burnt to a CD-rom and sent to him (for a small extra fee, naturally). Selecting his own tracks he can make up a personal party disc of both video and sound to play to his heart's delight. "We also have an archive of newsreel footage," he explains, "so if you wanted, you could choose someone's birthday and have a CD-rom made of the news from that day - a great birthday present."The technology that makes    all this possible is ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line), a means of pumping large amounts of data down a standard phone. In recent implementations, that data rate has been around 2Mbits/second, nearly 70 times faster than the 28.8Kbits/second of some modems. That's achieved through a mix of compression techniques and the use of frequencies higher than those used for normal voice conversations. So, even if you are catching up on the Christmas charts courtesy of your ADSL modem, you can still make and receive phone calls over   the same line at the same time.British companies have been experimenting with it for some time - a trial is underway in north London. Among the offerings is a service from Video Networks which enables you to select a Hollywood blockbuster, and have it streamed over the phone line to a set top box linked to your TV. For a set period you can watch it, stop it, jump back and forth, or start again as you wish. After the expiry time it simply vanishes - no need to rewind the tape, and no overdue fees back at the shop.ADSL is not new. BT conducted successful video on demand trials in Colchester a full five years ago. Critics say that BT is dragging its feet because it is a cheap and cheerful high bandwidth solution that wipes out the lucrative leased line market at a stroke. Worse still, from a telephone company point of view, it's permanently on so the model of charging per minute flies out the window.Oftel seems to agree with the view that BT is loath to grasp the nettle, and has badgered the company (which owns the copper lines and   hence the access) into releasing it, wholesale, to service providers in London and Manchester from the beginning of this month, and across the country as of next March.BT expects to have 75% coverage of the country in three years. Which is not to say that we're all going to be turning on our PCs to catch EastEnders. Even with higher bandwidth into the home, the net couldn't take the strain of simply pumping out TV and video broadcast style.Instead video servers need to be located nearer local phone exchanges, which takes   time and investment. Not as much time and investment, however, as a TV transmitter network. "The cost of networks is one of the major costs of television," confirms the BBC's Bob Eggington. "So as conventional broadcasters see their transmitter networks coming up for replacement in a few years time they will start to see IP &#91;internet protocol&#93; as a means of broadcasting.""Broadcasters will take this far more seriously than normal transmission," confirms Simon Hochhauser, chief executive of Video Networks, "since broadband does so   much more, reaching a far bigger audience and allowing you to do things like link different video clips, time shift programmes, or supply on demand."As the capacity constraints at the local end are eased by ADSL, and at the backbone by the use of more optical fibre I expect within five years that continuous TV will be carried by IP - there is simply no reason why TV should continue to be done exclusively over the air."Just to underline that point, Video Networks is now working with the BBC to   make archived programmes available, over the phone lines, in the London area. Which means that just as you thought you were starting to understand the conflicting claims of satellite and terrestrial digital TV, let alone work out which box to buy, the internet of the immediate future is going to throw up another range of options.Unusual though it is to identify with the mandarins of the BBC, the headaches of the consumer are being mirrored around the boardrooms of the Beeb. Eggington says: "When senior people talk to me I get the feeling they yearn to say: 'When does all this settle down? When will new orthodoxies appear?' The answer is that they won't. We're going to be in flux and severely challenged forever more."With the widespread rollout of broadband services starting this month, over at BBC News Online, the next stage in that challenge begins now.
Al Primo, the president of foreignTV.com, wants to bite the hand that fed him. Formerly a big wheel in television, Primo heads a website to be devoted to TV news broadcasts from around the world. If it succeeds, foreignTV.com and its ilk will pose yet another threat to established networks.For now, the channel can hardly be said to menace the likes of ABC and CBS. There is a Reuters news feed for the daily news and a hodgepodge of material ranging from interviews with United Nations secretary general Kofi Annan and former Nobel prize-winner Oscar Arias to features on the Gypsy Kings.However, Microsoft's internet portal, MSN, thought the new venture promising enough to carry a link to foreignTV.com.Primo is not the only veteran broadcaster to   switch to the net. CNN's top financial journalist Lou Dobbs left the cable network earlier this year to found an online venture dealing with outer space, Space.com.The gruff Sam Donaldson of ABC, one of the most recognisable reporters in American television, now has his own live webcast, Sam-Donaldson@ABCNews.com.ForeignTV.com, which has just moved into offices on lower Fifth Avenue, is forming alliances with TV stations around the world. Most recently, it announced a deal with China central television, the government-run network, for daily English language broadcasts. Chinese propaganda might not be everyone's cup of tea, but people might tune in for the party line from Beijing in the next flare-up with Taipei.The fledgling network also plans to carry English newscasts from Britain,   France, Italy, Germany and Japan. The goal is to have deals with some 20 stations around the world. The internet broadcaster also generates material. Peter Arnett, the Pulitzer prize winner, produces interviews; his offerings include sessions with former Pakistani leader Benazir Bhutto and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.Ian Williams, an ebullient British reporter, covers the UN and scored a minor coup by interviewing Kofi Annan. And it's not just news. Sex expert Ruth Westheimer is to produce and host a regular series on relationships and sexuality around the world and there is a world music site where surfers can catch videos of Gilberto Gil.ForeignTV.com went public in May and raised $10.2m, the high end of estimates. It gets 2 million hits a month and Primo is trying to wrap up as many   deals as quickly as possible before he is seen as a threat by the TV networks. The company needs to make money in the next few years to survive.ForeignTV.com is an interesting departure for Primo, at a time when most media are increasingly preoccupied with domestic news. Newspapers and TV networks have been cutting back drastically on foreign coverage since the end of the cold war. But Primo argues that the internet makes the world smaller, while providing the ideal medium for computer users to follow developments around the globe."America cannot be isolationist," he says. "What happens in other countries affects our welfare and we want to be the company leading the way in bringing people closer."http://foreigntv.com/Sam-Donaldson@ABCNews.com
Indiana Jones whips Lara CroftTomb Raider IV: The Last RevelationPC CD-rom Eidos &#163;39.99Indiana Jones and the Infernal MachinePC CD-Rom Lucasarts &#163;39.99Your honour may I present the case of Tomb Raider 4: The Last Revelation versus Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine. Both defendants have a strong case, as well as a similar look and feel, and there is much for the prospective adventurer to consider.Firstly, the case for Indiana Jones. In his first PC outing for seven years the academic go-getter roams the early cold-war globe, hunting Communists and finding parts of the Infernal Machine - an ancient biblical relic which helps him save the free world from the Red threat.The bewhipped one gets to drive a jeep, ride rapids and play around in a mineshaft, all in stunning 3D. The gorgeous outdoor environments and the smooth animation have certainly upped the ante in third person titles.And so we move on to the fourth outing with Lara Croft.Located entirely in Egypt, there are plenty of obstacles and set pieces, as everything is tighter than the previous instalment. There are few lengthy treks for items and the solutions to the numerous puzzles are always nearby.As such this is something of a successful return to the Tomb Raider roots.While it is true that the Infernal Machine is a better looking experience, the suc cessful Lara Croft blueprint has been blatantly filched and in many ways she is better known than her celluloid competitor.In summing up, I would conclude that Tomb Raider 4 is the most enjoyable outing since the original 1996 title, with the nicely balanced puzzles and tough opponents matched by a real sense of progression.On the other hand, Indiana Jones is, in a gaming sense, the original raider of tombs. Despite some blatant plagiarism, the combination of crisper visuals, stirring music and involving plot suggests Indiana Jones has reclaimed his crown. Case closed.Tactics and terror in LASWAT 3PC CD-rom, &#163;34.99 Sierra StudiosBlas&eacute; about blowing away beasties? Sick of the sight of stimpacks? Well, this title puts the fear back in first-person shooters. As leader of a five-man Swat team defusing sticky situations, you can't afford mistakes - your mission (not to mention your career) could be over in a heartbeat.Being a member of the Los Angeles Police Department, your goal is not always   extreme prejudice. The 17 missions offer widely different challenges, from protecting presidents to sweeping the city sewers, and some can be completed without a single trigger finger being itched.For a Special Weapons And Tactics unit, the weapons aren't all that special; but the tactical side of the game is very slick indeed. As well as being quick on the draw, you'll have to master concepts like "stacking" and "slicing the pie", along with strategic use of tear gas, handcuffs, torches and "flashbangs".A sophisticated ballistics model even lets you - with the right hardware - shoot through doors and walls. (The same, unfortunately, goes for   the bad guys.) The tension is heightened by the game's realistic look. With detailed environments, atmospheric lighting effects and superbly accurate body movements, this is one title that actually makes you glad you shelled out for a 3D graphics card.Now for what it doesn't do. Overall, control of your team members is well handled, but there are occasions when your boys in blue seem hell-bent on rechristening themselves Officer Down.The absence of any decent training missions is another minor annoyance; given the unfamiliar interface, some non-lethal practice before entering the field would be useful, and might have helped compensate for the rather uninvolving intro.More serious is the omission of a multiplayer option. Sierra has promised that the multiplayer code will ship with a forthcoming missions disk, but it's a little cheeky to ask gamers to pay twice for the chance to hunt down their friends.Questionable durability, then - but in light of the intensity of the gameplay, this is not as bad as it seems. After all, just how long can you play with your guts wrapped round your spine?
Society spent the 1950s grappling with the problem of computers that were too smart. With robots taking over factory jobs, robots vacuuming the house, and giant brains making management decisions, how would human beings occupy themselves?Society spent the 1980s grappling with the problem of computers that were too stupid. The room-sized corporate brains of the 1950s had shrunk to coin-sized chips. But to be useful, the $10 chip required the same data entry and system administration effort as the $1,000,000 mainframe.Society spent the 1990s using the internet. It changed business in an obvious way. A networked computer is useful because data are available in machine-readable form a few seconds after being generated. When all the information is available all of the time, business can throw out a lot of assumptions about decision-making and management.The telephone's ability to coordinate workers separated by space revolutionised business at the end of the 19th century, making large organisations possible. The internet is revolutionising organisation at the end of the 20th century by allowing coordination of workers separated by space and time. The ability to work effectively from home has not arrested a 3,000-year trend toward urbanisation, but people have managed to move to the countryside without giving up fast-track careers.Internet changed culture first by reducing the influence of government and mass media. In the ancient world, people got information from face-to-face meetings. Movable type and the printing press (15th century) reduced the   influence of the Church but rendered information more susceptible to government and commercial control. Mass media gives governments powerful systems for distributing messages and tends to exclude information that will offend advertisers.Most of the information from the early internet (1968-1994) was personal. Users read personal email letters, mailing list letters, discussion group postings, documents written by individuals working without a publisher.There was no advertising and little participation by commercial interests. People reading a Usenet discussion of Chrysler versus Toyota cars would get information from owners and none from the manufacturers. Government and commercial voices on the internet became louder with the growth of the world wide web in 1994, but haven't drowned out vox populi as they have on television and in newspapers.The second cultural shift is the reversal of a 500-year trend towards a literate viewpoint. Not "literate" as conventionally defined, but to distinguish a written from an oral culture. Oral cultures do not believe a field may be wrapped up neatly into 400 pages. Knowledge is open-ended. People may hold differing opinions without one person being wrong. There is not necessarily one truth; there may be many. Though he didn't grow up in an oral culture, Shakespeare knew this. Watch Troilus and Cressida and its five perspectives on the nature of a woman's love. Try to figure out which perspective Shakespeare thinks correct.Feminists, chauvinists, the pious and atheists can all quote from the same Shakespeare play in support of their beliefs. That's because he uses multiple characters to show his culture's multiple truths.In the 400 years since Shakespeare we've become more literate. There is usually one dominant truth -sometimes because we've truly figured something out, eg, Newtonian mechanics, but more commonly because the author got access to a press or 60-second TV spot.The internet and computers, used competently and creatively, make it much easier and cheaper to present multiple truths. Virtually all interesting internet services offer readers the ability to comment on an author's work.The third big cultural shift is the freeing of artists from the constraints of commercial distribution. Consider an idea whose natural expression is a 30-page essay, too long for most magazines and too short for a book. In 1970, an author of a 30-page idea would have to chop it to    three pages for a mass-market magazine or pad it out to a 200-page book. Now a document of any size or form can be distributed without prejudice over the net. The same hardware and software can serve 30-page essays, 200-page books, two-minute videos, photographs, musical scores, musical performances and 200- character comments on any of the foregoing. Content need not be shaded to encourage advertising and it is feasible to keep an   item "in print" and available 24 hours per day, seven days per week, year after year.To reach an audience in the pre-internet age, an artist or photographer needed a flair for self-promotion, strong connections in the gallery world, and stamina in competing for foundation grants. The typical monograph of 80 black and white photographs would take five years to go from foundation grant application to a press run of 1,500 copies being available in bookstores. The   photographer who wished to distribute a colour book was out of luck unless the photos were portraits of movie stars. Today distributing 80 photographs to 1,500 people is an afternoon project, with no extra cost for colour.It can be said that writers and visual artists might find it tough to become rich and famous giving away their work on the internet. That's probably true. But the average writer or artist wasn't exactly living high in   the world of traditional distribution.For every writer who sold out Art and became rich, there were 1,000 writers who sold out and didn't become rich. In the internet age, a creative person can attack the challenging problem of finding an audience without having to attack the problem of making art pay.
