Shall we get the cynicism over with first? Cutesy kart-themed ModNation Racers is, essentially, a hybrid of Mario Kart and LittleBigPlanet. From the former, you have daft weaponry to help you win at all costs. From the latter, you have a sense of community and various creation modes for characters, karts and tracks.So, yes, if you want to be cynical, it's not terribly original. However, if you're going to be influenced by two games, those are probably two of the best you could choose. Also, when you get down to it, just how many games are entirely original? Hell, even Alan Wake doesn't escape that criticism. Enemies that can't be harmed until you've used a bright light? Isn't that PacMan?The name derives from the racing characters, or Mods as they're known here, and any initial disappointment that it's not a Vespa-based rocker beat-em-up is short lived. For the most part, whatever its heritage, ModNation Racers is a cracker. It's often funny, it's easy to pick up and the flexibility of the creation modes is impressive. The three levels of weaponry – collecting additional weapon pods before firing gives you instant upgrades – is also a fine novelty.On the downside, it frequently displays Spectrum-like loading speeds (why, United Front? Why?) and the AI of your opponents is not so much punishing as criminally insane: it's all too possible to be cruising towards the finish line in first place, be hit by a barrage of missiles and end up in 12th.Typically, to progress you need to finish at least third, although there are three extra challenges per race – finish first, score 20,000 slide points, that sort of thing – which unlock extra details for the creation mode. Getting all of these will take you several months of play and, probably, therapy so only the hardcore completists need apply.The real joy of this title, though, is online – which is accessed, like all the game's elements, via the central hub area known as The ModSpot. Uploading your Mods, karts or tracks is a doddle and you'll instantly have access to thousands of tracks etc, uploaded by others. There are still flaws – you can wait for several minutes to get enough racers for a ranked match – but kick into the casual races, which can be on official tracks or any of the thousands of uploaded ones, and you'll understand the potential of MNR. It's simple, it's quick, it's enormous fun – and it's going to be huge.
It's interesting times again forHTML5CSS3 - as it is, indeed, every week.The latest implementation: the solar system, with revolving planets (and the moon, which goes dark as it goes into the earth's shadow), implementedsolelywith CSS and HTML (with fontsloaded via Javascript,else I'd include it directly in the page herebut it can't be included directly in the page because some tags are forbidden by the content management system we use here). But especially, none of the F-word that Steve Jobs doesn't like.Over at neography,Alex Girón, a web developer based in Virginia, has been playing around with what's possible. It turns out thatHTML5CSS3 - with things like border-radius, animations, transforms - lets you implement such systems comparatively simply. (Though the Javascript involved is hefty; here's theUsekit filewhich sets a lot of it up.Howevercommenters point out it's only for fonts and isn't needed for the animation: seefred2's demonstrationand view the source of the page, which doesn't link to Javascript.)And Girón created a real, workingdemonstration of the solar system- in which the planets revolve and the moon orbits the earth. He explains how it works - which it only does (at present) in Apple's Safari (where it's very smooth) and Google's Chrome (where it stutters a bit:here's why) - not yet, it seems, on Firefox. And you cansee his working on this page.That contrasts, of course, with what happens when you try to view it on the most widely-used browser, Internet Explorer (6,7, or 8) There, nothing happens - because they're notHTML5-awareCSS3-capable. Microsoft has already said thatIE9- which doesn't yet have a release date - will support HTML5and CSS3. So at some point, that will work.But for now, when viewed in Internet Explorer, that page looks rather different, because it can't implement the border-radius tag in CSS3. In fact, the solar system turns out to be flat. Not just that - square. See:Viewed in Internet Explorer, the lack of border radius means the HTML5 solar system is square.Why is this useful? Because if you can create animations like this without having to resort to Flash, then it (a) simplifies their creation - all you need is to figure out the behaviours of the objects (b) simplifies their updating - it's just code and it can be tweaked, rather than being set in (Flash) stone (c) spreads the knowledge of how to create those animations to anyone who can read the source code.Certainly, Flash retains its value for organisations whose raison d'etre is to create and retain content.(Examples: games developers, news organisations with video or audio footage.)But that's only a small proportion. For most, creating interesting web pages is the primary aim.Tell us about other impressive HTML5/CSS3 demonstrations that you've discovered in the comments, please...Updated to take in comments and correct.
Nokia offered me a free cab ride today, which I declined, but perhaps you could get one instead. For the next week, the mobile phone giant is offering free rides in black cabs in four cities: London, Birmingham, Manchester and Glasgow. If you spot a cab in its distinctive livery, hail it.The back seats of the Nokia cabs have been fitted with X6 mobiles with theOvi Mapsservice, the idea being to publicise the fact that the service "is now free to everyone, everywhere," says Nokia. The cab ride will give people the chance to track their journey and see how the turn-by-turn system works.There are, alas, limits to how far you can take your free cab ride, and the company didn't bite when I suggested a day trip to Paris. (Well, it does work in 70 countries.) "British soil only," said the PR, and in my case, definitely inside the M25. OK, so they can't take me for a ride, but I can't take them for a ride either.Under "Project Nike",Nokia has just done a deal with Yahoothat will make Nokia the exclusive provider of Yahoo's maps and navigation services ("powered by Ovi") while Yahoo becomes the exclusive provider of Ovi's email and chat services ("powered by Yahoo").Nokia is also giving away X6 handsets on Twitter -- a healthy five per day. To enter, tweet using the hashtag #NokiaFreeSatNavtwitter.com/jackschofield
The arrival of Samurai Warriors 3 on the Wii marks the dawn of a new age for this venerable PlayStation 2 favourite – itself a spin-off from the successful Dynasty Warriors series.Its one-versus-100 gameplay will be familiar to anyone who has played its predecessor titles, and this game makes no attempt to adapt to the Wii's motion sensor controls. And it's a good thing too, since the hack-'n'-slash antics would quickly lead to a dislocated shoulder if one had to mime the weapon swing to kill the many thousands of foes one faces.The game is set in the Warring States period of feudal Japan, and builds impressively on the series' atmosphere of epic historical sensibility – if one ignores the inherent ludicrousness of, say, fighting as a scantily clad maiden who stomps her feet when she loses in battle. You can choose from a number of different characters in story mode, all of whom have impressively nuanced backstories and great hair, or select history mode and build yourself a custom character. I made a nice ninja called Geoff.The aim of the game is the same, regardless of the mode – to enter the battlefield and achieve a series of objectives, such as establishing a foothold, killing a key enemy general, or helping out one of your talkative comrades. Much bashing of the A button is necessary, but with the Spirit Charge and devastating Musou attack there's a decent variety of moves, and the game's fairly unforgiving difficulty level means you have to be careful deciding when to use these limited, more powerful attacks.There are irritants. Sometimes the battlefields are poorly designed, and as in previous games it often feels like you're the only competent fighter in your entire army, as you continuously rush back and forth across the map to help out your peers who seem ever on the verge of ignominious defeat. The dialogue never transcends the corny – one character will, for example, announce "This is easier than I thought!" after scything through hundreds of peasants, while another gravely announces: "I'm going to keep on winning until this chaos is ended." You'd hope so.But really, incompetent allies and banal character interaction are almost part of this franchise's charm. The appeal of these games isn't to be found in historical realism or compelling narrative – it's the mindless fun of hitting hundreds of enemies with a sword and watching them fall over. Also, the multiplayer mode – either in split screen or online – is a lot of fun if you're able to find a friend with a similar desire for a session of historically inaccurate, bloodless, but strangely addictive ancient Japanese whack-a-mole.
Early next month, Dell's Streak -- its first Android tablet -- will go on sale in the UK. The device formerly known as the Dell Mini 5 is what Intel calls a MID (mobile internet device). It has a 5 inch capacitative multi-touch screen and it works as a mobile phone, so it's not a direct competitor for the Apple iPad or iPod Touch, which are not phones. It also has built-in Wi-Fi, and turn-by-turn navigation using Google Maps.The Streak does look big if you hold it up to your ear, but most buyers will probably use it via a Bluetooth earpiece.It's also different from the iPad in other useful ways. It has a front-facing 5 megapixel autofocus camera with flash, multi-tasking with a 1GHz Snapdragon processor, a removable battery, and a MicroSD card slot that can handle 32GB.Dell says the system will get an over-the-air update to Android 2.2 and Adobe Flash 10.1 later this year.The Streak's 16:9 WVGA widescreen has a resolution of 800 x 480 pixels, which provides more of a letterbox view of web pages. Dell describes it as "a full screen browsing experience", which is pushing it a bit. It looks more comfortable than most mobile phones, but obviously doesn't compete with larger devices such as the iPad, netbooks and notebook PCs, which typically have 10 inch or larger screens."The Dell Streak hits the sweet spot between traditional smartphones and larger-screen tablets. Its unique size provides people new ways to enjoy, connect, and navigate their lives," says Ron Garriques, president, Dell Communication Solutions Group.He could be right. What remains open to doubt is just how big this "sweet spot" might be.Prices and 3G data plans will be announced at the UK launch, with a US launch to follow. That means it will appear after the Android-poweredHTC Evo 4Gsuperphone, which Sprint has announced for June 4.
On this week's Tech Weekly, Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur say a fond farewell to Jack Schofield, the Guardian's longest-serving technology writer, who's heading into freelance pastures at the end of the month. Jack takes us down memory lane, through his days with Mosaic, Oracle and IBM, and tells us who he wishes he could have interviewed in his 25 year with the newspaper. Here's a hint: it's not Apple's Steve Jobs.In the news, Jemima Kiss gets answers from Google CEO Eric Schmidt about the recent privacy scandal surrounding the search company's collection of our personal data, and the studio team discuss what the company must do to protect the sanctity of our online identities.Aleks, Charles and Jack also scrutinise the technology strategy that's emerged in the fortnight of the coalition government: the Digital Economy Act won't be repealed, educational technology body Becta is being scrapped to save £80m, and Tim Berners-Lee's semantic web project, earmarked for an influx of cash through Labour via the web science initiative, is canned. What signals does this send to the UK's digital tech industry?US technology retailer Best Buy has set up shop in the UK, but is this really the right move when all indicators suggest that technology consumers have migrated online? Producer Scott Cawley reports from the shop floor.And finally, what are Google's plans for TV? The team tackles the announcements made at the company's annual IO conference, held last week.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Crackdownwas one of the first games to really show that Xbox Live, and online console gaming generally, didn't just have to mean first person shooting. Crackdown was an open world urban playground that made up in freedom and sheer entertainment what it lacked in gripping narrative. Climbing, shooting, driving, jumping – Crackdown had a bit of everything and was easily my game of the year in 2007. The online side was particularly impressive. Two players could play in the same game but chase totally different objectives. One could be attempting to take out a stronghold while the other was on the far side of the map hunting down collectable orbs or driving cars off ramps. The clincher was that most things you did in somebody else's world were applied to "your" game next time you played. Addictive wasn't the word.The other impressive part of Crackdown, and one that really triggers those happy memories, was the verticality of the game. Gathering those agility orbs – a game in itself – that allowed you to jump and climb higher was hugely entertaining. Anyone who climbed theAgency Towerwill remember the feeling of vertigo when the wind whipped around as you neared the top. Crackdown was a classic then, so the upcoming sequel has big boots to fill.Crackdown 2is released on the 9th July and I recently spent some time with it. But is it any good?Initially at least I was little underwhelmed. The developer presentation emphasised the non-stop combat over the solitary joy of the rooftop clambering. This is understandable given the need to wow the audience, but slightly disappointing given the scope of the game.  Things got much better once the controllers were handed over.Once the characters were chosen – there is some customisation but not as much as you may expect – we were thrown into the action. From the off the combat was incessant with enemies not afraid to attack in numbers. The occasionally inaccurate targeting and twitchy camera meant hand to hand combat was often the easiest way to dispatch the onslaught.  While this was satisfying it was not always so effective when being sniped from afar. It was only moments though before the quick reward of glowing loot and ledges to climb bought back all those pleasant Crackdown memories. The feeling of a playground is reinforced early on too. There are gas cylinders to shoot and turn into projectiles, while new sticky grenades can be used to predictably riotous effect.Another early treat were the renegade orbs. Chasing these moving orbs was one of the highlights of the early levels. These can either be on foot or wheels – separate orbs for each – and there is potential for some epic sequences later in the game.What else? Progression seemed easier this time round. Each of the skills – hand to hand combat, driving, agility etc – had five levels and I had got to at least level two on most of them within about 45 minutes. You would expect this progression speed to slow down but clearly Crackdown 2 is more generous in terms of rewarding players than the original.The look of the game was slightly less impressive. Climbing high up still gave a pretty view but the likes of Assassin's Creed seem to have upped the ante in this area. The slightly cel-shading style complemented the comic-book action well though.One of the big changes over the original is the inclusion of a day/night cycle. Night-time sees the Freaks come out from the sewers. This zombie-style horde are seemingly there only to let the player mow them down in whatever vehicle they've managed to snaffle.  Even early on though the Freaks seemed quite powerful and it was easy to get pinned down, frantically throwing fists to escape.Multiplayer is key of course and Crackdown 2 has doubled the co-op player numbers to four. The promise here is immense and this will probably be the mode that most will play in.Even after a relatively short play it's clear that Crackdown 2 has ramped everything up from the original.  The aiming and auto-targetting need some work but I can't wait to start collecting those orbs again this July.What do you think then? Excited by Crackdown 2?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
On a remote mountain pass, with a reddening sun disappearing over the vast horizon, John Marston spots the criminal he's been paid to track down. As the reformed outlaw spurs his horse to give chase, a rumbling bass guitar groove starts up, the tempo seemingly accelerating to match the animal's galloping hooves. It is exhilarating stuff, a perfect matching of action and audio that recalls the partnership of Leone and Morricone. But this is a video game, and the choreography of soundtrack and story is happening on the fly. Red Dead Redemption is awash with moments like this.Released last Friday, the open-world Western adventure from the publishers of Grand Theft Auto is being hailed by many as a game of the year contender. Following Clint Eastwood-esque lead character, Marston, as he charges through the dying Old West, it's a gritty, often thrilling ride, mixing the violent nihilism of the Grand Theft Auto series, with the panoramic beauty of a John Ford classic. And it's rendered even more immersive by the 14-plus hours of original music contained on the game disc.For Rockstar's soundtrack supervisor, Ivan Pavlovich, the challenge of scoring Red Dead was always the sheer scale of the thing: it is, apparently, just too darn big. Through the Grand Theft Auto series, the publisher defined the use of licensed music in video games; especially in 2002's GTA Vice City where the coke-addled action was inseparable from the eighties pop tracks that accompanied every brutal shoot-out and sun-soaked car chase. But the world of Red Dead Redemption is the largest the publisher has created, with players likely to spend hours riding the arid scrublands between towns and villages. It's also set in the early 1900s, which rather limits the options in terms of well-known contemporary recording artists. "There was no way that we could really use licensed music as we've done in the past," contends Pavlovich. "So we figured we'd need to write an original score…"Bulging music biz contacts book in hand, Pavlovich starting scoping out potential contributors. The search ended with a cult band hailing from Tucson, Arizona. "We were actually turned on toFriends of Dean Martinezby their manager," he explains. "We started listening to them and thought, 'wow, these guys could do a great modern interpretation of classic Western music'. So we talked with [the group's co-founder) Bill Elm and the relationship grew from there."For those who've missed out on wonderfully evocative albums like A Place in the Sun and Random Harvest, Friends of Dean Martinez is an instrumental collective that fuses alt rock with traditional southwestern sounds and instruments. Think Mogwai with slide guitars, or maybe Angelo Badalamenti in a Stetson and you're heading in vaguely the right direction. The music is laidback but also simmering with dark emotion, and it has an absolutely unavoidable sense of place. "Writing a review of Friends of Dean Martinez without mentioning the desert is like writing a book without the letter 'e'", began a review of the album Lost Horizon on influential US music site, Pitchfork. And that says it all.There's been a rotation of members since the group signed to grunge label Sub Pop in the mid-Nineties, but the duo that came onboard the Red Dead project was Bill Elm and sometime member Woody Jackson, a multi-instrumentalist who's worked with everyone from Ry Cooder to Smashing Pumpkins. Importantly, perhaps, both musicians have experience with movie soundtracks. They scored Richard Linklater's Fast Food Nation together, while Jackson has been involved with pictures such as Youth In Revolt and Ocean's 12 (alongside regular collaborator, David Holmes). But are there actually useful similarities between movie and video game work? "You know, it's really similar and then it'scompletelydifferent," says Elm. "It's similar in that you're dealing with a visual medium, and you're dealing with emotion. I know it sounds pretentious, but you've got to have great, emotive music – you're really pushing for that."The obvious difference is that film music is written to fit a finite scene, whereas with the video game, we're working in five-minute loops. It's really wide open, but also very hard, because there are all sorts of things happening with layers. If the player shoots someone, suddenly the music changes, so we have to think, 'okay, does this work over the top of that?'. Also the big thing with a game is, you don't know how long you're going to be staying in that mood – you can't state too much, it's kind of likeimplyinga mood. It's a balance between having it interesting, but not so much that you get sick of it, because you could be riding that horse for 15 minutes…"There's also a difference in terms of commitment. While Jackson says he'll spend 12 weeks at most on a movie score, he and Elm worked on Red Dead for over fifteen months. It has been, they admit, a meandering, organic experience. For a while, they set about envisioning the project and laying down some creative guidelines. "There was so much conversation," says Pavlovich. "Just sitting down and talking about music, and planning it out, deciding how to record it and what musicians to bring in." "Rockstar have used a composer once before, but really it was all new ground," continues Jackson. "It wasn't like, 'you're supposed to do this.' It was more, 'let's see how this works'. And for months we were just trying things out. It was only at the end that it got really intense."This insouciant arrangement seems to have led to a series of loose experimental sessions, with Elm and Jackson bringing in a whole range of friends and colleagues to jam around the key themes and motifs. "It was really creative and really open," says Elm. "The people we used just sound great, we didn't have to give them too much direction. When we hit the horn section, I gave [trumpeter] Mike Bolger a few references and all the melodies, and I said I needed this orchestrated, and he came up with these great horn parts for everyone to play." Other times, fortune would just throw up an interesting musician. During the recordings, Jackson happened to be in a session with another group who's drummer, Blake Colie, was providing some driving rocksteady rhythms. Turns out he was playing with this band as a favour. "I said 'hey, I can get you some money, if you can give me some of those beats!'" laughs Jackson. And Colie was soon onboard. "Music isn't super-lucrative at times, there are a lot of people doing favours, so that was nice. I know from working on film scores where they do have a budget, when they call it's like, 'great, now I can pay the rent!'"Although this gives the impression of a formless improvisational process, because of the way the music reacts in real-time to the player's actions, the underlying structure had to be meticulously planned. If a dramatic sequence suddenly kicks off, the soundtrack switches to something with greater intensity, while a more foreboding sound is required during moments of suspense. All of these loops have to segue into each other as events evolve on screen.To ensure a seamless sound, then, the duo decided on set criteria – the whole score is composed in A minor and at 130 beats per minute. It sounds incredibly restrictive, but as is often the case with creative limitations, there was also a sense of empowerment. "It seemed like the hardest problem at the beginning, but then it was actually really freeing," says Elm. "Just learning how different elements work together... It was very different from making a band record: just letting the instruments and the sound fill the space, without having to  think about writing better chord changes. We were just letting the organic sound develop."Red Dead was also a chance for Elm and Jackson to explore instrumentation. The game takes place in three major locations – New Austin, Mexico and, further North into the US, West Elizabeth – and each gets its own musical signatures. "When the game starts, it's the Frontier section, so we've got some whistles, some violins, a harmonica, some guitars – it provides a real sense of peacefulness," says Jackson. "Then you go to Mexico where we have more horns. And when you head North... That was a little bit of a struggle. We changed it a couple of times. We wanted it to relate to the Frontier, but to be totally different..." This apparently led to some of their more avant-garde experiments. "I even used a heart beat," continues Jackson. "We were having a baby girl and I recorded the heart beat and used that as a drum beat. I thought that would be kind of different. The people at the hospital thought I was crazy – I was there recording with my iPhone, saying 'just put the scanner on the stomach again'"But then Jackson is apparently an obsessive collector of esoteric and vintage recording equipment, spending many an evening on eBay tracking down rarities. The Red Dead score, and the subsequent album (which comes free with the Limited Edition of the game, and is also available on various digital download sites) were recorded and mixed at his own studio in LA, which was built in 1931, making it the oldest privately owned studio in the city. "The mixing board belonged to this guy Wally Heider," explains Jackson. "Basically every rock record from the late sixties to the early seventies was recorded on it, everything from T-Rex and Grateful Dead, to Herbie Hancock."Even when mastering the soundtrack, the duo managed to steep the process in musical history, selecting the Capitol Studios in Hollywood, where Frank Sinatra once recorded. "They were showing us the echo chambers beneath the floor that Les Paul made, which are 50ft under the ground," says Jackson. "It literally looks like a video game where you need to crawl into a hole and down a ladder. They wouldn't let us go down there, it's too far and too dangerous. But when we were doing the Widmore track, I was like 'put the chamber on!' and we did and it sounded great."That's the fascinating thing about the Red Dead project – these are musicians steeped in traditionalist musicality, yet here they are providing music for a cutting edge piece of digital entertainment. Neither of them are gamers, and they've only just got their hands on the product they've helped to shape (throughout the recording process they were sent video footage of the game so they understood what developer Rockstar San Diego was putting together), but it has apparently been a rich experience for them. As Jackson explains, "With film music you can go outside the remit alittlebit, but it's really constricting...  it can't be too quirky. But with videogame music you can kind of go crazy – with sound design, with effects, anything you want – it's liberating in that sense. You can put it in there and as long as it sounds great, it's great." Jackson also draws interesting parallels between the era of the game and the state of the music business today. "There isn't really a music industry anymore. It's all homegrown. It's kind of like back to the Old West where everyone's trying to make their own way...."Both Elm and Jackson are keen to work on video games again. Until then, they're considering performing some of the Red Dead album tracks live – they're just working out the best way to do it. When I ask Elm about his ambitions at the start of the project, he laughs it off - "Everything was like, 'Let's just make it so no one turns off the music'." But now he appreciates the important role the music plays in the experience. And it must be strange, surely, to know that million of people are creating their own personal Western movies, for hours on end, with his work at the core of it all? "I only thought of that yesterday!" he exclaims. "It's one of those things that I'm going to think about when I'm in the doldrums. Right now it's amazing, but in a couple of years if I'm down, I'll listen to it, it'll be a pick-me-up…"
Anonymity. Photo byatomicjeepon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 16 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team"Real name" comments on news websites - the up and the downside &gt;&gt; Martin BelamThe Guardian's information architect considers the benefits - and disbenefits - of making commenters use their "real" namesGoogle Asserts Its Worth to the U.S. Economy &gt;&gt; GigaOmGoogle says it generated $54bn in economic value for the US last year. OK, now let's subtract the cost of Google Pac-Man.Beautiful Google Doodles (1998 – 2010) &gt;&gt; Hongkiat.comA selection of the best doodles assembled on a single pageJ Allard and Robbie Bach are out, in doomed Microsoft Entertainment &amp; Devices shake-up &gt;&gt; BetanewsGood points about the Courier "tablet" whose existence Microsoft acknowledged in order to kill: "if Allard was too attached to Courier, he has lost his creative mind."CHART OF THE DAY: Microsoft Spends Eight Times As Much On R&amp;D As Apple &gt;&gt; BusinessInsiderFor which it gets twice the profit and 1.4x the revenue. This is puzzling, and intriguing.Nero Files Antitrust Case Against MPEG-LA &gt;&gt; OSNews"Back in 1997, the MPEG-LA sought a promise from the US Department of Justice that it would not initiate any antitrust investigations against the licensing body. The DOJ expressed then that it currently had no intention of acting upon the MPEG-LA, but this lack of intention was conditioned on a number of things.&#10;&#10;First, the MPEG-LA would engage with independent experts to ensure only essential patents would be placed in the MPEG-2 pool. They told the DOJ that the MPEG-2 pool constituted of 53 essential patents. Second, independent experts would "weed out nonessential patents" from the pool. Third, licensing terms would be "fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory".&#10;&#10;Nero claims none of these safeguards were honoured, and here's where it gets juicy; "absolute power has corrupted the MPEG-LA absolutely", according to Nero."Why Twitter is nixing third-party ads &gt;&gt; Twitter blog"Why are we prohibiting these kinds of ads? First, third party ad networks are not necessarily looking to preserve the unique user experience Twitter has created. They may optimize for either market share or short-term revenue at the expense of the long-term health of the Twitter platform. For example, a third party ad network may seek to maximize ad impressions and click through rates even if it leads to a net decrease in Twitter use due to user dissatisfaction." &#10;&#10;What's still unclear is precisely which apps or advertising networks will be affected.Evolving from beta to stable with a faster version of Chrome &gt;&gt; Google BlogChrome, the browser, is no longer beta. It's improved the speed of its Javascript by between 3x and 4x compared to its release in 2008.Facebook's identity lock-in &gt;&gt; Nick Carr"After growing up, as Robert Zimmerman, in Hibbing, Minnesota, Dylan shucked off his youthful identity, like a caterpillar in a chrysalis, and turned himself into the mysterious young troubador Bob Dylan in New York City. It was a great act of self-reinvention, a necessary first step in a career of enormous artistic achievement. Indeed, it's impossible to imagine the kid Zimmerman becoming the artist Dylan without that clean break from the past, without, as Zuckerberg would see it, the exercise of a profound lack of "integrity" [by changing his apparent identity]"The History of Twitter in Pictures &gt;&gt; Tech XavNot new, but an entertaining scamper through the highlights...Facebook Open Graph: A new take on semantic web &gt;&gt; O'Reilly RadarAlex Iskold runs through the main semantic web approaches and says: "Despite the drawbacks, there is no doubt that Facebook's announcement is a net positive for the web at large."Google Analytics Opt-out Add-on &gt;&gt; GoogleHow to avoid Google tracking: "The add-on communicates with the Google Analytics JavaScript (ga.js) to indicate that information about the website visit should not be sent to Google Analytics."Bizarre Websites On Which You Can Kill Time With Style &gt;&gt; Smashing MagA lovely collection of time-wasters, but avoid if your device has the misfortune to be Flash-deprived....Apple v Microsoft market capitalisation &gt;&gt; Wolfram|AlphaWe also need to work out the ratio of the share prices at which the market caps cross. The revenues and profits and employee numbers make an interesting comparison.Look ma, no plugin for Quake 2! &gt;&gt; Google Web Toolkit BlogQuake 2 rendered into HTML5. Myst next, surely.Royal appetite for secrecy can only invite scandal &gt;&gt; Heather Brooke"Among the laws rushed through in the "wash-up" of the last government was a change to the Freedom of Information Act granting an absolute ban on all communications with the royal family and royal household. Prior to this such information was still exempt but if there was a public interest in the material, it had to be disclosed." Ms Brooke got MPs' expenses into the open. Don't bet against her on the royal family.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Having survived liver cancer and  being fired by Apple, not to mention negotiations with some of the planet's toughest business brains, Steve Jobs is hardly shy of a battle – and his latest target is pornography. He wants to keep it off Apple products.Given the proliferation of porn on the web, this might seem Canute-ish – and profit-sapping. Yet so insistent is Apple, many magazine publishers developing "apps" for the new iPad, which launches in the UK on Friday, have had to self-censor. In the offices of the lifestyle magazine Dazed and Confused, the iPad version ismockingly known as "the Iranian version", because of the amount of censorship required to get it approved forApple's App Store. Germany's Stern magazine saw its app pulled because it runs  topless photo spreads, while the  newspaper Bild has added bikinis to  its topless models.Jobs has made his thoughts on the topic very clear twice this year. In April, he told a press conference:  "You know, there's a porn store for  Android [phones using Google's  software]. You can download porn, your kids can download porn. That's a place we don't want to go – so we're not going to go there."In anemail exchange with Ryan Tate, a writer for the Gawker website, Jobs set out his stall very clearly. Tate, annoyed by an iPad advert calling it a "revolution", challenged Jobs: "If [Bob] Dylan [one of Jobs's childhood heroes] was 20 today, how would  he feel about your company? . . .  Revolutions are about freedom,"  Tate wrote.Jobs, an archetypal Democrat, replied in a tone that sounded as though he was channelling George W Bush: "Yep, freedom from programs that steal your private data. Freedom from programs that trash your battery. Freedom from porn. Yep, freedom."It is not only porn that seems to trouble Apple. In the last few months, it has banned an app with political  cartoons (by a Pulitzer-winning  cartoonist – though it quickly relented), and a gay travel guide to New York (too much skin, and an unflattering caricature of Sarah Palin). Apple points to section 3.3.17 of its developer agreement:  "Materials . . . that in Apple's reasonable judgment may be found objectionable; [eg] materials that may be considered obscene, pornographic or defamatory."But the closer you look, the more this looks like the "freedom" found in Lord Farquaad's kingdom of Duloc in the film Shrek – a carefully maintained facade which, given that the iPad  includes a web browser, cannot help but let the monster of porn and donkey of defamation clatter in, no matter how hard you try to keep them out.It is not clear where this thread of Puritanism comes from within Apple. Jobs is famed for sweary tirades at staff which would leave Malcolm Tucker bug-eyed. He is a Buddhist, but most of all a capitalist. The only clue is in another email sent to Tate, who threw down the challenge: "I don't want 'freedom from porn'. Porn is just fine! And I think my wife would agree."Even though it was past 1.30am, Jobs shot back within minutes: "You might care more about porn when you have kids . . ."Is that the clue? In his current marriage – now in its 19th year – Jobs, 55, has three children (plus a grown-up child from a previous liaison). Yet it seems unlikely he would manipulate the entire content strategy of a $240bn corporation simply to ease his home life. More likely is that Apple is setting itself – as in so many ways – at an  opposite pole to Google, which as a search engine can always be accused of being a gateway to pornography and objectionable content.By contrast, Apple controls exactly what appears on its App Store; to make that match the clean lines of its products and adverts, it needs to enforce a "clean" approach to content. There has been collateral damage, though: last year, Apple initially turned down Eucalyptus, an app written by the British developer Jamie Montgomerie, because it provided access to out-of-copyright books via the net – including the Kama Sutra. After an outcry, Apple backed down and approved the app. But it was a strange collision of sensibilities.Montgomerie thinks Apple is perfectly within its rights to decide what it lets through – but also that the fault line will grow. "Would an app of images of famous classical art nudes be acceptable? Will the big names be treated more leniently than the smaller ones? There was at least an outward appearance of a double standard involving Playboy and Sports Illustrated in the iPhone App Store when Apple's rules were tightened earlier in the year."Phil Schiller, Apple's vice-president of marketing, made the rather weak claim earlier this year that the reason they were allowed – and others were banned – was that they came from "a well-known company with previously published material available broadly in a well-accepted format". Which begs the question: how well-known do you have to be, exactly, for Apple to decide your content is OK? To that, there isn't an answer. But Jobs might email one soon.
Robbie Bach is retiring as president of Microsoft's Entertainment and Devices division, while J Allard is to become a consultant on specific projects. Bach and J Allard are the people mainly responsible for the Xbox games console and Live service, the Zune media player, PC gaming, Microsoft TV, Microsoft Surface, Office for Mac, and Windows Mobile and Windows Phone 7 phones.In thelatest financial quarter, the E&amp;D division made an operating profit of $165m on sales worth $1.7bn. The company made $5.2bn on a turnover of $14.5bn.Bach joined Microsoft in 1988 and often appeared in keynote speeches with Microsoft chief executiveSteve Ballmer, who said in a statement: "Robbie's an amazing business person and close personal friend, which makes his departure a point of sadness for me." Some had considered Bach a possible future CEO.Allard, the division's senior vice president of design and development, is leaving after 19 years at Microsoft. Allard is considered the "father of the Xbox" and his disappearance was noted on 18 May by ZD Net's Mary Jo Foley, who wroteWhere in the world is J Allard?A source told her that "Allard is on sabbatical and is unlikely to return to Microsoft". However, Allard toldTechFlashthat his departure was not connected with the cancellation of another of his projects, the dual-screen Courier tablet computer. He said he wanted to devote more time to his personal interests, particularly adventure sports.Allard was widely admired and the Kotaku games blog has posted a tribute,J Allard, We Will Miss YouBach is not being replaced, so the mobile phone and Xbox bosses, Andy Lees and Don Mattrick, will report directly to Ballmer. Allard will also report directly to Ballmer on his special projects.Whatever the reasons for the reorganisation, the division has not generally been successful at selling its major products, or at making money out of them. While Microsoft has done far better than most people expected in establishing the Xbox console line, the Xbox 360 has been dogged by problems with consoles overheating and failing with the famous Red Ring of Death. Microsoft extended the product's guarantee to cover the issue, taking a $1bn charge for the cost. The division's successes include the Xbox Live online service and the Halo games franchise.While Microsoft was relatively quick to enter the smartphone market with touch-screen systems, long before Apple, its Windows Mobile software was clunky by comparison. It has lost market share both to Apple's iPhone and to systems running Google's Android software. And while the Zune HD and Zune 4 desktop software have impressed users, the system has not sold well in the US, and has not been launched internationally. It remains to be seen whether the impressive-looking Windows Phone 7 will do any better.Microsoft has been extremely successful as a platform company, providing software that other companies could use to build their own products, including PCs and phones, applications and both online and offline services. The Entertainment and Devices division embodied Microsoft's attempt to create proprietary vertically integrated systems including its own hardware, operating system, applications, content and online services. It's a strategy that Apple has used with tremendous success, but Microsoft has never been able to match it.Even those who weren't particularly keen on Bach could struggle to see Ballmer doing the job any better himself. However, since Bach isn't retiring until the autumn, there's still time to find a successor.
Tim Berners-Lee and Professor Nigel Shadbolt say they are "disappointed" by the government's decision not to go ahead with the creation of a £30m Institute of Web Science - but that they "understand that immediate decisions had to be made" to cut the government deficit.In astatement issued today, the pair - who were key in driving through changes in government that led to thecreation of the data.gov.uk websiteand thefreeing of Ordnance Survey maps and Royal Mail postcode information- say that "the future remains bright" for the web science project, and that they are convinced that open data will become increasingly important to government.The previous Labour administration announced on 22 March that it wouldput £30m towards an institute of web science, to be hosted by Southampton University and the Oxford Internet Institute: it was described as a means to "take the web to a whole new level by publishing data in a linkable format so that users and developers can see and exploit the relationships between different sets of information".Now, though, it is on hold for the foreseeable future – at least as a government-funded body. There are already moves to find private-sector sponsorship.Berners-Lee, inventor of the world wide web, and Shadbolt, professor of artificial intelligence at the University of Southampton, are working inside government to help standardise and ease the output of raw non-personal data. They note that they expect the data.gov.uk portal to become increasingly important;a "right to data"– from both central and local goverment – was promised in today's Queen's speech, so perhaps data.gov.uk will be the conduit for it all.The Department for Business, Innovation and Skillssaid yesterdaythat UK research councils are already spending £30m on semantic web research.The full statement follows below:"We are obviously disappointed at the announcement. However, we do understand that immediate decisions had to be made about what not to start, pending a wider review of priorities in the Spending Review."Today, the web site of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills notes that the Institute for Web Science remains a proposal still under development."Naturally, many people have been asking what this means forWeb Scienceand we wanted to provide an assurance that the future remains bright."Many people have also been asking about the future of the open linked data initiative in the UK after the change of government."It is clear from the new government'sBig Society declaration, theCoalition Partnershipand speeches such asDavid Cameron's to TEDbefore the election that open government data is a high priority. Our understanding is that the data.gov.uk portal will in fact grow significantly in the months to come."Linked data and the new technologies supporting it will, in the near future, enable better public services to be delivered for less, and promote new business opportunities."The government is maintaining its commitment to the linked data it has already published and to the very large amount which remains to be published."Recall that the process of opening up UK government data is really in its early stages, and while much has been accomplished there is very much more yet to be done."Also remember that this work, while essential for the UK's good governance, prosperity and competitiveness as a place to do business, is part of a wider global movement.The UK over the last 12 months has played a leading role in this movement. Recently we have seen are-launch of the USA's portal, data.gov, with a largeeasily accessed troveof linked open data from US government, and many applications."There is more being added to data.gov.uk all the time, whether it is the NaPTAN data, a GB national system for uniquely identifying all the points of access to public transport, or theeagerly anticipated COINS database detailing Treasury spending."As we enter a phase of cutting back on many things, the linked open data movement is a crucial tool, for government, public and industry to get the most value from the important resources being opened up. During times of austerity, transparency is essential, and open data will play a crucial role."
The coalition government says that it will "create a level playing field" for open source software in government projects, and split large computing projects into smaller ones - which will give smaller companies a better chance to compete in tenders.In details laid out in its Programme for Government, the coalition also outlines sweeping changes which will introduce a new "right to data" - and oblige government and councils to publish more data in standard forms so that they can be examined and analysed.The programme'ssection on government transparency- which also allows, and has attracted, comments - sets out a number of key steps that will be implemented under plans outlined in the Queen's Speech to Parliament.The coalition says it will:&bull; take steps to open up government procurement and reduce costs;&bull; publish government ICT contracts online.&bull; create a level playing field for open-source software and will enable large ICT projects to be split into smaller components.&bull; require full, online disclosure of all central government spending and contracts over £25,000.&bull; create a new 'right to data' so that government-held datasets can be requested and used by the public, and then published on a regular basis&bull; require all councils to publish meeting minutes and local service and performance data&bull; require all councils to publish items of spending above £500, and to publish contracts and tender documents in full&bull; ensure that all data published by public bodies is published in an open and standardised format, so that it can be used easily and with minimal cost by third parties.Although the previous Labour administration had set out an aim to encourage the use of open source software and methods in government projects, it gained little traction. Itsstatement in February 2009(now archived) said that open source should be on an "equal footing" with proprietary systems. That said that "Procurement decisions will be made on the basis on the best value for money solution to the business requirement, taking account of total lifetime cost of ownership of the solution, including exit and transition costs, after ensuring that solutions fulfil minimum and essential capability, security, scalability, transferability, support and manageability requirements." It also added that the government "will, wherever possible, avoid becoming locked in to proprietary software".The coalition does not specify which departments will be in charge of implementing each of the plans. However, the "right to data" would probably be most easily effected through the Office of Public Sector Information, which is part of the National Archives - which is in turn managed through the Ministry of Justice.However data about contracts may be published through the Cabinet Office. Meanwhile the Department for Communities and Local Government may have to bring in the laws relating to local councils - and there is so far no clear agreement on the formats in which data should be published.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Angry Birds splash screen. Photo byAndrew Currieon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 14 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamToo many Angry Birds in the iTunes Store &gt;&gt; Marco.orgIf you look on the iTunes App store for Angry Birds - an enormously popular game - you'll find a flood of "pure spam" products.Saving a penny -- pirating the Humble Indie Bundle &gt;&gt; Wolfire Games BlogYou could download the Humble Bundle of games for any price - including zero. Yet many people chose to pirate it from other sites. Why, for something you could get for free?Skype skipping Windows Phone 7 app for Android, iPhone &gt;&gt; ElectronistaThere will be (is) a client for iPhone OS and Android. But Windows Phone 7.. no.Cory Doctorow: Persistence Pays Parasites &gt;&gt; Locus OnlineCory Doctorow - yes, him - got phished. Yes, really. And it could happen to you. "for the want of a nail, and so on.&#10;&#10;"But all the stars aligned for that one moment, and in that exact and precise moment of vulnerability, I was attacked by a phisher. This is eerily biological, this idea of parasites trying every conceivable variation, at all times, on every front, seeking a way to colonize a host organism. The net's complex ecosystem is so crowded with parasites now that it is a sure bet that there will be a parasite lurking in the next vulnerable moment I experience, and the next. And I will have vulnerable moments. We all do."Why doesn't Windows include native PDF reader support? &gt;&gt; F-Secure WeblogThe holes in Adobe Reader have annoyed the F-Secure people once too often. Apple's Preview hasn't been exploited yet... has it?Web Privacy: In Praise of Oversharing -- Printout &gt;&gt; TIMESteven Johnson on how we live now.FAQ: What We Know So Far About Google TV &gt;&gt; SearchEngineLand"Most people who pay for cable today are unlikely to "unplug" because of this. But there will likely be a group of people who simply use Google TV (or other comparable tools) to get internet content, Neflix and web video in the living room, as an alternative to paying for a cable subscription." The question is, how big is this group, and is it big enough to make it profitable?Mark Zuckerberg's Weird, PR-Speak Facebook Op-Ed in the Washington Post &gt;&gt; MediaiteIt wasn't really an "op-ed" (opinion editorial), more a sort of open letter to users. Doesn't Facebook have a blog for that sort of thing? "Letting Zuckerberg and Facebook get away with such a non-rigorous response to this issue was a real fail. WaPo should have demanded more. Instead, it basically published a press release. And a not-very-contrite press release at that. And Facebook, for its part, just comes across as a company that will plot meticulously to cook up the most confusing and intricate privacy labyrinth in history but won't bother taking the time to explain how it's going to fix it — or when."What can you do with our Open Data? &gt;&gt; Lichfield District Council Web Development BlogIncludes a "Find your councillors" walkthrough.Year 5 Netbook Project &gt;&gt; Michael Faraday Primary SchoolWhat Becta hath wrought. But isn't going to wrought no more, given it's being shut down.A History of AOL, as Told in Its Own Old Press Releases &gt;&gt; Technologizer.netThe company which has arguably destroyed more equity than any other in the history of the world. First Time-Warner, then Bebo.. any more?Connect and share, whether you want to or not &gt;&gt; YourOpenBookUsing new Facebook API to traverse the social web and embarrass people mightily.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook, answering privacy concerns with new settings &gt;&gt; Washington PostWhat's interesting is that you have to read this as a politician's speech: look at what he's not saying - no retreat from having to opt out, nor from having to negotiate all sorts of jumps to rein things in. It's astonishingly vague.Hard at work &gt;&gt; Pearls Before Swine cartoon stripObviously, this is completely unlike the way that you or I work while trying to--squirrel!You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
There are few better ways to boost awareness of a major game release than to generate some sort of media controversy around the title. Mortal Kombat probably didn't need such gory fatalities. Carmageddon probably didn't need quite that much blood. Last Autumn's Modern Warfare 2 certainly could have managed without the preposterous and unnecessary 'No Russian' airport mission.Rockstar, of course, are no strangers to this technique, with the notorious 'Hot Coffee' segment in GTA: San Andreas one of numerous controversial moments that have propelled the series from the niche world of gaming to become a genuine pop culture phenomenon. I suppose it's no surprise then to find in Red Dead Redemption yet another example of cynical use of headline-grabbing bad taste.The 'Dastardly' achievement,spotted first on the interwebs by the curiously named Topless Robot website, is gained by hogtying a woman, placing her on train tracks, and standing by to watch her get run over. Possibly not the mostimmoral gaming momentyou've ever experienced, but it certainly made me feel a bit uncomfortable.Consider the resonance the Bulger murder still has in this country and the clear contempt with which gaming is held by many rightwing opinion-makers and its not hard to foresee the headlines. Never mind the fact that Red Dead also allows you to kill nuns.As with any sandbox game there are, of course, some pretty heinous things you can do. It's the free choice that makes the format so compelling. But the decision to include this as an achievement - incentivising probably the worst thing you can do in the game - is an obvious and cynical attempt to provoke a media sandstorm and extend publicity surrounding the game long into the summer.I'm sure the morality of the 'Dastardly' achievement will be discussed in incendiary terms on other major newspaper websites (and possibly our own) in a few weeks time. And I'd expect most Games blog readers to agree that, in an 18 certificate game, there's no reason why you shouldn't be able to do anything you can see in an 18 certificate film.The problem I have is this: doesn't it somehow cheapen the experience of a game like Red Dead knowing that its artistic vision (if you will) has been compromised to try and gain publicity? Also, do we really need to giveJulie Peasgoodand the like more ammunition to portray the gaming community as homicidal maniacs? Video games will never be taken seriously while top-tier titles resort to such tactics.
Beleaguered and overshadowed by powerful competitors, the internet company Yahoo and the mobile phone manufacturer Nokia are pooling their expertise in an effort to regain an edge in crucial services such as maps, chat, navigation and email.But an alliance between the two companies got off to a rocky start as Yahoo's chief executive, Carol Bartz, lost patience with criticism of the speed of her firm's turnaround and delivered a four-letter rebuke to an interviewer at an industry conference."I don't want to hear any crap about something magical that the fine people of Yahoo are supposed to do in this short time, so fuck off," Bartz told Michael Arrington, editor of the influentialblog TechCrunch, in front of an audience of technology gurus at the annual TechCrunch Disrupt gathering in New York.Bartz, who took the top job at Yahoo early last year and has a reputation for salty language, made it clear that she had little time for complaints about the pace of change at the Silicon Valley company, which has fallen second fiddle to Google in internet searches."I've been at this company 16 months," said Bartz, complaining that her critics seemed to expect her to turn Yahoo into the next Apple computer empire overnight. "I'm supposed to have an iPod, an iPad, an iBlah."LukewarmHer outburst came amid a lukewarm reaction to the latest step in Yahoo's attempted resurrection following years of tepid growth and investor frustration. Bartz has forged a deal with Finland's Nokia to create co-branded applications, partly aimed at the millions of new mobile users in the developing world who use their handsets as their sole way to connect to the internet.Under the agreement, Yahoo will provide chat and email services on Nokia handsets. For combined offerings, the European phone firm's present internet brand, Ovi, will by supplemented by the words "powered by Yahoo". Meanwhile, Nokia will bolster Yahoo's mapping and navigation services on the web, which presently lag far behind Google's global mapping."This is two powerful consumer brands working together to bring even better services to potentially billions of people around the world," said Nokia's chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, at a press conference held at the Nasdaq stockmarket in Times Square.On the surface, the tie-up seems a formidable combination. Yahoo is the web's leader in display advertising, while Nokia is the world's biggest manufacturer of mobile phones, making roughly four out of every 10 handsets globally. But both companies are under fire for being outmanoeuvred by rivals.Nokia last month warned of weak profits as it struggles to produce a compelling smartphone to match Apple's iPhone and Research in Motion's BlackBerry. Meanwhile, Yahoo has been outflanked by Google on online search and has failed to keep up in maps, which have become a crucial element in online information.No game changerThe alliance garnered only weak accolades from Silicon Valley commentators. Yahoo's shares edged up by 1.8% to $15.75 during early trading on Wall Street.Michael Gartenberg, a technology analyst at Altimeter Group in California, said: "It's two companies that have both lost a lot of relevance in their relative spaces that are both looking to reclaim that. There doesn't seem to be a whole lot here to indicate how they're going to do that."Gartenberg said that although the combination makes sense, it was difficult to see it as a game changer: "The centre of gravity has shifted to Google, Apple, Research in Motion, Microsoft. I'm not sure how combining these things together helps them gain ground on those competitors."At Yahoo, a new management team is trying to shift a perception that the internet firm is simply a smaller, less successful version of Google. The company's share price is far below a $33-a-share takeover offer tabled by Microsoft two years ago but vigorously opposed by Yahoo's board.Bartz was installed to succeed Yahoo's co-founder Jerry Yang and it is not the first time that her impatience has bubbled over into intemperate language.During a conference call with Wall Street analysts in April last year, she complained of the poor productivity she encountered on arrival at Yahoo: "We had a lot of people telling engineers what to do but nobody fucking doing anything."
Dead magpie. Will the Twitter version follow? Photo byCyronon Flickr.Some rights reservedTwitter is culling would-be advertising platforms that try to jump on its popularity by tweeting advertising messages via particular users.In aposting to its company blog today, the company says (after a bit of shilly-shallying around on how important everyone has told it that clarity is; as though many companies get people saying "What we'd really like is for your strategy to be a lot more confusing, with products that have no rhyme or reason") that"It is critical that the core experience of real-time introductions and information is protected for the user and with an eye toward long-term success for all advertisers, users and the Twitter ecosystem."Which means that..."For this reason, aside from Promoted Tweets, we will not allow any third party to inject paid tweets into a timeline on any service that leverages the Twitter API. We are updating our Terms of Service to articulate clearly what we mean by this statement, and we encourage you to read the updated API Terms of Service to be released shortly."Nobody however can quite figure out yet which services there are which inject paid tweetsvia the Twitter API. Now, there are plenty which inject them into timelines of tweets - such as Magpie and Tweetup. What's not clear is whether that means they're doing it via the API.It also means that apps which pay for themselves by including adverts which clearly aren't tweets (such as Iconfactory's Twitterrific) aren't affected; those aren't injected via the API, and they're not appearing as tweets.So could it be Magpie?Magpieportrays itself as a simple way to get your ad out there on Twitter:"Advertising on Twitter with Magpie is easy. Within a few steps you can have your campaign up and running. Once you have identified the opportunity simply propose a message, identify the conversation you want to join, decide how much you want to spend and then fund your campaign. We then select relevant twitterers and invite them to participate."The question is whether sponsored tweets like that will have the boom lowered. Quite how Twitter is going to identify them is going to be interesting to watch, but it's clear that the company has now decided that it should be the one controlling where the ad revenues flow, and that if people want to advertise in actual tweets, they will have to go through themusing its "Promoted Tweets" feature.The analyst Michael Gartenberg says thatTweetupwill also be a casualty; it lets advertisers buy search keywords. AsFast Company explainedwhen Promoted Tweets appeared,"The advertising enters the picture when a lesser-known but still credible source wants to secure more followers. That could be a small company trying to spread word of mouth, a young writer or critic, or simply someone like me who feels his insights on The West Wing are as good (better than, really) any "expert" out there. That person pays a small fee, based on number of views, and will get a bump into the expert search results. Not necessarily stuck at the top, either; the money buys increased visibility, it doesn't buy intrusion."But now it looks like Twitter isn't going to allow anyone to do that. Again, the question is quite how it will filter out those added tweets - how it will distinguish from a group of people deciding it's #nickcleggsfault spontaneously and a group deciding that product X issuper tasty!without human intervention (because humans don't scale, and Twitter must to make money).Perhaps those will be revealed with the new terms of service. Between Facebook promising to update its privacy/publicity settings, and Twitter locking out the advertising platforms, it's an interesting time for the big names.
Last year, UFC 2009 turned a load of gamers onto this particular franchise – myself included. However, it was far from perfect, with laggy online play merely one of its foibles.And, although the multiplayer aspect was impossible to test before launch, this update manages to correct all the other niggles while building on everything that we liked before. Naturally, there's a top list of fighters to choose from, and although the likes of Brock Lesnar or Shogun Rua are not exactly household names over here, fans of their cable TV exploits will immediately recognise their faces and many of their trademark moves.More significant are the changes to the gameplay, many of which will initially dismay fans of the series as they alter many of the moves they may have been using up to now. For instance, it's a lot harder to score easy points by bringing your opponent to the canvas and repeatedly pummelling him with energy-sapping blows, thanks to an improved system for clinches and ground grapples. There's also a brand new sway system that brings another level of subtlety to stand-up technique. This involves tapping the right analogue stick to sway left or right to avoid oncoming blows. Time this right and you can score extra damage; get it wrong and you can find yourself on the canvas when you would have previously simply blocked the attack.Other changes are more subtle in their impact. There are new fighting styles – including Karate and Greco-Roman wrestling – and during cage fights you can use the walls to your advantage. The game's expanded career mode is also far more interesting, spanning 12 years of training, minor bouts and final and invitation to join the UFC where the bigger names and kudos lie.It's true that UFC's success is still largely Stateside, making the steep price seem like a risk for non-fans. However, with smooth animation and excellent fighter likenesses, it's a joy to watch and a rewarding challenge to play. Unlike most other fight games, where memorising moves is the order of the day, in this one success can hinge on every grapple – meaning you're always looking for some advantage, even once committed to a particular move.All things considered, this puts UFC 2010 right up there with Tekken and Soul Calibur as one of the best fight games around.
Facebook is to revise its privacy settings within weeks to make it simpler for people to keep their information private, according to Mark Zuckerberg, its founder and chief executive of the giant social network.Acknowledging a growing level of irritation among the site's 450m users, Zuckerberg said: "Simply put, many of you thought our controls [for determining who could see information about you] were too complex. Our intention was to give you lots of granular controls; but that may not have been what many of you wanted. We just missed the mark."But Zuckerberg insisted that concerns that Facebook is selling personal data to advertisers were misplaced. "We do not give advertisers access to your personal information," he said. "We do not and never will sell any of your information to anyone."Writingin the Washington Post, the 26-year-old insisted that Facebook will "keep listening" to users' concerns.However, he stopped short of offering users the choice of opting in to having all their information spread throughout the social network and the internet – which may mean that the new settings will not satisfy users after all.Facebook makes money principally by selling advertising space on users' pages; the adverts can be tailored to the interests or experiences of the users without the advertiser knowing who it is being sent to. Thus someone who says their favourite band is U2 might see adverts for a new album or concert tour by the band, though the advertiser will not have known precisely who was targeted.A rising number of people have expressed dissatisfaction with the social network's ever-changing privacy policy, which has grown in complexity since the site began in 2004 – and has also seen the default settings for sharing information go from "friends only" to "the entire internet" for almost everything that people put on it.The ease with which people can find out anything about people who are unaware of the settings has been demonstrated by a site which uses Facebook's new connectivity to its underlying database, launched on 21 April.Youropenbook, which has the tagline "Facebook helps you connect and share with the people in your life. Whether you want to or not", says that it wants Facebook to restore the privacy of information "so that this website and others like it no longer work".The site's creators say there are two fundamental problems with Facebook now: "First, they do not do a good job of indicating how public each piece of information you share on the site will be. Second,they change the rules far too often. If you understood Facebook's privacy settings two years ago (or even six months ago), that information would be worse than useless with today's bewildering settings."Others think it is time to give up Facebook: one group has come up with a "Quit Facebook Day" idea, urging people to delete their accounts on 31 May.Zuckerberg insists in the Washington Post article that Facebook will always be a free service – which suggests that it will have to continue to rely on selling advertising space targeted at users' interests and activities. That, in turn, means that at least some of the user information must be shared with advertisers, even in anonymised form. And that, in turn, must mean a limit on some of the limits that users can put on sharing their data.He does not retreat in the article from his frequently-expressed view that sharing information is beneficial. "Six years ago, we built Facebook around a few simple ideas," he writes. "People want to share and stay connected with their friends and the people around them. If we give people control over what they share, they will want to share more. If people share more, the world will become more open and connected. And a world that's more open and connected is a better world. These are still our core principles today."No date has been put on the release of the new privacy settings.•How to control your Facebook privacy settings– from sharing everything to locking down your photos to deleting your account.
The Treasury's decision to close the education ICT agencyBectaby November, cutting £80m from this financial year's government budget, has dismayed its 240 staff – and some teachers who found its work especially useful because it provided a central platform for standardising on technology.The move has been made as part of the government'swider programme of cuts worth £6.2bnfor 2010-11."Naturally we are very disappointed at the government's decision," said Becta's chairman, Graham Badman, and chief executive, Stephen Crowne. "Becta is a very effective organisation with an international reputation, delivering valuable services to schools, colleges and children."Our procurement arrangements save the schools and colleges many times more than Becta costs to run. Our Home Access programme will give laptops and broadband to over 200,000 of the poorest children. Our top priorities now are to make sure we have an orderly and fair process for staff, and that as far as possible schools, colleges and children continue to benefit from the savings and support that Becta has provided."The organisation employs 240 staff and 120 contractors. On its site, Becta says that £1.5bn has been spent through its procurement agreements since 2002, and that this has saved the education system £223m – which would be an average of about £28m per year. It also says it has achieved cost savings of £55m for educational institutions and providers including schools, local authorities and the skills sector in the past year alone.Early reactions were that Becta has been useful, and that closing it will lead to losses in expertise which will have to be made up by extra spending elsewhere. Paul Wareing, now an iPhone developer but for eight years a Becta employee, mourned its passing. He cited achievements such as the creation of the National Grid for Learning, launched in 1998, which provided a gateway to online educational resources; the Self-Review Framework, which let schools assess their own use of ICT; and Laptops for Teachers, which got teachers who might have been unfamiliar with computers to use them."It was the envy of the world,"Wareing wrote on Twitter. "The cost of its loss will be much more than the saving of its cost." He pointed to its initiatives such as work-based learning, offender learning, adult and community lending as well as schools and home access which will be ended – or shifted to other, less prepared agencies.Fred Garnett, another Becta supporter,commented: "[The] Becta closure won't save £62m &amp; must hit Home Access &amp; inclusion initiatives. The use of inaccurate term quango indicates sleazy politics."Becta was also seen as having played an important role in driving down the cost of computers to schools. In 2005 it produced a paper suggesting that schools could halve their IT bills by adopting open source software rather than Microsoft's Windows and other applications. In 2008, it suggested that schools should adopt more open source software – which led to Microsoft dropping some of its costs for licensing software to schools.Other teachers contacted the Guardian to cite Becta's ICT Baseline, which let teachers rate their ICT provision, as an example of good practice put in place by Becta.The question now is whether the closure will indeed reduce overall costs of public sector spending.Becta, formerly known as the British Educational and Communications Technology Agency, was set up in 1998 to promote the effective use of ICT in education. It has admitted that, although schools are being kitted out with the latest technology, only one in five is using it effectively.The agency already faced a budget cut of almost half its £112.5m annual spend over the next two years. The money was provided by the former Department for Children Schools and Families.Theofficial Treasury document on the cutssays that they aim to "cut Whitehall waste and protect schools spending".Becta has been promoting Home Access, the former Labour government's scheme to bridge the "digital divide" by ensuring all children have a computer at home. It has encouraged English secondary schools to integrate the online reports into virtual learning environments so parents can see what their children are doing in the classroom.It has also been promoting the adoption of ICT to enable people studying for diplomas in vocational subjects to move between schools, colleges and work placements.• This article was amended on 17 August 2010. The original referred to the British Educational and Communications Technology Association formed in 1988. This has been corrected.
LittleDog, from Boston Dynamics, shows theamazing developments in four-legged locomotionthat hint at a future where robots will be able to replace both humans and animals for many tasks. It shows remarkable stability for a four-legged creature (having six leg makes stability easier because you can stand on three legs while moving three legs).Each of LittleDog's legs has three electric motors, which gives it about 30 minutes of operation using lithium polymer batteries. A built-in "PC level" computer does the sensing, and controls the motors.LittleDog's home pagesays: "LittleDog is used at MIT, Stanford, Carnegie Mellon, USC, Univ. Pennsylvania and IHMC as part of a DARPA-funded program on advanced robotics."It was DARPA, the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, that developed the Internet. DARPA is also funding research into driverless vehicles and prosthetics (neurally-controlled arms and hands), among other things.Boston Dynamics has already made an impact with BigDog, a much larger four-legged robot. The aim is to develop a Legged Squad Support System (PDF) that could carry equipment for soldiers fighting in difficult terrain -- essentially, robot mules.BigDog has also been "weaponized"by the addition of bull-style horns. One idea is that it could be used for crowd control.
There aren't many genuinely violent video games on the Wii, so when developers go bloody, they seem determined to go against the cutesy, family-orientated grain of the console's catalogue in the most preposterous fashion imaginable.The most extreme example to date is last year's MadWorld – a savage, monochrome bloodbath where hurling people into aircraft engines was about par where the violence levels were concerned. Attempting to get back in on what is still a niche market on the system, Rising Star reprise their cult title from 2008. We're in third person slash-'em-up territory, in the company of sweary hipster Travis Touchdown, returning to the squalor of Santa Destroy, California, to do battle with a variety of similarly implausibly-monickered fighters in a bid to regain the top ranking of the United Assassins Association.After quickly being thrown into your opening tussle, the plot expands to introduce the wider environment. It's quickly apparent that the developers are keeping the ship tighter than in the original, with movement between fights and errands navigated via a nifty map interface instead of the original's slightly shonky GTA-style driving sections to get you from A to B. And it's in-between fights that the game shines, particularly with the "Side Jobs", Travis's main means of making money to buy new clothes and weaponry. They take the form of 8-bit-style mini-games, and are brilliantly done, taking in cracking variants of the likes of Pipe Mania (Lay The Pipe), Jetpac (Getting Trashed) and Hang On (Pizza With A Vengeance). You could very easily while away several hours on these alone.The main action, however, takes place with Travis, accompanied by his lightsabre (they call it a "beam katana", but they're fooling no one), going after bosses and henchmen in an attempt to climb the assassins' league table. Fights, sadly, are pretty monotonous affairs, based mainly around two buttons and a lot of waving of the Wii-mote. As in MadWorld, you frequently have to respond to onscreen prompts to flail this way or that for particularly elaborate finishing moves. It can feel a little odd waving left and right, exactly as you would in Wii Sports to tap a tennis ball over a net, only this time to see your movements result in – say – slicing an already detached head into four pieces. Variety does crop up, such as an episode where Travis and his opponent go all Power Rangers on you to fight as huge machines, as well as a later fight preceded by a (frankly woeful) Destruction Derby-style interlude. Ostensibly though it's swing, avoid, swing again, avoid, grapple, waft a bit, kill.It's all wrapped in a polished, albeit sordid and curse-heavy package, and it does feel at times like the OTT gore, and cut-scenes where the camera lingers on a pair of jiggling breasts, or a bum in a belt massager, are almost there to distract the teenage target audience from the tameness of the game's core. It's pretty light on substance, and at times akin to little more than a bloodier version of something like the Tekken Force side games. Like MadWorld, despite the massively impressive, ultra-stylised graphics, after a handful of samey fights it all feels a bit of a chore, but unlike Sega's title, several attempts to inject humour misfire badly. Endlessly repeated speech samples don't help either, with one boss fight being infuriatingly punctuated by the hammily delivered phrase "no one loves money like me" almost every five seconds.Saddest thing is that even the violence, the game's USP, feels fairly mundane after a while. Ironically, the inclusion of the mini-games almost serves to shoot No More Heroes in the foot – demonstrating that all the blood, spit and polish in the world may get you so far, but ultimately it's the playability that'll kill you.
Back at the dawn of microblogging time, when Twitter had only just started, there were only three users who mattered: Biz Stone, Evan Williams and Jack Dorsey - the three key people behind the service. Now there are more than a hundred million users - but the key influencers in this huge network can be quite easily identified.Now the team at Information Architects have decided to come up witha neat Twitter visualisation, akin toThe Independent's classic 1992 "How the universe began" graphic, of the top 140 Twitter influencers, "sorted by #name #handle #category #influence #activity" and by when they joined the service (which determines how close to the centre they are).The size of the blob indicates how many followers; "influence" is measured by... actually, they don't explain, though possibly it's using something like theTwiinfluence algorithm.Interesting to see who's in there: Stone and Williams, of course, but also latecomerMarissa Mayer(VP of search product and user experience at Google), who only joined in July 2009, andEric Schmidt, CEO of Google (December 2009) - and of course there's alwaysBill Gates, who didn't get on board until January 2010. And of courseStephen Fryand indeedJonathan Ross.You can get thePDF (1.1MB)or buy it from them for $99 because, as they remark, "we're convinced that our print is way superior to what you can do with your plotter". And you will need a plotter - the graphic is 84cm by 119cm.We're happy to see that @guardiantech is in there, showing up in something like the placewhere Kappa Velorum would be in the Milky Way. (We've highlighted it below to help.)Spot the influencer.. @guardiantech on TwitterDoes this make any difference? Well.. it might do, if this list of the top 140 were made into a list. Anybody up for that, we wonder?
For years, Disney has vocally maintained that it is committed to making quality games, and at last it has delivered – and it can't be a coincidence that this arcade-style racer isn't tied to one of its films. Although it does resemble something that Michael Bay would have come up with – the explosions, spectacular crashes and set-pieces come thick and fast (thankfully without any stilted dialogue).The agreeably flimsy premise behind Split/Second: Velocity's all-action gameplay dictates that you're taking part in a TV show, in which participants race cars while the organisers fire rockets at them from helicopters, and send girders, ships, lorries and the like careering across the tracks. These are known as power plays, and you can trigger them if you build up a meter by drifting, drafting or catching big air. Not unlike Mario Kart's power-ups, but because they occur at fixed places on the track, you have to be careful when you trigger them – it's easy to take yourself out. You can also temporarily open up shortcuts and, if you fill your meter at the right part of a given track, you can completely reshape that track by triggering vast, architecture-crumbling conflagrations.The cars' handling is straight out of Ridge Racer, with drifting to the fore (triggered by braking or lifting off, turning in ridiculously early, then ramming the throttle back down and applying opposite lock). The cars sport different balances between drift controllability, acceleration, robustness and speed: commendably, they feel very disparate and, whatever your driving style, you'll find some to suit.There are sufficient game modes to keep you interested. As well as the straight races, there are eliminators, survival races in which you have to dodge lorries dropping explosive barrels (hit three or crash three times and you're out) and air-strike races, in which a helicopter fires missiles at you – luckily, you can see where they will land, but you must still dodge them. Air-strike races are pleasantly reminiscent of Atari's arcade classic RoadBlasters. The only slightly lame game mode is the timed lap, in which all the power plays trigger ahead of you – even though you're alone on the road, the game still gives you a position between first and eighth place.The tracks are spectacular to behold, taking in settings such an airport, storm drain and dockyard, and invariably featuring huge bridges which can be blown into mangled, route-altering wrecks. They aren't too challenging to drive, mind – braking into corners is anathema for Split/Second: Velocity, although you do need to react swiftly to avoid obstacles. Graphics-wise, it's simply one of the best games ever: pre-release code had frame-rate issues (thankfully now expunged, at least in single-player mode) showing how hard the game pushes the graphical limits of the Xbox 360 and PS3. Replay value mainly resides in its judiciously fettled multiplayer side (which also demonstrates how forgiving the AI is, although it does get more competitive as you progress through the single-player campaign).If you've become jaded by video games, Split/Second: Velocity should remind you what drew you to them in the first place: it offers great slabs of the sort of escapism that could never take place in real life, lashings of instant gratification and is even mesmerising if you watch someone else play it. A true heir to the arcade racers of yore.
Probably a stupid question but what new release did you play this weekend? Yes, the answer is almost certainly Red Dead Redemption. Rockstar's Grand Theft Western haswon over the criticsbut has it wooed you? If shoot-outs and saddles are not your thing what have you been playing this weekend instead?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Want v Need. Photo bycourtneyBoltonon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 25 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPad 'halo' effect pushes Mac sales, use, ChangeWave says &gt;&gt; ComputerworldThough iPad sales are cannibalizing some Mac sales, "Our latest [computer buying plans] poll showed a four-point surge for the Mac, the biggest in the last three years. The iPad has a halo effect on the Mac because of all the surrounding publicity about the iPad and the additional floor traffic at Apple's stores."Letter to the Editor of The Observer &gt;&gt; Raceonline2012's BlogMartha Lane Fox on the importance of getting everyone online. That's her target for 2012.Tips for HTML5, part 4: New tags &gt;&gt; Teaching OnlineHow's it going with the HTML5 cramming?MicroApps from The Guardian and Google AppEngine - Both ready for business &gt;&gt; Google App Engine blogSpot the Daring Fireball T-shirt among the Guardian team thinkingreally hardThat's a lot to Like &gt;&gt; FacebookThere's no limit on the URL length you can "Like" in Facebook. Which can lead to slight problems..The Death of the Open Web &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comA widely discussed piece because it captures the zeitgeist (at least for a small number of rich middle-class Americans), even though logically it doesn't make any senseVirginia Heffernan and the exaggerated death of the open web &gt;&gt; Quiet BabylonianTim Maly points out some of the basic errors in Virginia Heffernan's "open web" essayThe death of the Open Web has been somewhat exaggerated &gt;&gt; Way Of The WebAnother perspective on the NYT Heffernan piece: "There have been initial sucesses with some applications [for the iPad], but at the same time, many people are reporting that they're increasing using the fast browser to surf the web just as effectively – if not moreso than many of the lacklustre apps rushed out for launch."Sure, It's Big. But Is That Bad? &gt;&gt; New York TimesUS anti-trust regulators are watching Google...J.A. Konrath: Is Print Dead? &gt;&gt; Huffington PostFunny roundtable at a meeting of Obsolete Anonymous with Print Industry, VHS Tapes, CDs and many more....Post-I/O Thoughts &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber points out that Apple is still syncing devices to PCs. "Relying upon a PC is ipso facto not 'post-PC', and the challenge for Apple is that they've never demonstrated the sort of expertise needed to do this via the cloud. Over-the-air syncing, backup, and system updates need to be something that 'just happens'.Flash Player 10.1 prerelease software demos and interviews &gt;&gt; AdobeAdobe's Flash Player Developer Center shows 10.1 running on a variety of devices including Android and Palm phones, HP's slate, Dell's Mini 5 tablet...How to Check if Your Gmail Account Has Been Hacked &gt;&gt; FriedBeef's TechSix simple illustrated bits to check....Encrypted Search Comes to Google &gt;&gt; TechnologizerSimple as adding https: instead of http: to the front of the URL. Surprisingly, it's beta.Sayonara, iPhone: Why I'm Switching to Android - Techtonic Shifts Blog &gt;&gt; NewsweekDan Lyons (aka Fake Steve Jobs) watched Google laughing at Apple and joins in by giving the old fruit company a good kickingDell begs ToryDems to keep NHS IT project &gt;&gt; The Register"Harry Greenspun, Dell's "chief medical officer", warned PublicTechnology.net there was a danger the baby was being thrown out with the bath water. He said there was a need to make the technology easier to use and manage, but there were still benefits to be had from increasing computer use in the health service."Russian Anti-Spam Chief Caught Spamming &gt;&gt; DailyTechAccused of doing what it says on the tin.Why Will Google TV Be Any Different From WebTV? Or AOL TV? Or MSNTV? Or… &gt;&gt; AllThingsDActually, we're not sure.Where in the world is J Allard? &gt;&gt; ZDNetThe guy who made the Xbox happen at Microsoft, and the Zune, is apparently on a sabbatical and not expected to return. Your bets on where he'll turn up if that's the case?ConDems Won't Repeal UK's Digital Economy Act &gt;&gt; paidContent:UKJust in case you actually thought that any incoming government would take the time to go back over legislation which it didn't object to. Look, even the Dangerous Dogs Act is untouched.Flash Player 10.1 on Google TV &gt;&gt; Adobe Flash Platform BlogA video shows Google TV in action, running Adobe Flash. Question: if it's in the US, how is it showing video from the BBC... unless it's locally cached?First Look: H.264 and VP8 Compared &gt;&gt; streamingmedia.comQuality looks much the same....Infrastructures &gt;&gt; xkcd"You're probably autistic."IBM hands out malware-stuffed USB at security conference &gt;&gt; The Register"Big Blue does not identify the strain of malware involved in the attack beyond saying it's a type of virus widely detected for at least two years which takes advantage of Windows autorun to spread..."American and European Angel Investors Back Game-Changing Social Impact Videogame &gt;&gt; BusinessWireAmerican and European Angel Investors Back Game-Changing Social Impact VideogameYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The natural parents of adopted children are increasingly using Facebook and other social networking sites to track down their offspring, flouting the usual controls and safeguards.Adoption agencies are reporting huge numbers of calls from "deeply distressed" adoptive parents whose children have been contacted out of the blue.Jonathan Pearce, chief executive of Adoption UK, said it was having to deal with the consequences of this "intrusive and unplanned communication", and warned that it was becoming more difficult to guarantee confidentiality to adoptive parents and their children.At the moment, official contact in adoption is most often made through the "letterbox" process. The adoptive parents send the birth family a letter and photos every year via a social worker or adoption agency intermediary. If the birth parent wants to respond, they also have to go through this route.However, Facebook and other social networking sites have changed all this. Any scrap of information – a name, location or date of birth – can help biological parents track down their children.But the agencies warn that the existing rules protect often extremely vulnerable children. Where once adoption tended to involve a young, single woman giving up her unplanned baby, now two-thirds of adopted children have been removed because their parents abused or neglected them. In many cases, the birth parents dispute the removal, blaming social services. One message sent to a child given up some years ago for adoption read: "Hello, I'm your birth father. I have been searching for you ever since you were stolen by social services. You look beautiful. I love you so much."Another read: "Darling son, I am so happy because I have found you here. I have been looking for ages. Please write back because you've been told lies about me." Many local authorities are now advising adoptive parents not to include photographs in their annual letters, in case these are posted online in an attempt to trace the child.In a report to be broadcast onChannel 4 Newstonight, one adoptive mother said a message to her daughter from the biological mother had had a catastrophic impact on the family. The adoptive mother, who cannot be identified, said: "Our daughter, who is our prime concern, has gone from no contact from her birth family, at the hands of whom she had a difficult start in life, to suddenly finding they are there at the press of abutton."Her daughter had just turned 16 when she received the message in February. She is due to sit her GCSEs shortly, but her adoptive mother said she had gone through a whole range of emotions and that it had "completely thrown her".The natural mother failed to acknowledge why her daughter had been removed from the family at the age of seven. "She was subjected to abuse and neglect over a long period of time," said her adoptive mother. "But none of that is being acknowledged now."In another case, a teenage girl was contacted by her biological mother who, in turn, put her in touch with her birth father. The girl was unaware that the man had sexually abused her when she was a young child. The report also cites the case of the adoptive father of one teenage boy who went to meet his birth father after contact was made through Facebook. The boy had been removed from his family because of severe physical abuse when he was a baby.There are no reliable estimates of how many children have been contacted using social networking sites. But agencies are so concerned that next month the British Association for Adoption and Fostering is to send out new guidance to social workers and adoptive parents.Dr John Simmonds, the BAAF's director of policy, research and development, said the guidelines recognise that Facebook and other social networking sites are here to stay. "We will have to build them into the fabric of our adoption practice and re-emphasise the importance of children knowing why they were placed for adoption and the circumstances of the birth parents," Dr Simmonds said. "There is nothing we can say to the social networking sites."Chris Smith, whose children were adopted seven years ago, said he uses social networking sites to "follow them through life", although he has not sent any messages. Smith, who believes his children were unfairly adopted, said he wanted to know about their wellbeing. The annual letter does not tell you about their health or interests, he said."Because I know where they are, I can just sit and see some of the photos of their school and of events and know they are doing OK," he explained.Some agencies now ask birth parents to sign contracts prohibiting them from using social networking sites to make contact. The adoptive mother to whom theObserverspoke said that when she contacted social services for advice they told her to stop their daughter from using social networking sites. "I told them that I did not believe I could do that because she would run away. I can cut back some contact, but not all," she said.Normally the girl would not have been able to meet her biological family until she was 18. Because of the unexpected contact, her adoptive family is being forced to explore the option of a formal meeting with the birth parents. The mother said this was "far from ideal", but the "genie was out of the bottle".■ Facebook is expected to introduce changes to its privacy settings as early as this week following attacks by regulators and campaign groups, who claim it has failed to ensure users' privacy.Those briefed at Facebook's headquarters in the US say the company is to introduce a "master control" that would simplify users' privacy settings. Users would then be able to choose which groups of people they wished to share information with – everyone, friends of friends or just friends. This would replace the current automatic system that shares users' information with third parties and has been criticised for being over-complicated and confusing.For the full report see Channel 4 News tonight at 6.30pm
Millions of users of Facebook are being urged to take part in the most dramatic "screenwipe" in history a week tomorrow. People are being asked to end their addiction to the social networking site by closing their accounts and turning billions of family videos, photographs and "friend requests" into little more than digital debris.Two Canadian campaigners have declared 31 May as Quit Facebook Day in protest at the company's decision to make more of that valuable personal data available to advertisers without the users' permission or, in some cases, without their knowledge. Their protest reflects a growing feeling of unease about how internet giants such as Facebook and Google, and upstarts like Twitter, use the information we give them.It also completes a miserable few weeks for Facebook's 26-year-old founder Mark Zuckerberg, the whiz-kid who lists "openness", "revolutions" and "making things" in the interests section of his own Facebook page. Zuckerberg is facing a rebellion by users over privacy and has been warned by regulators in Europe and the US that the company may be in danger of breaching data protection laws.Worse still, a new Hollywood film produced by Kevin Spacey,The Social Network, is set to portray an even younger Zuckerberg, who set up Facebook six years ago after being dumped by his girlfriend while studying at Harvard, as a sexually insecure computer nerd.For the first time there is a danger that the fairytale about the man from White Plains, New York, who turned a site for his college friends into a global phenomenon might not have a happy ending.In truth, the great Facebook revolt is unlikely to happen overnight. The social networking site is weeks away from announcing its 500 millionth registered user and is still expanding at a healthy rate. Nearly 40% of the world's internet users have a Facebook page they have visited at least once in the past month and it is not just the young who use it; 28% of the site's users are older than 34, a demographic that has plenty of cash to spend.In terms of scale, if not profits, Facebook is second only to Google. A small rebellion by a few thousand users is unlikely to dent its prospects. Yet recent changes to the site's privacy settings, which determine how much personal information users can keep hidden, have prompted an outcry that senior executives, Zuckerberg included, cannot ignore.At a stroke, the company made most of that information accessible to other users by default last month, although it continued to allow subscribers to apply restrictions to who can see what, should they choose to. Those "privacy settings" are complicated to change, however – users are faced with a menu with up to 150 options – and few can work out how to do so; many have concluded Facebook is simply trying to hoodwink consumers into sharing more information than they would like. For an internet company that has built its reputation on honesty and openness, and grown rapidly by exploiting the good feeling that surrounds a medium in its infancy, there can be few more damaging allegations.A routine executive meeting at Facebook's Californian headquarters earlier this month turned into an emergency discussion about privacy amid fears that pushing through the changes without consultation might do irreparable damage to the company. Simon Davies, a former consultant turned privacy campaigner who knows most of Facebook's senior management team, says: "My information from the people who participated is there is a sense the company has gone off the rails somewhat and realistically it could go downhill. The feeling in the meeting, as I understand it, was that, right or wrong, [the] privacy [issue] was damaging the company and that, right or wrong, something has to change."The company is likely to simplify its privacy settings, possibly as soon as this week. It is reported to be planning to introduce a "master control" that would simplify users' privacy settings. Users would be able to choose which groups of people they wished to share information with – everyone, friends of friends, or just friends. This would replace the automatic system that shares users' information with third parties.The planned move acknowledges the fact that, as Zuckerberg toldTimemagazine: "What people want isn't complete privacy. It isn't that they want secrecy. It's that they want control over what they share and what they don't."This may not assuage wider concerns about how our digital footprints can be exploited, however. The novelty of tracking down an old school friend or boasting about how many people attended your birthday party has given way to anxiety over whether we might have given away too much. Facebook has been criticised for failing to address concerns that paedophiles are using the site to identify and "groom" potential victims."It has been exposed to more public relations problems in the last 18 months than any social network business can bear," Davies claims. Potentially more serious, however, is growing anger among Facebook users over the company's determination to mine their personal data for commercial gain.The company's office campus, in Palo Alto, a community of 50,000 people in the San Francisco Bay area, is a large but unremarkable space that was once occupied by computer giant Hewlett Packard. It's open plan and with high ceilings, and employees can break off from their work to play table tennis; bikes litter the floor; and some of the lifts have been painted by a New York graffiti artist.Visitors describe the atmosphere as "orderly yet bohemian". Yet behind the trendy façade, the company is carrying out a prosaic task, collecting information for what is in effect the largest and most sophisticated direct marketing exercise ever undertaken. Facebook is handing over information about its users' favourite films, brand of coffee, what car they drive, even their shopping habits, to companies that will pay handsomely for it. Selling data to "third parties" underpins the company's business model, which, like that of many internet companies, is built on acquiring huge scale and reach quickly, then making money later.The company is worth about £10bn, but that valuation is based on optimistic expectations about future profits. Banner advertising can generate only so much cash. If shareholders, including Microsoft (which paid £117m for a 1.6% stake in 2007) are to see a return on their investment, Zuckerberg must persuade users that even a free service like Facebook comes with a price – in this case allowing big corporations a glimpse of their spending habits.Facebook users did not sign up in order to be targeted by marketers, of course, and the internet has proved resistant to overt commercialisation in the past. When Rupert Murdoch's News Corp bought MySpace for $580m in July 2005, the company used it to plug its own products and the site's hip audience of teenage music fans soon began to search for other online hangouts.Most observers predict that Facebook is too well established to go the way of Friends Reunited, Bebo or Excite, internet fads that failed to turn overnight popularity into lasting success. But if Facebook flirts too brazenly with commercial partners, it may see its growth slow down dramatically.On his own Facebook profile, Zuckerberg demonstrates he still has the right credentials to claim membership of the IT fraternity by listingThe Matrix,Dark Knight,Iron ManandStar Warsamong his favourite films. The enigmatic Facebook founder also lists "eliminating desire" as one of his interests, alongside "breaking things".Breaking Facebook now would be a remarkable achievement, given its global dominance. But in order to fix it, Zuckerberg must resolve the tension between what users want to tell Facebook about themselves and what Facebook wants to tell other companies about them.
What's your favourite piece of technology and how has it improved your life?I'm going to generalise and say the smartphone. Starting from Nokia's N95, I've had a bunch of smartphones since they came along – they're feature-rich and bring everything from the office to your pocket. They've made life so much easier.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I've got a BlackBerry Bold and an iPhone. I'm on the BlackBerry right now, talking to you, and I've been using my iPhone this morning to arrange a virtual sporting event.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd like a little projector built in, to project pictures on to any surface. I think we'll see them in the next year or two.Do you think the smartphone will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, but I think it will move on. There will always be a need for a hand-held phone.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I think the industry can be seen as pretty geeky and quite nerdy. I've been working with Train2Game providing courses for people who want to work in the gaming industry. It's a sexy industry, the tech industry, and these days it's quite chic to be a geek.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I did once throw a Motorola handset against the wall, because it drove me mad, but I think ugly, obsolete tech is terrible. For me, the Amstrad Emailer is the piece of tech I dislike the most.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I'm a big embracer of new technology, but I do try to only buy tech that I'm going to use – I try not to be a magpie and swoop up&nbsp;everything shiny or&nbsp;new.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I consider myself a she-geek!What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I haven't really spent an enormous amount of money on anything... probably my MacBook Pro.Mac or PC and why?I'm in the 4% – I'm a Mac girl. I think over the years PCs have improved massively to meet the requirements and their ease of use. But for me, it's always a Mac – I love how it looks, I love the user system and all the software works so well together. And with my iPhone and my iPod touch, it&nbsp;all syncs really nicely.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs or do you download? What was your last purchase?I'm a downloader. I have an Apple TV at home, which is fantastic for downloading and renting movies. I buy streamed TV shows, using the season pass on iTunes – I recently boughtTrue Bloodseason two,Damagesseason three and24season eight. As for music, I downloaded Paul Weller's album,Wake up the Nation.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Anything that does things for you is a good idea, but not yet. We're not ready.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would like to own a teleporter and have it built into a 1950s American Airstream trailer. I love them. Inside, I'd like it tricked out fully with gadgets. Travel bores the pants off me and I have to do it so much.•Suzi Perry co-hosts The Gadget Show on Five. She has also been working with Train2Game to launch its new artist and animator course
As cheerfully and knowingly dumb as any film that ever starred Vin Diesel,Split/Second: Velocityis an arcade racer of what used to be called the Old Skool. There are big, chunky, Tonka Toy-style cars that race at frankly illegal speeds through a selection of venues (an airfield, a city centre, a half-finished hotel complex I'm pretty sure I stayed in once in Egypt) and they try to blast each other off the road.This blasting is done at one remove, by collecting explosives from the roadside or completing lurid drifts to gain smiting power. Big-rig trucks explode, buildings collapse, inexplicable helicopter gunships are deployed. Avoid being reduced to charred wreckage at every turn in order to unlock extra courses, new cars… you know the drill.What makesS/S: Vsuch an empty-headed treat is the out-and-out ferocity of its presentation and the delirious intensity of the racing. This is a loud, primary-coloured game with no ambition beyond quickening your pulse and dazzling you with bright, blockbuster effects. It's tailormade for on-line play, where up to eight racers can compete at once. About as improving as rattling a stick around a big tin bucket, of course, but considerably more fun.
Try to contain yourselves. It's the Eurovision Song Contest next weekend, but long gone is the one-night televisual extravaganza. To improve standards (one assumes at the instigation of the shadowy, and startlingly powerful, "pop" branch of the European weights and measures commission), there are now two semi-finals, with more than 30 competitors, and all with added Graham Norton.It's hard to stay abreast of, but of course there's an app to keep track.The Eurovision app(Apple app store, free, Simu Soft) gives you the lowdown on every competitor and offers an in-app store to purchase your favourite songs. The only possible improvement would be if a tiny Terry Wogan had been shoehorned in there to talk us through it.If that sounds disturbing, and well it might, then your iPhone can be used for gentler fun inMad O Ball 3D(Apple app store, £2.39, by Tommaso Lintrami), one of many marble rolling games on the platform. It's no surprise the genre's been so successful: the phone's motion-sensing accelerometer is perfect for such games. Just tilt it to steer the ball, while avoiding falling from the path into oblivion.Sadly, it's pretty tricky to play on the move, as holding the screen at a steady angle is crucial, but the puzzles are challenging and satisfying, making the game dangerously addictive. Presumably it's this quality that inspired the hokey title. As you tumble off the edge of a narrow piece of track for the 100th time, yet continue to battle on, it's a challenge every bit as maddening as Eurovision's eastern European countries block voting for one another.
If you want to surf the zeitgeist, then look at the most common queries on Google. When I looked the other day, "How do I delete my Facebook account?" was fourth on the "How do I...?" list. Just to put this in context, number two was "How do I know if I'm pregnant?" You don't have to be Sherlock Holmes to twig that something's up.What's happened is that Facebook's latest tweak to its default privacy settings has sparked a firestorm. Four US senators have voiced their concern. Fifteen privacy groups have filed complaints with the Federal Trade Commission. On this side of the Atlantic, the EU's data protection working party has written to Facebook, saying recent changes that made previously private information publicly viewable by default were"unacceptable". And many online commentators, influential and otherwise, have joined the fray.If you think that privacy is an abstract concern of EU bureaucrats and libertarians with too much time on their hands, then might I suggest that you consultyouropenbook.org. This is an ingenious site which allows you to type in a search phrase. It then ransacks the publicly available Facebook "status updates" and displays what it finds.A search for "I cheated", for example, brings up all kinds of intriguing stuff. A nice young woman from Baltimore posted "dam right i cheated i coulnt get it from u wen i needed it". There's also the odd potentially embarrassing reference to cheating in exams. A search for "I lied" brings up updates like "I'm sorry, I lied before when I said I used to make lots of bets. My therapist tells me I should try lying a lot to help get through my... gambling problem". Another writes "im not gonna bother anymore...theres no point hiding the truth.....iv lost too much and all because i lied to the one i love...im such a fukin dick head, i fucked up the best girl i've ever had".I could go on but you will get the point. All of these people are instantly identifiable. Millions of Facebook users are posting embarrassing or damaging messages which can be read by the entire internet. My guess is that most of them think they are just writing to their "friends" because they don't understand how to fix their privacy settings and have simply accepted the defaults provided by Facebook. There's a trend here. Privacy on Facebook has been steadily, inexorably eroding. To track the erosion, see the timeline posted by theElectronic Frontier Foundation, or asobering animationcreated by IBM researcher Matt McKeon. What we're looking at is the implementation of a corporate strategy designed to maximise return for Facebook's owners.The response of the company's PR flacks is predictable. Users are free to set their privacy settings, they say, and if people don't like what Facebook's doing then they can always leave. Nobody's forcing them to join the network.On the face of it, both assertions are true. Itispossiblepermanently to delete a Facebook account, but doing so involves quite a palaver and takes about a fortnight. A bigger problem is that because the service has become so ubiquitous, many users are discovering it's become essential to their professional lives. "Don't think I don't think about [leaving]," wrote one onher blog. "I don't like supporting Facebook at all. But I do.... The rewards are concrete and immediate. The costs are abstract and ideological. When I try to balance the two, the rewards win, but that is because of my friends and despite Facebook... Telling people with complaints to leave ignores the very real value of the networks they have built and what should be their right to continue those networks on the grounds on which they were built."Welcome to Metcalfe's Law – the  idea that the value of a network increases dramatically the more people belong to it. It's the same phenomenon that keeps people using Microsoft Office – not because they love the software, but because their professional lives would be impossible if they couldn't share Office documents with workmates.It's one of the great ironies of information technology – that the aggregate effect of billions of free choices made by independent agents results in a kind of tyranny imposed by the winner that took all. We first saw it with Microsoft, and then with Google. Is it now Facebook's turn?
Kart racing is a perennially popular gaming genre – think giant, motorised toy cars. With their lighthearted spin on realism and penchant for weapons more typically at home in comic books, these garish driving games turn motorsport into playful battles.The longstandingMario Kartseries leads the field, but so powerful is the attraction of its success, few can resist the urge to imitate. This time, it's Sony's turn withModNation Racers, a brave attempt to be innovative in a field strait-jacketed by the brilliance of its original concept. The basic racing structure has been expanded with a wealth of extra features, central to which is the ability to design and share incredibly detailed tracks and thus become connected with a community ofModNation Racersfans. This is a welcome addition, and very easy to use, but at the title's core is still something of a textbook kart racer. The driving feels a little familiar, but it's a decent attempt at reimagining what are very well-travelled roads.
TheUltimate Fighting Championship(UFC) divides opinion among sport fans. Boxing purists perceive it as barbaric blood-letting – two men, in a cage, assaulting each other by almost any means is, unquestionably, violent. Proponents, however, note that mixed martial arts (MMA) simply brings together various disciplines (boxing, muay thai, judo, wrestling and Brazilian jiujitsu) under a single banner, requiring the combatants to master a vast array of skills. It's as though the sport was conceived with beat-'em-up computer games in mind. Appropriately, UFC in its digital form is no less nauseating or, it must be said, enthralling than its progenitor.UFC Undisputed 2010is the second release in what promises to be a long-running franchise, recreating the sport's visceral, bone-crunching brutality in stunning high definition. The phenomenal graphics are sufficiently convincing that the game's developers have again ditched energy meters, so a fighter's condition must instead be deduced from cuts and bruises and reduced reaction times.The fight mechanics have also evolved to include new techniques such as crowd-pleasing axe and spinning head kicks, and technical submissions, where catching your opponent offguard can result in a flash KO or tap-out.The most significant improvement, however, has been to incorporate evasive sway motions to duck-and-dive under-attacks and deliver stinging counterstrikes. You can also now put the cage itself to good use, in the form of blocking takedowns, while taking a much-needed breather, or taking advantage of it to reverse submissions and prevent ground domination.A career mode allows aspiring hall-of-famers to enter the octagon, from the safety and comfort of your sofa that is, by mastering skills with expert guidance from sponsored training camps, each with their own martial art specialism. With enough wins under your belt, a meeting awaits with UFC kingpin Dana White, inviting you to come and earn the big bucks. New, arcade-style tournaments, classic fight scenarios and an online multi-player mode add further variety to the game, although failing to incorporateThe Ultimate Fighterreality show seems an opportunity missed.Despite a few quibbles with the occasional glitch,UFC Undisputed 2010is magisterial. There's a truly daunting array of moves to master, tailored to each of the 100-plus fighters, with more available to download, on what is by far the most sophisticated and exhaustive fighting game out there and if you enjoyed the first, it's a must-buy. The question only remains: are you tough enough?
Philip French, Observer film criticAs a western-obsessed four-year-old child 70-odd years ago, wearing my cardboard Stetson, sporting my sheriff's star and twirling my pearl-handled six-shooter, I would have been overwhelmed by and surely addicted toRed Dead Redemption, which has now been my belated introduction to video games. You're supposed to be 18 before you can get your hands on the console: by that age, I'd been trained as a national service infantry man in the use of six lethal weapons but had never seen television. Besides, the genre of realistic horse operas Anthony Mann famously dubbed "dirty westerns" wasn't established until the 1950s and only reached its definitive down-and-dirty form with Sergio Leone's Dollar Trilogy, whose star, Clint Eastwood, brought it home to Hollywood.For me playingRed Dead Redemptionwas to enter a mythical virtual-reality west, to step out of the auditorium and into Michael Crichton's 1973 sci-fi filmWestworld, in which vacationers of the near future pretended to be 19th-century pioneers mingling in a fancy desert resort with android gunfighters (most notably Yul Brynner), outlaws and saloon girls.The figure you identify with, indeed become, in this extraordinary game is John Marston, an archetypal "good bad man", a reformed outlaw drawn back into a life of crime in the last days of the old west and forced to pursue his former associates. Along the way, you can take different directions in the quest for quarries and gold, and you can encounter a possible 450 different characters ranging from sheriffs to ladies of the night. With the aid of a console featuring some 14 buttons, sticks and triggers which demands considerable manual dexterity, you can ride, shoot, engage in duels, play poker in saloons, camp in the great outdoors, whistle for your horse to come and get you, as well as kill, cut up and sell an antelope. You can play for days if you like, alone or in a posse, and perform acts that improve or diminish your social status.I am quite lost in admiration for the technicians at Rockstar in San Diego who devisedRed Dead Redemptionwith such wit, imagination and loving care. They have re-created an authentic western town like the one used for endless movies at Old Tucson in Arizona's Saguaro national park and reproduced that amazing railroad station – a great raft of sleepers and a water tower – from the pre-credit sequence ofOnce Upon a Time in the West. They've studied the exterior and interior lighting of influential cinematographers like Winton C Hoch, Tonino Delli Colli and Bruce Surtees, and produced a lovely pastiche of an Ennio Morricone score. The dialogues are convincing and, in the case of an elegiac exchange on  the dying of the old west between the hero and a feisty cowgirl, touchingly eloquent. I haven't felt as excited, so utterly enveloped, since the first time I drove into Monument Valley after decades spent watching movies set there.Peter Serafinowicz, comedian and gamerI feel ambivalent about some things, but at the same time, I'm totally single-minded about them. TakeGrand Theft Auto IV(also from Rockstar) – I loved its detailed creation of the ersatz "New York", known in the game as Liberty City. It's a gaming masterpiece: a staggering achievement that realised this vast city and plopped you among people you really felt were going about their lives. However, I hated the F-grade voice acting and the unskippable script scenes with their juvenile "jokes". Despite its population of dumb-cracking misogynists, I still often pay a visit to Liberty City: not to complete the repetitive missions, but to turn on cheat mode, tool myself up with a rocket launcher and blow stuff up until the police arrive, whereupon I conjure up a helicopter and flee, machine-gunning passersby, before crashing into the Empire State Building. If only real life were like that.GTA IV, with its free-roaming environment, was called a "sand-box" game, and perhapsRed Dead Redemptionis the first "dust-box" game. (I do apologise.) Everything does look authentically dusty, though, and the old west of Sergio Leone is captured beautifully. I love the design: the bleached shacks and character models are hugely evocative, and the horses are a delight to look at and control. It certainly feels like a real world, perhaps even more so than its urban predecessor.My only problem is that at time of writing I haven't had much chance to explore the world in the freestyle way I love; I'm still about an hour into a linear, inescapable "nannying" session with characters explaining the controls and plot. Skip. Skip. Skip. I want to just jump right in and find out stuff for myself. Oh well, all games do that these days. It certainly looks promising, and early impressions suggest there's lots of fun to be had once you get past all this. Giddy up!Tom Chatfield, gaming expertIf you want to understand why a game likeRed Dead Redemptionmatters, just just look at its manual. There, you'll find the credits for the six different studios in the US and the UK who have spent five years creating Rockstar's latest successor to itsGrand Theft Autofranchise. They include a main cast of more than 70 actors, a supporting troupe of several hundred; more than 70 animators and artists; 100 or so programmers and designers; over 300 in testing; a production and publishing team of several hundred; writers, musicians, composers, and others, to a total of more than 1,000.This is the melting pot of talents it takes to stitch together a virtual world at the top end of expectations. And it's Rockstar that's showing both the world at large and the games industry in particular what this lavish kind of world-building can bring with it: an audience in the tens and profits in the hundreds of millions. No other mass medium can offer anything quite like the result: a product that is beautiful not only to look at but to inhabit.In one sense, none of this is new to gaming.Red Dead Redemptionis an intensification of the virtues of the biggest budget titles of recent years, combining cinematic scope with sandbox freedoms and a load of attitude. Yet it is a welcome evolution. It's good to play something whose themes are "adult" not simply because they invoke sex, cars and guns, but because they offer up another time and place for exploration. Horse racing is a more delicate business than burning rubber, while learning to hunt wild animals or to steer between light and dark in its moral world, are absorbing side-games. Exploration is rewarded by the sheer loving care taken in crafting these dusty plains and the western score that plays as you trot off&nbsp;into the sunset.Above all,Red Dead Redemptionis a supremely confident creative act: the product of an industry that's starting to challenge old assumptions about who "gaming" can or should be for.
Sabotage TimesA new project from former lad mag editor James Brown, who aims to do for the discerning middle-aged fella what Loaded and its ilk did for 1990s hedonists. Under the banner "we can't concentrate so why should you?", you'll find a healthy mix of archive articles and new pieces with the emphasis on nostalgia. Shed man totems Steve McQueen, Paul Weller and Geoffrey Boycott feature, as do homages to Adidas trainers and the Vespa scooter, plus amusing opinion pieces, reportage and fiction alongside more predictable internet distraction from YouTube. Men of a certain age will find their pub chat repertoire reignited.MovieViralViral marketing for Super 8 from MovieViral.Film companies are becoming increasingly sophisticated, with their viral campaigns having successfully tapped into the film nerd mindset; basically, we enjoy being teased and husky-voiced trailers are no longer good enough. The film campaign that changed everything was for JJ Abrams' Cloverfield, with its dozens of fake sites and snatched footage that got the web talking months before the release. The Lost producer is at it again with his new project Super 8, and you can see developments (pictured) here. Elsewhere, there's a Scott Pilgrim vs The World contest, the latest games from the upcoming Tron sequel and bogus news stories connected to Finnish space Nazi movie Iron Sky.Blog roll: ParentingA broken laptop from Shit My Kids Ruined.Shit My Kids RuinedA warning to prospective parents of the spectacular techniques children employ to destroy houses, decorate pets and alter their action figures.STFU, ParentsMocking new parents who "overshare" on Facebook with tales of their babies' latest poop and other unwanted information.My Daddy CooksRecipes and videos from Nick Coffer and hysterical two-year-old son Archie, plus tips on how to wean kids away from junk food.ParentDishSeven bands that have appeared on Yo Gabba Gabba!, the teenager who wore the same shoes for four years and the kid who stunned Lady Gaga.Parent HacksHow to make Converse trainers last longer.What we learned on the web this weekSave 6 Music.The BBCis restructuringWhat thefuture holds "if you're a drug addict"The campaignto stop Twitter slursSometimes theworld is unintentionally pornographicThe 10largest oil spills of all timeSome albumcovers have come to lifeOtters loveposingWhat NickClegg believesHow toget Twitter, Wikipedia and Google in one placeNot evenAlvin And The Chipmunks is free of sex and violence
Split/Second Velocity, PC, PlayStation 3 &amp; Xbox 360The tone of Disney's film and television output shouldn't be mistaken for that of its interactive division, which, while shying away from the horrors of Manhunt, isn't solely a saccharine-coated children's playground. Split/Second is a demonstration of this, set in a near future where a gladiatorial racing-based reality TV show pits drivers against each other on tracks through towering scenery rigged with explosives that you detonate to take out opponents. Despite its unusual mechanics, races are impressively balanced and rapidly become breathless games of cat and mouse among the burning debris, bringing to mind Burnout's brand of white knuckle racing. Instantly gripping, Split/Second's slight lack of subtlety only becomes apparent with extended play, but for dabblers and for many, many hours, this is an utterly thrilling racer.Disney Interactive, £35-£40Halo: Reach Multiplayer Beta, Xbox 360Halo: Reach Multiplayer Beta.Halo: Reach is the final instalment of Microsoft's defining series. In reality a prequel – set on a doomed human colony called Reach, following Halo 3's promise to "finish the fight" and the slightly anaemic Halo: ODST released last year – its developer says this absolutely, definitely is the last in the series. As is now customary, Microsoft conducted a worldwide test of its multiplayer mode – the part of the game that endures way beyond the dozen hours its campaign takes to complete – giving anyone who purchased ODST the chance to see what things will be like when the full game arrives in the autumn. The addition of jet packs and the retooling of mechanics to allow you to choose a specialist class of trooper rebalance the action in an immediately pleasing and intuitive way. With a clutch of new maps and game types playable, the extraordinary polish already evident is going to make the wait for autumn excruciating.Microsoft, free downloadAlan Wake, PC, Xbox 360Alan Wake.When schlock horror writer Alan Wake goes on holiday to the remote town of Bright Falls, his wife mysteriously vanishes and he starts discovering pages from a book he doesn't remember writing. His attempts to find out what's happening are hampered by "the taken"; shadowy, often axe-wielding former residents who need to have a torch shone at them before they can be hurt by conventional ammunition. Taking refuge in pools of lamplight, Alan's voyage through pitch black, increasingly populous and nerve -jangling woodland is a thoroughly action packed slice of survival horror, heavily influenced by Resident Evil 5's need for continual undead crowd control. Plot exposition is elegantly handled, with a TV-inspired "previously on Alan Wake" punctuating the chapters.Microsoft, £32-£40
Google's $750m acquisition of the advertising network company AdMod has been approved by the US Federal Trade Commission - because Apple's entry into the mobile advertising market with its iAds product suggests there is already enough competition.After six months' deliberation, following Google's announcement of its intent to buy the company in November, theFTC said todaythat the acquisition "is unlikely to harm competition in the emerging market for mobile advertising networks."The FTC said that although the combination of the two leading mobile advertising networks - Google and AdMob - raised serious antitrust issues, those were overshadowed by recent developments in the market, most notably a move by "Apple Computer" (as it called it - although the company has been "Apple Inc" for more than a year) to launch its own, competing mobile ad network.Google's not the only one; a number of companies are trying to develop smartphone platforms to compete for advertising services with Google's Android and Apple's iPhone. "These firms would have a strong incentive to facilitate competition among mobile advertising networks," the FTC noted.Apple is thought to have wanted to buy AdMob itself - but Google trumped it with a rapid bid. That drove Apple instead tobuy Quattro Wireless for a reported $275m. Quattro and AdMob both offered the same sort of functionality: a means of serving mobile advertising.Apple has rolled Quattro's offering into its iAds product, which will be part of theiPhone 4.0 upgrade due this summer.Eric Schmidt of Google had expected that Apple's acquisition would ease Google's path with the FTC - and was proved right. "As a result of Apple's entry (into the market), AdMob's success to date on the iPhone platform is unlikely to be an accurate predictor of AdMob's competitive significance going forward, whether AdMob is owned by Google or not," the Commission's statement explains.The FTC notes that Google and AdMob have competed head-to-head for the past few years, with a notable increase in intensity during the past year. "This competition has spurred innovation and allowed mobile publishers to keep a large share of the revenue generated from the sale of their ad space. The companies also have economies of scale that give them a major advantage over smaller rivals in the business.""These concerns, however, were outweighed by recent evidence that Apple is poised to become a strong competitor in the mobile advertising market, the FTC's statement says. Apple recently acquired Quattro Wireless and used it to launch its own iAd service. In addition, Apple can leverage its close relationships with application developers and users, its access to a large amount of proprietary user data, and its ownership of iPhone software development tools and control over the iPhone developers' license agreement."That's two companies in the mobile advertising space - so now what will Microsoft, which must need to get some skin in the game, do? And how about Nokia, which sells more smartphones than anyone else, yet doesn't seem to have worked out how to profit enough from them?
The company most people use to search the internet wants to be the company that delivers your TV programmes – and sells the adverts to run alongside them. That's Google, which has announced the launch ofGoogle TV,hoping to marry the technology of  television with the internet.It wants to turn your TV set – or the set-top box above it – into a computer capable of turning web video into a TV signal so that you can range across the internet."We've been waiting a long, long time for this day," Eric Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, told the Google I/O conference in San Francisco, where the company was showing off its latest technology offerings. "It took a lot to make this happen."In particular, it needed "extraordinarily fast" computer processors that had just become available, he said. But he admitted: "It's much harder to link up a 50-year-old technology and a brand new technology than those of us from the brand new technology thought."There are plenty of examples of companies trying to marry the internet to TV but ending with them as divorced as ever. Microsoft has tried twice, with WebTV and its mildly successful Media Center. Apple has AppleTV, a set-top box that even Steve Jobs dismisses as "a hobby". Then there's Joost (which discontinued its application last year), Yahoo Connected Life, Digeo and Intel's Viiv. None has penetrated the public consciousness.Google insists it can work: "Imagine turning on the TV and getting all the channels and shows you normally watch and all of the websites you browse all day – including your favourite video, music and photo sites," it says in a Googleblogpost. "We're excited to announce that we've done just that … Want to check out that funny YouTube video on your 48-inch screen? It's just a quick search away."Despite appearances from Sony and Logitech, the first products are not expected until later this year – and some analysts think Google may be aiming for one of the net's "zero-billion dollar markets"."The road to interactive TV is littered with failures, mainly because people never get the user experience right," said Alx Klive, chief executive of WorldTV.com, who has been in the field of "internet television" since 1995. "Too many companies don't understand the difference between sitting in front of a laptop, and sitting 10ft away from a TV. It's very hard to change people's habits: we've been watching TV in pretty much the same way for 60 years."All that has changed, he suggests, is the addition of remote controls and, more recently, hard drive devices such as Sky+ and TiVo, which store the programme as a digital file so you can pause and rewind programs.The key problem, said Klive, was finding enough content on the web to fill an evening. "What we've found is that on average if people can't find something that's at least 40 minutes long online, they won't bother," he said.But James Governor, of RedMonk Consulting in Maine, said Google was on to a winner. "We are going to get integrated internet TV. I think that the integration of data-driven sports experiences will drive this in the US – where statistics matter so much for baseball, rather like statistics do for cricket here."But there's another worry: if your TV becomes a computer, what happens when it crashes, its software is corrupted during an update, or it is attacked by malware? Though the latter risk remains unknown until the products are available, Kline said the second problem had already affected a Blu-ray DVD player bought in the US.Governorsaid crashing was not a problem. "Anyone who's got a Virgin Media or Sky box knows what it's like to have to unplug them and restart them. It's really not a big deal."
Google has become famous for changing its logo for special events, but it has never  converted it into a playable game before. Today, it is celebrating the 30th anniversary of Pac-Man's launch in Japan with a version that lets you steer your pizza-shaped protagonist* around a maze that spells out Google's name – at least for as long as you can evade the ghosts Inky, Blinky, Pinky and ClydeTo play, simply click the button that usually says "I'm feeling lucky" but now has the legend "Insert Coin". However, if you don't do anything, the game will start by itself.If you click twice on "Insert Coin" then two people can play. Ms Pac-Man joins the game, with the second person controlling her movements using the WASD keys.Marcin Wichary, Google programmer and senior user interface designer, says: "When I was growing up, my dad had the best job I could possibly imagine: he was an arcade game and pinball technician. For me, that meant summer trips through Poland's coastal cities with their seasonal arcade parlors; peeking inside cabinets to learn programming and engineering secrets; and – of course – free games!"Although Tōru Iwatani's Pac-Man and Ms Pac-Man are now free "casual" games, they were state-of-the-art in the early 1980s, and they harvested billions of dollars in loose change. The games soon appeared on home computers, too, though a Pac-Man cartridge for an Atari 800 cost more than £30.Ms Pac-Man was also one of the first video games to attract a female following at a time when most players were (at least reputedly) spotty boys.Wichary says Pac-Man "seems like a natural fit for the Google homepage. They're both deceptively straightforward, carefully hiding their complexity under the hood. There's a light-hearted, human touch to both of them. And we can only hope you find using Google at least a quarter as enjoyable as eating dots and chasing ghosts. You know, without actually needing any quarters."Incidentally, Google is not alone in celebrating Pac-Man's birthday. TheMuseum of Computing in Swindonis marking the milestone on Saturday when "a specially constructed maze in Swindon Town centre's Wharf Green will be the venue for a unique 'Human Pac-Man' event." Visitors to the museum will also be able to play the game on various retro machines, without the need to stock up on 50p pieces.Charles Arthur adds:interestingly, as Apple, Google and Adobe war with each other over the importance of Adobe's Flash system, the doodle is written entirely in HTML, CSS and Javascript - Flash isn't required. That means it works on iPhones too...**Although thesoundis in Flash - so that doesn't work on the iPhone/iPod Touch/iPad. (To move, swipe the way you want to go.) This, as a Guardian colleague points out, is the first time that Flash has made it onto the front page of Google...* Pac-Man was based on the Japanese character for 'mouth'.
Google is to retain data captured from UK home wireless networks while carrying out its Street View mappinguntil it receives more specific instructions from the UK Information Commissioner, it said today.Update: the ICO said it has already told Google that the data can be deleted - but Google stated it will not do so yet.The company also faces the threat from the advocacy group Privacy International that it might be liable under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) for unlawful interception of users' data – and that the group may try to get the police to instigate an investigation.Google is already facing criminal investigations in Germany over its capture of the data from open Wi-Fi networks and faces further investigations from a number of European countries for possible breaches of data protection laws and, possibly, computer hacking.It has deleted the data that was collected in Ireland, Denmark and Austria, according to those countries' wishes. That means there cannot be any threat of prosecution in those countries as any evidence for a court case is unavailable.In a statement released on Friday, the company said: "Following requests from the Irish, Danish and Austrian data protection authorities we can confirm that we have deleted payload data identified as coming from those countries. We can also confirm that, as requested, we are keeping data from Belgium, France, Italy, Spain, Germany, Switzerland and the Czech Republic."Given that there is some uncertainty about deletion generally – for example, one data protection authority changed its instruction from delete to retain in the last 24 hours – we think it makes sense to keep the remaining country data while we work through these issues."Google later clarified that it is retaining the data for the UKso that the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) can inspect it as required. The data is being held in secure isolation. However the ICO restated that it has not required its preservation, reiterating a statement from earlier this week: "there does not seem to be any reason to keep the data concerned for evidential purposes. Therefore, in line with the data protection requirement that personal data should be held for no longer than necessary, we have asked Google to ensure that these data are deleted as soon as reasonably possible."Google has insisted that it was trying to map the existence of the networks, which use the Wi-Fi standard, but that it accidentally left in computer code which collected actual data from unsecured networks.The Germanprosecutorsdata protection authorities have requested access to one of the hard drives used in the data gathering – though Google has so far refused. German data protection officials have given the company until 26 May to hand over the system.Google admitted last week that it collected 600GB of data from unsecured Wi-Fi networks around the world while collecting photos to Street ViewThe UK Information Commissioner Christopher Grahamsaid on Thursdaythat the ICO did not want to "declare war" on Google over the matter and that it thought its response – which was initially to accede to Google's offer to delete the data – was "proportionate".However, Google now appears to have decided to delay the deletion while it makes sure that no investigations have been opened; otherwise it might be deemed to have destroyed evidence.Privacy Internationalsaysthat deleting the data would be "irresponsible" until its content has been investigated to see whether it does infringe the law. "We have directly put Google on notice that it is likely to be imminently subject to civil or criminal legal action as a result of the Wi-Fi interception," it wrote on its blog. "To eliminate the data would constitute destruction of evidence." It urged the ICO to rescind its earlier order to destroy the data: "We urge the commissioner to immediately rescind the order and allow Google to place the data in secure storage until such time as the legal questions are resolved."In the absence of a commitment from both Google and the commissioners to temporarily secure the data, Privacy International will seek a prosecution for unlawful interception under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act. In those circumstances there would be no question of destroying the data."Updated with statement from UK ICO that it is not seeking retention of data.Update with clarification that it is German data protection authorities, not prosecutors, who are seeking access to hard drive.
Google's I/O conference, which saw the announcement ofGoogle TV(Guardian story), was notable for three things: Apple bashing, support for Adobe Flash, and a big win for Intel.Google left nobody in any doubt that Apple and its Big Brother-style autocratic dictator, Steve Jobs, were the enemy. Google's Vic Gundotra quoted Andy Rubin, from the Android team, as saying that "If Google didn't act, we faced a Draconian future where one man, one company, one device, one carrier would be our only choice". In front of a cover shot of George Orwell's famous novel, Gundotra added: "If you believe in openness, and in choice, and in innovation from everyone, then welcome to Android." The video (above) is on YouTube.The scale of the attack was reflected inCNet's live blog, which said: "This keynote so far is one big running joke at Apple's expense." When author Tom Kravitz noted "shot number 93,984 of the morning at Apple" at 9:08am, he was "corrected" by his colleague Stephen Shankland: "Tom -- you missed a couple. It was Apple potshot No. 93,986."Gundotra knows this game perfectly. He's only been at Google for three years, but spent most of his career as a"platform evangelist" at Microsoft, which he joined in 1991. He was around when Microsoft wiped the floor with Apple.Google also gave a starring role to Adobe and its Flash software, with Adobe's chief executive Shantanu Narayen appearing on stage with other heavy hitters such as Sony boss Sir Howard Stringer, Intel's Paul Otellini and Best Buy's Brian Dunn. Apple has made itself Adobe's enemy but Google has become Adobe's friend.Gundotra announced support for Flash 10.1 saying: "Turns out people on the Internet use Flash."Google TV, added Gundotra, depends on three things: the Android 2.1 operating system, the Google Chrome browser, "and the other component? Flash 10.1."There's no doubt that Jobs's attacks on Flash will reduce the number of sites that rely on Flash exclusively, and this is no bad thing. However, this won't necessarily reduce the use of Flash, because HTML5-based casual games are a long way off, and because there will soon be more Android devices that run Flash than Apple devices that don't. Of course, how many of those Android devices will be TV sets, rather than mobiles or netbooks, is open to doubt.Google TV is, as Google admits, just the latest in a long line of attempts to combine television and the web, and so far, nobody has done it successfully. Still, Google's approach does have potential. It has the backing of Sony, which will use Google's software in a new line of TV sets that will appear before Christmas, and users who don't want to buy a new TV will be able to get a Logitech set-top box instead. Also, it will have a head start in apps because it will run Android apps from Google's store and third-party marketplaces.The surprising part of the Google TV announcement is that the hardware will be based on a version of the Intel Atom chip that supports things useful for TVs such as HD decoding. This is a big win for Intel against ARM, even if it doesn't shift that many units.Back in March, I interviewedBrian Fravel, Intel's director of Intel's Brand Strategy &amp; Management, who said consumers would, in future, get a "wow" experience from the Atom. He said:"In consumer electronics, you're going to get intelligence that gives you a compute-like experience in a set-top box or a TV," says Fravel. "Most things today that have an interactive experience, they're slow, they're fairly clunky, they're basic. Imagine watching soccer and instantly pulling up stats from the web, just like you would on a computer, but now it's on the TV. You can embed awesome applications, and that's going to completely change the way you watch TV. It's going to be much more interactive. "We know people already sit in front of the TV with their laptops: now I can offer you that just with your remote control. We're excited about that type of experience," says Fravel.These Atom-powered TVs aren't available, yet, but "you'll see the first this year".That's a good description of Google TV, so now we know what he was talking about.As I said, there's no guarantee that Google TV will be successful. None the less, it is now clear that Google is going head-to-head against Apple in the mobile phone, media tablet and TV markets, and in apps and appstores (including iTunes), as well as in Flash support.Google's weapons will include, firstly, the support of a huge ecosystem of manufacturers, carriers, developers and other third parties ranged against a solitary Apple, which was how Microsoft won more than 90% of the PC market.Secondly, Google is also deploying another weapon that wasn't available to Microsoft: openness. Google Android and Google TV are based on free open source Linux, which can be contrasted with closed, proprietary, all-controlling Apple systems.Thirdly, Google doesn't have a computer business to protect. It has no reason to make users tether one device to another, and it's not going to put sub-standard programs on 750m Windows machines on the basis that they worked fine on 50m Mac OS X computers.Fourthly, Google gets the web in ways that Apple clearly doesn't. Apple has a 1970s business model based on Wang-style vertical integration, and all its applications are based on the desktop, not on the web. (Even the iTunes store isn't based on the open web.) If the future is going to be based on cloud computing, Apple is a long way behind Google, and has a lot of catching up to do.Fifth and last, Google is still a young company run mostly by young people, who will be around a long time after Steve Jobs. It's true that Jobs has performed miracles in the past decade, but Google can play to win over a longer time frame.
Following on frommy lookat upcoming space combat/trading title Darkstar One I had a chat with Daniel Dumont from developer Gaming Minds.Why do you think there are no other games of this type on the modern consoles?To be honest, I really don't know. Maybe developers or publishers think that gamers are more interested in identifying with a character rather than controlling a ship. Also, flying through space is a different gameplay proposition than a ground based 'run and gun' one and might be new to some of the younger gamers as this space flight sim genre is rare on consoles. However, PC savvy gamers are used to this genre and I am sure that pure console gamers would be interested in some space exploration. The Xbox controller works great and during our testing with younger console gamers we saw that they were absolutely fascinated by the gameplay.Why do you think there are relatively few games of this type on PCs too?Space shooters were at their peak at a time when games started releasing with 3D graphics but the graphic cards were not powerful enough to display complex ground scenarios. Space shooters and flight simulators were developed with 3D graphics and were successful as depended less on real world-complexity.Later, when the first Ego-Shooters came out, the studios concentrated their attentions on them, adding more involving storylines, player guidance, complex level design and movie-like atmosphere. The idea of the 'space' genre got lost in the mix.To be honest, at the moment I am not sure that the space sim genre will attract many studios to finance a big budget development the same way first person shooters can as fans of the genre are smaller. However, there are lots of possibilities in creating games for far less than 20-50 million $ and I think there's still a market for space games if you keep the budgets to a realistic size.What were the main challenges in bringing a PC-based game like this over to a console?The biggest change is obviously the change from keyboard/mouse to controller-based play. We've taken great care to ensure we're not just porting controls over but are customising them to the Xbox gameplay so they are intuitive for players to get to grips with.The game is also now rendered in full 1080p HD, so the visuals have received a significant upgrade and look gorgeous, and  the engine is running at a very solid frame rate.What changes did you make to the gameplay between the PC and 360 versions?A couple of areas we improved on were balancing the battles with enemy ships and also the introduction to the game making sure that the player could 'learn the basics' before heading off on their own. We have also added a slicker time acceleration mode for longer space journeys and we made it easier to collect the special artifacts which are required to upgrade the DarkStar One ship.In the game what is the balance between combat and trading? Is progression gained solely by combat?You can use both combat and trading to earn money to be able to buy better weapons and equipment. However, as DarkStar One has a strong action element to the gameplay, you cannot avoid all battles by trading alone. There are lots of battles throughout the story, missions and side quests. However, if the player wants to avoid as much combat as possible, he could completely bypass the combat-oriented assignments or side quests and make all his money through the trading ones (buy low, sell high) or mining meteorites. However, I guess a mix of both is more fun! For example you can  attack a freighter, shoot his shields down to make him drop his cargo containers, steal them and tow them to a friendly trade station and sell them on for a healthy profit.How do you get the balance between having an engrossing story and letting the players go off and complete side missions/trading etc?We have implemented two game mechanics to ensure this. Firstly, the player has to improve his jump drive to progress through the storyline. New jump drives are only offered after certain story steps have been completed. With new jump drives installed you can travel deeper and deeper in the galaxy and find more artefacts for upgrading the DarkStar One. However, enemies and missions will become tougher at the same time.The second mechanism is that the player has to accept side quests, fulfil assignments, hunt for pirates, trade between star systems etc to earn money to buy better equipment and weapons for their ship. Whenever they feel ready and to face tougher enemies in the next story segment, they can continue by jumping to the next story star system.The player can decide at any time to upgrade their ship using any technology acquired or parts purchased using credits earned from missions etc. The more credits they have the better the upgrades available so they can choose to take on more difficult missions or progress through the story.How much real difference can you make to your ship? And do your decisions mean you may not be able to "finish" the game? Ie if you focus on trading rather than combat?In DarkStar One Broken Alliance, trading has less of an impact on your ship upgrade choices. For trading, the player will need to purchase better cargo computers to be able to tow bigger containers with cargo drones. These computers can be installed on any ship design. This makes DarkStar One – Broken Alliance so attractive for fans of 'open choice' gameplay. There is no other space game on Xbox360 that allows the player to one minute be fighting tough space battles and the next be trading with new alien races. In many games you have to choose between cargo space and agility or bow weapons. In Broken Alliance for example you have a very low agility when towing cargo containers but if you run into trouble you can drop the containers any time, get into the fight and collect them afterwards.The other differences you can make to your ship shape the way you play the game. As an example, upgrading the wings and hull can change the DarkStar One into different ships for different needs. By upgrading the wings, the ships will acquire more mounts for bow weapons and the ship's agility will significantly increase. By upgrading the hull, it will secure more hull points and more mounts for automatic turrets but lose some of the ships agility. As these turrets automatically aim and fire on nearby enemies in combat, the player won't miss the loss in agility the ship has by these turrets being equipped.I guess most players will combine these two aspects, to get a more rounded ship, but the more action-oriented players will go for the wing upgrades and the more tactical oriented players will go for the hull. During battles, tactical players have more time to think about and use other tactical elements such as boosts and rockets to defeat their enemies.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Photo byArt By Steve Johnsonon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew Social Networking Site Changing The Way Oh, Christ, Forget It &gt;&gt; The OnionWe'd remind you that The Onion is satirical. So obviously this completely doesn't reflect you know, whatever.An open letter to EU privacy commissioners regarding deletion of Google WiFi data &gt;&gt; Privacy International"A number of European privacy and data protection regulators have instructed Google to irrevocably destroy all WiFi data collected since 2007 in the course of the company's StreetView project.&#10;&#10;"Privacy International believes this instruction is based on advice that is ill-informed and irresponsible, as the action may be unlawful."Twitter responds to missing RT's saga &gt;&gt; TheNextWebTwitter had been filtering out retweets as duplicates; but users don't like it, so it's been changed back. Though "eliminating explicitly duplicative content from search results in a more intelligent way is something we plan to work on more in the long term." Be warned.Apple iPad: The five biggest annoyances &gt;&gt; TechRepublic.comWell, four apart from the One You Already Thought Of - which isn't the top reason.Flash memory and the five-minute rule &gt;&gt; The RegisterFlash memory begins to intrude into the space for caching that previously had to be filled either by disk or RAM.Mobile OS web-browsing share &gt;&gt; Marco.orgOnly for the sites within tumblr.com, but still interesting. The Windows/Macintosh ratio is, frankly, astonishing.Android 2.2 'Froyo' beta hands-on: Flash 10.1, WiFi hotspots, and some killer benchmark scores &gt;&gt; EngadgetCut to the Flash: "We have to say, it's really something to have a mobile browser that doesn't pop up little cubes with question marks all over the web, but we found that rediscovering Flash was much like reuniting with a high school friend; at first you've so much to catch up on, but then you realize how far you've grown apart. Adobe's pre-vetted list of Flash-enabled sites do a good job of showing off the technology, but we still can't help but think the interactive elements still have a lot of catching up to do. As for video, the stream is good quality but gets fairly choppy - especially when you check out something "not optimized for mobile viewing." Some of the HTML5 footage we've seen via the same device shows up in crisper detail and fluidity."Google TV brings net to sets &gt;&gt; Guardian TechnologyWill theoretically work with any TV set. You have to love the computer industry's eternal optimism about the word "theoretically".The fate of a generation of workers: Foxconn undercover fully translated &gt;&gt; EngadgetWhat life is really like in Foxconn, the Chinese company which manufactures all sorts of computer equipment makers including AppleWhy Google Wave may not make waves after all &gt;&gt; ITJobLogWave was meant to replace email, notes Danny Bradbury: "But everyone uses email. Unless you're very important to someone, sending them an invitation to a Google Wave that could possibly require them to set up an account before they can even use it is going to be time prohibitive, and will probably mean you don't get a response at all, other than, 'just mail me, will you?'"Parallels starts selling Windows 7 upgrade tool &gt;&gt; Beyond Binary - CNET News"The Parallels product is designed to move any version of Windows XP or Vista to any version of Windows 7 and run the older operating system inside a virtual machine that is largely invisible to the person using the software. However, in many cases the user is not properly licensed to be running both copies of Windows," says Ina FriedCapGemini now championing Microsoft BPOS over Google Apps &gt;&gt; ZD NetA Google Apps supplier says ""We believe BPOS will be the right solution for the vast majority of our clients," reports Mary-Jo Foley.The first in-depth technical analysis of VP8 &gt;&gt; Diary Of An x264 DeveloperGood analysis of the Google-backed Matroska-based video file format using the On2 VP8 codecYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google's announcement that it is making the VP8 video codec available for free as an open source product has not won the approval of Steve Jobs - who has pointed to a blog post by an H.264 developer which says that the codec is "significantly weaker" for compression and decoding than H.264, which Apple backs and uses for HTML5 video.In an email apparently sent at 4.30am California time toa reader of The Register technology news site, Jobs simply points to the post athttp://x264dev.multimedia.cx/?p=377in response to the question"Hey Steve - What did you make of the recent VP8 announcement?" from Kris Bloe, a software developer from Leeds.(Note that this conforms to what is becoming the template for getting an answer from Jobs - contains no links, asks straightforward questions, is a bit open-ended.)Google announced that it wasmaking VP8 open sourceonly on Wednesday - but it has led to fevered reactions since. Adobe is delighted, as it can use Flash within VP8. Others have said that the "specification" barely exists: the post that Jobs points to says, in part:"The spec consists largely of C code copy-pasted from the VP8 source code — up to and including TODOs, "optimizations", and even C-specific hacks, such as workarounds for the undefined behavior of signed right shift on negative numbers. In many places it is simply outright opaque.Copy-pasted C code is not a spec."Yet Google has already starting putting YouTube videos into this spec, making it part of a larger web media project it calls WebM, which will be built into its Chrome browser - and which will be taken up by Mozilla's Firefox (which so far has been sticking to Ogg Theora, because it had no patents, but has nowadmitted that that lagged in quality). Internet Explorer 9 will let people install VP8 if they want - but its native support will be for H.264.The key questions then become: will VP8 come in for scrutiny from patent attornies? The answer there is "quite certainly" - even if not Apple's or Microsoft's, there are sure to be people out there who will scour the code in the hope of finding an infringement and hence a payday.The blogpost Jobs points to comes from the open source X.264 project, which aims to build a free encoding system for H.264 video. There are already open source decoders for it - notablyFFmpeg.So Jobs doesn't think that VP8 is as good as H.264 - and what Jobs thinks tends to reflect what Apple's engineers think, as they will be driving information to him (Apple is a very meetings-intensive company). That, plus the fact that the patenttrollsinvestigators will be delightedly printing out the code for VP8 to see whether they can find something it infringes, means that video on the web breaks down to a few choices: Adobe's Flash (owned by Adobe); H.264 (patented like mad); VP8 (open source but at some risk of patent threats).Meanwhile, if any of you have had email exchanges with Steve Jobs (his email is in the wild by now), do let us know. Remember: simple, but deep, questions do best.
Google has launched a "smart TV" service, in conjunction with partners including Sony, that will allow viewers to search the web while watching programmes.The service, called Google TV, will theoretically work with any TV set. However, the first products to incorporate the search capability will be developed by Sony and arrive on the US market from the autumn.Google TV-enabled sets, which will feature an on-screen search box similar to the company's look and feel on the web, will allow people to search for web content and download applications as well as programming from across the internet."Over the past decade, the internet has created unprecedented opportunity for innovation and development across the world, but so far the web has largely been absent from living rooms," said Google. "Google TV expands video choice from the hundreds of channels available today through a pay TV provider to the vast storehouse of video content available through the web and streaming videos."Partners at launch include Intel, the set-top box and peripherals company Logitech and Adobe, the maker of flash technology.Google said it also plans to open source the Google TV platform to "help spur innovation in the industry and so that other developers can benefit from the project"."The long-term goal is to collaborate with the entire developer community to help drive entertainment in the living room forward and to introduce the next generation of TV-watching experience," the company said.
