Android is back in cruise control at the top of the UK's smartphone market, after the jump in sales of Apple's iPhone 4S dented its lead over Christmas.New figures from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech covering the 12 weeks to 19 February 2012 indicate that phones running Android comprised 48.5% of smartphones sold, as the proportion of smartphones in the overall mobile sales mix rose to 73.2%.But the smartphone sector is in ferment, with the company's data showing that just over half (51.6%) of people who bought a smartphone in that period already owned one – so less than half were bought by feature phone users moving up to the new platform. Moreover, switching between platforms such as Android, BlackBerry-maker RIM, Symbian and Apple's iOS is common: just over half (54.1%) of smartphone owners who bought a new device changed platform.Most of those who changed shifted away from Nokia's Symbian, either to Android or iOS. RIM is also seeing an outflow of upgraders, who are shifting to the same two platforms. Among those upgrading from feature phones, the biggest flow is to Android, with almost equal shifts to iOS and RIM.But Dominic Sunnebo, the global consumer insight director at Kantar ComTech, said that Android may have hit a ceiling. "We've seen it stay around the 45%-50% mark for the past few months, but there's no sign of it going above that," he told the Guardian.He thinks that the easy pickings to be had from previous smartphone owners who moved away from Nokia's Symbian platform – "which has essentially vanished from the market" – means that in the future, the struggle for market share will be much more competitive.Apple's share of sales, having risen to 34% in the 12 weeks to 26 December 2011, fell back to 28.7% – although that is higher than the 22.7% it made up over the same period in 2011, when both Android and RIM's BlackBerry platform were ahead of it.RIM's share rose slightly compared to the 12-week December period, from 16.1% to 17.1%.Together those three platforms comprised 94.3% of smartphone sales. The figures do not include sales to businesses, and so probably understate sales for RIM, said Sunnebo. Overall, the company estimates that 51.3% of the British population now owns a smartphone.Kantar ComTech compiles its data from a worldwide panel of 87,000 people – 15,000 in the UK – balanced according to country population, who are polled regularly on the devices they use.Windows Phone outsells SymbianKantar said that it saw a key shift in the UK during the 12 weeks period as Microsoft's Windows Phone platform outsold Symbian – though it only took 2.5% of sales, principally driven by Nokia's Lumia 800, which took 87% of Windows Phone sales.But that means that Nokia's Symbian sales still remained ahead of its Windows Phone sales, at 2.4% of all smartphone sales compared to 2.2%. But Nokia was competing with only a single Windows Phone handset, pointed out Sunnebo: "Nokia will need to expand the range quickly in order to keep up with the slew of next-generation competitor products being launched in the second quarter of 2012."Satisfaction levelsCustomers using smartphones expressed greater satisfaction with their devices than those using feature phones, according to the panel. On a range of 0-10 (where 10 was the highest score) smartphone users' average was 7.9, against 6.9 for feature phones.Among brands, Apple had the highest satisfaction rating, at 8.8, followed by Samsung – which principally makes Android, but also Windows Phone and Bada handsets – with 8.0. HTC, which makes Android and Windows Phone devices, was third with 7.6. When people were asked whether they would stick with the same brand when upgrading, Apple ranked top, followed by Samsung and HTC, the survey found.Smartphone users were also happier with their handsets because of the range of capabilities, including GPS mapping and streaming video, which have become more and more common uses, according to the survey. "All this helps to ingrain the smartphone experience deep into consumers' daily routines, and the quality of devices available means consumers have found little to complain about," Sunnebo said.Android's leadKantar ComTech surveyed people in the UK, US, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Australia. The proportion of handset sales going with Android was highest in Spain, at 58.4%, and second-largest in Australia at 52.2%. In Germany, one of the largest smartphone markets, its share was 50%.In the US, which is presently the world's largest smartphone market – though expected to be passed by China later this year – Android's share actually dipped compared to the same 12-week period a year ago, down from 55.1% to 43.4%, while Apple's grew from 23% to 47%.But as it covers the Christmas buying period, the leap in Apple's share there may indicate people upgrading to the new iPhone 4S. Between them, iOS and Android took 90.4% of handset sales in the US, with RIM taking just 5.7%. Windows Phone was just 1.7%, although Nokia has not yet launched any of its Lumia devices there.
A selection of 13 apps for you today:King's Cross StreetstoriesDISCLAIMER KLAXON: This app has been produced by the Guardian. It's an audio-guide app for the King's Cross area of London, offering stories from artists, musicians, historians, architects and residents, with music and sounds weaving in and out of the narratives as you walk around the district. Not in King's Cross? There's an off-location mode to hear the stories anyway. There areiPhoneandAndroidversions with 10 stories, and an additional"Extra" iPhone appwith 70 stories.Android / iPhoneFerrari Formula 1 2011 Season ReviewShouldn't this have come out a few months ago, given that the new F1 season is about to start? Anyway, this is a book-app reliving the 2011 campaign, packed with photos, audio and videos.iPhone / iPadSeatGuru by TripAdvisorTravel site TripAdvisor's latest iPhone app is all about checking where you're going to be sitting on plane flights, whether they have power sockets, how near they are to the loos and other information, to help you choose a better seat if required.iPhoneGabby Tabs - AAC for KidsThis is the latest app designed for children with communication difficulties, including autism. It offers on-screen buttons in three customisable categories based around things to talk about, with the ability to record your own voice and import your own pictures.AndroidPES 2012Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer franchise has appeared on Windows Phone with its latest version, tying into Microsoft's Xbox Live community, and boasting an official UEFA club competitions licence.Windows PhoneCommuterThere are good live-data transport apps for separate services in the UK, but Commuter aims to bring them all together: rail, London tube and Docklands Light Railway. Live service updates, preferred routes and departure boards are all included.iPhoneHarper's BazaarMagazine publisher Hearst has a new iPad edition for its Harper's Bazaar publication, including one-year subscriptions for $19.99. Note, this is the US edition of the magazine: a UK app isalready available separately.iPadPingMeCommunications app PingMe is now available on Windows Phone, joining the existing iOS, Android and BlackBerry versions. It includes text and video messaging and voice notes, as well as group chat and location-based friend-finding.Windows PhoneRomplr RemixMusic remix app Romplr has made the leap to Windows Phone, offering a bunch of popular songs to mix and match, with an almost game-like interface. Some "mixkits" are free to download in-app.Windows PhoneQuote UnquoteQuote Unquote is a nifty iOS game that blends crossword-style clues and famous quotations, getting players to fill in the blanks. It's free with 24 puzzles, with more packs to download for 69p a pop.iPhone / iPadGT Racing Motor Academy HDGameloft has ported its Gran Turismo-inspired racing game to BlackBerry PlayBook offering more than 100 cars to drive around 14 tracks.BlackBerry PlayBookEyes On My KidsThe title sounds worrying, but the app isn't. It's a digital organiser to manage appointments (e.g. after-school clubs), contacts, wishlists and other minutae of parenting life, while also pulling in photos for a record of their childhood days. Whether that will port to whatever tablet you're using in 10 or 20 years' time is another question.iPadMobile Poker ClubYou'll need to look outside the app stores for this real-money poker game, which has just been updated with versions for iPhone and Android smartphones. It's fully online-multiplayer, with a choice of limit, no-limit and pot-limit Texas Hold'em.Android / iPhone
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow we decreased sign up confirmation email bounces by 50% &gt;&gt; Kicksend BlogSo we recorded and setup detailed notifications for every email bounce, to make sure that we are always aware of what's happening (thanks Mailgun!). And we soon started to see patterns. People would misspell their email addresses and be unaware of it, resulting in a delivery failure and a lost user. And it got even more interesting - most of these invalid email addresses were a result of a misspelled domain; "hotmail.con", "gnail.com", "yajoo.com". A clear opportunity for improvement.You can get the Mailcheck.js plugin at Github. Neat.Our test finds new iPad hits 116 degrees F while running games &gt;&gt; Consumer ReportsSo, when plugged in, the back of the new iPad became as much as 12 degrees [Fahrenheit] hotter than the iPad 2 did in the same tests; while unplugged the difference was 13 degrees [Fahrenheit]. During our tests, I held the new iPad in my hands. When it was at its hottest, it felt very warm but not especially uncomfortable if held for a brief period.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Why Apple should grab Twitter &gt;&gt; The Big PictureWhy Twitter? Apple does software and hardware really well; they do the integration between the two outstandingly. But they haven't really done Social particularly well. In fact, Apple may be the only Tech company without a Twitter account. Go ahead, check out@Apple- 0 Tweets / 0 Following / 6067 Followers. Sure, iTunes software is terrific, but the "Ping" social network simply never caught on. Twitter automagically makes Apple a defacto player in social. Apple's biggest competitors over the next decade are not HP or Dell or even Microsoft - they are more likely to be Google and Facebook. Which leads us back to Social Networking and that leads to Twitter.Don't hold your breath.John Sheridan's answer to: What are the nontechnical barriers to adopting a version control system for use in writing bills / new laws? &gt;&gt; QuoraSheridan is head of legislation services at the UK National Archives.Generally when I talk to developers about legislation, their first reaction is to say, 'easy, use github'. Then I explain how legislation works, and the enormity and complexity begins to dawn. Legislation (at least UK legislation) is uniquely difficult content to work with. There really is nothing else like it.If you only read one thing today: this is the one.How I was duped by Mike Daisey's lies &gt;&gt; GawkerAdrian Chen was suspicious, and did some checking which suggested Daisey hadn't been truthful:After more than a week with no response I emailed again, on Oct. 4: "I've spoken with a labor rights activist who cast doubt on some of the facts presented in 'The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs,' and wanted to clear some things up with you." Daisey quickly responded and suggested we meet in person at Soho's Think Coffee. What followed was an hour of rehearsed bullshit that left me as dazzled as a member of Daisey's audience... Daisey's explanation as to why he was able to find child laborers when SACOM couldn't was laughable, in retrospect. He said maybe workers had been more open to him because he was a storyteller.An honest account. This sort of wool-pulling-and-discovery happens all the time in journalism, but make no mistake: Daisey has no reservoir of goodwill among American journalists. Which is a pity for the wider story around Foxconn.It's true: iPads are starting to replace business PCs &gt;&gt; InfoWorldThe survey, conducted last month, is yet another confirmation that no company comes close to matching the iPad in the enterprise. Indeed, the iPad wannabes are barely on the radar. While 84% of the companies that plan to buy a tablet in the next quarter said they will go with Apple's iPad, up from 77% in November, just 8% said they will buy one from the No. 2 brand, Samsung, compared to 10% in the previous survey. But Samsung, a highly diversified company, can better withstand a poor showing in the tablet market than can Hewlett-Packard and Dell. "Those companies need to win a toehold in tablets as PCs become less important,and they're not doing it," [Changewave research director Paul] Carton says. "We're very bearish on them."Not all GSM Galaxy Nexus devices will be updated directly by Google &gt;&gt; Android and Me(Commentary removed - the link is three months old, and out of date. Thanks @AngusTheBull and others.)World's first flying file-sharing drones in action &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakIn short the system allows the public to share data with the help of flying drones. Much like the Pirate Box, but one that flies autonomously over the city. "The public can upload files, photos and share data with one another as the drones float above the significant public spaces of the city. The swarm becomes a pirate broadcast network, a mobile infrastructure that passers-by can interact with," the creators explain. One major difference compared to more traditional file-sharing hubs is that it requires a hefty investment. Each of the drones costs 1500 euros to build. Not a big surprise, considering the hardware that's needed to keep these pirate hubs in the air. "Each one is powered by 2x 2200mAh LiPo batteries. The lift is provided by 4x Roxxy Brushless Motors that run off a GPS flight control board. Also on deck are altitude sensors and gyros that keep the flight stable. They all talk to a master control system through XBee wireless modules," [creator Liam] Young told TorrentFreak.As a short-term system, could be useful.Google patent: Background noise from phone calls could be used to target ads &gt;&gt; GeekWireYou're attending a baseball game and call Google's 411 service for information about a nearby restaurant. The cheers of the crowd and the sounds of the announcer are picked up by your phone. Google's system analyzes the background noise, takes into account your location, determines that you're at a ballgame and delivers related ads or links to your phone with sports scores and news. Or maybe you're making the call from a concert hall, and the sound in the background is the instruments tuning up during intermission. Google figures out that you're at a concert, and serves up musical news or ads about albums related to the performance.We recall companies suggesting they would make money from ads piped into phone calls before. Never went anywhere. Will this be different? (Google also acknowledges that users would be able to disable the sensors used to gather the information, for privacy.)In major restructuring, Hewlett-Packard combines printer and PC groups &gt;&gt; AllThingsDHP sees the two business groups -- IPG sells printers both to consumers and businesses, and PSG sells PCs to consumers and businesses -- as making more operational sense combined than apart, the source said. The plan is to have their line of business more readily integrated so they can approach customers together and with unified product offerings. IPG was once the financial engine seen as keeping the rest of HP flush. It sells more printers than anyone else in the world, but makes most of its money selling ink cartridges and other supplies that tend to make higher profit margins than the printers themselves. However, the IPG unit has seen its business decline in recent years. In its most recent quarter, HP reported that sales fell by 7%, to $6.3bn, while the unit's earnings from operations fell by 32%.PSG is the least profitable division in percentage terms. This will make it harder to see how HP's PC business is doing, too.Apple sued by Belgian consumer association for not applying EU warranty laws &gt;&gt; SlashdotFollowing therecent Italian case. Apple is now being sued by the Belgian consumer associationTest-Achats(french/dutch website) for not applying the EU consumer protection laws byonly giving 1 year warranty on its products. At the same time, Apple is not only refusing to give the mandatory 2 years warranty but is also selling the additional year of warranty with its Applecare products. If the consumer association wins its case, Apple could beforced to refund Applecare contracts to its Belgian customerswhile providing the additional year of warranty for free."Don't think this refusal to offer the two-year warranty would wash in the UK. (Thanks @jvans on Twitter for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's Wednesday. Any mid-week gaming fun planned?
The "new iPad" – AKA iPad 3 – operates at a higher temperature than its predecessor, according to tests. And it's got people complaining in support forums that it feels "hot" – which appears to be because when it starts running warm, it goes above normal skin temperature.The reports have not so far slowed sales of the device, of which 3m were purchased in its first three days on sale in just 12 countries – significantly faster than its predecessor's launch last year.Reports of its temperature during operation have led the US consumer watchdog Consumer Reports, which previously downgraded its rating of the iPhone 4 after determining that its external antenna could lead to loss of reception, to announce that it will investigate the reports.According to theDutch tech site Tweakers.net, when running theGLBenchmarksoftware, after five minutes the new iPad was running at 33.6C (92.5F), while the iPad 2 was running at 28.3C (82.9F). That's a difference of 5.3C or 9.5F.Compared to central body temperature (37C), that's not burning hot. But crucially, compared to normal skin temperature, it crosses a key divide – the 32C (89.6F) barrier. That'snormal skin temperature, according to medical consensus.This means that while the new iPad won't appear to be sizzling hot to the touch, it will appear to be notably warm – and is likely to be the cause of the comments inApple's support forumsand elsewhere, with at least one commenter saying his iPad was running at 96.8F (36C). Some of the reports said the hottest point was at the location of the processor within the case. The new iPad has a more powerful graphics processor to handle the quadrupled number of pixels in its "retina display" screen.Apple issued a statement saying the iPad's performance was "operating well within our thermal specifications" and said: "If customers have any concerns they should contact AppleCare."During the Guardian's testing of the new iPad, often carried out alongside an iPad 2, no significant difference was noticed in warming of the new model, which included the 4G circuitry.Apple said on Monday that it hadsold 3m new iPads since its launch on Friday, and an unspecified number of iPad 2s. Phil Schiller, its marketing chief, said it was "the strongest iPad launch yet".Certainly the device has sold substantially better even than its predecessor in its first weekend: the iPad 2 was launched on 25 March 2011 in 26 countries. However, its first two days on sale covered the last two days of Apple's financial quarter, during which the company sold 4.69m iPads.The new iPad appears to be selling significantly faster despite having been on sale in 12 countries initially, with release in many more expected in the coming weeks.
The UK will be "frozen out of the next industrial revolution" because the government's broadband plans are not well funded or ambitious enoughSo saysPeter Cochrane, who as chief technology officer at BT until 2000 pioneered broadband in the UK. His warning came in evidence to aHouse of Lords inquiryinto the national broadband strategy on Tuesday.The government has talked up its ambitions, vowing to create the "best superfast broadband network in Europe by 2015". What this means in practice is download speeds of at least 24Mbps for 90% of the UK's 25 million households. The remaining homes will receive a minimum of 2Mbps.Cochrane said: "Even our aspirations are low: 20Mbps isn't superfast. It's super slow. It's a candle, while the rest of the world is using the light bulb. The UK risks being frozen out of the next industrial revolution."A minimum speed of 24Mbps is fast enough to watch several internet videos simultaneously, but not enough if you believe predictions that within the next five or ten years, each household will have hundreds of machines from fridges to gas meters and thermostats connected to the internet.Paris and Moscow are planning fibre cables direct into millions of homes, to deliver speeds of between 100Mbps and 1000Mbps, and experts say UK targets will soon be out of date.Cochrane, who is now an independent consultant, said the £2.5bn of money earmarked for rural services was not enough. Industry estimates put the cost at bringing fibre to every doorstep in Britain at up to £15bn."True, high speed, unlimited, access to the social, economic and democratic benefits the internet brings is a fundamental human right," he told the Lords communication committee, whose members include the broadcaster Lord Bragg. "Yet in terms of broadband, the UK is at the back of the pack. We're beat by almost every other European country and Asia leaves us for dust. The great decline in our relative global position has saddened me over the years and we need to invest at least £15bn to redress this now."The UK comes 15th in the global league of countries with the fastest advertised speeds, published by theOECD in Speptember 2011, and has one of the lowest levels in Europe of fibre to the home. A direct fibre connection, as opposed to fibre to the street cabinet and copper from there to the home, is considered essential for speeds of over 100Mbps.Average advertised broadband download speed, kbit/s*Mexico5147.55Greece10573.14Chile12373.2Israel15868.45Austria18430.36Germany19172.26Luxembourg21299.2Iceland21323.78Italy22675.46Switzerland22835.2New Zealand23386.99Poland23603.2Czech Republic24197.91Ireland26325.9Spain26738.69Hungary27096.62Belgium27140.1United States29440.51Slovak Republic30226.84United Kingdom35270.28Australia35471.83Turkey36250.85Denmark36966.4Estonia38447.33OECD41780.2Finland44208.36Canada45917.96Netherlands50191.84France53215.23Norway72065.46Korea76895.57Slovenia79912.74Portugal83355.24Sweden102763.32Japan156180.43Fibre reaches just 250,000 homes and blocks of flats in the UK, out of a population of 62m, according to data from the FTTH Council Europe. By contrast France has 6.3m homes passed, out of a population of 66m. Russia's fibre network has reached nearly 16m homes out of a total of 143m. Out of 39 European countries, only Estonia has fewer homes passed, with 210,000 having access, but this is out of a population of just 1.3m.Ministers have earmarked £530m in this parliament and a further £300m after 2015 for local councils to bring broadband to their rural areas and a further £100m for high-speed fixed and mobile internet in 10 cities including London, Belfast, Edinburgh and Cardiff.BT has committed to match the £830m government funding, and councils will be asked to do the same, which could bring total UK investment in rural broadband to £2.5bn.In its evidence to the Lords inquiry, the Country Land &amp; Business Association (CLA), which represents 34,000 rural businesses, says the money is not enough to get basic broadband to every household and that broadband access should be a legal right.The CLA said: "Even with match-funding from local authorities, it is likely that the government's commitment of £530m will be insufficient to build a future proofed superfast broadband network, fit for purpose."The CLA believes broadband access should be classified as a Universal Service Obligation, and not, as is the case now, a Universal Service Commitment, which it says "provides government with a get out clause in the event that the 2Mbps benchmark cannot be achieved by the stated deadline of 2015".Tim Farron, Liberal Democrat MP for the Cumbrian district of Westmorland and Lonsdale, echoed the call to make broadband a legal right in comments made on his website. "Some homes and businesses are struggling to access even the basic speed of broadband internet. This is completely unacceptable in this modern age and it puts us at a serious risk of being left behind. For Cumbrian businesses, providing a decent internet connection is not a luxury, it's the difference between surviving and folding."
Aleks Krotoski is joined by Keith Stuart and Charles Arthur to review the week's technology news, including Apple's decision to pay its shareholders dividends, and the malware attacks on the computers of Syrian anti-government actists.Plus, Keith reveals his highlights from the Bafta video game awards.
The UK will be "frozen out of the next industrial revolution" because the government's broadband plans are not well funded or ambitious enough, according to a former BT Group technology chief.Peter Cochrane, who as chief technology officer at BT until 2000 pioneered broadband in the UK, joined other witnesses in lambasting government plans in evidence to aHouse of Lords inquiryinto the national broadband strategy on Tuesday.The government has vowed to create the "best superfast broadband network in Europe by 2015", with download speeds of 24 megabits per second for 90% of the UK's 25 million households, fast enough to watch several videos over the internet simultaneously. The remaining homes will receive a minimum of 2Mbps.But Cochrane said: "Even our aspirations are low: 20 megabits isn't superfast. It's super slow. It's a candle, while the rest of the world is using the light bulb. The UK risks being frozen out of the next industrial revolution."Paris and Moscow are planning to install fibre cables directly into millions of homes, to deliver speeds of 100-1,000Mbps, and experts say UK targets will soon be out of date.Cochrane, who is now an independent consultant, said the £2.5bn of money earmarked for rural services was not enough. Industry estimates put the cost at bringing fibre to every doorstep in Britain at up to £15bn."True, high-speed, unlimited access to the social, economic and democratic benefits the internet brings is a fundamental human right," he told the Lords communication committee, whose members include the broadcaster Lord Bragg. "Yet in terms of broadband, the UK is at the back of the pack. We're beat by almost every other European country and Asia leaves us for dust. The great decline in our relative global position has saddened me over the years and we need to invest at least £15bn to redress this now."The UK ranks 15th in the global league of countries with the fastest advertised speeds, published by the OECD in September 2011, and has one of Europe's lowest levels of fibre cables to the home. A direct fibre connection, as opposed to fibre to the street cabinet and copper from there to the home, is considered essential for speeds of more than 100Mbps.Fibre reaches just 250,000 homes and blocks of flats in the UK, out of a population of 62 million, according to data from the FTTH Council Europe. By contrast France has fibre to 6.3m homes, out of a population of 66 million. Russia's fibre network has reached nearly 16m homes out of a population of 143 million. Out of 39 European countries, only Estonia has fibre to fewer homes, with 210,000 having access, but this is out of a population of 1.3 million.Ministers have earmarked £530m in this parliament and a further £300m after 2015 for local councils to take broadband to rural areas and a further £100m for high-speed fixed and mobile internet in 10 cities, including London, Belfast, Edinburgh and Cardiff.BT has committed to match the £830m government funding, and councils will be asked to do the same, which could bring total UK investment in rural broadband to £2.5bn.In its evidence to the Lords inquiry, the Country Land &amp; Business Association (CLA), which represents 34,000 rural businesses, said the money was not enough to get basic broadband to every household and that access should be a legal right."Even with match-funding from local authorities, it is likely that the government's commitment of £530m will be insufficient to build a future-proofed superfast broadband network, fit for purpose."The CLA said it believed broadband access should be classified as a universal service obligation, and not, as it is now, a universal service commitment, which it says "provides government with a get-out clause in the event that the 2Mbps benchmark cannot be achieved by the stated deadline of 2015".Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat MP for the Cumbrian seat of Westmorland and Lonsdale, echoed the call to make broadband a legal right."Some homes and businesses are struggling to access even the basic speed of broadband internet. This is completely unacceptable in this modern age and it puts us at a serious risk of being left behind," he said in comments on his website. "For Cumbrian businesses, providing a decent internet connection is not a luxury, it's the difference between surviving and folding."
Azeroth, the sprawling fantasy planet in World Of Warcraft, has certainly had its share of catastrophes over the years. First, it was nearly overrun by the demon Illidan and the Burning Crusade. Next, it had to deal with the threat from Prince Arthas, The Lich King, and his army of the undead. Most recently, the dragon Deathwing returned to the surface of the world, precipitating a global natural disaster that reshaped and ruined much of Azeroth's landscape. And now, the World Of Warcraft is braced for the addition of a very different type of potentially lethal creature. The panda.To say that hominid pandas – or Pandarens to give them their proper name – have been promoted as the top-level drawcard for WOW's new expansion pack,Mists Of Pandaria, feels anticlimactic to say the least. In the past, new additions to Azeroth have placed the destruction of the entire world on the table as the overarching narrative.Since it was first unveiled at BlizzCon 2011, Mists Of Pandaria has received a mixed reception from the WOW faithful. Players are split right down the middle. Half of them are looking forward to the new areas, new quests and new playable Monk class. The other half say that Mists has essentially sounded the death knell for the gaming industry's most widely played and preternaturally profitable MMO.To a degree, Blizzard needs to shoulder some of the blame for the latter reaction. Until now, the only Mists information available was that which could be gleaned from the BlizzCon trailer. Fans knew about a new race, a new playable class and a new continent to explore in Azeroth with a visual aesthetic based on the Far East.The trailer also flashed up the promise of aspects such as 'Challenge Mode Dungeons', 'PvE Scenarios' and 'Pet Battles', but the developers haven't gone to any lengths to explain these features. The only things players know for certain, is that they'll have the chance to roll new characters – the pandas – who possibly know Kung Fu.But the sceptics and the naysayers should have more faith. At a recent event at the developer's headquarters in Irvine, California, Blizzard's Vice President of Creative Development Chris Metzen fronted a presentation, which revealed astonishing depth of content and provided context for it within the lore of the WOW universe.The tone of the new expansion pack may be more light-hearted than its predecessors – there's no end-of-the-world threat to combat here – but it's as engrossing and compelling as any add-on Blizzard has produced in the past.The set-up for Mists Of Pandaria sees the Horde and Alliance forces landing on the forgotten shores of that titular continent. In short order, the players learn that Pandaria is at something of a transition; the brutal, dictatorial former rulers of the continent are making a grab for control and an ancient evil has been awakened by the arrival of the two WOW factions.As the overarching narrative of the expansion pack unfolds, players will be guided through the huge, enchanting map of Pandaria, and will come to learn about the land's different warring factions and its history. They'll also join forces with the local population in repelling the malignant forces at work to return Pandaria to its darkest days.The storyline won't end there. Metzen revealed that at the end of Pandaria's main quests, Blizzard will be releasing a host of patches that add more plot as the bulk of the Horde and Alliance forces arrive and begin to do battle for control of the land. A new central villain will emerge that'll provide a focal point for both factions' efforts in the form of Garrosh Hellscream, Warchief of the Horde.Garrosh's tactical choices on Pandaria cause consternation within the ranks of the Horde and prompt the Alliance to rally against their age-old foes. The events that transpire also herald the return of the Horde's former Warchief, Thrall. In World Of Warcraft's new expansion pack, the main threat to the player and the new continent in Azeroth is, it seems, war itself.Before the players reach this stage, however, they'll likely become lost in the huge, sprawling land of Pandaria. The map from WOW's new expansion pack has grown since its BlizzCon unveiling, from five zones to seven. The starting area for Pandaria is a lush, emerald coloured woodland called the Jade Forest. It's here that the Horde and Alliance factions rally their forces after crashing onto Pandaria. It's also, where players will encounter one of the expansion's new villains in its first dungeon.The Temple Of The Jade Serpent is a huge, beautiful structure housing an evil, spiritual entity that can manifest itself physically called Sha. The Sha is a dark, emotionally-charged energy that is unique to Pandaria, a boiling, dangerous cauldron of hatred, fear and violence that has remained buried for hundreds of years. The arrival of the Horde and the Alliance has awakened its powers, and their conflict allows it to grow to the point that it threatens to engulf Pandaria.Players are also introduced to two new factions on Pandaria in this zone: the Hozen and the Jinyu. The former are ape-like hominids who eventually throw their lot in with the Horde and the latter are fish-like amphibians who side with the Alliance. Both are initially hostile to the newcomers on Pandaria and initial stages of the game involve fighting off their attempts to remove the Horde and Alliance factions from Pandaria.The Hozen and the Jinyu are just two of the new races encountered in Pandaria. As they make their way deeper into the new map, players will run into (amongst others) the Mogu, the brutal former rulers of Pandaria who are trying to take back their kingdom, the Yaungol, a shaggy, warlike cousin to the Turians and the Mantid, a malevolent race of intelligent insects. Of course, the most notable new race is also one of the key attractions of the expansion set: the hominid panda race, the Panderans.The Panderans, as has been mentioned, are the new playable race in Mists Of Pandaria, and they bring with them, the new playable class: the Monk. Blizzard hasn't revealed if other races can adopt this class – whether it'll be like the Death Knight from Wrath Of The Lich King, where players can update their class once they've reached the requisite level. Pandarians, however, can certainly be rolled as Monks, and the new class brings a new physicality to WOW's combat system.The Monks combine martial arts abilities with magic in an interesting cocktail of moves that show off some of the game's new animations. A lot of the Monk abilities are powered by Chi, which is represented on the HUD in a new gauge containing four slots just under the character's health and magic bars. Different moves cost different amounts of Chi, depending on their effects; a spin-heel kick costs two, for example, where a death-touch instant kill move on a wounded enemy can cost four. Players fill the Chi slots by lading jab attacks.Monks can also execute forward rolls and flying kicks that send them hurtling around the map; both of these help players evade danger and in truth the flying kick is more useful at this stage as an escape manoeuvre than an attack move.Blizzard hasn't been forthcoming about how the Monk's new moves will be balanced against other classes, but presumably this is something the developer plans to look at before the player beta is released. However, the team did reveal the tree paths players can take with the Monk's talents which would dictate how they choose to play them; Brewmasters are tanks, Windwalkers are DPS class and Mistweavers are healers.Talent trees have also been slightly streamlined for the new expansion pack. In the past the aim behind talents was that players would apply interesting combinations of talents resulting in a personal stamp on their characters.In truth, what happened, was that players simply worked out the optimum way to apply talents based on what sort of character they wanted to play. Blizzard says the new talents are more balanced and more about fun. The idea is, changing talents is now fairly easy, so players will be able to rotate options, using their favourite characters in different ways.  The new level cap for the expansion has also been increased to 90.And it looks as though players are going to have a pretty interesting ride on their way to levelling up their characters. Once they clear the Jade Forest, the rest of the vast and varied continent of Pandaria will be available to explore and quest in.Players can head to the sunkissed breadbasket in the Valley of the Four Winds, where they buy their own farm, grow their own crops and sell the fruits of their labours at the central arable market. They can explore the Kasarang Wilds, a huge overgrown rainforest that's home to the Mogu forces and their lizard people slaves. They can climb up Kun Lai Summit, the largest mountain in the whole of Azeroth, where the wise and ancient elite fighters of Pandaria, the Shado-Pan, reside in their snow-covered monastery.Players can even, if the mood takes them, head into the Vale Of Eternal Blossoms, the former centre of the Mogu Empire, which has now become the continent's centre of learning and culture. Here, in the vale's ornate library surrounded by pink cherry blossom trees, the Lore Masters put on plays that explain the history and culture of Pandaria.It almost goes without saying that all of these environments look absolutely stunning. Blizzard has always prided itself on the artistic presentation of its worlds and Pandaria is no exception. The continent's lands vary from snow-capped mountains, to sand-coloured plains to tropical forests and beyond and every inch of its Far Eastern architecture is beautifully constructed and intricately detailed. It all looks so good that it's hard to believe it's all running on an engine that's over eight years old.On top of all the new quests and zones, Blizzard has loaded Pandaria with new activities for players to grind away at. You can now take part in PvE Scenarios, which work like mini-dungeon levels, allowing participants to queue up for quick adventures that offer sizable equipment drops.Each scenario is constructed like a quest and features a nasty boss battle at the end. Naturally, Pandaria has its own set of dungeons, but now players can attack them on timed runs, meaning that completing dungeons in the quickest time possible earns them unique items and bragging rights on the leaderboards.There is also more to do with pets in Pandaria. Blizzard has built a Pet Battle system for the game where owners can challenge each other to team battles involving the pets they've collected over time. The battles themselves come across like a mash-up of Pokemon with Final Fantasy's combat system. In a conscious attempt to keep it all fun and light-hearted, Blizzard say players won't see their opponent's names during Pet Battles, nor will they be able to taunt them via chat channels. There's also no way to keep track of how many battles have been won or lost, so there's no reason to feel bad.Blizzard hasn't announced a release date for Pandaria yet, although the team did say that a lot of the content for five of the game's seven zones is nearly complete. With any luck this means that the player beta shouldn't be too far off.To be frank, the beta can't come soon enough. A lot of WOW players still need convincing that Mists Of Pandaria isn't the MMO's 'Jump The Shark' moment and that the expansion offers more than just Kung-Fu Pandas. But if they can get over their initial prejudices and take the plunge, it's more than likely they'll find Mists Of Pandaria is as strong as any WOW expansion pack that's preceded it.
The world is over, pretty much. It's 1986 and some sort of cataclysmic infection has wiped out most of North America. Now an everyman survivor must reach a safe house in a bleak, crumbling Seattle as zombie-like victims emerge from the rubble and armageddon looms.This is the grimly nihilistic pitch behindDeadlight, a scrolling 2D adventure that counts First Blood, The Road and The Walking Dead among its major influences. For Raul Rubio, the CEO and creative director at developer,Tequila Works, the premise is a simple one: "We wanted to ask ourselves, if I, a normal person, were to wake up tomorrow in the apocalypse, what would I do?"At the centre of it all is Randall Wayne, a fire warden from British Columbia. "Randall is not a hero or a solder," says Rubio. "This story is not about what happened, it's not about saving the world, it's not about conspiracies. It's about a regular guy who's trying to survive a holocaust."Although Rubio talks about capturing the old school gameplay of 2D adventures like Flashback and Another World, there are clear nods to the original Resident Evil titles as well.Randall  will usually find himself without weapons, and even if he does pick up a pistol or shotgun, ammo is always scarce, and firing a gun in a city of silence is like ringing the dinner bell for the ravenous undead.So Deadlight is a game about intelligence and evasion, working out how to use the many objects scattered around the densely detailed maps. In the demo section I'm shown, Randall is scrabbling through an industrial sector of the city, looking for the mythical safe house. There are abandoned factories with torn plastic window covers flapping in the wind; there are dank sewers and underpasses covered in apocalyptic graffiti. And there are the dead, wandering sullenly about the place, waiting for a human lunch buffet to pass.The key is in using their stupidity against them. At one point we come to a downed power line that's electrified a pool of stagnant water. You can leap onto a platform above the site, then whistle to attract a group of nearby zombies - they stumble toward you and are instantly incinerated. Inside buildings, there are metal lifts that can be lowered onto enemies, or heavy boxes that can just be flung down onto rotten zombie heads. Players just need to work out the deadly purpose of every moveable item.. "We define Deadlight as a puzzle game with zombies, rather than a zombie game" says Rubio.The game has the classic mechanics of a cinematic platformer. Randall can jump, and also grab on to things, often having to climb up ladders of pull levers to progress. He can also set up barricades to halt the blood-thirsty killing machines patrolling the wastelands. That's if they really exist of course...Here we come to one of the most intriguing elements of Deadlight - its use of an unreliable narrator. "The story is told by Randall himself," explains Rubio. "The narration is not a tool for the player - it's quite the opposite: Randall is using you to remain sane and alive. He has been alone for so long, living in this stressful situation, that he's getting paranoid. So he's telling his own story, but as everyone knowns, when you tell your own story you're the hero - you'll always try to justify your actions. Randall is trying to convince you, but we wanted you to question for yourselves the things that you usually take for granted in zombie game."There's an important example of this just before the section we're playing. Randall has been deserted by a pack of survivors because he shot a woman. The narration says it's because she was infected, but the others don't believe it – and it seems there will be points in the game where we might not believe Randall either. It also turns out there's no solid explanation for the zombie virus; Randall thinks its a strain of rabies from Alaska, but others are blaming the Russians – it's 1986, remember; the cold war has yet to defrost. It's a fascinating set up.The story is the work of renowned dramatist Antonio Rojano, whose work has been shown at the Royal Court in London. Although there is dialogue, the team has also sought to tell stories through the scenery – at times you'll walk through nightmarish scenes of destruction, like an immense fractured road bridge, with burned out cars and buses strewn across its charred tarmac or hanging over the shattered safety barriers. There are elements of Stephen King's The Stand in these grim tableaus of urban panic.Created by a team of just 12 in-house developers over the course of two years, this seven-hour narrative experience looks to be a truly dark, highly subjective experience. And with its unreliable lead character, it's sort of The Walking Dead, with Alan Wake in the lead role – indeed, you can uncover missing diary pages as you explore, lending more detail to the back story.There is something poetic about the game, something akin to The Road and its imagery of life being snuffed out like the onset of some cold glaucoma dimming away the Earth. This is the sort of territory the Silent Hill series once occupied, and which gaming has shied away from in recent years."The world is dying," says Rubio matter-of-factly. "Everything is in shadows: Randall is a shadow, the zombies are shadows of their former selves... Civilisation is fading away – like a shadow erased by light."Deadlight is due out on XBLA this summer.
Feeling credulous? Step right up toThe Pirate Bay's latest blogpost, then, and read on:We were down a few hours earlier today. There's no need to worry, we haven't been raided this time. We're only upgrading stuff since we're still growing.One of the technical things we always optimize is where to put our front machines. They are the ones that re-direct your traffic to a secret location. We have now decided to try to build something extraordinary.With the development of GPS controlled drones, far-reaching cheap radio equipment and tiny new computers like the Raspberry Pi, we're going to experiment with sending out some small drones that will float some kilometers up in the air. This way our machines will have to be shut down with aeroplanes in order to shut down the system. A real act of war.We're just starting so we haven't figured everything out yet. But we can't limit ourselves to hosting things just on land anymore. These Low Orbit Server Stations (LOSS) are just the first attempt. With modern radio transmitters we can get over 100Mbps per node up to 50km away. For the proxy system we're building, that's more than enough.(There's a bit more, but we don't want to deter anyone from clicking through.)Link me upOK, so let's see if we can find any holes in this idea. Because obviously we'd like nothing but the most resilient system for TPB."we're going to experiment with sending out some small drones that will float some kilometers up in the air"Hmm. Onboard computer with uplink and downlink. That will have to be pretty precisely aligned to a ground transponder, unless it's going to be broadcasting to the world at large. Except if it's going to broadcast to the world at large, BSkyB-style, then it would need to be pretty large. So really it would need to connect to a ground terminal. On the ground, obviously. (If you need a quick explanation of how satellite internet - which this basically is - works, then seethis page from How Stuff Works.)So there's your first point of weakness in this plan: you need to have some connections on the ground. Quite expensive satellite ones, actually, unless you happen to have people hanging around who are good at setting up high-speed wide-bandwidth connections for nothing. TPB is quite popular, even though itisn't actually hosting anything much nowbecause of its shift to "magnet" files rather than torrents.Now, it's quite easy to hide your ground-based uplink sites if your satellite - sorry, drone (we'll come to that) is only connecting to a ground uplink/downlink. You can have them on the roof of a building, and just connect to them; if the beam from the satellite is tight, then it won't leak appreciably and you'll be happy. But if you need a tight connection, then you can't float your satellite connection from a balloon - it'll get blown around too much. Hence the drone.Probably not going to flyOK, let's deal with the drone stuff now."we're going to experiment with sending out some small drones that will float some kilometers up in the air"No, you're probably not. Civil aviation authorities tend to get itchy about objects floating around in airspace at the sort of altitudes - a few kilometres up - where civil aircraft might whack into them. If your flying objects are going to be airborne for any length of time (which TPB implies here) then you need to tell the aviation authority, because causing a calamity in which an aircraft has to take avoiding action (or, even worse, crash-lands) is the sort of thing that easily leads to prison sentences. (There's no point for TPB having a drone that isn't miles up in the sky; it can't connect enough points to act as a useful server.)But even if we accept the idea that TPB will put some drones up, there are still two more problems: duration, and connection.Duration first. UAV (Uncrewed Airborne Vehicles) are a relatively new technology, and they face the problem that anything which wants to fly does: how to stay up there. Even the US Army, which has been putting lots of money into UAVs, can't keep them up there indefinitely. TheWikipedia page on UAVssuggests that the best that any known device has managed is around 14 days - although more typically they manage two days or less. While a Raspberry Pi is a very light payload, it still has some weight, and don't forget that you're also looking at your uplink/downlink systems and the associated demand on the batteries to run those. Likely, the drones are going to have to come out of the air every few days or so, which means recharging while a replacement is flying, and all the associated maintenance.And then there's the question of connection. If we assume for the minute that the TPB drones are going to be using a narrow-beam for uplink/downlink (so that their ground stations don't become the target of businesses which don't like their business) then the drone is going to have to be able to maintain a very, very precise location despite being a few kilometres up. That's quite difficult, though not impossible; it just means that you need to have excellent electronics and very good position control, which in turn means more energy spent maintaining position. Yes, the US Army manages this just fine, but it has a slightly bigger budget than TPB.Finally, the other question is: what's the point of doing all this again? If TPB really wanted to have its servers out of the visibility of governments, then it could simply get them hosted via Cloudflare, which has become the host of choice for both big companies and small hackers. If its ground-based servers are too unreliable, why does it think that putting them a few kilometres up, where the temperature will be below the standard operating temperature for the kit, is going to improve things?That hasn't stopped an excited tide of commenters delighted at the idea on TPB, despite not having thought through quite how it would or would not work. Well, apart from one who only identifies himself as "dom9360":You (the audience) are either stupid or gullible. This will not happen anytime soon in a usable state. And, if it does, where do you think the non-wired drone communicates back to? Not only the directions but the actual shit found on here. The Internet is primarily a wired infrastructure. Some entity that is ground based will need to be tapped. So, how is this adding any benefit to the current situation? One does not need to disable the drone; rather, all that is needed is to disable the provider at ground. Looks like April came early.Have to say that we agree. It's not a workable plan within the budget or technology of TPB, and won't be for a very long time - and there will be better systems long before that. (Even using Magnet files is a better solution on its own.) We're only guessing, but we think that sound you hear from TPB might be sniggering.
US firm OMGPOP is the latest independent developer to spark a mobile gaming craze, with its Draw Something social game racing to more than 30m downloads on iOS and Android just six weeks after its release.The game takes its inspiration from Pictionary, and wraps Words With Friends-esque asynchronous social gameplay around it. Players are given words – Elvis, Football, Zombie etc – and must draw them on-screen for Facebook friends to guess.The game's designer Dan Porter, who's also chief executive of OMGPOP, tells GigaOm that Draw Something is adding another 1m downloads every day, has generated more than 2bn drawings, and is making "low six figures" in daily (dollar) revenues from a mixture of paid downloads, in-app purchases and advertising.According to industry analytics siteAppData, Draw Something currently has 13m daily active users (DAUs), making it the most popular social game in the world by that metric.That's ahead of even Zynga's Words With Friends and CityVille (8.4m and 7.9, respectively at the time of writing.No wonder Zynga may be interested in buying OMGPOP. TechCrunch claims the two companies arealready in talks, although other social games companies like Gree and DeNa are thought to be in the hunt too.Separately, GigaOm suggests thatthe asking price may be $200m. Any negotiations should be interesting: Zynga has the capability to make its own clone version – Draw With Friends, for example.Doing so would risk a controversy even bigger than that around its Dream Heights game earlier in 2012, though, which was accused of being a clone of another indie hit, Tiny Tower.Porter appears to be playing a canny hand with the game's rapid rise, talking regularly to the big US tech blogs about its growth, and quite possibly fuelling the speculation around it – last weeka TV show was also being mooted.Having seen Rovio remain independent and run with its Angry Birds franchise, the big social games firms won't want to let another breaking hit get away.What's happening here, though? Draw Something appears to be a genuinely word-of-mouth phenomenon, and one that is appealing to a wide demographic – mums and non-techies through to hardcore gamers judging by my Facebook feed and Twitter timeline.Draw Something's non-gameyness may be the key: something Porter talked about in his GigaOm interview: "We're taking game play and wrapping it in the framework of communication, sharing experiences and playing together," he said."I just wanted this to be something hilarious with no winner or loser… I'm not a game designer and I don't pretend to be one so I didn't really think about the rules of making a game. Most designers would have said you need scores or leaderboards but it didn't feel right so I didn't do them… We want to make games for people that don't put games on their phone. That's how you get to massive scale."The other interesting thing about Draw Something is that it demonstrates the continued ability of the App Store and Google Play (formerly Android Market) to spawn independently-developed hits, contrary to expectations of market consolidation as time goes on.In that sense, Draw Something sits alongside Imangi Studios' Temple Run, which has beendownloaded more than 40m timeson iOS alone since its release in August 2011, with an Android version due to be released on 27 March.
Apple claims games will be one of the key app categories to benefit from its new iPad's beefier processor and high-resolution Retina display, but what will this mean for developer and publisher revenues?Analyst firm Juniper Research has published its predictions for the global tablet games market, claiming that revenues will rise from $491m (£310m) in 2011 to $3.1bn (just under £2bn) in 2014.Its latest report claims that the larger screen sizes and improved graphics capabilities of tablets will spur more purchases of games and virtual items and currency, singling out more hardcore games as key beneficiaries."The tablet is the perfect device for playing mobile games – the screens are large enough for the user to see the action, no matter how big their hands are," says author Charlotte Miller."Tablet owners also tend to have a larger disposable income, as tablets are often bought outright rather than subsidised by operators. Higher user satisfaction with games and a bigger wallet mean that tablet games look to be highly lucrative."In fact, Juniper thinks tablet games will account for nearly a third of overall mobile games revenues by 2016, partly because spending on non-smartphone mobile games is expected to plummet, halving over the next five years as people upgrade to new handsets.Games are certainly one of the key uses for tablets. In April 2011, Googlepublished the resultsof a survey of 1,400 US tablet owners, and found that 84% of them played games on their devices, ahead of searching for information (78%), emailing (74%) and reading news (61%).At the time of writing, 14 of the 30 Top Grossing iPad apps in Apple's UK App Store are games, with many of those being freemium titles that make their money from in-app purchases and advertising.
A selection of 12 new apps for you today:Humble Bundle for Android 2The indie Humble Bundle initiative continues to go from strength to strength, offering collections of games for a pay-what-you-like price. The second Android bundle includes Canabalt, Zen Bound 2, Cogs and Avadon: The Black Fortress, with Swords &amp; Soldiers thrown in for anyone who pays more than the average price ($6.25 at the time of writing).AndroidThe Thrill ElectricChannel 4's latest iOS app is a ten-part "enhanced comic" set in Victorian Manchester, which aims to show the parallels between the Internet era and the telegraph age. The app is the work of producer Hat Trick Productions.iPhone / iPadTweekTweek is the latest social TV app for iPad, claiming to be "the TV Guide curated by your friends". That means logging in via Facebook and getting listings for British TV channels, with recommendations based on what friends have been Liking on the social network.iPadL.A. Noire: Touch EditionOnLive's cloud gaming app still hasn't been allowed onto iOS devices by Apple, so it's just Android owners who can settle down to play L.A. Noire on their tablets. Accessed through the OnLive app, its controls have been given a touchscreen-friendly makeover.AndroidWhat Hi-Fi? Sound and VisionHaymarket has launched an app for its audiophile magazine What Hi-Fi? Sound and Vision, offering news, reviews and advice on constructing the beefiest home entertainment systems. It uses Apple's subscriptions system to charge.iPhone / iPadFresh Tracks SnowboardingFirst Touch Games made its name on iOS with excellent football games Dream League and First Touch Soccer. Now it has a new snowboarding title to follow up its previous X2 Snowboarding, with a freemium pricing model and SSX-style 3D visuals.iPhone / iPadMensa Brain TestMensa's popular iPhone brain testing game has been ported to all the other smartphones, offering three lengths of quiz to help you judge whether your IQ is in the top 2%. Appshen and Barnstorm Games worked on the app.Android / BlackBerry / Windows Phone / SymbianBattleloot AdventureThis stylish iOS adventure game promises "comedy, turn-based combat and role-playing" with more than 60 quests to battle through, and as many orcs as you can throw big sticks at.iPhone / iPadZinioBlackBerry PlayBook owners craving a fix of digitised print magazines are in luck: Zinio has launched on RIM's tablet. The free app provides individual issues and subscriptions to thousands of mags from around the world.BlackBerry PlayBookWorkAroundThis is a location-based recruitment app that aims to put local employers and jobseekers in touch with one another. It sorts vacancies by their distance from the app user, as well as by category and salary.iPhoneRon Paul 2012 – Restore America NowThe latest app relating to the US presidential election comes from Republican candidate Ron Paul, offering news, videos, photos, a donation link and the obligatory "Statement of Faith" for his supporters. It's an iPad app.iPadChipwrecked: Coloring with the ChipmunksThe Smurfs and The Chipmunks are popular children's brands again. Isn't technology wonderful! Oh. Anyway, this iPhone app is a digital colouring book based on the Chipwrecked animated film, to promote its Blu-ray release.iPhone
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWikipedia Didn't Kill Britannica. Windows Did &gt;&gt; Wired.comSimply brilliant. If you only read one article today, make it this one.Britannica [nearly] went bankrupt in 1996, long before Wikipedia was a crowdsourced gleam in Jimmy Wales' open-access eye. In 1990, the company had $650m in revenue. In 1996, it was being sold off in toto for $135m. What happened in between was Encarta. Not because Encarta made Microsoft money (it didn't), or because Britannica didn't develop comparable products for CD-ROM and the web (they totally did, with the first CD-ROM encyclopedia in 1989 and Britannica Online in 1994). Instead, Encarta was an inexpensive, multimedia, not-at-all comprehensive encyclopedia that helped Microsoft sell Windows PCs to families. And once you had a PC in the living room or den where the encyclopedia used to be, it was all over for Mighty Britannica.Seriously, Samsung? This is what you're calling Ice Cream Sandwich? &gt;&gt; Computerworld BlogsFor most people, moving from Gingerbread to Ice Cream Sandwich has been anight-and-day change; particularly on a phone, ICS really is a whole new Android experience. Unfortunately, for owners of Samsung phones -- excluding Nexus devices, of course, which are controlled by Google and thus free from Sammy's modifications -- it's going to be more of an incremental upgrade. Still asignificantupgrade, mind you, but moreevolutionarythanrevolutionary. And that's a shame, because ICS as Google created it ispretty damn impressive.Actually, the change from Gingerbread to ICS is quite jarring - the direction of scrolling of apps and other things. Samsung is keeping its existing customers close; that's a sensible move for the biggest Android maker.Let's Not Get Too Excited About Those New iPad Sales Numbers (Updated)Did you hear? This past weekend set all kinds of iPad sales records. Tim Cook said it! AT&amp;T said it! And while I'm sure the new iPad was a huge part of that, let's temper our applause. There are two generations of iPad on shelves, and AT&amp;T has confirmed that its "record numbers" from Friday include both of them.Though doesn't that confirm that Apple's strategy of chewing up the lower part of the market is working too?That MYSTERY Duqu Trojan language: Plain old C &gt;&gt; The RegisterYes, disappointment:the suggestion that the Duqu Framework might have been developed using old-school Object Orientated C (OO C) hit the bullseye. Code compiled using C and Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 was a close match for the code in the Duqu framework, allowing Kaspersky researchers to conclude that the framework had been written using a custom object-orientated extension to C or plain C with a changed dialect, as Kamluk described it. "It's old school C. These are techniques used by professional software developers but not malware writers," Kamluk explained.Surely the implication then is that professional software developers are working on Dugu?Dell sees room to challenge Apple in tablets &gt;&gt; ReutersTaking Mac and iPad sales together, Apple sold more computers last year than any of the top PC makers. Asked whether he envied Apple's ability to produce such coveted objects, [Dell chief commercial officer Steve] Felice said: "We come at the market in a different way ... We are predominantly a company that has a great eye on the commercial customer who also wants to be a consumer." "In the areas where we come at the market, we think we are a coveted brand."Coveted: something you yearn to possess or have. OK.New iPad tops three million &gt;&gt; AppleApple today announced it has sold three million of its incredible new iPad, since its launch on Friday, March 16... "The new iPad is a blockbuster with three million sold - the strongest iPad launch yet," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Marketing. "Customers are loving the incredible new features of iPad, including the stunning Retina display, and we can't wait to get it into the hands of even more customers around the world this Friday."Three million? Imagine if it had had something useful, such as haptics.Mobile Safari (IOS) vs. Google Chrome (Android) Comparison &gt;&gt; iPhone HelpFebruary:a new comparison was made by Android Central. The site wanted to know the performance of Google Chrome on Android (currently in beta) from the browser Safari mobile. As shown in the video, the iPhone 4S and Safari are doing pretty good but the Galaxy Nexus wins many times over its competitor.Chrome indeed looks very fast. The iPhone looks tiny too. (Thanks to @lollygagging for the link.)September 2010: In search of tablet computers' sweet spot: screen size and battery life &gt;&gt; Guardian TechnologySince everyone and their dog is burbling on about potential Google Nexus 7in tablets, here's a link back to an article which asked: why exactly did Apple choose 9.7in for the iPad screen? And how did Samsung's 7in screen measure up? Check out the comments too: apparently Apple was rumoured (on Gizmodo and Macrumors) to be about to launch a 7in iPad "in time for Christmas". Some rumours never go out of date.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Syrian activists are being targeted by a fake version of Google's YouTube video site which plants malware on the PCs of people who leave comments on videos shown there, the Electronic Frontier Foundation has warned.The EFF, a pressure group for free speech online, said thatthe site has been used to target people watching videos showing the conflict inside Syria, and that it may have captured the login details for Google accounts belonging to activists inside or outside the country. It also warns that the site offers a fake "update" to the Flash software used on most PCs to view video content.The discovery ratchets up the online attacks against Syrian anti-government activists, who have been increasingly targeted by malware which is capable of capturing webcam details, turning off antivirus programs and capturing passwords.The organisationwarned last weekthat it had found two cases of pro-Syrian government malware – which can take over a machine or silently watch everything that the user types – being sent as web links in emails and chat.It found that that malware sent back details to an internet address, 216.6.0.28, which has been assigned to the Syrian Telecommunications Establishment – indicating that unlike the vast majority of malware, which is used by criminals to download bank or other details and controlled via machines on the wider web, this one connects back to an official address inside Syria. That makes it likely that it is controlled by agencies acting for the Syrian government. The online security company Symantecdetailed the effects of the malwarein February.The EFF warns people who have recently viewed such videos that they should check the security of their Google account, including the enabling of "two-factor authentication" – which requires special login details and will send a warning to the user's phone if the account is accessed from a different machine than the one which they normally use.The fake YouTube uses the same layout as the official one, with Arabic script as Syrian users would expect.YouTube has become an important channel for Syrian activists trying to get news about attacks by the government on citizens and locations out to the rest of the world. Videos uploaded to the site have revealed detail about the effects of shelling on cities and the killing of citizens. By targeting those who watch such videos, pro-government activists might be able to build up information about the networks and members of activist groups.In a statement, the EFF noted that "EFF is deeply concerned about this pattern of pro-government malware targeting online activists in authoritarian regimes. We will continue to keep a close eye on future developments in this area."
Tuesday! Any early-in-the-week gaming fun last night, then?
Google marked the vernal equinox, or the first day of Spring, using a doodle based on a design byMarimekko, the the Finnish textile companyfamous for its bright, bold prints.Spring has historically started on the day of the vernal equinox, which occurs on the night of 20/21 March.An equinox is one of two times during the year when the length of day and the length of night are just about equal while the word vernal comes from the Latin word for bloom. It refers to the fact that this equinox marks the end of winter and the beginning of spring in the northern hemisphere.Astronomers have defined an equinox as that moment when the sun arrives at one of two intersection points of the ecliptic, the sun's path across the sky, and the celestial equator, earth's equator projected onto the sky.The date is particularly significant for pagans, many of whom carry out rituals, while others indulge in activities such as egg races, egg hunts and egg eating and egg painting. A number of Spring harvest festivals are celebrated at this time while Vernal Equinox Day is a national holiday in Japan, when families visit graves and hold reunions.The Persian new year, Nowruz, also corresponds with the vernal equinox while many Iranians, Kurds and others will celebrate the 13-day festival.
Fancy getting your hands  on the medical or financial records of a complete stranger? Just two pence should be enough, ifreportson Indian call centre workers selling UK consumers' confidential information to criminals are to be believed.Companies are not allowed to transfer personal information from the UK to other countries unless they can ensure it will  be subject to the same level of protection. When the FSA, the City watchdog, looked into  data securityin 2008, it concluded that firms with call  centres overseas did have  adequate controls in place. It says that, despite the report, it is not aware of anything to suggest security has got worse since.But worryingly, data breaches do happen in the UK; there are 2011 cases listed on the information commissioner's website. In the meantime, if you receive an unsolicited call from a call centre operative who asks you for your security details, refuse.
The UK top 10 games chart, week ending 17 March 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)12 (1)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (72)PS3 (22)PC (5)23 (2)Ssx(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)34 (4)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (41)PS3 (38)Wii (8)3DS (5)255 (5)Mario Party 9 (3+)Wii (100)36 (7)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (63)3DS (38)167 (20)Rage(18+)PS3 (57)Xbox 360 (34)188 (10)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (85)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (4)519 (9)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (45)PC (9)1710 (8)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (42)PC (6)Wii (3)1911 (3)Street Fighter X Tekken (12+)PS3 (56)Xbox 360 (44)212 (–)Twisted Metal (18+)PS3 (100)113 (–)Zumba Fitness 2(PG)Wii (100)814 (13)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)PS3 (44)Xbox 360 (38)PC (18)1915 (14)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (79)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (3)2316 (–)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)1417 (–)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)1018 (6)The Sims 3: Showtime(12+)PC (100)219 (–)F1 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (28)3DS (19)VITA (12)1020 (12)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (33)PC (12)21UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Apple has announced a plan to start handing back some of its cash hoard of almost $100bn to shareholders.The company is to pay its first dividend to shareholders since 1995, three years before Apple started its record breaking run of new releases, which began with the iMac in 1998.Tim Cook, the firm's chief executive, said Apple would start paying a quarterly stock dividend of $2.65 a share beginning in July, and said Apple's board had authorised a $10bn share buyback.It helped Apple shares close above $600 for the first time. They rose 2.7% in New York to $601.10, in the process helping the S&amp;P 500 finish within 10% of its historic closing high reached in October 2007."We have used some of our cash to make great investments in our business through increased research and development, acquisitions, new retail store openings, strategic prepayments and capital expenditures in our supply chain, and building out our infrastructure," said Cook. "Even with these investments, we can maintain a war chest for strategic opportunities and have plenty of cash to run our business. So we are going to initiate a dividend and share repurchase program."During a conference call on Monday, less than two weeks after thelaunch of the latest iPad, Cook was pressed about future releases.Cook refused to be drawn, but said that the decision to pay money back to shareholders would not alter Apple's focus on innovation. "These decisions will not close any doors for us," he said.Apple is now the most valuable company in the world, with a market capitalisation of close to $546bn. Only six firms have ever been worth more than $500bn: Apple, Cisco, Exxon Mobil, General Electric, Intel and Microsoft.At the end of December the company had been sitting on cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities worth about $97.6bn.Speculation about a dividend and share buyback had been mounting for some time. Some analysts had feared this would be a turning point for Apple and that its years of massive growth may be coming to an end. In the quarter running up to Christmas, Apple more than doubled its profits from the same period the year before, as sales of iPhones and iPads continued to soar.Initial reaction to the announcement was subdued, with Apple's share price rising just over 1.2% to $593.83 a share in morning trading.Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners in New York, said the announcement was in line with expectations, but added that Apple now faced a period of intense competition as Amazon, Samsung and others looked to take market share in tablets.Apple passed the $500bnmark at the end of February, and Gillis calculates that so far the six other firms to reach that mark have lasted 90 to 180 days above that level."The competition isn't going to roll over, and they'll compete on price," said Gillis. Apple has traditionally charged a premium for its products.But other analysts said Apple's latest move would help it attract new shareholders more interested in gaining income from dividends. Stanley Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee and Leach, said: "Long term, there are a great number of funds in the US that want yields, and this should help them expand their shareholder base."He said it would put further pressure on Google to start paying a dividend.
Foursquare is courting retailers, businesses and media companies in the UK in an effort to make its social location app more popular among British smartphone owners.Business development executive Omid Ashtari, who is based in the UK, said at today's London Web Summit that "there's a different perception of Foursquare over here than in the US" and promised to change it."Brands and users haven't got enough love from us over here. That's why I'm here, to give everybody a lot of love!" said Ashtari. Those efforts are necessary: even at a tech-heavy conference like LWS, only 23 people had checked in halfway through the event.Ashtari was speaking in a panel on "The future of mobile, local, social" alongside WPP Digital chief executive Mark Read; LivingSocial's managing director of the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands Peter Briffett; Kraft Foods' vice president of global digital and consumer engagement B. Bonin Bough; and Bookingbug chief executive Glenn Shoosmith.One barrier to greater Foursquare takeup in the UK is a chicken-and-egg challenge: until more people are using social location apps, businesses – particularly small firms – may be wary of using them for marketing.Yet discounts and loyalty campaigns from these kinds of businesses could be what gets more people to use Foursquare. Ashtari noted that more than 750,000 companies have claimed their businesses on Foursquare, getting access to check-in analytics and the ability to run Specials deals as a result."These are things which are really exciting and available for small and big merchants alike. It's just about getting the eyeballs on them. Foursquare is known as this check in and gamifications app, but we really want to change that and show people we provide real value to users."Mobile is certainly becoming more important for the companies whose business models are based around offering local deals, like Groupon and LivingSocial. The latter's Briffett said that 22-23% of the company's global users are now interacting with LivingSocial from their phones."We're pushing out marketing [in LivingSocial's non-mobile business] but mobile is all about people coming to us and looking at our app," he said."We know from where we sit mobile is a huge piece… We've got local commerce in there, but for us the future is how do you make it social and get people to come back to it?"Before working at Kraft, Bough headed up digital marketing for PepsiCo, where he ran an early test on Foursquare that encouraged people to check in at petrol stations to get a cheap deal on a drink and a bag of crisps. He then compared it with the same campaign using a tear-off coupon."We saw a 47% increase in purchases [of the bundle] in those stores with Foursquare," said Bough. "That's huge. Here we were able to build a loyalty relationship in-store at the point of sale. Every CPG [consumer packaged goods company] should be looking at mobile platforms as big as they can."WPP's Read questioned whether businesses and brands risk getting drawn down a road of only marketing themselves based on discounts – a sentiment that his peers in the advertising industry would doubtless echo – but the panel also discussed whether recent privacy controversies around social and location apps would be a barrier to adoption from consumers."I think privacy will be the issue of our generation," said Bough. "We have a lot of major social network players who are skating around the issue of data ownership."Foursquare was one of the apps scrutinised recently for uploading users' address books to its servers without asking permission, but Ashtari suggested that perceptions of privacy vary between generations."If you've gone through college during the time which Facebook existed, you have a completely different perception of privacy," he said, while stressing that Foursquare wants to "put privacy first", and also to convince people that checking in will provide more benefits than privacy worries."It's all about giving you the benefits of the data that we have in our database back. Saying okay, there are good things around the corner…"
Richard Wilson is feeling optimistic. Again. The CEO of video game industry trade bodyTigahas spent the past three years lobbying parliament for tax credits and other initiatives designed to boost investment in the sector. In 2010, it looked like his goal had been achieved when Alistair Darling promised to look into tax incentives for developers – but then Labour lost the election and George Osborne removed any mention of games from his emergency budget.Since that disappointing volte-face, cross-party support for the industry has been growing, and last Thursday, Tiga hosted a lunch at the House of Commons, attended by video game makers as well as several MPs, all seemingly supportive of the Tiga cause. So is this the year the games industry garners the sort of support already enjoyed by UK film?"I think there's been a change in mood; a real recognition that the video game industry could make an important contribution to the economic recovery," said Wilson, when I caught up with him after the event. "MPs and policy makers see us now as an industry that can support a wider set of objectives. Growth has been disappointing over the last couple of years - the need to identify sectors where there's real potential has put the games industry in a better light. And we've marshalled better evidence, we've knocked down more of the objections and we're closer to getting what the industry needs."Justin Tomlinson is the sort of MP that Wilson needs to be winning over. He's on the government benches, and at 35, he represents the generation that grew up with games. "I went from a Vic-20 to an Amstrad 464 Colour, then later had a Commodore Amiga," he explains. "I was very fortunate that I have an older brother, and in the eighties – when you had to program a lot of your own games – I'd help by reading out the code from a book and he typed things in."Through these formative experiences Tomlinson has become a keen supporter of games programming, and of computer science in general. He has helped fund school visits to the Museum of Computing, which opened in his Swindon North constituency in 2003, and says he sees and appreciates the business benefits of the games industry. "I'm supportive, not just because I play games, but because clearly as a country, we're competing in a worldwide market. We're never going to win on cheap labour, and therefore we need to support high tech industries. This is clearly a growing market, and there is so much potential. If we can look for favourable conditions, it is something that will benefit the country, providing both employment and tax revenue."Tiga has certainly worked hard to accentuate the benefits of supporting British game developers. Accused of putting forward a somewhat unfocused argument back in 2010, Wilson has streamlined the trade body's case into a fresh report, catchily titled, 'A New Games Tax Relief: An Incentive to Build a Sustainable Games Development Sector', which argues for tax relief based on development budgets, with both small projects and triple AAA developments supported. Wilson suggests that his proposals will lead to almost 5000 new industry jobs as well as eventually increasing the games development sector's contribution to UK GDP by £283m."The other thing is, by having a tax break in place, all the evidence from overseas suggests that venture capitalists and business angels look at your sector in a different light," he says. "Even those companies that don't go out to get the tax breaks will benefit indirectly because the investment community is looking at the sector more positively."This whole idea of perception is proving to be very important. At the start of the Commons event, Sam Vanags, a technology partner at global accountancy giant Grant Thornton, gave a quick speech in which this point was very much accentuated. "We're hearing a lot of anti-banking, anti-corporate sentiments at the moment," she said. "Some of the people we work with in those sectors are reluctant to take advantage of the tax credits available to them. But you guys are perceived differently; you're perceived as the future of the UK economy and you're being actively encouraged to take up tax breaks already available to you."Of those current benefits, Vanags highlighted R&amp;D tax credits, mentioning the modifications that should be made this week, and in the near-future. She pointed out that currently, for companies with less than 500 employees, the tax relief on allowable R&amp;D costs is 200 per cent. From April it will be 225%. The rules will also be widened to include the costs of agency employees and outsourcers – good news for the games industry where freelancers are often used in areas such as art and audio. The Patent Box Regime is also coming in next year, offering lower tax rates on patentable technology and software, which could apply to developers writing back-end code for things like motion cameras and streaming game services. Finally, Vanags mentioned the possibility of a new Seed EIS Investment scheme offering 50% income tax relief on new projects or start-ups that qualify.Could it be that extensions to the R&amp;D tax scheme are the more likely outcome moving forward? "The least I'd hope for from the budget would be further improvements to R&amp;D tax credits," says Wilson. "That's the bare minimum. And even the suggestion that there should be an enquiry into the case for wider games tax relief would be a massive step forward. But our ambitions are much more grandiose than that. We hope to see some version of games tax relief being promised in the budget – we'd be ecstatic about that, the games industry would be much better off as a result."And the lobbying continues. This morning Tiga sent out a final letter to George Osborne, backed by MPs such as Stephen Timms, Tom Watson and Chris White, putting forward the case for tax credits again. The chancellor has stated that the content of the Budget has already been decided, but Wilson isn't taking any chances.Keen to get an inside gauge on how effective this pressure was proving, I asked Tomlinson about his own optimism for video game tax relief.  "Well, the country is not awash with money and there are a lot of worth causes, all lobbying for their slice of the cake," he said. "It's fair to say that this industry has lobbied in a pro-active and constructive manner and is already demonstrating the huge potential that's out there, so I remain cautiously optimistic."It's important for the industry to keep pushing, though, because a lot of decision makers don't necessary understand it. It's not an obvious one. No one can rest on their laurels..."
Block 18.45am:Tim Cook is about to speak on a press call.Block 29.01am:Cash rich Apple is planning a $10 billion share repurchase program.It's the first time that the company has paid a dividend since 1995 and marks a big turning point for Apple which has previously argued it needed its cash to fund supplies for its latest gadgets. But as the company has got ever richer shareholders have lobbied the company for a dividend.Tim Cook, chief executive, is expected to initiate a quarterly dividend of $2.65 a share sometime in the fourth quarter, Apple said Monday in a statement.Cook says innobation will remain key for the company "these decisions will not close any doors for us," he says.Block 39.02am:Tim Cook is running through Apple's product portfolio. The company sold 37 million iPhones in the last quarter but the market for mobiles will be two billion by 2015. "The potential is enormous," he says.Block 49.06am:The markets have yet to open but Apple's stock is up about 1% in pre-market trading. Today's announcement has been widely trailed, but it will be interesting to see how the market reacts. Will Apple be punished? Do dividends herald slower growth? Or will the company attract a new set of investors looking for dividends? We'll know in about 20 minutes.Block 59.10am:Apple has an unbelievable  cash pile - close to $100 billion. That's more than twice the $44.6 billion Google had on hand at the the year. If it wanted the firm could go on a massive spending spree, snapping up Yahoo, Dell or pretty much anything it wanted.Chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer is talking now. He says Apple expects to spend over $10 billion annually on its dividend, and $45 billion total over the next three years."It will make us one of the largest dividend payers in the United States," he said. But they will keep enough cash to take advantage of any opportunities that come up.Block 69.25am:The press call is over. For those of you interested in listening to it, it will be availablehere.Now we are waiting for the markets to open to deliver their verdict.Block 79.34am:Apple's shares are up $8. That's about 1.4%. Meh.Block 89.38am:Colin Gillis at BGC Partners is running some interesting numbers on Apple after the announcement.He calculates only six companies, including Apple, have been valued at over $500 billion mark. And on average they have managed to stay above $500 billion for 90 to 180 days.Gillis expects competition to be fierce for Apple. Cook was keen to point out how much growth was left in the mobile and tablet market. But Gillis points out that Amazon sold an estimated 4.5 million Kindle Fire's in the last quarter and that Samsung and others are all beefing up in the tablet market. And they will be competing on price.When you have $100 billion in cash, it's really a lot more than you need to run a business. So you can do a dividend, a share buyback or you can burn it. Well they haven't burnt it. But $10 billion is measly for a share repurchase and the dividend is less of a yield than Microsoft.Block 99.49am:Apple said Sunday night that they were going to make a big announcement this morning. Unfortunately today's announcement wasn't as much fun as last night's speculation.My favorite was Josh Greenman (@joshgreenman), New York Daily News opinion editor.Buy an island, found a country called Apollonia.Sadly, no.Block 1010.19am:So we are wrapping this up now. To sum up Apple has announced a $10 billion share buyback and its first dividend since 1995 - three years before the launch of the iMac and all those i wonders that followed from the iPod to the iPad.The company is sitting on close to $100 billion in cash and other securities so the buyback and dividend aren't going to make too much of a dent. But some have worried that this means Apple's historic run is about to slow and that the dividend signals the end of an era.Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee &amp; Leach, disagrees. This is a positive move for Apple, he says.This is something that shareholders have been pressing for for some time and it proves they are listening. It's a good move for shareholders  and employees who hold the stock over the longer term and for funds looking for yields.Wu said it will also put pressure on Google, which has yet to pay a dividend and is sitting on its own massive cash horde.As for suggestions that Apple is losing steam:Everyone has been saying that for at least five years. So far they have proven to be a bit premature.It's still early in New York, Apple's shares are now up a bit over 1% and the firm is worth $545.97 billion - making it the most valuable company in the world.
And so it's all over for another year; the rented tuxedos have been returned, the impressively heavy statues have been placed in development studio award cabinets. So what can we take from the 2012 Bafta video game awards?Well, it was a good night for Electronic Arts. Portal 2, which EA publishes, claimed best game, best story and best design – a triumvirate that confirms Valve's physics puzzler (at least in the eyes of Bafta judges) as the undisputed game of the year. Battlefield 3 also performed well, grabbing best sound design, best online multiplayer and – most dramatically – the Game award, which has been in the hands of the Call of Duty franchise for several years.The two main controversies of the night: nothing for Skyrim, the winner of copious numbers of Game of the Year awards elsewhere, and Peggle triumphing in the handheld category.Bethesda's giant RPG was nominated in five areas, but none of them were perhaps entirely suited to the game. In story and artistic achievement, it was probably always going to lose out to games with a sharper, more defined sense of style and identity. Best game? Well, it's tricky. We on Gamesblog had it down in the number two position, beneath Portal 2, and perhaps that's where it finished in the Bafta voting.Peggle HD winning handheld? This was a major surprise to me. Of course, Popcap's casual puzzle title is absolutely wonderful, a masterpiece of deceptively deep design. But it was equally wonderful when the original Peggle arrived in 2007 – surely that was when it should have won? It was up against two new titles in Quarrel and Super Mario 3D Land that brought real design vigour to gaming in 2011.It was, ultimately, a good night for sequels - as is often the way in this industry. Apart from in the soundtrack category, sequels or established brands won in every category they appeared.Of course, this says two things about the games business: that there are a lot of sequels, and that consecutive instalments (as opposed to their movie equivalents) tend to get better. But should we have expected a few more risky decisions from bafta? Certainly, there were murmurs on the night about the irony of a sequel winning in the Innovation category, yet LittleBigPlanet 2 is a game that's full of neat new ideas that build on the promise of the original. But then, of course, Skyward Sword introduces a fresh game mechanic at almost every stage. I think there must have been some raging arguments in that judging room.One factor that may get overlooked is that every award has a different judging panel, and that these panels don't confer with each other. In this sense, it's difficult to ascribe an overall theme to the night, or to start forming tacit theories about snubs or favourites.I think it's great that Portal 2 did so well because it's a game everyone can and should play; it mixes spectacularly clever level design with genuine humour and an interesting plot, and it creates a world that totally convinces – and totally works. No complaints there.How about you?
A selection of 17 new apps for you today:Peppa's Magic Camera from Paultons ParkPeppa Pig goes augmented reality with this new app, based on the Peppa Pig World section of Paultons Park theme park in the UK. The idea: open the app and hold your smartphone in front of one of the promotional posters (they can also be seen on Facebook) to see AR content. UK firm Mustard Design made the app.Android / iPhone / iPadCut the Rope: ExperimentsZeptoLab has brought its sequel to popular physics-puzzler Cut the Rope to Android, offering 125 new levels spread across five level-packs, with new gameplay elements and characters.AndroidCreative Studio by NokiaIt's becoming clear that Nokia sees exclusive apps as one way to differentiate its Windows Phones from the competition. Creative Studio is its latest in-house release, adding "Live Styles" (i.e. Instagram-like filters) and comedy effects to photos, then sharing them to Facebook, Twitter and Flickr.Windows PhoneThose in Peril by Wilbur SmithHere's a sign of the times: book publisher Pan Macmillan has released an iPhone game. It's based on wildlife-adventure author Wilbur Smith's Those In Peril novel: a wordsearch game with a plot wrapped around it.iPhoneHugmailBritish startup Touchnote has launched a new spin-off app called Hugmail, which aims to get people turning their smartphone photos into physical postcards to send to elderly relations. The difference to Touchnote? Larger fonts and matt postcards, as well as a new branding campaign. Touchnote worked with creative agency BBH's venture arm on the app.Android / iPhoneNeil LennonHow strongly do football fans feel about Celtic manager Neil Lennon? Strong enough to pay £1.49 for his official app? That's what's being put to the test here, with news, blog posts and tweets, as well as a "We Are Neil Lennon" photo-tweaking feature.iPhoneThird Coast Percussion: John CageWant to perform some John Cage compositions yourself? Chicago ensemble Third Coast Percussion has a new app for that, using sampled sounds from their upcoming album of Cage's work.iPhoneGreat Battles from Amber BooksBritish publisher Amber Books has launched its Great Battles series of apps for Android and iOS. They include animated maps, voiceovers and quizzes around six of the most famous battles in history: Cannae, Blenheim, Gettysburg, Pearl Harbor, Stalingrad and D-Day. The link above is for the Android versions, buthere's the link for iOS.Android / iPhone / iPadSketch W Friends for BlackBerry PlayBookDraw Something has been an enormous hit on iOS and Android, but now BlackBerry PlayBook has its own very-similar game: a social Pictionary for Facebook friends.BlackBerry PlayBookCondé Nast Johansens Hotels &amp; Spa GuidesNeed a spot of pampering? Condé Nast Johansens' official iPad app offers 750 reviews from resorts and hotels in 74 countries, including booking capabilities.iPadKung Fu Panda Digital CookBookHere's an idea: a cooking app for kids that runs on Android tablets, and includes videos and characters from the Kung Fu Panda films. There are 15 recipes in all to try, complete with a US/Europe unit converter.AndroidPinsationStill waiting for an official Pinterest app for Windows Phone? Try this unofficial one in the meantime. Using the official API, it lets users pin, re-pin and create their own boards.Windows PhoneAnother World1991 adventure game Another World has already been revived for iOS, and now it's available on Android too. The 20th anniversary edition lets players flick from original graphics to beefed-up HD visuals with a slide of their fingers, too.AndroidStick 'Em UpThis Wild West Android game is the work of YoYo Games, which teamed up with Abertay University for the 2012 winners of the BAFTA Young Game Designers award. It sees players swinging through levels as a cowboy made of... tape.AndroidiDJ2GOION's new iOS DJing app works with its physical ControllerMix accessory, which has proper scratch-wheels and physical buttons to control a set.iPhone / iPadThe Wedding PresentIndie heroes The Wedding Present have a new app, courtesy of Mobile Roadie. Expect news, photos and "free streaming concerts". The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneBBC History Magazine for iPadBBC History Magazine offers 13 issues a year in print, and now it's available on iPad. It's using Apple's subscription system: £18.99 for six months or £37.99 for a year, with single issues also available to buy in-app.iPad
How can RIM get its mojo back for developers? The company's technical director of the BlackBerry Web Platform Laurent Hasson gave a keynote speech at the London Web Summit this morning outlining why web-apps may be the key to BlackBerry's comeback.He started by admitting that a lot of people don't even know BlackBerry has a web platform, or assume that it's horrible to use based on their experiences making native apps for RIM's devices."It's a shame, because a lot of people feel that way," he said, while citing an example of a developer telling him BlackBerry development was like "a walk in the park. Central park, around midnight, in the 80s, alone…""Fundamentally, a lot has changed," continued Hasson, noting that a year ago RIM launched its first WebKit browser, as well as the full BlackBerry WebWorks web-app platform across its tablets and smartphones, and web development tools for people to use."Say no to NIBS," said Hasson – NIBS being 'Native Is Better Syndrome', the slogan RIM is seemingly using to dissuade developers from focusing purely on native apps (for other companies' devices, most likely)."Native will always be a couple of steps further [technically], but the web is absolutely competitive for the large majority of applications… An HTML5 application doesn't mean you don't have access to an app store, and it doesn't mean you don't have access to native APIs."Hasson added that RIM is trying to "pull together the best of the open Web that we can". But what about the market for these web-apps – how can developers make money from them? Hasson pitched RIM's app store as the answer.He noted that BlackBerry App World is currently in more than 160 countries, and that more than 90% of the 75m current BlackBerry subscribers have access to the store, which is generating 6m downloads a day."About 13% of vendors actually make $100k or more selling their apps on our store. That's more than any other store on the market today. Getting an app into the market has a high return on investment."Hasson also talked up the BlackBerry Messaging (BBM) service as something developers should be building into their apps when appropriate."With a BBM-enabled app, 20% of apps on the app store that get downloaded are BBM-enabled," said Hasson. "Using BBM to make your application stickier really works." And RIM has been working to ensure developers can build web-apps that tap into BBM too.Hasson pointed out that 90% of PlayBook users have upgraded to the latest version of the OS within a month of its release – unsurprising given the fact that it included features like email, contacts and calendar."We've been doing things for a year at least that most other platforms on the market haven't even been doing yet," signed off Hasson in his clarion call to app developers. "We're trying to turn things around."Developers, what's your view on Hasson's claims, and the appeal of web-apps on BlackBerry devices? It would be interesting to get your responses in the comments.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOink's data privacy breach: download the data of any user with their own export tool &gt;&gt; Critina CordovaWhen Oink shut down yesterday, I used their export tool so that I could do something useful with the information I gave them. In requesting my data, which I did simply by filling out a form with only my username, I received the email below. In looking at the link, it seemed that my publicly available username (cristina) called for the download.It had, and she could then change to Kevin Rose's username and download *his* data. (Oink later fixed it.) Rose and the Oink team are going to Google. (Not to be confused with the UK's OiNK.)Rumor: Nexus tablet is a "done deal", to retail for as low as $149 &gt;&gt; Android and MeTheASUS MeMo 370Tthat was revealed at CES has been scrapped after Google contracted with ASUS to produce their "Nexus tablet". Earlier reports said the device would retail for $249-199, but we are now told the target price is $149-199. The quad-core Tegra 3 version that was previously leaked is no more. Other than the 7in display, no additional information has been provided on the specs.At the time, AndroidAndMe said the Memo 370T "could be a Kindle killer".Mountain Lion now protects your contacts &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisBefore Mountain Lion Developer Preview 2, Mac apps could access your contacts at any time, without asking for permission. You wouldn't even know it was happening. This policy is the same as the one on iOS, which recentlygot a lot of attention. Today's release of DP 2 removes that ability by default.What's the position on Windows 8, Developer or Consumer betas?Viviane Reding responds to Reporters Without Borders' criticism of "right to be forgotten" &gt;&gt; Reporters Without BordersThe right to be forgotten is not an absolute right. The proposed Regulation, which the European Commission adopted on 25 January 2012, provides for very broad exemptions to ensure that freedom of expression can be fully taken into account. This will allow, for instance, news websites to continue to operate on the basis of the same principles.And so it moves on.The Towson Hack: The mystery of vanishing iTunes credit &gt;&gt; MacworldSeptember 2011, but possibly still going on:Many customers whose store credit was stolen noted that the purchases centered on a handful of apps from specific developers. One of those developers was "gao jing," the name behind apps like Expert Guide for Black Ops, Cheats Guide for Black Ops, Weapons Guide for Black Ops, and Game Guide for New Vegas. Notably, none of those apps remain in the App Store as of this writing; however, Apple declined to comment on the reason for their removal from the store. Other customers noted that the purchased apps on their accounts were all from other developers, including "Hongbin Suo," "lane ma," "Yang Yun," "KAMAGAMES," and "Lakoo." Many of the purchased apps, or the companies behind them, appeared to be Chinese in origin.Text advertising blindness: the new banner blindness? &gt;&gt; International Journal of Usability StudiesFrom May 2011:Practitioners should realize the following about text advertisements:Users demonstrate text advertisement "blindness" when viewing web pages. This means that information displayed in areas of the page dedicated to text ads (e.g., top of the page, right side) is generally ignored or viewed last.Users are less likely to find information on a web page if it is located on the right side of the page than on the top of the page if both areas resemble text ads. This is especially true when they are searching for specific information.When conducting an informational, or semantic, search, users have equal amount of difficulty finding information that is embedded in an ad either at the top or on the right side of the page.There's more, equally interesting.40% of US government Web sites fail security test &gt;&gt; Network WorldApproximately 40% of federal government agencies are out of compliance with a regulation that requires them to deploy an extra layer of authentication on their Web sites to prevent hackers from hijacking Web traffic and redirecting it to bogus sites.It's been more than two years since federal agencies were required to support DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) on their Web sites. However, two recent studies indicate that around 40% of federal Web sites have not yet deployed this Internet security standard.Faintly depressing.Microsoft said to plan debut of new Xbox in 2013 at earliest &gt;&gt; BloombergMicrosoft will release the next version of its Xbox console in 2013 at the earliest, as the company squeezes at least one more year of sales out of its current model, said two people with knowledge of the matter.The company may show the successor to its Xbox 360 in June 2013 at the E3 conference and put it on sale that same year, said the people, who declined to be named because the plans are confidential. David Dennis, a company spokesman, said earlier today that Microsoft won't discuss new Xbox hardware at this year's E3, quelling speculation that the device would be unveiled at the 2012 show.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest links, tag articles on Pinboard.in with "guardiantech".(Update: fixed errors in markup.)
It's Monday morning - again! Tell us about your gaming weekend, cheer us up...
Apple is to announce on Monday the outcome of its internal discussions aboutwhat to do with nearly $100bn in cash reserves the company has built up.Speculation that it could issue a dividend is widespread, but  it has also been suggested that Apple could make a major company acquisition or secure valuable technology patents.The firm's chief executive officer, Tim Cook, and Peter Oppenheimer, its chief financial officer, will host a conference call to announce the decision over its $97.6bn cash balance."Apple will not be providing an update on the current quarter, nor will any topics be discussed other than cash," Apple specified in a statement on Sunday.The question of the money has surfaced each time Apple has reported its financial figures. The paying of a dividend would be the favoured option of investors.The last dividend was in 1995, before the return of the later Steve Jobs, who was not a fan of dividends.Apple watchers have perceived a change of mood under Cook, while Oppenheimer said during a conference call in January: "I would characterise our discussions today as active, about what makes the most sense to do with the cash balance."The cash is sufficient to pay a $100 one-time dividend for every shareholder, but analysts expect the company to institute a modest recurring dividend.Partly in anticipation of such a development, Apple's stock has risen 37% since the January call, closing much of the gap between analyst price targets and the actual stock price. In February, Apple shares broke the $500 level for the first time. Last week, they briefly rose above $600.Around two-thirds of Apple's cash is held overseas, which limits the amount that can be shared with investors because the US government allows businesses to defer paying tax on money earned abroad until it is repatriated.
It's Monday night, the kids are in bed, and I am trying to kill Osama bin Laden. I stalk through his Abbottabad compound and I aim my rifle at the first person I see, only to discover he's my brother in arms, aka "OverdoseRocks". So I walk downstairs into a prayer room, at which point my gun accidentally goes off. Then the mission is over. We were victorious.Next, I join US servicemen during the 2007 surge in Iraq. For about three minutes I kick about a palm-lined boulevard, strafing apartment buildings. I am ambushed. In my dying moments, I am presented with an advert for a game in which I can embody a cheetah and kill an antelope, but I have had enough bloodshed for one evening.I have been on theKuma Games site, an  online entertainment developer and,  according to reports on Iranian television, an international distributor of military propaganda. Kuma produces a range of games,  from second world war air-battle shoot-'em-ups for the History Channel, through to the carnivore-themed I Predator, a tie-in for the cable station Animal Planet. Yet it's the company'sKuma\Warseries of topical military games, as well as a more discreet line of Arabic-language first-person shooter games, that have piqued media attention. During atelevised confession on Iranian TV,alleged US agent and former marineAmir Mirzai Hekmati said he had worked for Kuma, and it was a CIA front company.Though his words cannot be regarded as the unvarnished truth,publicly available government documentsindicate that Hekmati had been a Kuma employee, while Kuma's CEO, Keith Halper, admits to taking on military work. If his words are true, Kuma\War are only one of a number of bloody titles produced  under varying degrees of military aegis.In 2001 Syria'sAfkar Mediapublished Under Ash, in which players take on the role of Palestinians fighting off an Israeli assault; they followed this in 2005 with Under Siege, and in 2008 non-violent children's game Road Block Buster, in which players take on the role of "'Maan' the boy with a thousand way[s] to get over any barrier or road block implanted by Israeli Defense forces".In 2003, developers linked to Hezbollah entered the market with a Special Force series, a set of PC war games set in Lebanon.In 2007, Iran's Association of Islamic Unions of Students released Special Operation 85: Hostage Rescue; a first-person-shooter game wherein players aim to free two Iranian  nuclear scientists kidnapped by the US. The game was published in response to Kuma's Assault on Iran, which was based around a US assault on an Iranian nuclear facility.There are also more formal offerings from the world's leading powers. America's Army, a free online simulator, was published by the US military in 2002 to aid recruitment. The British army launched their online game Start Thinking Soldier in 2009, to drive interest among 16- to 24-year-olds. Then in May last year, China's People's Liberation Army unveiled Glorious Revolution, a Call of Duty-style game for both military and domestic markets.This is all in addition to numerous game-like training tools, from language apps through to tank-driving tutorials, which are used to educate recruits around the globe."For decades the military has been using video-game technology," saysNina Huntemann, associate professor of communication and journalism atSuffolk University in  Bostonand a computer games specialist. "Every branch of the US armed forces and many, many police departments are using retooled video games to train their personnel."Like much of early computing, nascent digital gaming benefited from military spending. The prototype for the first home video games console, the 1972 Magnavox Odyssey, was developed by Sanders Associates, a US defence contractor. Meanwhile, pre-digital electronic flight simulators, for use in both military and civilian training, date back to at least the  second world war.Later, the games industry began to repay its debts. Many insiders note how instruments in British Challenger 2 tanks, introduced in 1994,look uncannily like the PlayStation's controllers, one of the most popular consoles of that year. Indeed, warfare's use of digital war games soared towards the end of the 20th century."By the late 1990s," saysNick Turse, an American journalist, historian and author ofThe Complex: How the Military Invades Our Everyday Lives, "the [US] army was pouring tens of millions of dollars into a centre at the University of Southern California –the Institute of Creative Technologies– specifically to build partnerships with the gaming industry and Hollywood."It's a toxic relationship in Turse's opinion, since gaming leads to a reliance on remote-controlled warfare, and this in turn makes combat more palatable."Last year," says Turse, "the US conducted combat missions in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Pakistan, Somalia and Yemen. There are a great many factors that led to this astonishing number of simultaneous wars, but the increasing use of drones, and thus a lower number of US military casualties that result, no doubt contributed to it."Many closer to the action take a different view. Justin Crump served in the British army for seven years and has been a reservist since the early 90s; he saw active duty in the Balkans, Iraq and Afghanistan. Prior to enlisting, Crump was also a keen gamer."I learned my tactics playing games in the 80s," he says. "In the recruitment interview I said I'd been flying simulators for a few years."While Crump recognises the military's involvement in early games development, he believes the computer industry has outpaced military simulators."With 30-year procurement programmes, you'll be spec'ing simulators in the 80s and 90s," he says. Imagine ordering Space Invaders to be played in the Xbox era, and you realise whythe British military has had to improve some of its simulated training to keep the attention of new recruits.Crump laughs when recalling the mechanical tank trainers he used in the early 90s, as well as the Laserdisc system used for training on the Challenger 2 tank, back in 1998. "We asked: 'Why aren't these things on CDs or a flash drive?'"For a taste of how war games and armies might work best, trySteel Beasts. Developed byeSim, an American firm with ex-US and European army personnel, Steel Beasts is perhaps the world's most successful tank-training simulator. "We wanted to develop a computer game that would be both entertaining and educational," says Nils Hinrichsen, eSim's marketing director, "which at the same time would offer a bit of 'trigger time', but with  accurate procedures and ballistics."Hinrichsen admits that Steel Beasts won't exactly top gamers' Christmas present lists. Yet it runs on PCs, allows users to edit their maps and layout, and has playback facilities, so players can learn from their mistakes. eSim charges armies a fee for customising the game to suit their vehicles so that it can be used for training. These adaptations are then included in subsequent versions of the game – which means they are available to other armies.Until now most militaries have bought bespoke simulators tied to particular weaponry, "and woe betide the army that changes specifications in mid-stream," says Hinrichsen. Instead, Steel Beasts can be fitted to suit any new armoured vehicle. Since its introduction in 2000, the game has been used by the US military and the armies of Australia, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, and the Canadian air force.From a certain point of view, any link between the games system in your child's bedroom and automated killing on the battlefield is grossly distasteful. Yet, if you accept the need for standing armies, and believe in the efficiencies of information technology, then it's hard to view Steel Beasts as anything other than a canny application of processing power.It's quite different from Kuma\War games, which Huntemann calls "'soft propaganda', in the same way that Top Gun or John Wayne war films are soft propaganda". She also questions whether glitzy online games really drive gamers towards the frontline. "When you look why people enlist," she says, "it is overwhelmingly tied to history of military service in the family, socio-economic status and the current state of the economy."Crump agrees. "I find some of the modern first-person shooters ridiculous," he says. "If people joining are expecting that sort of thing they are going to be disappointed."He questions whether those drawn to blameless gore even aspire to a life of service. Recalling a trip to a paint-balling range with some army friends, he says: "There were some other really tooled-up guys there, and they didn't know we were military." Crump put it to the opposing side that, if they enjoyed firing guns, they should enlist. "They said: 'No, too dangerous, wouldn't want to,'" he recalls, quite surprised by their response. Yet he wasn't so startled by the outcome.How did those weapons-loving gamers do against him at paintball?"They lost."
Age:If you've never heard of it, then it's new  to you.Appearance:Like someone sitting in front of a television, furiously thumbing a dead remote.Why doesn't this someone put new batteries in?Because it's not a remote – it's a phone.No wonder it won't change the channel!This someone isn't trying to change the channel. This someone is chatterboxing.Which is what, pray tell?Here's a definition from TV Licensing: "Chatterboxing (v). Watching a programme on television, whilst talking to others about that programme online, normally via a social media platform."You mean watching TV and tweeting at the same time?In a nutshell.I call that Telewittering.Unfortunately your word hasn't caught on. It's chatterboxing, because the TV is like a box.Not mine. Mine's flat.Good for you.Chatterboxing is an actual thing, is it?Yes. Forty-six per cent of 18 to 24-year-olds do it regularly.A young person's thing, then.Not at all. More than a quarter of all adults have done it.Don't people find it difficult to concentrate on two things at once?Apparently not. A recent instalment of Take Me Out generated 140,287 tweets; the season opener of The Only Way Is Essex got 159,603, and the X-Factor final clocked up 346,216.So people mainly do it during programmes so moronic that no concentration is required.Not necessarily. But yes.Why?Psychologist Corinne Sweet says: "Wanting to communicate with others when you experience emotions such as sadness, entertainment, fear or awe is a part of the human condition. As television often prompts these feelings, it is not surprising that more of us are taking advantage of evolving technology to share our thoughts."We used to do that round the watercooler the following day.Exactly. The fragmentation of audiences was thought to have killed watercooler TV conversation, but these days we gather round a virtual watercooler.Do say:"watchin #TOWIE @ home, bit boring 2nite but OMG WOT HAS SHE DONE TO HER BITS"Don't say:"I miss the water."
Google is celebrating Mother's Day with a doodle that pays homage to the childish scrawls that many doting parents will wake up to on Sunday.The colourful graphic sees the search engine's logo crudely redrawn as if by a young hand armed with a box of crayons. The second and third letters of Google are transformed into a green-haired mother in a spotty dress beaming over her offspring. A squiggled yellow sun shines overhead, grass sprouts at their feet and love hearts fill the air. A pair of scattered crayons and an exclamation mark complete the image.Mothering Sunday is a regular feature on Google's varied calendar of doodles, but this year, unlike in 2011, the website has distinguished between different dates used by different countries.While the day is celebrated this year on 18 March in Britain, it falls on 13 May in America, Australia, New Zealand and numerous other countries.Last year, Google marked Mother's Day in May with a doodle in the style of a store-bought rather than a homemade card. It featured the logo as if printed on embossed paper. The letter "l" of Google was replaced by a simple purple flower.
The government has secretly agreed that the "particularly sensitive" personal data of all 43 million drivers in the UK can be contracted offshore to India in a move that will allow the private firm running London's congestion zone to cut costs and make more money.Data from the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency, including addresses and registration plate numbers, along with credit card details, will now be accessible to staff outside the UK following a review by&nbsp;ministers.The prohibition was rescinded after IBM, which runs the congestion charge zone for Transport for London (TfL), lobbied for a change. The company has been repeatedly fined since it took over the contract from Capita in 2009, making the £60m deal less profitable than it had hoped.However the move to relax the rules around the sensitive data, which has not been publicly announced, raises concerns in the build-up to the London 2012 Olympics about the increased risk of fraud.It is understood that a risk assessment carried out within IBM has also identified a potential threat to London's reputation should the changes lessen the ability of staff to deal with problems in the congestion zone IT systems. It also warned of the risk to the security of sensitive data.The move also appears to contradict ministers' recent insistence that they would resist any work on government contracts going abroad.The transition allowing staff abroad access to the data is expected to be completed by 18 May. An internal email sent by IBM's commercial manager earlier this month, and seen by theObserver, says: "Since go live, TfL has directed that we retain within the UK certain support roles with access to data that they considered particularly sensitive… TfL has recently completed a risk assessment with the DVLA and the Department for Transport and has concluded that they no longer require this additional level of control… As a result we have commenced a transition exercise to manage the changes to our support organisation over the next three months."Labour MP John McDonnell said he feared the change would cost British jobs. "Despite all past promises from the government, the decision to offshore this sensitive information database will not only cost jobs but open up vast opportunities for fraud. Offshoring the congestion charge operation just as we host the Olympics also risks making Britain the laughing stock of the world as the new system inevitably experiences teething problems."The Public and Commercial Services (PCS) union said it was concerned that the decision had come just as the government was consulting over whether to close 39 DVLA offices to centralise processes in Swansea.Richard Simcox, from the PCS, said: "It appears neither IBM nor DVLA were planning to tell anyone about it. The government should call an immediate halt to the DVLA's plans and ministers should explain to MPs and the public exactly what has happened and what are the implications."A DVLA spokesperson said: "All IT systems must be managed to the same standard as if they were in the UK. We will ensure that all appropriate controls for data protection are in place."• This article was amended on 18 March 2012 to correct references to birth dates being stored offshore
One of the most famous quotes in the history of the computing industry is the assertion that "640KB ought to be enough for anybody", allegedly made by Bill Gates at a computer trade show in 1981 just after the launch of the IBM PC. The context was that the Intel 8088 processor that powered the original PC could only handle 640 kilobytes of Random Access Memory (RAM) and people were questioning whether that limit wasn't a mite restrictive.Gates has alwaysdenied making the statementand I believe him; he's much too smart to make a mistake like that. He would have known that just as you can never be too rich or too thin, you can also never have too much RAM. The computer on which I'm writing this has four gigabytes (GB) of it, which is roughly 6,000 times the working memory of the original PC, but even then it sometimes struggles with the software it has to run.But even Gates could not have foreseen the amount of data computers would be called upon to handle within three decades. We've had to coin awhole new set of multiplesto describe the explosion – from megabytes to gigabytes to terabytes to petabytes, exabytes, zettabytes and yottabytes (which is two to the power of 80, or 10 followed by 23 noughts).This escalating numerology has been necessitated by an explosion in the volume of data surging round our digital ecosystem from developments in science, technology, networking, government and business. From science, we have sources such as astronomy, particle physics and genonomics. TheSloan Digital Sky Survey, for example, began amassing data in 2000 and collected more in its first few weeks than all the data collected before that in the history of astronomy. It's now up to 140 terabytes and counting, and whenits successor comes online in 2016it will collect that amount of data every five days. Then there's theLarge Hadron Collider, (LHC) which in 2010 alone spewed out 13 petabytes – that's 13m gigabytes – of data .The story is the same wherever you look. Retailers such as Walmart, Tesco and Amazon do millions of transactions every hour and store all the data relating to each in colossal databases they then "mine" for information about market trends, consumer behaviour and other things. The same goes for Google, Facebook and Twitteret al. For these outfits, data is the new gold.Meanwhile, out in the non-virtual world, technology has produced sensors of all descriptions that are cheap and small enough to be placed anywhere. AndIPv6, the new internet addressing protocol, provides an address space that is big enough to give every one of them a unique address, so they can feed back daily, hourly or even minute-by-minute data to a mother ship somewhere on the net.To call what's happening a torrent or an avalanche of data is to use entirely inadequate metaphors. This is a development on an astronomical scale. And it's presenting us with a predictable but very hard problem: our capacity to collect digital data has outrun our capacity to archive, curate and – most importantly – analyse it. Data in itself doesn't tell us much. In order to convert it into useful or meaningful information, we have to be able to analyse it. It turns out that our tools for doing so are currently pretty inadequate, in most cases limited to programs such asMatlaband Microsoft Excel, which are excellent for small datasets but cannot handle thedata volumesthat science, technology and government are now producing.Does this matter? Yes – for two reasons. One is that hidden in those billions of haystacks there may be some very valuable needles. We saw a glimpse of the possibilities when Google revealed that by analysing the billions of queries it handles every hour it couldpredict flu epidemicsway ahead of conventional epidemiological methods. There's a lot more where that came from.More importantly, we need to recognise that Big Data (as it's now called) could tip the balance between society's need for independent scientific research and the corporate world's use of data-mining to further its own interests. Tooling up to handle this stuff requires major investment in computer hardware and software and you can bet that most of the world's big corporations are making those investments now. But most PhD students working in data-intensive fields are still having to write their own analytical software and cadge computing cycles wherever they can find them.Research Councils and other funding bodies should be investing in the IT infrastructure needed to level this particular playing field. In the kingdom of Big Data, the guy who only has Excel will be blind.
The once-unthinkable crossover betweenStreet FighterandTekken, the most popular 2D and 3D fighting games in the world, will actually be made twice, though Namco Bandai's half of the equation,Tekken XStreet Fighter, remains without a release date.In the meantime, it's up to Capcom to work out how best to combineStreet Fighter's quarter-circle and charge motions withTekken's directional taps and it's pulled it off in style. The Capcom cast is a natural fit and theTekkencharacters feel so at home they could have been designed by Capcom in the first place.While fighting games have long been perceived as a hardcore pursuit, Capcom is actively courting newcomers as it seeks to expand the genre's audience. That means simplified control schemes and a gem&nbsp;system that helps level the playing&nbsp;field while also providing plenty of tactical options for advanced players. It's fast, fluid and an enormous&nbsp;amount of fun. Capcom has set a high standard for Namco to follow.
It's not often a game is released that can truly claim to be art, butSir Benfro's Brilliant Balloon(Apple App Store, Tim Fishlock, 69p) deserves the title.The gameplay is gloriously simple – reminiscent of the browserHelicoptertitle so popular a decade ago. The afro'd Sir Benfro hangs from his balloon, always floating forward, and the task is to guide the naturalist up and down, avoiding obstacles to reach the end of the level. The balloon is powered by Light Emitting Daves, magical fireflies – the first of many wondrous discoveries – that get worn out over time and by collisions, so the glowing insects must be collected as you travel.It's not complicated, or particularly challenging, but the Terry Gilliam-esque flourishes and bizarre creatures encountered along the way make it a pleasure to play. From the wiggling Piblokto to the Brackle McSturdy, these novel obstacles are lovingly described and lift the game above the usual flurry into an altogether more interesting experience.
Price £30,950MPG 52.3Top speed 140mphA couple of years ago an article appeared in theEconomistwhich told us something many of us already knew. It said that when it came to major decisions – and, come to think of it, most minor ones, too – it is the woman who has the final say. The article went as far as to suggest that as much as 85% of car-buying decisions were taken by the woman in a relationship. The article picked up where an earlier Australian report had left off – and I&nbsp;think this counts for more because Australian women don't have to deal with men, they have to contend withAussiemen – which stated that this increasing female resolve would be the deal breaker in whether many of today's businesses boomed or went bust. The report was called "When I've Made Up Our Mind".I'm not sure if Ian Callum, Jaguar's gifted and multi-award-winning design chief, was particularly thinking of the female market when he first sketched the XF, but he has created something that women love. They love it so much, in fact, that a panel of female motoring journalists voted it the winner of the inaugural Women's World Car of the Year award in 2010.The Jag is certainly a worthy winner, but it also tells us much about what women expect from their cars. It's not a family car, it's not a frugal Dougal, it's not a city shopper, it's not a sexy soft top – what it is is a large, lavish, powerful, technologically advanced, executive joy-train. It combines suave good looks and classic lines with Araldite-tight road handling and a rapacious engine. It's the Big Cat from Coventry that won't be silenced. It's also a&nbsp;welcome visitor to golf courses across the land. And if that's not what you thought women wanted from their cars, think again, because last year the judging panel chose another luxurious saloon: BMW's 5-series.Ian Callum and Jaguar are one of the motoring world's most enduring marriages. Born in Dumfries, he knew early on he wanted to design cars. At the age of 14 he submitted a drawing to Jaguar in the hope of landing a job. They said no, but after stints at Aston Martin, Volvo, Mazda and Nissan, he arrived at his dream post. Since 1999 he has worked his way through the Jaguar line-up, revitalising each with energy and pizzazz. As he says: "Jaguars should be perceived as cool cars and cool cars attract interesting, edgy people."There's no denying the XF is good-looking, but cool might be pushing it. However I'd say that was in its favour – cool comes and goes, but a class act is always desirable. The revisions to the 2012 model give the XF a tweaked bonnet and bumper and sleeker more cat-like eyes. The front grille is more aggressive and the air intakes are bisected by chrome blades.Inside, it is still all about indulgence. There's an undeniable theatre to firing it up. Push the start button and the car comes to life around you: the rotary gear selector rises up out of its chrome casing, the infotainment panel and digital dashboard flicker and the air vents rotate towards you. The big change for this year is the inclusion of an all-new 2.2-litre diesel which will knock out 52.3mpg while emitting just 149g/km of CO2– and still deliver a&nbsp;top speed of 140mph. The Jag is as biddable and flexible as you'd hope, but where it really rouses itself is on the motorway. Its smooth engine and eight-speed auto gearbox seem to swallow miles without bothering to chew them.So women want an impressive multitasker that's responsive and reliable. I think there's a message for men in here somewhere…Batman signs up for Le MansLooking like a cross between a stealth bomber and the Batmobile is the new Nissan DeltaWing experimental race car. It's to be powered by a meagre 1.6-litre DIG-T engine – not much bigger than you'd get in a Juke and the front tyres are just 4in wide, but – and it is a very BIG BUT – it's one of the most revolutionary and exciting motorsport projects in a decade.The car, which is currently being tested, has just announced that it will compete in this year's Le Mans 24-hour race, but it will wear number "0" and run outside race classification. Batman may not be at the wheel, but Nissan hopes the DeltaWing will really fly. The team estimate that they'll use half the fuel and tyres of the conventional cars thanks to the fact that the car is half the weight and has half the aerodynamic drag of a conventional racer – in the least green sport on earth it seems there is a stirring of an eco-conscience.For a vision of the future, have a look at this video:http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&amp;hl=en&amp;v=DlLZ3d-X8aY&amp;gl=USYour chance to win a HarleyFancy having your own custom-designed Harley-Davidson Sportster? The brand is famous for two things: its bike customisation heritage and the quality of its tank art. Now you have the opportunity to be creative and design your own tank art. All you have to do is submit the winning design to win a bike complete with your own bespoke art atharley-davidson.com/tankwallAs it's Mothering Sunday, let Mum do the drivingAccording to a survey conducted by breakdown cover company,GEM Motoring Assist, children across the UK prefer Mum to do the driving and think Dad drives too fast, is more aggressive and loses his temper.The survey, which polled 1,300 children, reveals Mum is more considerate to other motorists, is less likely to suffer from road rage and does not weave impatiently in and out of traffic. However, children did admit that Mum is more likely to stall the car, and get in a pickle over basic manoeuvres, such as parking.The top five things that kids like about Mum driving is that she talks to keep the children entertained; sings at the wheel; drives slower; is considerate towards other motorists and – this is the real killer – has a nicer car!Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Toshihiro Nagoshi's Yakuza series is huge in Japan, but has only a cult following in the west. Many thoughtDead Soulswould never be released in Britain, but it's a genuinely good thing that it has. Kamurocho, the fictional Tokyo district that has starred in every game in the series so far, is now in the grip of a zombie invasion, which means ditching the franchise's stock in trade hand-to-hand combat for clunky third-person shooting.It's an awkward system that takes some getting used to, but once you've got to grips with it you'll be taking down the lumbering hordes with a succession of head shots, thanks to a generous auto-targeting system. It does a fine job of making players feel like the lone badass in a sea of weaklings, something the series has always done so well.Play switches between four characters – suave moneylender Akiyama, the burly, surly Goda, lovable headcase Majima and noble ex-yakuza Kazuma Kiryu – who help out a succession of needy residents as the quarantine zone expands. All four have featured previously in the series, but the rich, complex narrative that runs through it has been jettisoned in favour of a self-contained story and all-out action – the perfect jumping-in point for newcomers.
There is far more to smartphone life than Apple's iPhone. Google launched its Android software in 2008 and has since sold more than 300m of its smartphones; currently, more than 850,000 are added to that number every day.More than 450,000 apps are available onGoogle Play, which is generating more than 1bn app downloads every month. The latest Android smartphones are also viable competitors to the iPhone (stylish and powerful phones from companies such as Samsung, HTC and Sony Ericsson have been flying off the shelves in the UK), but Android apps haven't always had a great press. Android has beencriticisedon security grounds, with accusations that there are more viruses and malware apps on Google's store than on Apple's App Store. However, Android apps have to ask for explicit permission to access your personal data and phone features, so familiarise yourself with these permissions requests when installing apps and you'll be less at risk.Big games such asGrand Theft Auto IIIandAngry Birds Rionow launch on Android at the same time as on iPhone, while all the major social networking apps are also available on both. There is a growing catalogue of useful productivity tools and lifestyle apps, while Google has ensured that its key web services all have polished incarnations for Android.Over time, Google has made it easier for people with Android smartphones to find new apps, too. Its recently rebranded Google Play store has improved greatly on the one available when the first Android phone went on sale, but as with iPhone, finding the best apps can still feel like rooting through a digital haystack; apps such as Appsfire (featured here) are making the needle hunt less of a chore.Android is interesting, because it attracts two very different kinds of people: on the one hand, tech-savvy users who have made a decision to choose Android over iPhone and regular phone users who want a nice smartphone for a more affordable price. We've taken as read that you'll be installing some of the most obvious apps, such as Facebook, Twitter, Skype, Amazon Kindle, BBC iPlayer and eBay, which is why they aren't in this list.We've left out some very good apps due to restrictions on their availability or the phones they work with.Google Chrome browser(currently restricted to the handful of handsets running the latest Ice Cream Sandwich Android software) and excellent keyboard appSwype(still in beta and not available on Google Play) are two examples. However, the fact that they will be available for all Android users in the near future is another reason for smartphone owners to feel excited about the future of their gadgets. This list of 50 apps is a starting point, but there is plenty more in store.OUR TOP 50 PICK OF THE ANDROID PHONE APPSSOCIALANDMADE SHAREFreeThis is a simple utility that replaces your Android phone's default "Share" menu with a better one, to make it quick to share your photos, messages and updates on Facebook, Twitter and other social networks.FOURSQUAREFreeIt started as a way for groups of friends to check into bars, restaurants and other venues and earn points for their gadding about. That's still true, but now it's as much about using that data to recommend new, cool venues to visit.GLANCEEFreeOne of several social location apps that are all the rage. You sign in with your Facebook details and it then alerts you when people with similar friends and interests are nearby, so you never need miss an important connection.GOOGLE+FreeIt's nowhere near as big as Facebook, but Google is making a big push for its Google+ social network, which has plenty of fans already. Its most impressive feature is Mobile Hangouts: live video chat with up to nine friends at once – and while you're  on the go.PATHFreeInstagram for Android has only just been announced, but Path is plugging the gap with this well-designed social photography app. Upload photos for friends to see and post them to Facebook to share with your wider circle.LINKEDINFreeIf Facebook is for fun, Linkedin is strictly for business: a network for your work contacts. Its easy-to-use Android app helps you add new people, see what your contacts are up to and enables you to browse news from your industry.WHATSAPP MESSENGERFreeAn app that wants to kill off text messages, replacing them with instant messaging that works across every smartphone. It supports text, photos, voice notes and videos and also offers group-chat features.ENTERTAINMENTTUNEIN RADIO PRO£0.20TuneIn is an essential download for radio buffs or anyone who regularly travels abroad and wants to fend off homesickness. It streams more than 50,000 radio stations – including the big UK ones – as well  as podcasts.ADELEFreeShe's sold more than 20m albums and scooped a host of awards and Adele's official Android app is equally classy. It offers news, videos and tour dates, as well as a "fan wall" to post comments and  chat to other fans.7DIGITAL MUSIC STOREFreeLooking for a good Android alternative to Apple's iTunes Store for music downloads? 7digital is the one. It has a catalogue of 18m tracks for sale and lets you re-download your purchases when you  buy a new device.ESPN GOALSFreeThis sounds too good to be true for football fans, but it isn't. ESPN's app delivers video highlights of Premier League goals just minutes after they're scored, as well as live scores and stats. It's free, and  funded by ads.SHAZAMFreeAre you listening to a tune on the radio or in a club, but can't quite place it? Shazam is your friend. It identifies tracks, then enables you buy them, watch the YouTube videos or start them playing in Spotify. It can also  display lyrics.SKY GOFree to Sky subscribersSky's live TV app offers up to 23 channels, although how many exactly depends on which you have access to through your home subscription. They stream over 3G or Wi-Fi and you can register up to  two devices.SPOTIFY£9.99 a monthStreaming music service Spotify goes from strength to strength, with more than 15m tracks available to stream or store locally on your phone for offline listening. It also works with Facebook for friends' music recommendations.TEDFreeCalifornian conference Ted is famous for its thought-provoking technology talks, as big thinkers grapple with the future of… everything. Its Android app serves up its archive of videos, many of them genuinely  mind-changing.GAMESANGRY BIRDS RIOFreeYou can't escapeAngry Birdson any smartphone these days. The game sees you catapulting the miffed birds at nefarious pigs, with the addition of characters from animated movieRioand boss battles to spice up the action.FLICK SOCCER£0.69There are full simulations, such asFIFAon Android, but the most addictive football game isFlick Soccer, which sees you flicking free kicks into a goal from a variety of positions. Fearsomely addictive, with bags  of depth.FRUIT NINJA£0.77Fruit Ninjais another casual game that's as playable on Android as it is on iPhone. Here, you're slashing various fruit in half with swipes of your finger on the touchscreen, building up your score with  squishy skills.GRAND THEFT AUTO III£2.99It's 10 years old, butGTA IIIstill feels fresh on a mobile phone. This is the full console game crammed on to Android devices, with new touchscreen controls. Your nan still wouldn't approve, but this is excellent.MINECRAFT - pocket edition£4.29Want a game where you make things rather than kill them?Minecraftsees you roaming a colourful virtual world made of blocks and digging and building to your heart's content. It's like digital Lego for gamers.TANK HERO: LASER WARS£1.99The firstTank Herohas been a big hit on Android, with more than 5m downloads. This sequel bumps up the puzzle action, as you kit out a tank with all manner of destructive weapons to eliminate enemies.WHALE TRAIL£1.49Another excellent iPhone game that has found its way on to Android. Willow the Whale soars through the clouds as he seeks to escape the evil Baron Von Barry. The soundtrack comes from Super Furry Animal  Gruff Rhys.WORDS WITH FRIENDSFreeWords With Friendsis basically Scrabble under a different name: you make words with tiles on a board with rows and columns. Here, though, you're competing with your Facebook friends, taking turns at your leisure.WORLD OF GOO£2.99Having started life as a PC game,World of Goohas become one of the stickiest Android games. It sees you squeezing and stretching goo balls to build objects to get you through a succession of puzzle levels. Tactile and wonderful.READINGTHE CAT IN THE HAT£1.91There is a comprehensive selection of Dr Seuss books on the Android Market, so why not start with the most famous? You get voice narration, sound effects and words that rise up to help children's comprehension.THE GUARDIANFreeExcuse us this one self-interested entry. This app puts a slick, mobile interface on theGuardianwebsite, complete with podcasts, videos, the ability to save articles for offline reading and customise the homescreen categories.BBC NEWSFreeThe BBC's official news app for Android is a well-designed way to scoot quickly through its stories, from UK and world through to technology, business and entertainment. You can also pick categories for its homescreen to suit.PULSE NEWSFreePulse is one of a clutch of news aggregation apps for Android. You tell it what websites you like and it pulls down the latest stories, while also letting you search for keywords of specific topics you're interested in.LIFESTYLEAA ECO DRIVEFreeAn app that aims to save you money while also helping the planet? That will be AA Eco Drive, which uses GPS to track your driving style, then provides useful tips on how you can be more efficient at conserving fuel.ANDROIDIFYFreeOne of Android's strong points is its striking robot logo, something capitalised on by Google's own Androidify app. It lets you create your own Android avatars, complete with accessories, to store and share with friends.BUILDAPPFreeThis app is still in beta, but if you are thinking of moving house or redecorating, it could still prove invaluable. Buildapp enables you to design your rooms in 3D and then move virtual furniture around to see how it  might look.GOOGLE MAPSFreeGoogle Maps remains, hands down, the best maps app for Android. Hardly surprising – it's easy to use and the maps are clear and detailed. Although built into Android, this standalone version is updated more frequently.JAMIE'S 20-MINUTE MEALS£4.99Android is  as pukka as iPhone for Jamie Oliver, whose  app offers 60 recipes. They can be made in less time than an episode ofThe Naked Chef(though 20 minutes is optimistic)and have step-by-step instructions and photos.LONDON BUS CHECKER£1.66This app has been a huge hit with the capital's commuters on iPhone, but now it's on Android too. See live times of the buses coming to your nearest stop, based on live data from Transport for London as they travel around.MET OFFICE WEATHER APPLICATIONFreeThe UK's Met Office has an official Android app and it's very good indeed. It provides five-day forecasts and daily weather maps, as well as severe weather warnings and favourite location forecasts.NETFLIX£5.99 a monthNetflix is a service for streaming films and television shows. It crossed over to Britain from the United States early this year and has a broad selection of things to watch. It works well on Android smartphones and tablets.TOUCHNOTE POSTCARDSFreePicture messaging, Facebook and email might be good ways to share your photos, but sometimes you have to get physical. Touchnote turns your pics into postcards, sent to any address for £1.49 a time - in the UK or beyond.TRAIN TIMES UK£3.49If you're used to using the National Rail website to look up train times, Train Times UK is the best equivalent on Android. It provides live departure and arrival times, fare details and directions to and  from stations.SHOPPINGBARCLAYS PINGITFreeBarclays' new mobile payments app is an innovative and impressive idea: send money direct to friends' bank accounts from your phone. For now, only Barclays customers can send, but that will change in the future.APPSFIREFreeAppsfire is an app to help you shop for… apps. It lets you browse your own collection and, crucially, recommends other app downloads you might like, based on your tastes. Appsfire offers a good way to keep on top of the latest apps.AMAZON MOBILE FOR ANDROIDFreeStill think people won't shop on a phone? They said that about websites once. Amazon's app is fast and efficient for browsing and buying products, with barcode scanning to get more details on something when in a real-world shop.TESCO GROCERIESFreeTesco's shopping app is a model of simplicity and effectiveness, as you create and manage shopping lists, book delivery slots and switch between the mobile and web shopping services. You can also scan products in-store to add them to your list.TOOLSADVANCED TASK KILLERFreeIf you're experiencing performance issues with your Android smartphone, it may be because too many apps are running in the background. Advanced Task Killer is the antidote, helping you shut down those you don't need.DROPBOXFreeWonder why there's so much excitement around cloud services? Dropbox should help you understand. When installed on your computer and Android, you can swap files between the two at will – photos, videos, documents…EVERNOTEFreeAnother good advert for the power of the cloud, Evernote wants to help you "remember everything across all of the devices you use", storing and synchronising notes and to-do lists, while adding photos for visual memory aids.GOOGLE DOCSFreeIt should come as no surprise that Google's own online office suite works very well as an Android app. You can create, edit and share Google Docs with it; it also uses the camera to convert snaps of printed text into documents.ONAVOFreeYou may know that your mobile tariff provides 500MB of data a month, but do you know how that data gets used by different apps? Onavo will show youhow, monitoring data traffic and displaying it as easy-to-understand charts.OPERA MINIFreeLooking for an alternative to Google's preloaded Android web browser? Opera Mini is well worth a look. It uses compression technology that ensures websites load faster and cost you much less in data usage – a godsend when roaming abroad.SKY MAPFreeOriginally made by Google, this app has just been open sourced for other developers to work on. It's an excellent showcase for Android phones: point your device at the sky and it will tell you what the various stars are.SWIFTKEY X KEYBOARD£0.49If you don't get on well with the default on-screen keyboard for your Android phone, maybe you should give Swiftkey a try. It learns your language and provides more accurate predictions and corrections as you tap.
As the developer of PS3 darlingsfl0wandFlower, US developer thatgamecompany is commonly invoked by proponents of the "games as art" debate. Latest releaseJourneyis likely only to strengthen this perception of the studio as operating on a higher plane than its peers.Modern conventions are jettisoned with gusto, sparsely populated but stunning vistas are preferred to crowd scenes and the story is only hinted at through occasional, silent cut scenes. There's just the player, a luminescent mountain on the horizon and a vast expanse of sand between the two.If you're lucky, as you guide your adventurer throughJourney's two-hour run time, you'll spot a fellow wanderer in the distance. You venture forth together, taking in the same sights, communicating only through musical shouts – but you don't know who your companion is until the credits have rolled. There are no lobbies, invites, voice chat or leaderboards, but this remains the finest online experience you'll have in 2012.
Researchers have established a direct link between the number of friends you have on Facebook and the degree to which you are a "socially disruptive" narcissist, confirming the conclusions of many social media sceptics.People who score highly on the Narcissistic Personality Inventory questionnaire had more friends on Facebook, tagged themselves more often and updated their newsfeeds more regularly.The research comes amid increasing evidence that young people are becoming increasingly narcissistic, and obsessed with self-image and shallow friendships.The latest study, published in the journal Personality and Individual Differences, also found that narcissists responded more aggressively to derogatory comments made about them on the social networking site's public walls and changed their profile pictures more often.A number of previous studies have linked narcissism with Facebook use, but this is some of the first evidence of a direct relationship between Facebook friends and the most "toxic" elements of narcissistic personality disorder.Researchers at Western Illinois University studied the Facebook habits of 294 students, aged between 18 and 65, and measured two "socially disruptive" elements of narcissism – grandiose exhibitionism (GE) and entitlement/exploitativeness (EE).GE includes ''self-absorption, vanity, superiority, and exhibitionistic tendencies" and people who score high on this aspect of narcissism need to be constantly at the centre of attention. They often say shocking things and inappropriately self-disclose because they cannot stand to be ignored or waste a chance of self-promotion.The EE aspect includes "a sense of deserving respect and a willingness to manipulate and take advantage of others".The research revealed that the higher someone scored on aspects of GE, the greater the number of friends they had on Facebook, with some amassing more than 800.Those scoring highly on EE and GG were also more likely to accept friend requests from strangers and seek social support, but less likely to provide it, according to the research.Carol Craig, a social scientist and chief executive of the Centre for Confidence and Well-being, said young people in Britain were becoming increasingly narcissistic and Facebook provided a platform for the disorder."The way that children are being educated is focussing more and more on the importance of self esteem – on how you are seen in the eyes of others. This method of teaching has been imported from the US and is 'all about me'."Facebook provides a platform for people to self-promote by changing profile pictures and showing how many hundreds of friends you have. I know of some who have more than 1,000."Dr Viv Vignoles, senior lecturer in social psychology at Sussex University, said there was "clear evidence" from studies in America that college students were becoming increasingly narcissistic.But he added: "Whether the same is true of non-college students or of young people in other countries, such as the UK, remains an open question, as far as I know."Without understanding the causes underlying the historical change in US college students, we do not know whether these causes are factors that are relatively specific to American culture, such as the political focus on increasing self-esteem in the late 80s and early 90s or whether they are factors that are more general, for example new technologies such as mobile phones and Facebook."Vignoles said the correlational nature of the latest study meant it was difficult to be certain whether individual differences in narcissism led to certain patterns of Facebook behaviour, whether patterns of Facebook behaviour led to individual differences in narcissism, or a bit of both.Christopher Carpenter, who ran the study, said: "In general, the 'dark side' of Facebook requires more research in order to better understand Facebook's socially beneficial and harmful aspects in order to enhance the former and curtail the latter."If Facebook is to be a place where people go to repair their damaged ego and seek social support, it is vitally important to discover the potentially negative communication one might find on Facebook and the kinds of people likely to engage in them. Ideally, people will engage in pro-social Facebooking rather than anti-social me-booking."
Birds Of Steel, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360Console flying games tend towards the missiles first, come-at-me-bro philosophy of the arcade, unlike more stately flight simulators which aren't afraid of lengthy periods of relative quiet. Birds Of Steel is steadfastly of the latter school, and is unusual in its dedication to authenticity even when it's not terribly exciting, resulting in a historically accurate flying game with 100 airborne relics to test in a campaign focusing on the Pacific conflict in the second world war, first from the American perspective and then the Japanese. Missions' inexplicable tendency to spend more time on level flying to waypoints than in actual combat renders the game unnecessarily dull, an issue exacerbated by the glacial speed of its aircraft.Konami, £29.99-£39.99Journey, PlayStation 3Journey. Photo: PRStarting in an apparently featureless desert without so much as a word of introduction, you discover you can move your dainty, almost feline, heroine across the sand and off you go. Your wanderings soon uncover an imposing mountain on the horizon and enormous, partly destroyed ruins springing from the sand, followed by the joyous realisation that you can fly. What follows is an experience uncluttered by scores, power-ups or even words, as desert gives way to the sparkly blue twilight of subterranean caverns and finally the snowy wastes of the mountain. It's three or four hours of blissful exploration, perfect for a lazy afternoon.SCEE, £9.99, download via PSNFun! Fun! Minigolf TOUCH!, Nintendo 3DSFun! Fun! Minigolf TOUCH!Fun! Fun! Minigolf TOUCH! plays a refreshingly simple game of crazy golf which, despite its name, can also be controlled entirely with joystick and button presses. Playing each hole earns coins, rewarding you for rounds with fewer strokes, while quick trips to the shop between matches unlock new tournaments, trick-shot challenges and sets of clubs. Cock-ups, meanwhile, go relatively unpunished. Like Journey, this is a game designed to occupy a few glorious hours before returning you to day-to-day life in a slightly better mood.Nintendo, £4.50 from eShopGames newsI Am Alive. Photo: PRAlso out areI Am Alive(download for PS3 &amp; Xbox 360), bringing the aesthetics and sense of gloomy desperation of Cormac McCarthy's The Road to videogames in this lo-fi post-apocalyptic tale …FIFA Street(PS3 &amp; Xbox 360) gets a reboot with more realistic looks and just as much emphasis on showing off your "skillz" …BIT.TRIP Complete(Wii) andBIT.TRIP Saga(3DS) provide all the games in BIT.TRIP's splendid pastiche 8-bit canon along with a clutch of bonus challenge levels …Cabela's Big Game Hunter 2012(PS3, Wii &amp; Xbox 360) lets you shoot and kill wildlife without the need to don a pith helmet or even get up off the sofa …Captain Morgane And The Golden Turtle(DS, Wii) brings its brand of bargain-bin Pirates Of The Caribbean adventuring to Nintendo fans …Finally,Yakuza: Dead Souls(PS3) blends Sega's bestselling gangster franchise with a legion of the undead.
You may have heard about the Dassler brothers, the Bavarian shoemakers who fell out so spectacularly after the second world war that they dissolved their company (which had shodJesse Owensin the 1936 Olympics) and went their separate ways. Adolf ("Adi") started Adidas; Rudolf set up Puma. Both had their headquarters in their hometown of Herzogenaurach, where, even today, you need only glance at the locals' trainers to know&nbsp;whose side they are on.Loyalties are similarly divided in the world of folding bikes after the messy break-up of the marriage that producedDahon, the world's most popular folding brand. Dahon's founder, Dr David T Hon, issuing his ex-wife Florenceafter she and their son, Josh, set up a rival folding brand following the couple's divorce. Called Tern, it is this season's big launch from Evans Cycles. Loyalties among folding fans&nbsp;are divided.Now, my dad has a Dahon; I'vetested and liked one before. But not being a folding aficionado, the Tern Link D8 looked very like a Dahon Eco to me. I appreciate this is probably the cycling equivalent of saying everyone from China looks the same.Tern would argue its big innovation is its "N-Fold Technology", which makes the bike not only quicker and easier to fold than its rivals, but also results in a neater, smaller package. You unleash the Technology by undoing the quick release on the seat post and opening the hinge on the handlebars and spinning the front wheel by 180 degrees before the central fold. No tools are needed.I think the Tern is slightly easier to pack away than a Dahon, though it was still too bulky for me to bother hefting it up three flights of stairs to my flat every evening. Leaving it locked up in my back yard instead, I inadvertently discovered two fundamental flaws. One, the exposed metal parts, particularly around the brake cables, had started to rust after about a week. And two, the paint scratched unusually easily when my d-lock made contact with the frame.Both quibbles may be solved in mass production (I was riding a&nbsp;prototype). I hope so, because I&nbsp;had a grand old time riding around on it, up hill, over cobbles and even in the snow.So whose team am I on? The laser physicist who came up with the idea of afolding bikeduring a long wait for petrol during the oil and gas crisis in 1975? Or his estranged relatives, who deny all allegations of foul play and say they came up with a completely new product in order to produce "a faster, and more compact fold"? I prefer not to take sides in a divorce.Tern Link D8Price£475, from Evans CyclesGears8 (SRAM MRX Comp shifters)Weight12.1kgSuggested rider height142-190cm (4ft 8in–6ft 3in)Optional extrasMudguards, rear and front luggage rack
Block 18.00pm:Bafta's Best Games Of Last Year list always comes out a few months later than most. But then again, it's revealed in a swanky London hotel to an audience comprised of movers, shakers and game developers, washed down with chilled champagne to a backdrop of gurning C-list celebrities. As such, we can excuse the tardiness thanks to the rare sense of ceremony. You see, video games have always struggled with ceremony.Bafta's elder, sleeker film &amp; TV awards night is studded with recognisable faces: lithe actresses tottering in ruby dresses on the arms of tousle-haired directors past the media scrum. Look hard enough and you may catch the sad eyes under the heavy make-up.But, y'know,at least they have eyes.Gaming's icons, meanwhile, are its digital characters: Lara, Nathan, Link, Chell. These ciphers are the stars of the medium and yet, dress an out-of-work model up in a Pac-Man outfit and shunt her down the red carpet and you have a scene that's decidedly un-BAFTA-like.So what's left? The developers behind the pixels are, to all but the cognoscenti, bearded nobodies (even the women etc etc!) and that has ever made game award nights something of a struggle when it comes to the GLITZ and the GLAMOUR and the WHAT POSSESSED HER TO WEAR THAT DRESS-ness that they should embodyPerhaps in 2012, as we arrive in a foggy, milk-white sky London, all of that's set to change.Marcus "Notch" Persson, creator of Minecraft and leader of 600,000 Twitter followers, is set to receive a Special Award (to go with pretty much every other award the designer/ entrepreneur and his game have accrued over the past two years). He's a bona fide star and, while he definitely has a beard, he also has a hat.Like Justin Timberlake or, er, John Wayne.A star, right?!Then there's Batman, here to see if he's won an award for Arkham City. No wait. He's a character in a game, not a developer. OR IS HE?Look, maybe games are just different and we can just stop worrying about aping film and television and producing rock stars for the paparazzi to Pokémon snap. Maybe tonight can just be a ceremony about artistic endeavour, the messy tussle of art, design, audio and interaction that makes video games so much more than Film and Television's spotty younger brother. Stick that on your red carpet and photograph it.And if we can't get behind that? Well The Guardian Gamesblog's Keith Stuart has managed to blag his way into the ceremony as a so-called "judge". As your hungry correspondent sits, nose pressed to the glass of the media pit, we'll record for perpetuity his chiselled yet maniacal face as he sips champagne while offering to rub Charles Cecil's bronze. Now that's showbusiness, right?OK. To the awards – the ceremony kicks off at 9pm, so be sure to join us then ...Block 28.40pm:It's 90 minutes since the great and good of the Western video game industry entered the meal hall at the London Hilton hotel near Hyde Park. Nominees and sponsors, black tied or spangly dressed and shiny shoe'd are approaching capacity for swan and champagne, and the mood in the room shifts in anticipation of the awards themselves.Block 38.48pm:Bafta's video game award show comprises 18 awards across various categories including Action, Artistic Achievement, Innovation, Mobile &amp; Handheld, Sports &amp; Fitness (?!) and Strategy. It's a curious collection of awards, partly delineated by genre, partly by platform. In a way it's a bit like if the film and TV arm of the organisation categorised awards by Blu-ray and HD-DVD, or Action film and fitness video, but at this still tender stage in the medium's evolution, we'll give it a pass. Things will settle down soon enough.Block 48.49pm:And we're off! Host Dara O Briain takes to stage with typical enthusiasm. Of all the comedians working in Britain, O'Briain has been the most vocal supporter of games, often threading video game related material into his sets, so he's a natural choice for host. A couple of boisterous jokes and O'Briain retreats to the wings, his place taken by, er, The Saturdays, who are well known for their role in the making of popular video game Metal Gear Solid.Block 58.54pm:This being an event hosted by an organisation that has grown up around film and television, the award nominations favour cinematic-style titles. Rocksteady Studio's Batman: Arkham City is up for multiple awards, as is Rockstar Games' L.A. Noire. Naughty Dog's Saturday matinee of a blockbuster Uncharted 3 is up for no less than seven awards while Bethesda's mountain 'em up The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim is up for six.Block 69.00pm:That's not to say that the little games aren't represented. Supergiant's wonderful XBLA/ Steam/ Browser debut Bastion is up for a few awards, along with Eric Chahi's (he of Another World fame) From Dust makes an appearance, as does Scottish studio Denki's word-cum-board game Quarrel. The inclusion of a Browser Game category reflects the rapid shifts in the industry that have occurred over the past 12 months, with EA's Facebook title The Sims Social vying for the award alongside Playdom's Gardens of Time.Block 79.05pm:The Saturdays did not in fact work on Metal Gear Solid, of course. But they were employed by EA to promote Band Hero, the rhythm action game that near single-handedly destroyed the music game genre. So yeah. GOOD WORK GIRLS.Block 89.07pm:Dara makes an 'arrow to the knee' joke, showing off his gaming &amp; internet meme credentials. Crowd groan cheers, attempting to hide its clear arousal.Block 99.08pm:Dara pointing out that Batman Arkham City is the most homo-erotic game represented in the awards, pointing out the high number of "beefcakes" on screen at any one time. This is what happens when a Gears of War game doesn't make the cut.Block 109.15pm:First award of the night is for 'Story'. Charlie Higson and Jane Goldman take to the stage to present the nominees: Batman, Deus Ex: Human Revolution, L.A. Noire, Portal 2, Skyrim and Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception.Block 119.16pm:And the award goes to Portal 2, written by  ex-sort of game journalists Chet Faliszek and Erik Wolpaw, two of the loveliest men in games who work at Seattle-based Valve. It's a fine choice, Portal 2 teetering a happy line between linear and non-linear storytelling through its continuing story of lab-rat turned escapee, Chell.Block 129.16pm:Genuine apology for the Dara-is-British faux pas. Honest mistake that won't happen again. Now let's celebrate video games, team!Block 139.17pm:Next up is the award for Original Music. Assassin's Creed Revelations is competing against Batman, Deus Ex, L.A. Noire, Skyrim and Uncharted 3 for, to put things in cinema's terminology, 'best score'.Block 149.21pm:And the award goes to L.A. Noire, whose 1940s-style jazz soundtrack was recorded at Abbey Road Studios and composed by Andrew Hale, of the band Sade and Sweetback and whose credits include scores for such films as Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. While Team Bondi's opus has enjoyed something of a backlash since release, both for in terms of its gameplay and, of course, the headlines around the development studio's treatment of its staff during production (and failure to credit many of those who worked on the game), few would contest the excellence of its soundtrack.Block 159.24pm:Next up is the award for Audio Achievement. Nominees are: Batman (again!), Battlefield 3, Modern Warfare 3, dead Space 2, The Nightjar and Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception.Block 169.25pm:And the award goes to DICE's Battlefield 3. The EA-published game was particularly notable for its sound design, which outshone its competitors with a gritty, visercal soundtrack that rivalled Hollywood's finest. Led by audio director Stefan Strandberg, the DICE team recorded audio for the game during a live military exercise, and this commitment to their craft clearly paid off.Block 179.26pm:JEEZ GAME DEVELOPERS ARE A QUIET BUNCH. Winners speeches are rarely more than 10 seconds. Why couldn't Gwyneth Paltrow have been born a Nintendo employee? Correspondent RSI beckons :(Block 189.28pm:Next up is the award for 'Best Design', arguably the second most prestigious award of the night after 'Best Game'. The nominees are Batman, LA Noire, Portal 23, Super Mario 3D Land and Skyrim.Block 199.30pm:Winner: Portal 2, obv.Block 209.30pm:Racing through! Next up is Game Innovation. Nominees are: Bastion, Child of Eden, From Dust, L.A. Noire, LittleBigPlanet2, The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword.Block 219.31pm:And the winner is: LittleBigPlanet 2! While Media Molecule's cutesy platformer-cum-construction set is a sequel, the game is a worthy winner, expanding on the potential laid out by the original game in numerous meaningful ways. A sentimental team takes to the stage to thank family and friends.Block 229.32pm:Next up we have the Strategy award. It's a strong, if problematically diverse line-up with: Dark Souls, Deau EX: HR, Football Manager 2012, From Dust, Ghost Recon: Shadow Wars and Total War: Shogun 2.Block 239.35pm:And the winner is Total War: Shogun 2. Guildford-based Creative Assembly take to the stage for a warm thankful speech. Personally, this correspondent would have gone for From Software's innovative and challenging Dark Souls' (many a player's game of 2011), but it's debatable whether 'Strategy' is the best category for Hidetaka Miyazaki. Damn pigeon-holes.Block 249.36pm:35 minutes in an we're nearly halfway through the awards; the game industry celebrating its heroes like a speed run attempt.Block 259.37pm:Next up is Mobile &amp; Handheld with entries lined up like so: Dead Space iOS, Magnetic Billiards: Blueprint, Peggle HD, Quarrel, Super Mario 3D Land and The Nightjar.Block 269.41pm:And the award goes to Popcap's pachinko+unicorns 'em up, Peggle HD. There was a time when the Seattle-based developer was derided by core gamers, but in recent years, with releases such as Peggle and Plants vs. Zombies, the studio has acquired a well-deserved reputation for design savvy in the so-called 'casual game' space.Block 279.42pm:It's time for the Game Award of 2011. This is somehow different to the Best Game award, but we're not quite sure how, other than the fact that the winner gets a purple Bafta, rather than a bronze one. Nominees are: Batman, BF3, Modern Warfare 3, FIFA 2012, L.A. Noire, Minecraft, Portal 2, Skyrim, Zelda and Uncharted 3.Block 289.44pm:And the award goes to Battlefield 3. That's perhaps the first 'upset' of the night, as DICE's shooter was a game of two halves, only one of which was critically-acclaimed. Still, the multiplayer portion of the military FPS must have won enough fans on the Bafta panel to snatch the award from big hitters Minecraft and Portal 2.Block 299.46pm:And we've arrived at the award for 'Action', the game genre perhaps most analogous to Bafta's film and TV celebrating remit. What we have here is a whole load of games about shooting stuff. Modern Warfare 3 vies against Uncharted 3, Deus Ex, Portal 2, Assassin's Creed Revelations and Batman.Block 309.48pm:And Batman - the most nominated game in the ceremony - picks up its first award of the night. Many wondered how the team at North London Rocksteady would be able to transport the Metroidvania gameplay of the first Batman game to an open city, but the developer answered the design concerns with no small amount of style and elegance. Well-deserved.Block 319.53pm:And next we have the Bafta Ones To Watch award, which is presented in association with Dare To Be Digital, encouraging indies and students in their game creative endeavours. Just three nominees in this category: Dreamweaver, Joust! and Tick Tock Toys, with the award going to Swallowtail's Tick Tock Toys.Block 329.53pm:Segueing neatly into Online/ Browser-based games now with the set of nominees that will be least familiar to hobbyist gamers. Activision's ubiquitous Skylanders is up against Gardens of Time, I Am Playr, Monstermind, Global Resistance and The Sims Social.Block 339.56pm:And the award goes to: Monstermind, from London-based Bossa Studio. Bossa Studio is notable for two reasons – firstly, the recent acquisition of Ex-Team Ico Yoshifusa Hayama, who up until 2012 was executive producer on (MIA) The Last Guardian. Secondly, one of Monstermind's designers is indie star Mike Bithell, who will be familiar to attendees of the Guardian and Bafta's Indie game panels for his work on forthcoming puzzler Thomas Was Alone.Block 349.57pm:Next up we have the award for artistic achievement which should probably alternate between Rez and Ico every year TILL THE END OF ALL TIME. Instead, nominees include: Batman, L.A. Noire, LittleBigPlanet 2, Rayman Origins, Skyrim and Uncharted 3.Block 359.59pm:And the award goes to Ubisoft Montpelier's dazzling platform game, Rayman Origins. The Bafta panel appear to have taken this category at face value, awarding what is undeniably the prettiest game of the year. Ubisoft, of course, fund-partnered with the French government to create the innovative 2D animation system used to fire the game.Block 3610.03pm:Fighting Fantasy author, Games Workshop founder and president and CEO of Edios, legend Ian Livingstone has taken to the stage to present the 'Special Award', which, as those who have been paying attention to the wires this past couple of days will already know, is set to be awarded to Marcus 'Notch' Persson, creator of Minecraft.Block 3710.04pm:OMG, he isn't wearing his hat.Block 3810.05pm:OK, the live feed of the show has gone down in the media room. Let's guess that Notch is being endlessly charming, as he hints toward funding a new sequel with every wink to the crowd.Block 3910.06pm:It's back! Seriously. Notch sans-chapeau is super weird.Block 4010.07pm:I hope it's not a Samson situation, and his powers of game design/crowd-funding desert him when his bald pate touches the air.Block 4110.07pm:Notch exits stage left, as a woman from Game throws herself at his feet and pleads: SAVE US, SAVE US.Block 4210.11pm:Not really.Block 4310.12pm:OK, we are back into the main awards. And now we have the strangest category of all: Sports/ Fitness. Nominees are: Dance Central 2, DiRT3, F! 2011, F1 2011, FIFA 2012, Kinect Sports 2, Your Shape Fitness Evolved 2012.Block 4410.13pm:And Rare takes it for Kinect Sports 2.Block 4510.14pm:Oh Rare.Block 4610.14pm:OK, final four awards. LET'S DO/ GET THROUGH THIS.Block 4710.15pm:Online Multiplayer up first. Nominees are: Assassin's Creed Revelations, Battlefield 3, MW3, Dark Souls, Gears of War 3 and, finally, LittleBigPlanet 2.Block 4810.15pm:To be fair, any of these could win. That is a super strong category.Block 4910.16pm:And the award goes to Battlefield 3 from the Stockholm-based DICE. Again, a shame this one didn't go to From Software's Dark Souls which enjoys the most innovative multiplayer of 2011. Hmm. What do you lot reckon?Block 5010.18pm:OK! Now we're headed into the 'Best Debut'. Bastion, Eufloria, Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet, Monstermind, RIFT and L.A. Noire competing here.Block 5110.22pm:And the award goes to XBLA's Metroidvania-esque, Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet. Might have been weird if that had gone to L.A Noire, what with that title being Team Bondi's first and last game, but then again, this is an event sponsored by a company facing a diffucult future – if it has a future at all.Block 5210.22pm:OK, now to 'Family Game'. Nominees are: Dance Central 2, Kinect Sports 2, LEGO Star Wars III: The Clone Wars, LittleBigPlanet 2 and Mario Kart 7.Block 5310.25pm:And LittleBigPlanet 2 takes it! Media Molecule take to the stage and say this was the award they were secretly hoping to win. Bless 'em and all of their little Sackboys.Block 5410.26pm:That came out weirder than expected.Block 5510.26pm:OH GOOD THE SATURDAYS ARE BACK TO DESTROY ANOTHER GENRE.Block 5610.27pm:What's it going to be this time, eh girls? The RTS? Third Person Shooters? Dance games?Actually, can you make it dance games?Block 5710.28pm:So, penultimate award is for Performer, which is essentially Voice Actor, right?Block 5810.28pm:Doesn't Nolan North voice all of the games?Block 5910.29pm:Nominees are: Aaron Staton (Cole Phelps), Mark Hamill (The Joker) Nolan North (Nathan Drake), Stephen fry (LBP2), Stephen Merchant (Wheatley) and Togo Igawa (Diplomat from Shogun 2).Block 6010.29pm:And the award goes to Luke Skywalker! It is a GREAT performance.Block 6110.29pm:Sadly, Hamill couldn't be here tonight so a man from North London who sounds nothing like The Joker.Block 6210.30pm:These were not the vocal chords we were looking for.Block 6310.30pm:Does that joke work? I DON'T KNOW ANY MORE BECAUSE ALL I ATE IS A HAM SANDWICH AND ALL OF THE WINEBlock 6410.31pm:So! Final award of the night. And it's for Best Game. Which is definitely different to Best Game of 2011. We just don't know how. Ian Livingstone is standing next to me. I will ask him.Block 6510.31pm:He just shook my hand and smiled.Block 6610.32pm:Nominees are: Batman, FIFA, L.A. Noire, Portal 2, Skyrim and Zelda.Block 6710.33pm:Ah! Turns out this is the award for Best Game of 1995! Sequel-mania.Block 6810.33pm:Not really. OK. Jonathan Ross is primed and ready to open the envelope. ARE YOU EXCITED?Block 6910.34pm:Portal 2.Block 7010.34pm:And there we have it. A few surprises in there, but otherwise fairly predictable. Valve's Portal 2 is a masterpiece in the Bafta tradition and so it's right and true that it would win.Block 7110.36pm:OK, I guess it's time to reflect upon the things that we learned tonight ...1. Dara O Briain is Irish and if you get this wrong the internet will get madder than that time you gave Uncharted an 8/10Block 7210.37pm:Yeah, that's pretty much it.Block 7310.37pm:Thanks for having me and I AM SO SORRY FOR EVERYTHING.Block 7410.40pm:Thanks too to Stuart O'Connor for his rapid subbing.Block 7510.41pm:And to the gamesblog's Keith Stuart for eating all of the swan while we watched from afar.Block 7610.42pm:Goodnight.
The iPad 3 launched on Friday. It was all very exciting, with thousands waiting in line outside Apple stores across the world.The new iPad –Apple doesn't call it the 'three'– has an improved screen resolution, processor and camera, as well as a voice dictation tool thatthe Guardian's tech editor didn't think was fit for purpose.As with everything Apple, if you launch it, they will come. In New York hundreds were waiting outside the Soho Apple store before it opened at 8am. By 8.30am, they'd already sold out of black 16gb, AT&amp;T iPads. Hundreds more queued up at the Grand Central and Park Avenue stores. Some came prepared with camping equipment:ppl are sleeping in their sleeping bags outside the Apple Store on Fifth Ave#ipad&mdash; Makia Matz (@unpianistique)March 15, 2012While others just hung about. Or wove an Apple visit into a night out.Chris Colasuono came "straight from the bar", arriving at 5am. He's after a black 32gb#iPad3twitter.com/AdamGabbatt/st…&mdash; Adam Gabbatt (@AdamGabbatt)March 16, 2012Apple's store at Grand Central Terminal, one of the company's largest stores in the world,only opened in December. The new iPad launch was the first big test for the new store, andthey hatched an elaborate security planto try and make sure all hell didn't break loose.Luckily, all hell did not break loose. Although there was some running.People are literally running up the stairs at Grand Central Apple Store to claim a new#iPad, as store staffers cheertwitter.com/julpepitone/st…&mdash; Julianne Pepitone (@julpepitone)March 16, 2012By 9am, however, things had calmed down significantly, with not an iNerd in sight.No iNerd's in front of the Apple store in Grand Central. So either cops aren't letting people line up, or no one cares about the new iPad.&mdash; Xiano NOT Hernandez (@Xiano51)March 16, 2012Reviews of the new iPad varied. Some thought it was good, others were less excited.WOW. When you compare the difference in screen res between iPad 2 and new iPad, you will freak.&mdash; Ian Schafer (@ischafer)March 16, 2012Congratulations, It's An iPad!: Pictures Of People Way Too Excited To Be Getting Apple's Latest Gadgetmedia.talkingpointsmemo.com/slideshow/new-…via @TPM&mdash; Josh Marshall (@joshtpm)March 16, 2012Perhaps some of the most impressive iPad stories this morning came from the enterprising individuals who waited in line with no intention of buying the tablet.RT @chrismcgrath5: Some guy waited on line for the iPad 3 and then sold his spot for $900!!!! I'd def wait in line to sell it for that much&mdash; 923NOW (@923NowFM)March 16, 2012This girl wants $2,500 for her spot in the iPad line outside the Apple Store on 5th Ave:ow.ly/9GDG5&mdash; Will Wei (@WillWei)March 15, 2012A guy got in line for the new IPAD with no intention of buying it and sold his spot for $500 and all i can think is Y DIDN'T I THINK OF THAT&mdash; Daiana Sahadeo (@DaianaSahadeo)March 16, 2012But of course, not everyone who wanted a new iPad was prepared to wait in one of Apple's lines. There was much back-slapping this morning among those who managed beat the system.No line. Bought my new iPad at radio shack in less than 5 minutes.&mdash; Steve Kovach (@stevekovach)March 16, 2012Walked right into Verizon no line for iPad weeeeeee&mdash; ptinsley (@ptinsley)March 16, 2012By mid-morning the queues, and the fanfare, had died down, and theCraigslist posts advertising the new iPad for sale had gone up.Circlecomplete.
When Oxford United takes to the pitch against Rotherham United on Saturday afternoon, the team will be representing, not just the university city, but also an important local charity - and one of its latest success stories. Formed in 2008, SpecialEffect designs and builds customised video game controllers for gamers with disabilities. The organisation loans its specialised equipment to players all over the country, and also helps developers to make their titles more widely accessible.Four-year-old Charlotte Nott is a wonderful example of their work. Two years ago, she contracted meningococcal septicaemia and lost all four of her limbs during the desperate bid to fight the infection. When Oxford United heard about Charlotte, the club looked into a fundraising initiative, but the chairman also suggested they visit SpecialEffect, based in nearby Charbury. The charity invited Charlotte and her parents to the centre, where they tested her with a range of modified controllers, including a special version of a Nintendo Wii Remote, and an eye-tracking technology, which allows games to be controlled via eye movements alone."We first went over there six months ago, and visited again recently," says Charlotte's father, Alex. "The stuff they do there is amazing - things you couldn't even think of. They adapt all these controllers to specific disabilities. We had an amazing time there." The family has now arranged to borrow some of the kit so Charlotte can play with her friends and younger brother.SpecialEffect made the video above showing Charlotte using a Wii controller strapped to her arm to have a go on the mini-game collection Wii Play. "At first I thought they'd underestimated her a tiny bit" says Alex. "They started off really slowly, but Charlotte just goes into everything at 100 percent - they were surprised at what she was capable of. They were blown away, I think."It turns out, her favourite game is the Xbox 360 version of popular mobile title, Fruit Ninja, in which players slash falling fruits into little pieces as they cascade across the screen. The game employs the Kinect motion controller, allowing participants to cut using arm gestures. "The first time she played she was getting every single fruit," says Alex. "When I tried it, I was useless."For Saturday's game, Oxford United has commissioned a range of one-off shirts for the players, bearing the SpecialEffect logo as well as the message 'United 4 Charlotte'. The shirts are being auctioned off online this weekend, with all the details available atthe club's website.For SpecialEffect, it's another successful and heartwarming tale. According to fundraiser Nick Streeter, the organisation is now running a roadshow, taking its specialised controllers to hospitals around the country. "We want to bring gaming to everyone," he says.But an important part of their work is simply talking to mainstream developers, letting them know how easy it is to make their titles more accessible; it can be as little as providing alternative controller configurations, or changing the colours on the menu screen to help with visual impairments. "We're not preaching," says Streeter, "we're just saying to developers, if youre interested in accessibility we can help."You can find out more about the fundraising efforts for Charlotte and her familyhere.
Android app developers across Europe are warning Google that it needs to put a human face to its developer relations, after being forced to wait without explanation for more than two weeks for hundreds of thousands of pounds of payments for app sales.Without that the company will suffer the consequences in the competition with Apple, Microsoft and RIM in the smartphone space, they warn. "I have had no email contact, no replies to my enquiries, essentially no confirmation that there is a problem, yet I am still owed many thousands of pounds," one app developer told the Guardian before payments began to arrive - two weeks late - on Friday.Despite weeks of complaints on thecompany's forum, and a query from the Guardian lodged with Google on Tuesday this week, the company offered no explanation for why bank payments worth many thousands of pounds had not been made to developers in countries including the UK, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Ireland, Sweden and Norway. Some entries in the threads suggested that US developers were also affected.Although payments started arriving in developers' bank accounts on Friday, they have been delayed far past the usual payment date – which this month would have been Friday 2 March. Google's documents say that even if it has a "technical problem", app developers should be paid by the 15th of the month. But the payments only began on 16 March.Google passes on 70% of the payments that it receives when Android users buy apps on its marketplace, formerly known as Android Market and now rechristened Google Play. Unlike Apple's App Store, developers can upload versions of their apps without requiring approval, and can then get payment from Google when apps are purchased.The search giant has apparently tried to streamline its developer relations to make it as automated as possible. That has led to anger among the developers, who pointed to a single forum message post from one person saying Google was "aware" of the problem, and another post from someone who said there was a "three-man team" working on the Google Checkout system - used to collect payments - "after everyone else had left".That has worried app developers further, because Google is nowpressuring them to use its own Google Wallet payments systeminstead of others - which has led to concerns about what recourse developers would have if there were another payments hiccup.Google's low-staffing approach for developers mirrors that which it used when it first tried tosell its own Android smartphone, the Google Nexus One, in the US in 2010. There it tried to sell the phone via a web-only sales system, and declined at first to offer customer support, suggesting that that would be the responsibility of the mobile carriers - who declined to help.Google has barely communicated with the developers except from a brief forum post six days after the thread began saying it was "aware" of the problem. Google spokespeople had not provided an explanation three days after The Guardian contacted it about the thread."What is really staggering is that Google deem a forum post an appropriate way of dealing with the situation," said one angry developer.That could hurt Google if developers decide that Google's payment system is unreliable or unwieldy. "The payment speed [from Apple] is slower than Google; you get a month's arrears, so January's money comes through on 3 March," one developer who also writes apps for Apple's App Store explained to the Guardian. "But payment is reliable and consistent. If you need to speak to a human being, you can eventually make contact with one. It's not perfect - they lean towards cheap automation – but it's light years ahead of Google."The developer said that Apple had originally tried the same as Google by fully automating the system, and having no human-contactable support team. "They got roasted - developers' apps were rejected without recourse. But if you piss off a developer without trained support staff to explain and reassure, eventually you're going to bite lots of hands that feed you. Similarly, Google are going down this dangerous road. They have deliberately designed a fully-automated system that scales up at no expense to them."Another developer calling themselves "pan65" wrote in the thread: "To be able to use the developer console we have to give our customer at least one channel to reach us (Email/Phone/Website). Google give us none. There should be at least one channel to reach a human at Google for us."Another developer said: "There is literally *nothing* that you can do to get hold of a human being. Try it for yourself - if you traverse through the 'Contact Us' pages of the Android Developers site, you'll eventually get to a form, but it's pre-populated with generic A/B/C choices, and there is no space to write a custom message. Google need to realise that investment in actual human support staff is essential; there are limits to the ways in which a system can be automated - however financially attractive that option may be."Google says that its Google Play market contains around 400,000 apps, and had seen 10bn downloads by the start of December, while Apple's App Store claims 585,000 apps, and recently passed the 25bn download mark.
