Charles Dunstone, the chief executive of Carphone Warehouse, warned yesterday that unless Britain's mobile phone operators throw their marketing weight behind 3G technology this year, new operator 3 will run away with the market.Europe's largest independent mobile phone retailer yesterday said it expected its annual profits to be at the top end of expectations. In calculating its figures, Carphone was not counting on a big pick-up in sales of handsets incorporating the new technology, which enables video calling and fast downloading of music and video clips.But Mr Dunstone, who founded the business in 1989, said yesterday: "If you want my personal opinion I think 3G will go mad in the second half of the year."He said 3, which is owned by Hong-Kong based conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, has done well to grab more than 3 million customers since its launch two years ago.He said O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone are all going to have to start stimulating sales of 3G handsets "or it's going to start running away from them".So far, only Vodafone and Orange have had large-scale launches of 3G in Britain. Sales of Vodafone's 3G handsets are understood to have been poor while Orange has been forced into a buy one, get one free offer. T-Mobile is poised for a full launch of its 3G service, while O2's main push is likely to be in the second half of the year.Analysts had pencilled in profits for Carphone of &#163;98m to &#163;102m for the year to the end of March 2005, with about &#163;122m for the current year.Carphone also said Hans Snook, the founder of Orange, will be quitting as chairman in July, to be replaced by John Gildersleeve, former commercial director of Tesco and a Carphone non-executive.
As some of you may know, I did someresearchlast year on the gaming experiences of people with severe mobility limitations. In my initial search for participants and ideas, I came across Barrie Ellis' great resourceOneSwitch.org.uk, a portal for games that can be controlled with onlyone switch.He emailed me to let me know about a competitionRetro Remakesis running, calling for one-switch original titles and retro remakes. All of the playable entries are downloadable on Barry's site, but there's still time to put your programming skills to the test. The competition is live, active and comes with rewards a'plenty. Check out theforumfor details and examples of submissions. Here's thefirst onethat's online (requires Shockwave).As the competition page says,If we just get 5 more one switch games out there, then we've done a good job and we'll be happy. If we get 10, we'll be over the moon - if we get more, we'll be highly enchuffed beyond reasoning. So, why not drop into our forum and show us what you can do and help out a good cause into the bargain.The competition runs until 11 May 2005.
Future's attempt to take over the game magazine market has been thwarted. Followingyesterday's newsthat their plan to take over publisher Highbury House was being referred to the Competition Commission the companyhas decided to pull outof the deal. The company says in a statement: "Future believes that it would not be in the interests of shareholders to pursue further a possible acquisition of... Highbury." This is good news for punters, who get more choice of which unofficial mag to buy, and for those of us who'd like to see more diversity in the market, currently dominated by Future. Edge (Future) and Games TM (Highbury) are the only titles catering for a non-teenage audience, although there have been failed attempts at PS2 "lifestyle" titles before. Of course, it's the official licenses that guarantee sales, mainly because of the demo-laden exclusive coverdiscs attached. Whether Highbury, or anyone else, has the clout and desire to compete with Future for these is debatable, but at least there's a chance now.
If you and a friend have Xbox Live and a few hours to kill, then spend it playing co-op on Doom 3. Ireviewed it this weekand while the lights-off-nastie-out gameplay becomes predictable, playing through the game with a friend adds a whole new dimension. One of you holding the torch, the other a gun - it's great stuff. Online gaming needs more of this co-op action. Elsewhere Steve Boxer reviews SWAT 4, but has a few issues with the controls. "SWAT 4 harks back to the dark ages of PC games, when control systems involved using half the keys on your keyboard" he said. The other review is the strategy game Empire Earth 2 on PC, whose strict adherence to real-time-strategy conventions is ultimately frustrating for Mike Anderiesz. "Now let's see who has the imagination to take it forward", he pleads. Hmm, any suggestions?
Podcasting's doing the business in radio.Virgin Radioare doing some great stuff, whilePaul Gambaccini, Tony Blackburn and Wes Buttersare among those lining up for a new site calledPodshows.com.Now the Beeb is expanding its list of podcasts of popular shows, according toan announcement today:Speaking at Music Radio 2005, Simon Nelson, Controller of BBC Radio and Music Interactive, revealed that more programmes will be available to download and podcast at bbc.co.uk/radio until the end of the year.The programmes confirmed so far are:Today(Radio 4, daily) - 8.10am interviewFrom Our Own Correspondent(Radio 4, weekly/twice weekly) – personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the worldSportsweek(Radio Five Live, weekly) - get under the skin of the week's big sports storiesMark Kermode film review slot(Radio Five Live, weekly)Go Digital(World Service, weekly) - how technology is changing our lives.And there are more. They don't seem to have negotiated rights to podcast music yet, though.
Misty-eyed Amiga veterans may be interested to know thatKuju Wirelessis ready to release its mobile conversion of Sensible Software classic, Cannon Fodder. Developed by Tower Studios (set-up by several ex-Sensibles including Jon Hare), it's a radically sawn-off version of the top-down strategy shooter, missing most of the team-based tactical elements, but still heavy on the relentless enemy blasting action.The visuals have been nicely re-produced and you still get to control up to four soldiers, using a sort of rotating cursor interface. But there are no hostage missions, or civillians to shoot at 'by accident'. Level design has been simplified too, taking into account the smaller display and the fact that you can no longer set up two of your men on guard duty while the others plough ahead. It is possible to split your squad into two, but one lot just stands there while you control the other. This lets you protect your men and save a couple of lives for later in the level, but most of the time you'll be grateful for the extra firepower afforded by having your whole platoon blasting away beneath your cursor.Cannon Fodder on mobile includes the jungle, snow and desert terrains but no underground levels. Oh and youdoget to drive the tanks and take over gun emplacements - these were the moments I really felt I was back there again, back at college, mourning the loss of my veteran soliders, rather than reading Tender is the Night, or some such irrelevant tosh.Cannon Fodder kind of works on mobile. It works as a fragment of its former self. There definitely are moments of the old genius. And, if you grew up on cult Amiga titles, it will bring a smirk of recognition to your face.
Pssst ... you didn't hear this from me, but isn't BitTorrent fantastic? It's the file-sharing phenomenon no one admits to using, yet with a third of all the web's traffic, someone clearly is.In little more than two years, it has usurped every peer-to-peer (P2P) client on the market and will remain the bete noire of the TV and movie industries until they declare it their saviour. It has happened before with Napster, and until someone devises a peercasting model that both pays and protects digital rights, no one expects this revolution to take a different course.BitTorrent is unique in several respects, which makes it a bigger threat than its file-sharing ancestors. Whereas most file-sharing systems allow you to download and upload files from one source at a time, BitTorrent takes chunks of data simultaneously from anyone online who has it. And where P2P used to be about sharing individual tracks, the combined power of BitTorrent and broadband means you can download the entire Beatles catalogue or an entire TV series as a single compressed file. Often it provides the only chance to see foreign (mainly US) TV content &mdash; so it is hardly surprising the big networks insist it represents a quantum leap in global piracy that cannot be tolerated for ingenuity alone.The problem for BitTorrent's opponents is there are no central servers storing the files or allocating their distribution, thereby depriving them of an easy legal route to shutting down the network. BitTorrent also dares to have an agenda. It has an anti-spam and anti-porn policy and, touchingly, allows users to make one-click donations to the PayPal account of Bram Cohen, its 29-year-old designer, who has resisted the temptation to sell out to big business before the lawyers close in.The agenda goes further by positively discriminating against "leechers" &mdash; those who download files and give nothing in return. By tracking your download and upload speeds, you receive progressively slower downloads the more you tweak your settings to restrict upload bandwidth. This leads to a genuine community spirit and a "pay it forward" attitude that does a better job of policing itself than other P2P networks.Luckily for opponents, BitTorrent is harder to use than other forms of file transfer, at least until you grasp the jargon. So, here's how to get started &mdash; but bear in mind the content you download may be illegal, and industry watchdogs are known to be monitoring Torrent sites.Find a clientThe original is BitTorrent (www.bittorrent.com), but newer ones such as Azureus (http://azureus.sourceforge.net) boast slicker interfaces. Even conventional P2P clients such as Shareaza (www.shareaza.com) are accepting Torrents, theoretically giving you the best of both worlds.Find a BitTorrent fileUnlike other P2Ps, you can't search for Torrent files from the client. Relatively safe search engines include IsoHunt (http://w3.isohunt.com/) and Torrent Reactor (http:// torrentreactor.net), although they can be disrupted by lawsuits and denial of service attacks, and unscrupulous engines are known to be mined with Spyware.Combine the twoThe Torrent itself is usually a small text file containing information about the download, so save it to your desktop and drag it over to the Client. This then connects to a Tracker server, which locates a Swarm of possible sources for that file. These could be Seeds (those sharing the whole file) or Peers (those downloading it like you). The most recent Torrents have the greatest number of Seeds, and so download faster.See the following FAQ for a detailed guide (http://btfaq.com/serve/cache/1.html) and remember to sweep all downloads for viruses and spyware before opening them.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
"Find a feeling, pass it on." So sang pop dreamers The Coral two summers ago: these days, it's the mantra of a new breed of musical bloggers.MP3 bloggers, as they are known, are people who hunt down and post musical gems &mdash; usually hard-to-find or niche MP3s &mdash; for others to discuss and, for a limited time, download.Simon Pott from Bristol is one. As main contributor toSpoilt Victorian Child, a group blog named after a 1993 B-side by The Fall, he thinks of himself as a kind of DJ for the internet."I can't help it," he says. "If you pick a record up or are listening to something great, you can't wait to play it out and share your excitement. When I'm at home listening through my records I get the same feeling."With US blogs such asFlux Blog,Music for RobotsandTofu Hutattracting thousands of visitors a day, MP3 blogs are growing in popularity. Others have more niche attractions:Breaking Ranksis a dancehall blog in the UK;Number One Songs in Heavenposts soul, funk and dance; andHoney Where You Been So Long?is dedicated to pre-war blues.James Morris is a London-born designer who runs his blogMoistworksin New York. "The great thing about visiting music blogs is finding that half-dozen or so whose taste you share and whose expertise you trust."But what about copyright? Most MP3 bloggers post tracks for a week to 10 days, and take them down when companies complain &mdash; thus hoping to avoid the wrath of the industry."Files are only up for a very limited time and are here for the express purpose of getting you to go out and buy more CDs," says the blurb from Number One Songs in Heaven. "Any lawyer-types with objections should let me know forthwith."Many bloggers do cooperate with artists and indie labels &mdash; and, in the case of the bigger blogs, PRs who represent record companies."I get sent quite a lot of CDs and MP3s from the indies," says Pott. "Also I get the occasional mail about the unsolicited tracks I post, from the artist concerned, saying: 'Thanks a lot for posting about them.' I always link to the artist's website and always offer a way of buying the album, so I guess they see it as a bit of free publicity."Matthew Perpetua of Fluxblog &mdash; which began in 2002, and is acknowledged as a pioneer of MP3 blogging &mdash; says the relationship between blogs and the industry can be healthy. "We want to help, and I think a lot of the labels respond to that. The songs are only up for a brief time, and it's very rare that anyone's going to put the thing up and trash it; a lot of these people are dying for good reviews and exposure."Things do go wrong. When an unfinished version of a recent Coldplay track was leaked to an MP3 blog, the company concerned was really upset, says Sean O'Connell, reviews editor at Rip and Burn magazine. But he adds: "It just got more people talking. I don't think it's done any harm."He calls MP3 blogs "legally grey", yet many bloggers still consider themselves too small to attract record companies' attention."I suspect MP3 blogs are responsi&shy;ble for an almost insignificant percentage of the music being illegally circulated these days," says Morris. "Peer-to-peer networks are obviously a far greater threat as far as the labels are concerned. And the industry seems to be built on the backs of an ever-decreasing number of artists; music blogs are not the place to go if you're an 18-year-old high school kid looking for the latest Eminem record."That view is only partially supported by the industry. "There's perhaps hundreds of thousands of infringements happening every day on the peer-to-peer network," says a spokesperson for theInternational Federation of the Phonographic Industry(IFPI), which represents record companies internationally, "so in comparison, one guy who puts an MP3 file on his blog is not going to attract a lot of attention &mdash; but it is still illegal," she stresses.Bloggers who post many tracks without permission, she says, are likely to receive a cease-and-desist letter.One blog that attracted the IFPI's attention was Moistworks. Morris says the organisation went straight to his web host to ask that tracks be removed. But Morris does not see himself as a kind of Robin Hood figure."I have a lot of fun writing about music, and sharing that music with people, but if an artist feels I am undercutting them, they have the last word. I have a plain-language disclaimer on my site: I'll take down anything, any time, just ask."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
"A team of Purdue University engineering students has won the annual Rube Goldberg Machine contest with an absurdly complex contraption for changing the batteries in a flashlight," reportsAP."This year's winning contraption by the Purdue Society of Professional Engineers included a simulated a rocket launch and a meteor impact on Earth."It was Purdue's third straight national title in the event."
Apple was puffing its chest out following a set of superb results for the last quarter,as wereported in the Guardian today.Apple delivered 5.3m iPods during the three-month period against 807,000 during the same quarter in 2004. The iPod, which has transformed the fortunes of the company, now accounts for almost one-third of Apple's revenues.An ebullient Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said the company is "firing on all cylinders" and promised "some incredible new products for the coming year".Desktop sales - including the Mac Mini - went up from 749,000 this time last year to 1.07m this year, encouraging what some analysts say is the iPod's halo effect.I'm not so convinced that the halo effect is of great importance, and I've not seen the figures on how much iTunes contributes to the company's success, but there's no doubt about it: Apple has found a way to make money.
Since I read thispostfrom Wonderland last week I've been mulling over how and whether to expand on Alice's original ideas concerning Microsoft's apparent "re-writing" of history in the latest release of Age of Empires.The crux is that the Native Americans in AoE III "are not so much a peoples to be exploited and killed off with pox-infected blankets as they are partners in your war against the other countries," according toKotaku.Alice argues that this kind of revisionism is wrong with a capital W, based upon theSerious Gamespremise that games teach. From the post:I have a quote in my head that I read, probably in Edge years ago, that goes along the lines of, "the majority of kids in the U.S. who know what a 'trebuchet' is learned it from Age of Empires". Can't dig it up, of course (grr), but .. if this revisionism is true - and it's only reported at the moment - I'd say that this could do a lot of harm.With the snowballing of interest in Serious Games and governmental support for the development ofgames in the classroom, should this be an issue that is seriously debated in development houses? According toBruce Shelley, game designer of AoE,"Q: How much actual historical value do you think there is in Age of Empires?A: Bill Gates asked me the same question. Our answer to him and the answer I always give is that we're in the entertainment business and not the educational business... I think Microsoft as a publisher loves that."(adapted fromhereby Jen viaWonderland)Intersting, particularly because the first AoE has frequently been used in classroom contexts to inspire interest in pre- and medieval history.I seem to recall that this debate flared up in Hollywood circles a few years back, and then promptly disappeared. Still, the it continues, including this thoughtful comment from Dan:There are plenty of examples of indigenous Americans allying themselves with Europeans, from the Spanish conquest of the Aztec empire through the final closing of the frontier. When accusing folks of revising history, it hel[ps [sic] to actually know said history; maybe reviewers should stick to the review and leave out the political commentary.
Another Thursday cannot go past without the latest edition of the Guardian's technology supplement hitting the streets (and screens).This week we lead with a piece abouthigh definition TV. It's been something of a revelation in the States, but over in the UK it could prove problematic - despite the fact that the BBC is already filming shows like Supervolcano (right) in the format. We examine the issues and find out why Europe might not take to HD in the same way as our transatlantic buddies have.Elsewhere we chat withJimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia and hear what games industry veteran Marcus Dyson has to say aboutmobile games.We also investigate the phenomenon ofMP3 bloggers- the legally dubious vanguard of new music - and wonder if Google has gone too far with itsAutoLinkfeatures.What else?Jack buys a new computer, Michael Cross looks atCanadian e-government, we look atIBM's anti-spam technologyand find outhow to use BitTorrent.And there's much more.Click herefor the complete rundown.
Intel has offered $10,000 for a mint copy of the 1965 issue of Electronics where Moore's Law was revealed,below, and the wanted post oneBayhas attracted an offer from Dave in sunny Redhill, Surrey.Moore, now retired, held a conference call yesterday morning, and Manek Dubash has a nice piece updating us on Moore's thinking:Moore's Law is dead, says Gordon Moore
"Malware and spyware writers are turning to blogs -- and away from traditional hosting and/or e-mail services -- because they offer large amounts of free storage space, they don't require any identity authentication to post, and most blog hosting services don't scan posted files for viruses, worms, or spyware," reportsTechWeb News.
Apple Computer last night reported a more than six-fold increase in quarterly profits as sales of the iPod music player continued to soar. Apple said that second-quarter earnings reached $290m (&#163;150m) compared with $46m a year earlier.Apple delivered 5.3m iPods during the three-month period against 807,000 during the same quarter in 2004. The iPod, which has transformed the fortunes of the company, now accounts for almost one-third of Apple's revenues.Group revenues were $3.2bn, 70% higher than a year ago, including about $1bn in iPod-related sales. An ebullient Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said the company is "firing on all cylinders" and promised "some incredible new products for the coming year".Wall Street analysts have begun talking about the "halo" effect. Consumers, they argue, are falling in love with their iPods, prompting them to go out and buy other products including Apple computers. In the second quarter deliveries of its Macintosh computers reached their highest levels in four years. Apple delivered 1.07m desktops, laptops and the new stripped-down Mac Mini, compared with 749,000 units a year earlier.Apple has stepped up its rate of new product launches and aims to introduce the next version of its operating system, called "Tiger" later this month.At the MacWorld show in San Francisco in January, the firm introduced the Mac Mini, selling for $499. Known as the "headless Mac" the unit comes without keyboard or monitor and has been launched to appeal to the market traditionally out of Apple's reach. It also launched the iPod Shuffle, an entry-level iPod selling for $99. Smaller than a packet of bubblegum, the Shuffle can hold 120 songs. The company's share price has increased three fold in the past 12 months.Apple has transformed the music-buying market with the iPod and its iTunes service, offering songs for 99 cents. Some in Wall Street have expressed concerns that Apple is sticking to proprietary software; iTunes only works with the iPod. The success has prompted a wave of competition from Sony, Microsoft and Napster but they have made little impact.Mr Jobs has revitalised Apple since he returned to the company in 1997 after a hiatus of more than a decade.It has embarked on an ambitious retail strategy and opened its first Apple Store in Britain on Regent Street, London, last year.
Ask an expert to name a government that is good at IT, and chances are the reply will be Canada. For the fifth year running, the country has topped a global league table of progress in putting public services on the web. It scores highly in UN surveys of e-readiness. And a major new academic study suggests Canada is the country that comes closest to getting IT contracts right. Such accolades are of interest to other governments trying to leap into the digital age &mdash; especially in Britain, where Canada has replaced Australia and Singapore as the example to emulate.Canada's secret, according to management consultancy Accenture, is a willingness to ask citizens what they want. The firm last week published its annual survey of e-government in 22 countries in North America, Europe, Africa and Asia. As in the past four years, Canada topped the league. (Britain came 10th.)Coming top in e-government is not just a matter of putting official procedures on the web. Over the past few years, most advanced countries have created online channels for public services such as paying taxes and applying for permits. The reason the Accenture survey places Canada so far ahead of Britain &mdash; in fact, in a league of its own &mdash; is that it has used the web to re-think how public services are run.Accenture gives highest marks to governments using IT to join up services for the benefit of the "customer". Examples include New York City's "311" number, which consolidates 40 organisations and 14 pages of telephone numbers into a single contact centre. "Citizens can use the service for information on virtually everything &mdash; noise complaints, landlord complaints, subway or bus information, traffic signal outages, potholes and towed vehicles."France, not traditionally renowned for customer-centric bureaucracy, last year launched a similar offering. All&ocirc;, Service Public (dial 3939) promises to answer any request for administrative information in less than three minutes.Marcus Robinson, an Accenture e-government expert, says the Canadians have long taken the idea of "citizen focus" seriously. A bilingual federal web portal is designed from the point of view of citizens and businesses, rather than government agencies. A new service, eContact, now being piloted, directs citizens to information regardless of jurisdiction or location. The web system has a natural language processor and a search engine to interpret the citizen's query and find answers from a database of questions and contact data provided by jurisdictions across Canada.Individual agencies show an equal willingness to innovate. Robinson contrasts Canada's e-service for job-seekers with its British counterpart. "JobCentrePlus is perfectly good, but the Canadian equivalent is hugely more functionally rich. An agent helps the applicant construct a CV. If you log what you're interested in, they'll send you alerts when jobs come up. It's a nice example of taking a fairly simple concept and making it much more attractive to users." That in turn means more people are likely to use it.Canada starts with some cultural advantages in e-government. About 70% of Canadians use the internet regularly and about 50% expect most of their dealings with government to be online. Geography also plays a part: as in Australia, when a physical government office is hundreds of miles away, there is a strong incentive to make contact online. Community websites thrive in remote areas: a typical example iswww.citysoup.caa one-stop interactive website based in the small communities of Port Moody and Coquitlam, British Columbia, through which residents pay parking fines, sign up for volunteer activities, book swimming lessons or find a child minder.As a government, Canada has a more interventionist style than its neighbour to the south: it beat the US in Accenture's rankings largely because of its performance in "proactive communications and education". One example was the federal government's anti-smoking campaign, which involves a programme of daily emailed messages of support and information.Accenture has an interest in talking up interest in re-inventing government machinery, because the process typically involves hiring expensive consultancies. However, other surveys tend to support its findings. The UN's latest survey of 191 member states ranked Canadaseventh in "e-government readiness".Another soon-to-be-published academic study ranks Canada, along with the Netherlands, as the most successful countries at managing IT contractors.Author Helen Margetts, professor of e-government at the University of Oxford, says the secret is to place small contracts and keep expertise inside government.Ironically, Canada gets little credit at home for its achievement. Accenture found that only 41% of Canadians felt government departments worked together effectively. It comments that even the world e-government champion is "not moving at the speed its citizens expect".Links:Canadian governmenthttp://canada.gc.caCity of Coquitlam, British Columbiawww.coquitlam.ca/default.htm&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
1) Philips Wireless Music Centre (about &pound;500, June).It might not be the most sophisticated or versatile wireless music system, but the Philips WACS700 could propel multi-room digital music systems into the mainstream. The main unit &mdash; which has a 40GB hard disk, CD player for ripping music to the system, and speakers &mdash; looks good and is easy to use. It connects to speaker/wireless tuner-only slave devices via 802.11g Wi-Fi. Owners can have up to six units on one system. The only drawbacks are that it is not compatible with iTunes and won't let users transfer MP3s to a portable device.2) NHJ VTV-201 (about &pound;129, May).If you can't wait for TV on your mobile &mdash; which will probably reach the UK next year &mdash; how about a wrist watch with a screen and mini analogue TV tuner? With the VTV-201, you can watch any terrestrial channel while listening to the broadcast on earphones. But it only shows an hour of programmes before the battery needs recharging.3) Slingbox (about &pound;250, September).The Slingbox, one of the hottest items at January's CES gadget fest, is a set-top receiver that enables you to watch whatever is on your home TV on a PC wherever you are, as long as you have a fast internet connection. The Slingbox takes the signal of whatever is on the set, encodes it in Windows Media format, then retransmits it to your personalised website. It also offers full control of devices in your home so you can access programmes stored on hard disk recorders or change channels while watching live TV.4) T-Mobile MDA IV (about &pound;300, July).The MDA IV, the latest in a series of Microsoft Windows-powered PDA-style smartphones from Taiwanese manufacturer HTC, has two key innovations. First, it can be used horizontally, a bit like Nokia's Communicator series phones. To make the most of this, it sports a full and easy-to-use Qwerty keypad. Second, it is the first Microsoft-based phone compatible with 3G, so users can download large files quickly and access the web at high speeds.Other products to watch out for:Sony PSPIs this the ultimate handheld games console? It's expected to reach the UK in June.Sony NW-HD5At last, a real rival to the iPod. Expected next month.Motorola's iTunes-compatible phoneRumoured to be the e790 and expected in the UK in late summer.Nikon D50Successor to the ultra popular D70 digital SLR camera. On its way soon.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Fearsomely goodDoom 3Xbox, &pound;39.99Vicarious Visions/Activision, ****The light flickers, bouncing off the metal pipes. It's dark, you're scared and what the hell is that noise? Welcome to Doom 3, the latest in the classic shooter series, and possibly the scariest game on the Xbox. It's one of the best looking, too. The graphics create a slimy, dank environment and the nasty inhabitants are marvellously depicted, which adds to the unsettling atmosphere.While the graphics may have moved on from their pixelated origins, however, the gameplay has not. This is still kill or be killed &mdash; although there is, at least, a pretence of something deeper, with the odd minor puzzle thrown in.You are sent to Mars to investigate some mysterious deaths, and it isn't long before everything goes haywire and you are stuck in an underground base, in desperate need of light. The inhabitants aren't exactly welcoming. Doom 3 uses every horror cliche &mdash; monsters suddenly appearing or scuttling across the dimly lit floor &mdash; and regularly makes you jump.Unfortunately, a reliance on these shock tactics reduces their effectiveness. And, ultimately, shooting things does pall after a while. Which is where online comes in. The normal deathmatch modes are fine, but it is the cooperative section that really shines. Here, players work together to defeat virtual foes. It is great fun and certainly one of the best examples of Xbox online gaming. Pretty dumb it may be, but Doom 3 is a fine distraction.Greg HowsonPatience is a mustSwat 4PC, &pound;29.99Irrational/Vivendi Universal Games, ***If what you seek from a computer game is to experience thrills that would be too dangerous to encounter in the real world, then you may think this is one of the finest games ever. It casts you as the leader of an American Swat team, commanding a squad of four armed-to-the-teeth uber-cops.State-of-the-art graphics and impeccable artificial intelligence make this an adrenaline-inducing experience. But, annoyingly, Swat 4 harks back to the dark ages of PC games, when control systems involved using half the keys on your keyboard. After the tutorial, where you must memorise the functions of about 15 keys, you yearn for an old-fashioned keyboard map.If you have staying power, however, you will eventually work out how to play what is a good game. Your men can be split into two squads of two, and commanded like the soldiers in Full Spectrum Warrior. You can lead from the front, getting involved in the action as if it were a first-person shooter.The technology includes helmet-mounted cameras and the Optiwand, which looks around corners. The missions are believable and plentiful, and the game is equally compelling when played online or cooperatively. Just be prepared to tear your hair out until you learn the badly designed control system. It is worth the effort.Steve BoxerStretches limitsEmpire Earth IIPC, &pound;34.99Mad Doc/Sierra, ***Of all genres, real-time strategy (RTS) seems to have stood still the longest &mdash; for most of its 10-year history. With most successful RTS brands in their third or fourth instalments, the question "where next?" is hard to ignore. Empire Earth, for example, gave you the whole of human history, starting with hunter gatherers and ending with nuclear bombardment &mdash; how do you follow that?Wisely, this avoids that dilemma by severing all obvious links to its predecessor. You still have 10,000 years of human history and 14 civilisations, but this time, it is a more tactical game &mdash; about dividing and conquering, rather than consolidation. The emphasis has changed from open-ended base building to tightly scripted scenarios that force you down a single tactical path. Don't expect multiple solutions to real-life events &mdash; this is more a homage to human evolution than a genuine reflection of it.The interface boasts a few clever tricks, though, such as "picture in picture" (to keep track of units) and a single icon to let you coordinate attacks. It is also massive, with three single-player campaigns and many multiplayer modes. However, having to click through many default messages makes it punishing on the fingers. If you like conventional RTS games, this stretches the template to its limits. Now let's see who has the imagination to take it forward.&#183;Keep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atblogs.guardian.co.uk/games/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
HardwareQuality cutsSony has confirmed it is to bring its premium Qualia range to the UK. The high-end series of devices, which includes a tiny digital camera and a gold/silver-plated MiniDisc personal, initially went on sale in Japan in late 2003. The first products to be released in the UK include the Qualia 004, a high definition home cinema projector scheduled for next month, and the Qualia 005, a HDTV-compatible LCD TV with a resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels, which will be released in the autumn.www.sony.co.ukConsole warsMicrosoft is attempting to get the jump on Sony by announcing its next-generation Xbox 2 games console on MTV on May 12-13, instead of waiting for the important E3 games trade exhibition. Last week, Sony tried to upstage Microsoft, saying it would unveil its PlayStation 3 on May 16, a few hours before Microsoft's E3 event, and one day before Nintendo's. Microsoft is expected to highlight its new machine's HDTV, entertainment and online features in the 30-minute MTV special, but may upset the games trade by revealing things to fans before it tells them.Digital camerasSlim snapsThe latest in Sony's superslim T-range of compact digital cameras will debut in the UK next month. Already on sale in Japan, the DSC-T7 is just 9.8mm thick at its thinnest point, but includes a 2.5in LCD screen and a Carl Zeiss Vario-Tessar lens with a 3x optical zoom. It can take 5.1 megapixel images. The T7, which is finished in stainless steel, also includes a power management system that apparently extends shooting time.www.sony.co.ukVideo chatTake up SpacesMicrosoft has announced MSN Messenger 7 with a free Video Conversation service "powered by Logitech technology" for one-click chatting online. Although MSN has offered video chat for years, the new service is said to provide good quality full-screen video. It also makes it easier to share and swap photos. Microsoft adds that UK customers will soon be able to send SMS text messages from MSN Messenger to mobile phones. Finally, MSN Messenger works with MSN Spaces, Microsoft's blogging service, which has just completed its beta test with more than 4.5m Spaces created.http://messenger.msn.co.ukhttp://spaces.msn.co.ukTelevisionsGet setKorean company Humax is aiming for those who want a one box solution for their living room, with the LGB32-TPVR, a 32in LCD TV that also boasts a 40GB hard disk video recorder. The set, left, comes with a pair of Freeview digital terrestrial TV tuners, so users can record one digital channel while watching another. Up to 30 hours of programmes can be stored on its hard disk. The screen itself is WXGA (wide extended graphics array) 1366 x 768 resolution, although, as it does not feature an HDMI (high definition multimedia interface) socket, it is not compatible with forthcoming Sky high definition TV broadcasts. It will be on sale shortly for &pound;1,700.www.humaxdigital.com/ukMedia playersPlay into your handsMP3 Plus has unveiled the T7, pictured above, one of the first compact USB-endowed Flash memory-based devices to sport a colour screen and feature video playback. The T7, available in 512MB, 1GB or 2GB versions, features a 1.3in screen that can play back moving images with resolution of 120 x 160 pixels at 25 frames per second. The model also boasts MP3 playback and is compatible with copyright-protected Windows Media Audio files from online music stores such as Napster. Other features include an FM tuner and a voice-recording option. The T7, which is on sale shortly, will retail for &pound;109 (512MB), &pound;130 (1GB) and &pound;219 (2GB).www.mp3-plus.net&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris and Jack SchofieldStat of the weekData troubleComputer crime costs British business almost &pound;2.5bn a year &mdash; but almost half is down to insiders, says the National High Tech Crime Unit. Few firms seem concerned that data could be downloaded to personal media devices. Just 13% crack down on iPods and the like.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Starter phoneAre there any simple mobile phones for technophobes that just make and receive calls in the easiest possible way?Janet GyfordJack Schofield replies:I'd have thought any of the cheapest Nokia phones would fill the bill, such as the Nokia 1100. These have the advantage that if you ever get stuck, almost anybody will be able to show you what to do. The main disadvantage of the 1100 is that it is only a dual band phone. If you travel a lot, you will want a tri-band model such as the Nokia 6100 world phone at around twice the price. The 6100 has a calculator and currency converter and it supports Java, but at least it doesn't have a built-in camera!CD catalogueI have amassed a large number of CD-Roms with music files, photos and documents on them. Is there a straightforward way of producing a list of the files on each?TonyJS:I've used Mike's CDScan because it produces plain text files, is very simple, and free (www.geocities.com/mmonti_1/CDScan.htm). However, there are another dozen freeware alternatives atwww. nonags.com/nonags/diskcat.html, and Happy Dude's Filelist would seem to do what you want. There are also lots of free directory printers, such as Karen's Directory Printer v5.1 (www.karenware.com/powertools/ptdirprn.asp). This lets you control the attributes printed, and you can easily print to disk. Other suggestions are welcome.NoadwareWhile trying to follow previous suggestions to clear my PC of ads and pop-ups, I've come acrosswww.noadware.netwhich on the face of it looks pretty good. It comes up with all sorts of stuff I find it difficult to believe I have. Is this program reliable?John TollickJS:Noadware was rated poor by Adware Report, which said it was "unable to detect real adware on our computer, and instead tried to fool us with 'false positives'. Unfortunately, some of the adware programs it claimed to detect were actually operating system files and legitimate software" (www.adwarereport.com/mt/archives/000023.html). Noadware has also been criticised for the overenthusiastic marketing of some of its affiliates. You might also take a look at these two links, the second being to Rentacoder:www.webhelper4u.com/clones/bilalahmed.htmlandhttp://tinyurl.com/42wafI recommend sticking to SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy (www.safer-networking.org, with a hyphen), which is free. If you want a commercial product, go for Webroot's Spy Sweeper or Lavasoft's Ad-aware Pro.Syncing feelingWhen I power down my work PC, it has to end a program called WCES manager trunk window. My IT manager said it was probably a spy program. Any ideas?Leif The Road WarriorJS:I'd bet you synchronise a Windows CE-based handheld or PDA with Microsoft Outlook on your PC, and therefore have ActiveSync (WCESCOMM) running in the background. Download ActiveSyncToggle from Answers That Work: this lets you stop and start ActiveSync so it's only loaded when you need it. Go to:www.answersthatwork.com/Downright_pages/downrights_networking.htm.Backchat&#183;Mike Cowlishaw asked about copying SVHS tapes to DVD. The consensus of reader opinion is that he will get good results with a DVD recorder with an S-Video input as long as he uses that and not the yellow phono connector. Bob Auger says: "Video adaptors with the necessary S-Video inputs can be bought from &pound;50 upwards. In general, the better the adaptor the higher the image quality of the DVD will be." William Thomas adds that if you don't have an S-Video input, "even a composite signal from an S-VHS source (eg Scart or phono plug) will be better than an equivalent originating on ordinary VHS". Thanks to all who responded.&#183;David Lund wanted to convert a QuickTime video to VCD for his DVD player, and I suggested, with reservations, the free TMPGEnc. Marc Baldwin of Wildlife Online (www.wildlifeonline.me.uk) provided a comprehensive response that's too long to print. The gist of it is to buy QuickTime Pro and use File|Export to convert Movie to AVI, before re-encoding the result in DivX or XviD with VirtualDub. "I know this sounds like a lot of work, but I find it produces better results with less fuss and cursing than using TMPGEnc," he says. "The only point to be aware of is that conversion of MOV (and, especially, RM) files can often lead to considerable hair-pulling when trying to sort out the audio, which will more often than not be out of sync."&#183;Mike Fraser was looking for an online bookmark manager to replace Backflip. Tony Franks says: "I've been using Bookmark Tracker (www.bookmarktracker.com) for years. While not the snazziest interface in the world, it is pretty bombproof and completely reliable."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
'The clarity is so good, you feel like you are at the movies," says Jack, a plumber from Florida. "I think it's probably the greatest bit of technology to come along in the past 40 years or so," says Mike, a 23-year-old student from Massachusetts. "It's that good." Most new technologies have their fans, but some have more than others &mdash; in north America, high definition television (HDTV) has been hailed as an entertainment revolution.High definition broadcasts are wowing viewers with their crystal-clear images, perfect in an age of widescreen home cinema viewing. The concept behind high definition is simple: fitting more information on screens. The European standard, known as PAL, transmits only 576 viewable lines (out of 625 lines) to a TV screen, regardless of its size. The European standard for HDTV, on the other hand, delivers either 720 or 1080 lines &mdash; a marked improvement.HDTV, driven by coverage of sports such as American football, baseball and basketball, has firmly embedded itself in the US television market. Viewers enjoy the improved picture quality, and it is popular both inside the home and out of it. There are an estimated 6,000 sports bars around America showing HDTV, and nearly half of the country's consumers are planning to buy a high definition set for their home.In Britain, where the broadcasting industry's emphasis has been on digital TV, there are no high definition services. But that is about to change. Some time next summer &mdash; perhaps for the World Cup in Germany &mdash; Sky will usher in a new era of British broadcasting by deliv&shy;ering the first HDTV transmissions for the UK.The company claims its service will put four times more data on to a screen than traditional transmissions, yielding "greater depth and tone of colours and textures, delivering a home-viewing experience similar to that offered in cinemas".Using sport to drive a new premium platform is a familiar model for the Rupert Murdoch empire. Sky came to dominate the British satellite television market in Britain thanks to a judicious, and expensive, decision to make Premiership football the jewel in its crown. Analysts believe HDTV will follow the same path."This will be a top-tier service for those who want it," says Dermot Nolan, a director of the TBS consultancy. "They certainly won't stop showing Premiership football to ordinary viewers &mdash; there are just too many subscriptions. But Sky is not a charitable foundation &mdash; it is doing this because it can make a profit. If they get a million subscribers to pay &pound;5 a month for high definition services, that's &pound;60m a year on the bottom line."And with figures like that, Sky is not the only broadcaster showing an interest. The BBC is already filming some shows in high definition &mdash; such as last month's drama-documentary Supervolcano &mdash; even if it does not yet broadcast the format.Despite the radical effect HDTV is having in America, however, British broadcasters and hardware manufacturers must overcome a series of hurdles before Britons can tune in to it. Some industry figures worry that, in the short term at least, high definition may have a very limited impact on UK viewers.There are a number of reasons why these fears may be well-founded. While there seems to be a real commitment to delivering HDTV in the UK, some aren't convinced the new transmissions will make any difference to what viewers actually see on their screens.American analogue TV does not use the 625-line standard we are familiar with in Europe, employing instead the lower grade 525-line NTSC standard. This means the change from analogue to high definition is more keenly felt by US consumers. British customers &mdash; used to a better quality of picture and already switching to digital signals in droves &mdash; will only feel the benefit on large screens. Convincing them to make the change may be harder.Most British broadcasters are also expected to debut the 720-line services rather than the 1080-line version. Such a move could short-change viewers, says Patrick Jocelyn, a director of Discreet, which makes systems for TV post-production facilities."If 720 is offered, I think some consumers won't see the immediate benefits over standard definition. They may think twice if the cost is much greater for the television set, receiver and service technology."For the broadcaster, it will be much more expensive to distribute 1080 rather than 720, so the final decision may well come down to the cost of transmission."Tuning into the new signals will also involve consumers upgrading their hardware &mdash; not only their Sky boxes, but probably their TV set, too. To receive the transmissions, viewers require a set that is capable of displaying superior quality images, and can connect using a High Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI). They also need to use software that can handle High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP) &mdash; the system Sky will use to maintain copyright control of its transmissions.While most large, flat screen sets launched this year by major electron&shy;ics brands such as Sony and Philips are high definition-compatible, many of the LCD and plasma sets already sold won't work with HDTV transmissions. Some estimates put the figure as high as 90%.As for the millions of viewers in the UK without a satellite dish, they may have a very long wait before they see any kind of HDTV transmission. In theory, broadcasters such as the BBC could offer HDTV over the same digital terrestrial system that delivers Freeview, but there are problems with the extra bandwidth required."I don't expect to be seeing high-definition broadcasts on terrestrial TV for some time due to the current lack of bandwidth," argues Dale Heathcote, of LCD screen manufacturer Humax. "That's an issue that won't be resolved until the government switches off the analogue TV transmissions."Although some pilot areas have already had their analogue TV signals turned off, it is not likely to happen on a national scale for another decade. This prevents analogue being re-allocated for new services, stymieing the possibility of free-to-air high-definition services. And even if terrestrial services could be employed, there are doubts about whether it would be too expensive."It's not clear that a free-to-air HDTV service can work," agrees Nolan. "It certainly hasn't worked in America. The first generation of high definition was developed back in 1993, but it has had a lot of problems and lags a long way behind European digital terrestrial television. It is only cable and satellite HDTV that has been a success because they can charge for premium content."But satellite and terrestrial transmissions aren't the only vehicle open for broadcasters. Cable providers NTL and Telewest are both hoping to offer HDTV transmission services next year. Delivering HDTV across the internet is also relatively cheap and easy to operate.To view such transmissions, however, users will need a dedicated set-top box or a Windows Media Center PC, as well as an ultra-fast broadband connection. Despite an uptake in high-speed internet, most broadband in Britain simply isn't quick enough."HDTV over broadband requires at least 7Mbps per stream," says Roy Kirsopp, the sales director of Amino Communications. "Until the UK broadband infrastructure &mdash; which uses a standard DSL system that in practice has a maximum bandwidth of 4Mbps &mdash; is brought into line with other parts of the world, HDTV via broadband will not be a reality."And the standards that people expect from their TVs and computers are different, says Geoff Zeider of Spirent, a company that manufactures test equipment for broadband systems. "IPTV &#91;Internet Protocol television&#93; is a new technology, and while PC users might not complain about buffering in some video streaming on a small screen, if it happens while they are watching HDTV they will be very disappointed."Ultimately, though, TV set manufacturers remain confident that the Sky launch will lead to consumers swapping their old sets for HD-compatible flat screens. "It won't be too long before the momentum of HD will make it the next big thing in the home entertainment market," says Alan Joannidi, Sharp UK's senior LCD TV product manager.There are a lot of hardware manufacturers who hope he is right. But even if it takes off, HDTV could prove to be more like the leap from analogue to digital TV, which only offered a slight improvement in picture quality, rather than the fundamental difference between VHS tape and DVD.Sky, however, has a track record in using premium content to drive people towards new platforms. While only an avid TV fan will be tempted to shell out for both premium services and new hardware, if Sky can find enough interested consumers, it could push them towards otherwise unattractive HD services, despite all the barriers to entry."Wags often say that HDTV stands for 'high deficit TV' or 'high demographic TV'," says Nolan. "And to an extent, that's true. But there's no doubt it will be a very successful and profitable niche for Sky."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
There's a palpable feeling that mobile games are about to go big. Established publishers such as THQ are creating mobile divisions, while companies such as iFone and I-Play (formerly Digital Bridges) are springing up. It is reminiscent of the early 90s, when PC gaming was about to break. For years, games publishers paraded a string of unremarkable titles to disinterested journalists. Then Doom happened, and the world changed forever.Mobile phone gaming has yet to deliver a killer application. And before it does, the hurdles preventing this burgeoning market from reaching its full potential have to be removed. There are 60m handsets in the UK, 25% of which have colour screens and are capable of playing games. It's a potentially huge market, says iFone's marketing manager, Enda Carey: "The numbers are just frightening &mdash; in 12 months, everyone in the UK will have a colour Java-capable phone, and in countries like India and China, the potential is huge".Mobile games can be difficult to get on to the handset, and that's when they are available &mdash; one major operator's games website is down for "refurbishment". When games are available, they often only work on a selection of handsets, which limits the potential audience.Handsets also often remain "hot" for only a few months, so by the time a game is written &mdash; the development cycle is between six and nine months &mdash; the handset may be obsolete. And games themselves are not well designed for the phone's form factor, which is by necessity vertical and by preference small, while a game-pad is typically horizontal.The games industry wants to extend established console game brands on to mobiles, but figures show users prefer "casual" games, such as Pool and Tetris.Users are predominantly male, which narrows the market, but, says 8-Bit Games' business development director, Dave Vout: "Girls are the biggest downloaders of ringtones and wallpapers, so they are obviously in tune with downloading content ... just the game subject matter seems not to appeal."Finally, gamers seeking a mobile experience are being courted by exciting new hardware, such as the Sony PSP, Gizmondo and Nintendo DS.This is a considerable array of obstacles, but the mobile gaming market is only four years old, and is changing rapidly. The problem of usability is being addressed with innovative form factors, such as Sony Ericsson's S700i, the keypad of which swivels to facilitate the ergonomic advantage of horizontal control combined with a vertical screen.Publishers are watching the market closely, adapting the content to match demand, and the networks are bringing new technology, such as the Japanese i-Mode system, to Europe, which promises more and better content.But the market still awaits that killer app. iFone has just released Lemmings, developed by 8-Bit Games. It is a port of an old Amiga game that is very addictive and ideally suited to mobile devices. But, says Vout: "Killer apps must be exclusive to a format. Lemmings is basically a clone of the Amiga version, so while it's great, it's not the killer app. That'll be something that uses GPRS and the camera and person- to-person commun- ication to its fullest."Top 5: Mobile games1Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?2Pub Dart3Pub Pool4Tetris5PacManSource: Leisure software charts compiled by ChartTrack, (C)2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
There has never been a product like it. Having come from nowhere and achieved near 100% saturation of its primary market, the mobile phone is poised for fresh conquests. Camera phones are displacing digital cameras for most uses, as the Pope's funeral confirmed, and will soon push conventional cameras to the sidelines for all but special occasions.On Saturday, the BBC broadcast the Grand National and other races to mobiles for the first time. There was only a small take-up (300 watched it on 3) but it is part of a global move to mobile TV.China has just launched a mobiles-only TV drama. Verizon did something similar in the US in January. It is pricey &mdash; up to &pound;1.50 a minute on pay-as-you-go for the horse race &mdash; but prices will drop as volume grows, especially if the television signal is broadcast so it does not use up expensive GPRS bandwidth. Advertisers are salivating at the prospect of a switch in advertising from (declining) television to mobile phones used interactively with TV programmes. This is behind last week's statement by Andrew Robertson of BBDO, the advertising agency, that wireless devices would soon become the most important medium to reach tech-savvy consumers.Ericsson this week showed how a mobile can interact with a television programme in a continuous way, as well as texting, enabling advertisers to have an ongoing relationship with customers. Many pundits think mobile games are about to create a mass market. iPlay (formerly Digital Bridges) is launching a series of "one thumb" games, which are easier to play on mobiles compared with the recent fashion of re-branding console games.Phone manufacturers are making a concerted attempt to break Apple's dominance of downloaded music by making phones dedicated to music. Sony has unveiled its Walkman phone, which has been well received as a possible challenger to the iPod. Although iPods can carry thousands of tunes, research has shown that only a tiny fraction are played. As the capacity of phones goes up, the attraction of the iPod may diminish, particularly to the majority of mobile owners without an iPod. If music phones use Bluetooth wireless technology, people won't even know what device you have.In Japan, the market in ebooks is expanding by 80% a year, partly because young people have taken to reading novels on their mobiles. Phones are becoming casinos, radios, and even tracking devices, as well as having video-conferencing facilities, as manufacturers exploit the potential of the most versatile consumer device ever invented. There are now more than 50 functions on a mobile phone that could in theory be sold separately.Entertainment and conversation are moving outside the home and are now experienced on the move. A recent survey found that consumers would rather be without their TV than their mobile.With components shrinking and processors getting more powerful, there are lots of innovations in store. Few predicted the success of mobiles 10 years ago. Goodness knows what will be coming to a screen near you in 10 years time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Vatican sitewww.vatican.va/holy_father/john_paul_ii/Unofficial Jean Paul IIwww.zpub.com/un/pope/Wikipedia Jean Paul IIen.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pope_John_Paul_IIThe Pope Blogthepopeblog.blogspot.comHistorywww.newadvent.org/cathen/12260a.htm&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
IBM has announced a prototype anti-spam technology that it claims is eliminating 99% of incoming spam in lab tests. The software, FairUCE (Fair use of Unsolicited Commercial Email), looks at the identity of the email sender, as opposed to the more common technique of filtering spam by analysing the content of emails.FairUCE sits on your email server and works by looking at the email address, domain and originating computer. This "identity management" approach to spam links the inbound email back to its original Internet Protocol (IP) address using lookup databases provided by the sending domain, and by referring to caches of IP information held locally. The sender domain identity and related information are the only things considered.The technology is similar to other authentication schemes, notably Microsoft's Sender ID and Sender Policy Framework (SPF), formerly known as Sender Permitted From. The key difference is that these solutions require each domain to publish lists of authorised domains, whereas FairUCE uses existing domain information to create its own "reputation" rating.IBM says FairUCE makes an "educated guess" about the sender's legitimacy, and stresses that IBM sees it being used in parallel with other systems, such as content filtering.FairUCE marks incoming mail as either authorised or unauthorised, which means it suspects it is fake or "spoofed" (not sent from the address claimed). The email administrator can choose to either automatically send an email "inquiry" to the sender, or simply to show the flags to the user. The inquiry can be as simple as a check box to confirm that the email really originated from the sender. For this reason, critics say the technology relies on what is known as "challenge/response" methodology &mdash; a technique that became popular two years ago, whereby unknown senders are sent emails asking them to confirm their identity before their email is actually delivered.Challenge/response systems have been criticised for potentially swamping the net with challenge emails, and are seen as ineffective because they are often ignored.IBM appears keen to portray its system as being different from these. Speaking recently at an IBM forum, FairUCE developer Mathew Nelson, of the IBM Advanced Technology Group, said: "I say 'inquiry' rather than 'challenge', because we're not asking if the sender is human, just if they are who they say they are, at least to the domain level. Unfortunately, most people stop reading the moment they see the word 'challenge'. They tell me it's been tried before and that it cannot possibly work, because of mailing lists, legitimate bulk mail, receipts, you name it. Please don't be one of those people."When you introduce sender identity, the game changes completely. You're no longer sending challenges to mailing lists, or legitimate bulk mail, or the vast majority of people who use email. You're no longer sending challenges to legitimate businesses, small or large, or vanity domains, or Hotmail, Yahoo, AOL etc users."But Andrew Lochart, senior director of marketing at email security firm Postini, is not impressed. "I don't see how this has raised the bar," he says. "We looked at sender identification systems and decided they don't really help. The main problem is that spammers can easily get legitimate domains for as little as &pound;30 for 10 years. So they often use dozens of legitimate domains to send emails that look valid. We believe it is far more important to monitor 'behaviour' because a good domain can go bad very quickly by virtue of being taken over by a spammer."Postini is one of many firms that quarantine domains that appear to be sending spam &mdash; by virtue of screening the content and constantly looking for patterns of activity from any given domain.David Feeney, business development manager for Symantec's Bright&shy;mail, is more upbeat. "IBM is right to see this as a complementary approach," he says. "We will have to wait and see how well this technology works. My main concern is that it can only stop 80% of spam emails, so users still need to think about methods to deal with the rest. If it proves effective as a way of reducing the volume of spam coming into the network, then that is definitely a good thing."Some critics say a problem with the technology is that it would sometimes be challenging PCs that have been taken over by spammers (known as bots, or robot machines), but that such computers are rarely email servers, so the challenge emails would not get through to them. One developer in a forum on BroadbandReport.com added: "If your machine is taken over to send 5m spam emails, it could trigger 5m challenge emails, effectively amounting to a denial of service attack on your machine."IBM hits back at critics by arguing that content filters require significant maintenance, and have to do a great deal of processing to handle the many complex rules that are applied to weed out spam. IBM also plans to add Sender Policy Framework to the technology so that SPF-enabled domains will not be challenged.Take-up of the technology is likely to be limited because it is only available for Linux-based mail transfer agents using Postfix, which is far less widely used than SendMail and Qmail.LinksFairUCE is available through IBM AlphaWorks and can be downloaded from the company's website:www.alphaworks.ibm.com/tech/fairuce&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Networks meshIt was a great article by Dave Birch (Second sight, April 7). I am the broadband development officer for North Yorkshire county council and this is exactly the sort of approach I want to get across to residents. Funding from the EU sponsors my position, which is to educate people on the benefits of broadband and stimulate demand for next generation services, such as the Sky+ service mentioned.Wireless/mesh community networks are springing up all over. Some are fun applications, such as broadcasting local maggot races, while some are more practical, such as community-based CCTV or tourism cameras. Others are almost professional, such as the ex-roadie who has a mixing studio and streams local bands' music around their community network.The communities feel they are taking back control of their services after large monopolies have continually imposed bulk services and corresponding charges on a one-size-fits-all basis.Gilly GardnerNorth YorkshireHidden costsI agree that people want online video capability. Capping connections will also be a big issue. Every day we see an ISP offering "unlimited " connections but covering themselves with fair usage policies hidden in their terms and conditions. Oftel must make it compulsory for ISPs to accept migration, which would open up broadband to greater competition, and make ISPs more transparent.Roger PrinceLlandudno, North WalesPrecious simplicityI agree with Dave Birch. How many millions of PCs in homes across the UK are hardly using an ounce of their processing power or are stuffed up by viruses. How many contain precious digital photos that will be lost because the owner knows nothing of file management and back-ups?PCs are being purchased and used like consumer electronics, but they are not. They can be complicated beasts. A simpler device to handle the killer applications of email, video and music has to be forthcoming.Then again, nobody seems to have woken up to the fact that no one uses the settings on their micowave/ video/mobile etc... so what hopeRichard EskinsManchesterUntenable stanceSean Dodson's report (Get mapping, April 7) provides graphic illustration that Ordnance Survey's status is becoming untenable. As a public agency it is forced to raise revenue, yet most of this is obtained by charging other parts of government.Much other government data is freely available as a consequence of Her Majesty's Stationery Office's simple "Click Use" licensing. A dramatic example is the 2001 census, whose detailed results are easily accessible on the National Statistics website, and which is consequently used by far more people than its 1991 predecessor.Information collected for government purposes, and largely at public expense, should be seen as part of the national infrastructure and made freely available.Keith DugmoreLondonPolitical correctionBill Clinton's administration didn't "descramble" GPS in May 2000 (Get mapping, April 7). Instead, it switched off an error signal that had made it accurate only for military receivers. This was a political decision because Europe was deciding whether to launch a civilian, satellite constellation for global navigation. Europe went ahead with Galileo and hopes to capture a large share of the valuable market for the hardware and software that will be needed to receive the more accurate and reliable signals.Max GlaskinBrightonNeighbourly matterColin Blackburn (Feedback, April 7) could do what I have done with my neighbour. He has the BT line and we've installed a wireless router so we can share the connection.Brian HomerBirminghamArtful marriageAshley Norris writes: "Apple still has two aces: the iPod's brand values and the way players link with Apple's iTunes music store" (Sony takes on iPod, April 7). Surely the ace is the iPod's software. People like iPods because they are such a pleasure to use &mdash; their intuitive and appealing nature come from an artful marriage of hardware and software design.Eliot LovellLondonPast delightsSony's NW-HD3 has almost all the features of the HD5 and is a thing of beauty &mdash; unlike the new product!Keith AlcornLondonSatisfaction voicedContrary to your VoIP piece (It's your call, April 7), BT Broadband Voice does not just work with BT lines, it plugs into any internet connection and will allow you to make VoIP calls using a standard phone. I have been using it for nearly a year and am pleased with the quality &mdash; and price.Andrew DuckerLondon
I've just bought a new desktop PC, my first for about four years. The good news is that users can now buy an astonishing amount of power for a low price &mdash; my &pound;1-a-day budget. The bad news is that they should have been able to get even more.When I bought my last desktop, it represented a tremendous advance over its predecessor. For example, the processor speed went from 75MHz to 1.3GHz, which in theory is 17x faster. This time, it has gone from 1.3GHz to 3GHz, only 2.3x quicker, though I have "hyperthreading" (which makes one processor work more like two) thrown in.Four years ago, 64 megabytes of memory was still typical, though my Gateway Performance 1300 had 256MB. Today, PCs are still being sold with 256MB, which is hardly rampant progress. Indeed, given the way all PC operating systems love memory, it is downright silly. I've gone for 1GB.However, drives have made good progress. Four years ago, 10GB and 20GB hard drives were still common: today, 160GB is affordable. Also, my old PC had both a floppy and a Zip drive, whereas the new one has neither. Finally, the old CD-RW has been replaced by a DVD+/-Rom.But the main difference is price. Four years ago, I wanted to buy a PC for about &pound;1,000, and failed. Even after making compromises, it was roughly &pound;1,500, including an iiyama Trinitron-type monitor.This time I could have bought a far better system for less than half the price. To reach my budget, I had to go for a top-of-the-range machine (a Dell Dimension 8400 instead of, say, a 2400) with an UltraSharp flat panel monitor. That added &pound;246 to the price, compared with a cheap 17in CRT.One caveat about prices is that I was taking advantage of Dell's "&pound;150 off" Easter sale, timed conveniently before the tax deadline. I assume lots of other people were too, because Dell's website was sometimes too busy to update prices. None the less, a system ordered online on Thursday night arrived on Tuesday morning, only two clear working days later. That's impressive.My new PC includes PC-I Express graphics and a Serial ATA hard drive as standard, and these are significant advances on AGP and IDE. I've missed out on 64-bit and forthcoming dual-core processors, but I can't see either becoming important to typical users &mdash; who mostly do word processing, email and web surfing &mdash; in the near future.Whether new PCs are worth the effort for business buyers &mdash; or non games players &mdash; is debatable, but bottom-of-the-range Dell desktops now start at &pound;199 plus delivery plus VAT, which is hard to resist.My standard advice remains the same: take a typical machine, max out the memory, and see if the performance meets your needs. However, installing memory in old PCs and upgrading them to the now essential XP Pro SP2 can also be costly, not least in staff time. Given the higher maintenance cost of old PCs, the difference may be marginal.LinksThose were the days: Gateway Performance 1300http://tinyurl.com/7xg53&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Super sightsGoogle Sightseeing is a fascinating new site. It's a collection of aerial views taken from Google Maps, and early examples include the Hoover Dam and the Neverland ranch.To play, go to Google Maps and click where it says Satellite (top right). Alternatively, you could do your own thing with the help of MyGmaps. In all cases, the satellite images come from Google's purchase of Keyhole, which offers them for a price.ShreddiesGoogle MapsKeyholeMygmapsYub mallHad to happen sooner or later: Yub.com has combined social networking and messaging with shopping.Yub stands for Young Urban Buyers, and it's also BUY backwards, because Yub is actually owned by Buy.com. Yub lets you create an online profile, upload your photos, and make friends, just like Google's Orkut. However, where Orkut is pointless, so you never go back, Yub lets you shop for your lifestyle accessories at Apple, Foot Locker, Gap, Macy's, Sony and similar stores.The incentive to go back to Yub is that you get discount prices, plus an Amazon-style commission on products your friends buy through you. It's so clever it makes my brain hurt.YubName game"Name surfing" - especially searching for your own name - is one of the most popular uses for Google, but ZoomInfo and Ziggs are trying to do a better job. ZoomInfo is a search engine that focuses on "people information", and uses artificial intelligence (AI) techniques to extract information on individuals.In most cases, it is more effective than Google, simply because it consolidates hundreds of thousands of hits to perhaps 30-50 people. However, ZoomInfo has a long way to go before the information is trustworthy. It would help if people went to the site and added or corrected their own profiles, and ZoomInfo lets users do this.Ziggs, which is new in beta test form, is similar but looks more professional. It claims to have "an index of 2,350,213 professionals representing 43,579 companies, and it lets you search by city, state and company. You can create your own profile, but only Americans are welcome, and Ziggs plans to charge for listings.ZoominfoZiggsBland brandIf you are not searching Google for a person's name, you may well be searching for a brand name. One of the alternatives is Visio Brand, a directory and search engine for brands worldwide. It has 11 sections from Celebrities to Vehicles, or you can search across the site. However, when you find what you want, all you get is a cached version of the official site, which isn't exactly a stunning result. You might as well use Google.VisiobrandWrite stuffWriters' Nexus is a nicely designed site that aims to bring writers and publishers together. If you are a writer, you can upload a profile, an outline of a work and anything from a sample chapter to a whole book. This costs &#163;35. Publishers and agents can trawl these entries for books to publish, free.You're not writing a Great Novel? The site is still worth a visit if you don't have a book to sell and are not willing to pay to join: it provides free access to an outstanding collection of links for writers, plus a calendar of readings, workshops, festivals and other events in both Europe and North America.WritersnexusCountdownbr&gt; The event of the year is fast approaching: the publication of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince on July 16. To keep you occupied, and help to build up a feverish level of excitement, you can download a desktop Countdown Clock for Windows or Mac OS X.Naturally, the book already has a sales rank of 1 at Amazon.co.uk.ScholasticAmazon.co.ukUncyclopedia Wikipedia, the communal encyclopedia, has met its match in Uncyclopedia, which may not contain useful facts but is a lot funnier.Popular sections include air guitar construction, amendments to the Laws of Robotics, and making up Oscar Wilde quotes. Where else would you learn, for example, that "In 1996, internet downloading officially replaced murder as the seventh deadly sin"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Stakka themImation (UK) has belatedly announced Disc Stakka, pictured, which holds up to a hundred 12cm discs and can be linked to a PC or Mac via a single USB port. Stakka comes with OpdiTracker content management software, which indexes optical media such as CDs, DVDs, music and games discs. Stakka carousels can be stacked up to five high to create a tower holding up to 500 discs in any format, without using additional cabling or desk space. Imation says its "fully motorised disc insert and eject facility helps protect valuable discs and data". The discs are ejected so you can insert them into a PC, CD or DVD player, or whatever. Stakka is already being sold by PC World, Amazon.co.uk and other outlets, the Amazon price being &pound;94.99.http://www.imationltd.co.uk/products/disc_stakka/view_demo.html64-bit WindowsMicrosoft has released four 64-bit versions of Windows to manufacturing: Windows XP Pro x64 Edition, plus the Windows Server 2003 Standard, Enterprise and Datacenter x64 editions. Microsoft is expected to announce general availability at the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference (WinHEC) in Seattle, April 25-27.www.microsoft.com/whdc/winhec/HelplessResearch undertaken to promote the Helpdesk &amp; IT Support Show at Olympia (April 26-28) shows that gender inequalities exist even in this relatively new field. According to this study of more than 1,000 IT support industry staff, women stand a better chance of promotion but on average earn 18% less than men. The typical annual salary for men is &pound;32,924 while for women it is more than &pound;5,000 less than this &mdash; but it is the men who are most dissatisfied with their incomes. Qualifications also pay off, with most staff saying that certification was a key factor in gaining promotion or increasing pay.http://www.helpdeskshow.com/hd_week_vis.phpNAS gridHewlett-Packard is forsaking Windows for Linux as it extends its network-attached storage (NAS) range into high-end systems. The StorageWorks NAS server will be based on ProLiant servers running Linux to make them more compatible with the Unix Network File System usually associated with HP's enterprise systems. The Linux base also enables HP to use its grid software to allow NAS to scale across numerous ProLiants. The systems are expected to be unveiled at HP's StorageWorks Conference in Las Vegas next month. Meanwhile, IBM said last week it is pulling back from the NAS market, preferring to resell Network Appliance's systems.http://h18006.www1.hp.com/storage/Securing accessFour wireless networking control systems are competing for adoption by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). The aim is to end incompatibilities between different brands of 802.11x Wi-Fi access points and allow centralised management. At the moment, this is only possible by adopting a single brand purchasing policy. Aruba Wireless Networks and Trapeze Networks are the latest to offer their proposals, which will be considered alongside those from Cisco, Panasonic and Siemens. The current lock-in will be with us for some time, with no standard expected to emerge until next year or 2007.http://www1.ietf.org/html.charters/capwap-charter.htmlPrinters trustDocument security needs to be addressed as multifunction printers (MFPs) gain in popularity, claims eCopy president Ed Schmid. At the first eCopy Paper Connection conference in Miami, Schmid pointed out that distributing the copying function through MFPs means that any document can be surreptitiously removed from company files, copied and emailed unless an audit is kept of users and usage. Other security risks relate to the internal disks used by some copiers. In the US recently, a secondhand MFP was found to contain patients' medical records left by the previous owner. eCopy sells products that give added functionality to MFPs, scanners and printers.http://www.ecopy.com/international/europe/Kent clerksThanet District Council is experimenting with ways in which it can improve contact with its citizens and local businesses. The council's eGovernment Change Programme covers various online services, including e-payments, interactive TV, and videoconferencing, but attention is also being given to preparing staff at the newly opened service centre for their new roles. Most calls are now routed through the centre to improve answer rates and new staff members spend time working in each services and technologies mesh. Macfarlane Telesystems is managing the hardware introduction and supervising the video communications projects.www.thanet.gov.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
How did you get interested in wiki?I had the idea of a free encyclopedia a few years before I'd heard of a wiki (www.pcwebopedia.com/TERM/w/wiki.html). I had a project called Newpedia, trying to create a volunteer-written, freely licensed encyclopedia. But our system with hierarchies and access levels was too much work for volunteers. The wiki concept was invented in 1995 (http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?WardCunningham). In early 2001, we opened Wikipedia and got more work done in two weeks than we had in two years.What are the pros and cons of open editing?Wiki is a Hawaiian word for quick, so the process is fast and it is easy for people to get involved. However, everything requires constant monitoring by the volunteers. But unless you allow people to create content, you wouldn't have anything to monitor.On what software does Wikipedia run?MediaWiki (http://wikipedia.sourceforge.net/), which was written by our volunteers. Every page has a link to "edit this page" and when you click there you can see the text of the page and edit it. Changes go live immediately and go to a "recent changes page". Anyone signed up can have a personal watch-list to keep an eye on a particular subject and the changes to it. We've put a lot of effort into ensuring you can install the software on a single machine but it still runs Wikipedia and all our other websites, which are on about 50 servers.Is the wiki ethos truer to the origins of the net?Absolutely - that's a thing about Wikipedia that has captured the imagination. Once, everyone was excited about the new medium of the net. People talked about free knowledge and the ability to share ideas but then it seemed to be all about pop-up ads and porn spam. We came on to the scene when people were getting disillusioned. Hopefully they thought it was an attempt to create something positive.Does the net community expect content to be free?We're talking about people producing content and giving it away, which is very different from simply downloading music files, although the two are obviously related, as something is being put on the internet free. With the move by Creative Commons to make their licences easy to understand and use, I think we'll see a birth of culture on the net in new areas. People might post music online, under a free licence, to be modified and shared by others.How will wiki evolve?There's a drive to simplify and standardise the syntax. There's also a lot of work being done on WYSIWYG (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYG) editing tools so you might be able to edit from your browser without having to learn XML.Visit:www.wikipedia.orgLinksJimmy Wales's bookmarkshttp://creativecommons.orgwww.bbc.co.ukwww.eff.orgwww.google.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Website publishers have a lot invested in their content, whether it is time, money or company branding. And some are getting very annoyed about AutoLink, a feature being beta tested by Google, because it could change that content without their knowledge.In one case, bookstore Barnes &amp; Noble found that when users clicked on its site, AutoLink provided links that would take them to rival Amazon to make their purchases.Google introduced AutoLink with the beta test version of its browser toolbar in February. When activated, AutoLink looks for text strings in a web page that match certain formats, and uses them as links to search results in partners' web pages. In the current version, for example, ISBN numbers are linked to the relevant title on the Amazon.com website, while addresses link to Google Maps by default. Courier tracking numbers and licence plates link to other sites.The service is US-centric, and Marisa Mayer, director of consumer web products at Google, says that rolling it out internationally is still "a work in progress".Nevertheless, the service has upset some industry watchers, who feel Google has overstepped the mark."Publishers have some rights, and when you start talking about adding links to pages, that is a touchy area," said Danny Sullivan, editor of Search Engine Watch. "It's an area where I would like to see developers say 'we ought to find a way to compromise or work with these publishers and give them the ability to opt out'."Although AutoLink is an opt-in service for web surfers &mdash; they must activate it &mdash; websites are automatically included, and Google has withheld the facility for them to opt out. Providing this capability would be technically easy: the company could code AutoLink to recognise an opt-out tag in a web page header, for example. But doing this would damage the customer experience, says Mayer. Users normally follow AutoLinks by clicking a likely looking string, such as an ISBN number, or by selecting a link in the toolbar menu created from the string. Opt-out pages stop you doing that."That inconsistency ... is harmful to the point where we think it defeats the utility and usability of the feature," argues Mayer.Not everyone is convinced. Adam Crawford, head of production at Weboptimiser, a company specialising in search engine optimisation, questions the effect on companies that have not been given the opportu&shy;nity to participate as partners. If an AutoLink-enabled browser is used to view the web page of a rival to Amazon.com, for example, ISBN numbers displayed in that page could be made to link to search results on Amazon's site instead."Where does this end, and are people able to approach Google to become &#91;a&#93; chosen referral destination for AutoLink?" asks Crawford.Mayer responds that Amazon was chosen because it had the largest database, so users were more likely to get a positive search result from there than any other. She promises that in future versions, customers will be offered a choice of sites when AutoLinking to ISBN searches, in the same way they have a choice when using AutoLinks to mapping services &mdash; although AutoLinks created from street addresses link to Google's mapping service by default.Why is AutoLink creating such a row in the web community? It is partly because people still believe online content is sacred, and because of suspicions surrounding Google's powerful presence, and partly because it has been done before. Microsoft put its Smart Tags technology into beta versions of Internet Explorer 6.0 in 2001.Jeffrey Zeldman, founder of web design agency Happy Cog Studios and an advocate of web design standards, recalls the concerns that arose over Smart Tags, which extended Microsoft's monopoly into new areas, and theoretically made it possible to track what people did online. Most contentious was the idea that Smart Tags allowed Microsoft to change web pages without the author's knowledge."Google's new toolbar doesn't solve the three problems cited above. It merely makes Google instead of Microsoft the arbiter of life and death in the information space," says Zeldman.Microsoft bowed to pressure and removed Smart Tags from Internet Explorer, though it kept them in Office XP. Should Google do the same?Not according to Stewart Manley, chief technology officer of web content management software company Mediasurface. Content is no longer sacrosanct, he says. "It's time content authors and brand managers got a grip. Deliver readable, accessible content in a fuss-free manner, stop shoving garbage like those intrusive 'floating' Flash-movie adverts down people's throats, and they're more likely to use your services or buy your products anyway," he says.The Google toolbar only works in Internet Explorer, but in the Mozilla camp, open source software developers seem to agree with Manley. Users have long been able to change the display of websites using standard web features such as stylesheets, and programs such as Proxomitron. However, the extensions capability in Firefox, Mozilla's open source browser, takes things further. Greasemonkey, for example, is an extension that lets developers write scripts to alter the content of web pages in different ways. Script developers have uploaded code to do everything from removing certain authors' posts from multi-person blogs, to hiding advertisements in particular websites and even removing bad language.Like Proxomitron, Greasemonkey will probably be restricted to niche users willing to mess around with other people' scripts, but together with AutoLink, Manley thinks it indicates a trend. "The fact that people are choosing to modify content is an indication of the fact they're not happy with what they're reading."Both AutoLink and Greasemonkey switch some of the power from the publishers of online content to the consumers. The problem with Google's approach is the lack of an opt-out mechanism, combined with its market power in the search engine market, and its control over which partners participate. Mayer insists Google has no plans for a business model for AutoLink, and that it is purely there for the users' benefit. "They believe it, but not everyone trusts them," says Sullivan, adding that people worry about Google's attitude changing in the future.Microsoft blogger Robert Scoble, who also attacked Smart Tags, wrote: "This is a slippery slope. If you allow Google to do this, you are opening a Pandora's box you'll never close."Either way, website publishers such as Barnes &amp; Noble are fighting back. Scripts are appearing that enable websites to break the AutoLink feature using JavaScript. Zeldman points to Threadwatch.org, a community website for marketing enthusiasts, which offers a downloadable anti-AutoLink hack.LinksGoogle toolbar (beta)http://toolbar.google.com/T3/indexWeboptimiserwww.weboptimiser.comMediasurfacewww.mediasurface.comThreadwatchwww.threadwatch.orgHappycogwww.happycog.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), which lowers the cost of telephone calls both domestically and internationally, could exacerbate security problems, believe some experts. One security issue already has an acronym &mdash; Spit, for SPam over Internet Telephony &mdash; while "phishing" calls collecting personal information to commit fraud use could also increase.Skype is the most successful VoIP software service, and it scrambles calls using 256-bit Advanced Encryption Standard. Andy Clark, director of computer forensics firm Inforenz, says this would take an age to crack, if used correctly.However, if a computer connected through Skype is compromised, its calls could be bugged remotely. Clark says: "It is in itself not a new threat. It opens a new set of channels for a Trojan that happened to target Skype."He says that some aspects of Skype could help Trojans &mdash; hidden programs used to hijack computers. "The fact that Skype is well-written, and uses some techniques to tunnel out through firewalls, is a benefit to the Trojan."Skype disputes this risk. "If a Skype user had a Trojan horse virus on their computer, Skype will not make the situation any worse for the user," the company said in a statement.Skype's website reports security issues around the "callto" hyperlinks that can activate Skype calls, although these have been fixed in the software's latest version. It says users should follow standard advice for a networked computer, such as using a firewall and anti-virus software.Ian Brown, an honorary research fellow at University College London, says Skype uses its own method for encryption. "I would always trust the security of an open standard over one designed by a company," says Brown, as anyone can check open standards for flaws, in a similar fashion to open source software. This should make them more trustworthy.Also, Skype communications are routinely encrypted, but ordinary telephone calls are not. This should make it impossible to tap Skype calls, in contrast to standard voice calls, which are easily tapped.Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa), UK law enforcement agencies including police forces and MI5 can tap any British communication channel, including post, telephone lines or internet accounts, if certain conditions are met and a relevant minister grants permission.This happens regularly: the interception commissioner Sir Swinton Thomas reported that 1,983 new interceptions were authorised in England, Wales and Scotland in 2003, the latest available figures.But what would happen if this was used against a Skype account? "You would serve a warrant on &#91;the user's&#93; ISP, and you would get a large amount of encrypted data," says Clark.Skype says it could not decode this data. "Because Skype never has access to the contents of communication between its users, it doesn't have the opportunity to give that access to others," it says.Skype calls use session encryption keys, generated by the user's software for once-only use. "These keys are never given to Skype nor are they retained by Skype software after the call is terminated," says the firm. "Skype's role in the establishment of connections between users is very much like the role played by digital signature companies."Although it maintains a central register to allow users to authenticate the identity of other users, "this process takes place well before any call is placed. Skype is never given any seed key or other private cryptovariable generated by a user client."Mike Galvin, director of internet operations for BT Retail, says Skype or alternatives such as BT's Communicator VoIP software have the status of software applications, and Ripa provides law enforcement access only to communications services."From the point of view of the interception, it doesn't matter if the material is encrypted or not," he says.The Home Office refused to comment on whether law enforcement agencies could tap encrypted VoIP calls, except to say that government works "to help industry understand the threats that emerging technologies may pose to law enforcement's ability to prevent and detect terrorism and serious crime".The blurring between software and telephony services looks certain to increase. Skype recently opened a voicemail service, with messages stored on Skype servers for users to download. The company says these "could potentially be disclosed to law enforcement agencies" if disclosure were compelled by law.LinksMore on Spitwww.eweek.com/article2/0,1759,1776878,00.aspInterception commissioner's report for 2003www.official-documents.co.uk/document/deps/hc/hc883/883.pdfSkypewww.skype.comSkype securitywww.skype.com/security&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Personal media players, which boast fairly large LCD screens and enable owners to play back video, image and audio files, could become this year's big thing. And the good news for consumers is that their price is dropping.The Mustek PVR-H140, which retails for about &pound;260, ticks all the right boxes: it has a 3.6in LCD screen, plays MPeg4 video, MP3 audio and JPeg image files, and boasts a 40GB hard disk. The device can record programmes directly from the TV on to its hard disk, features an integrated voice recorder, and has an SD card slot for quick and easy transfer of images.The trade-off, however, is that it is fairly bulky, lacks the elegance of rival devices from companies such as iRiver and Creative, and isn't especially intuitive. The menu system and controls are also a bit slow and unresponsive, and you'll find higher resolution screens on other models. Nevertheless, if price is an issue, the H140 is worth considering.www.boysstuff.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
TheAssociation of Independent Music- Britain's trade body for small labels and the artists on them - has lodged an official complaint with the Office of Fair Trading, asking them to look at this Sunday's launch of the first combined digital and physical music chart... and possibly delay the chart itself.Why?Aim chairman and CEO Alison Wenham says the systems in place to monitor the combined chart are "seriously flawed" and the fact many independent labels are not sold through certain key retailers would work to disadvantage those labels from achieving a fair chart position."Like everyone else I'm keen to see download data included but at the moment the whole supply chain is insufficiently developed," says Wenham. "It's like giving birth to a premature baby."She points to reports of delays in midweek sales data arriving from key online retailers such as iTunes this week as evidence more work needs to be done before the charts can be officially combined.There have been concerns about the incredibly strong position of iTunes - which has had what I'd call a rocky relationship with AIM - and how that might play in the future of digital music development.Will the complaint have an effect?
a href="http://www.namco.com/games/katamari_damacy/"&gt;Katamari Damacy yesterday and was reminded again what a great character the King of All Cosmos is. He's outrageous, he's flamboyant and he's completely off his rocker. If you've not had the pleasure, you must check out thisvideoof the intro. It is insane. So, quite frankly, is he.So that got me thinking about other characters in computer games who have a few dominoes short of a full set. As a fanatic of Terry Gilliam, Tim Burton and John Waters films, I rather think that mental eccentricity is highly enjoyable to watch. If you can add to this list, please do. It would be nice to have a complete deck.The King of All Cosmos (Katamari Damacy)According toGamespot, the King of All Cosmos was a drunk in the original Japanese version. In other regions he's just a loon. A giant, guitar-strumming, bonkers-style loon. It's worth it to get to the end of every level just to see what madness he has to share with you, his Prince, charged with clearing up the mess after the King had a truly rambunctious night.Tingle(Legend of Zelda: Windwaker)Another dude in a funny hat, also completely la la. Tingle traipses around in his green, skin-tight outfit spouting riddles and malapropisms, adding to the already bizarre endeavours of little Link in his cell-shaded world.Michael LeRoi and the inhabitants of Hell (Shadowman)Less loony and more nefarious, the main character in the N64's Shadowman flipped between the light of day and the disturbing asylum of the Dead. Wandering through the flesh-covered walls of the digital bin was too much for me and I had to put down the controller after too long.Harry Mason(Silent Hill)One of the endings in the first Silent Hill exposed hero Harry Mason as a father sent into madness after the death of his daughter in a car wreck. It was a nice twist to an engrossing story; the zombies and freaky animals you had spent hours hacking and slashing your way through were actually the normal villagers of sleepy Silent Hill, caught up in the deranged psychosis of a disturbed mind.Alice (American McGee's Alice)American McGee, the Tim Burton of interactive entertainment, added a niceRoman Dirge-like twist to the LSD-inspired Lewis Caroll tale of a little English girl lost in a bizarre land.Torque(The Suffering)The muscled hero of last year's Death Row horror title has landed in the most haunted prison in the universe after murdering three people during "blackouts". As the plot sickens (my mother would say), these moments of disassociation are punctuated with bizarre hallucinations which make for another behind-the-couch gaming experience.
There seems to be an election campaign on the go at the moment (I'm sure you've noticed). These days it's impossible to avoid the plethora of slippery politicians all over our TV screens, PC monitors and radio airwaves.And this morning Labour unveiled their electionmanifesto (pdf)- read more about it at ourElection 2005 blog.Michael Cross, our redoubtable public sector IT expert, sifted through the ins and outs of the manifesto for any technology-related promises.Here's what he came up with:Over the next five years we will implement a newelectronic borders systemthat will track visitors entering or leaving the UK. Across the world there is a drive to increase the security of identity documents and we cannot be left behind. From next year we are introducing biometric 'ePassports'. It makes sense to provide citizens with an equally secure identity card to protect them at home from identity theft and clamp down on illegal working and fraudulent use of public services.We will introduceID cards, including biometric data like fingerprints, backed up by a national register and rolling out initially on a voluntary basis as people renew their passports.We will deliver our cross-government strategy for closing thedigital divideand using ICT to further transform public services: - By 2006 every school supported to offer all pupils access to computers at home. - A Digital Challenge for a local authority to be a national and international pathfinder in universal digital service provision. - A new National Internet Safety Unit to make Britain the safest place in the world to access the internet.We will modernisecopyrightand other forms of protection of intellectual property rights so that they are appropriate for the digital age. We will use our presidency of the EU to look at how to ensure content creators can protect their innovations in a digital age. Piracy is a growing threat and we will work with industry to protect against it.The last one's particularly interesting - will we see Larry Lessig at Downing Street, or the government coming out against DRM?
Apple's new version of OSX,Tiger(10.4) hits the market on April 29, it's been confirmed. The changes have been pretty well documented - Spotlight desktop searching; four-way video conferencing; Dashboard widgets for desktop gizmos like weather reports, calculators etc.TheNew York Timessays Wall Street is confident the release will boost Apple profits."I think Tiger is going to be a far more important upgrade than previous versions," said Charles Wolf, a financial analyst with Needham &amp; Company in New York, who holds shares of Apple. He estimated that there were about 20 million Macintosh computer users and that as many as 2 million to 3 million might be expected to upgrade their operating systems to Tiger within the next two quarters.That would generate more than $200 million in revenue for Apple and would easily cover the software's development costs, he said.
The company that awarded ITV a new channel on Freeview last week is expected to make three more slots available before the end of the year.Sources close to Crown Castle, which is widely expected to award Channel 4 a second slot in the next few weeks, say the company plans to release another two channels in the summer.This would bring the number of channels offered by the company, which holds the licence for two of the six multiplexes used to broadcast some of the Freeview channels, to four."While the effect of the new ITV and Channel 4 services on the existing Freeview channels remains to be seen, Crown Castle has indicated it can squeeze on additional capacity," the source said.The additional capacity has been achieved by technology developments that have allowed the company to broadcast the additional channels using limited bandwidth.Demand for the two new slots is likely to be high, especially from broadcasters that missed out in the auction for the first two channels.Five, Disney and Turner Broadcasting were all reported to have made initial bids when the first slot was advertised in January.Despite landing the first two slots, with bids estimated at between &#163;5m and &#163;7m a year each, ITV and Channel 4 may also be keen to establish a greater presence on the Freeview service.The ITV chief executive, Charles Allen, needs to persuade the City that the company's long-term strategy involves more than cost-cutting, while the Channel 4 boss, Andy Duncan, is also keen to launch more free-to-air public service entertainment channels.Both broadcasters get better ratings in Freeview homes than in households that use Sky Digital. Last week ITV2 achieved its best ever football ratings with more than 2 million tuning in to Uefa cup action between Newcastle and Sporting Lisbon.The success of the Freeview service, which is now in more than 4.5m homes, has pushed up channel slot prices.When the service launched in October 2002, slots were available for about &#163;3m.When Crown Castle sent out the "request for proposal" for the first new slot, it told interested parties it was looking for offers in excess of &#163;3m. It eventually received bids at double that amount.It said any additional capacity was "a matter of speculation" and declined to comment further.
To celebrate the 25th anniversary of its circular superstar, Namco announced this week that Pac-Man was 2004's best-selling mobile game, "on several of the world's leading mobile network operators, including Vodafone in the United Kingdom". The company claims that there have been 'millions' of downloads throughout Europe, Africa and the MIddle East, although is reluctant to be drawn on specific figures.What's driving these sales is an almost unique mix of nostalgia, brand familiarity, ease-of-use and ease-of-portability. Pac-Man will work on any Java phone, from low-end entry models to the highest spec devices - and everyone knows how to play. But there's more to the lasting appeal of the game than that. Countless psychologists, theologists and cultural commentators have attempted to explain its popularity, and few have managed to extract all its qualities. I likethisgeneral overview from Salon.com, but my favourite explanation can be found in an article entitledThe Theology of Pac-Man, which asserts that Pac-Man is popular because it symbolises the Christian view of life.Meanwhile, Namco has promised to send me a handset filled with their current mobile conversions including Mr Driller, Galaxians and Galaga, and I'm going to post short reviews soon. I'm also currently campaigning for them to bring Gaplus and Rally X to Java, but I don't think they're taking me very seriously.Anyway, here are some Pac-Man facts from Namco's press release. You probably know all of these.In it's initial year of release over 100,000 PAC-MAN arcade cabinets were sold.Estimates place the total number of times PAC-MAN has been played at over ten billionIn the original Japanese arcade version, the Ghosts were called Akabei, Pinky, Aosuke, and GuzutaIn the American (and European) versions, the Ghosts were renamed Binky, Inky, Pinky and ClydeIt took until 1999 for the perfect game of PAC-MAN to be played. Florida resident Billy Mitchell cleared every screen, ate all four ghosts with every power-pill, got every power-up and cleared all 256 screens, scoring 3,333,360 points. With one lifePAC-MAN moves 20% faster on areas with no dots
Analysts are predicting abright futurefor the next-gen Xbox (360, 2, whatever). And they've got a point - there's no doubt that Microsoft has established itself in the videogames market, albeit at a huge cost. They could do with trimming the marketing budget ontrying-far-too-hard promo sites, but generally MS have been a welcome addition to the industry. But have they won over everyone?Obviously punters who picked up an Xbox last Christmas only to find out that it will, probably, be superseded within the year won't be happy. But what about the next-gen? The emphasis on online gaming, Hi-Def TV and shooting/racing games merely panders to the core male market. Where are mass-market releases like Singstar or innovative titles like Donkey Konga? The ones that bring gaming to a wider audience.Microsoft will never be "cool" in the way Sony can be, but for Xbox 360 (2, whatever) having a wider range of games and making the thing actually look good is as important as hi-def and wireless support. Or maybe they are happy to remain preaching to the converted?
Well, I've been quiet for a few days because I've been out in Helsinki visiting theNokia Research Center; the place where they come up with all the research and development for their phones (or "terminals" as they call them).It's not often you get to see the inside of big firms' research labs, and so I took some time out of eating reindeer and drinking vodka to have a look at upcoming gadgetry and in-the-pipeline developments, as well as having a chat with some of the research bosses.Here's what Tapani Ryhänen, the head of multimedia devices research, had to say about his research mantra:"Function drives form," he told me. "You have to look at a device and have a clear sense of its value. Developments must be simple and easy to understand, and easy to sell - it makes sense to the end user right away.""We do not believe that one device can do everything. One problem with devices today is that they have such a lot of functionality that people aren't using. Simplicity is a value."Of course, this is all spoken from a position of success. Nokia's in a market-leading position - for now.But where doyouthink the future of mobile devices is?
You can't accuse the entertainment industry of giving up easily. In the midst of the long runningGroksterlawsuit, and after years of arguing about music piracy, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry has just filed a wodge of new lawsuits. And it's targeting Asia this time, asReuterspoints out:The music industry has launched its first lawsuits in Asia against illicit file-sharers as it broadens the crackdown on Internet piracy, which it blames for lost sales.The London-based International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) said on Tuesday it has filed 963 lawsuits in countries including Japan, the Netherlands, Finland, Ireland and Iceland, bringing the total number of legal actions to more than 11,000 worldwide.In Japan, the world's second-largest music market, music sales have fallen by nearly a third over the last five years."The industry has decided this is the time to act," said IFPI Chairman and Chief Executive John Kennedy. "The Japanese are law-abiding citizens, and it may be this delivers the short, sharp jolt that we need there."I'm sure they'll be happy to comply.The arguments over whether online music piracyactually damages salesare still raging, and with numerous legal alternatives, some say the ship has already sailed on this. But the music industry is still adhering to a "carrot and stick" approach - but it seems a lot more involved in the stick side of things.
From a Gamesindustrybiz.comnews reporton Massive Inc, a US firm set to place advertisments in forthcoming videogames for clients such as Nescafe and Coca Cola:"Ubisoft believes that Massive's dynamic advertising network will play a key role in helping video game publishers leverage their content to create new revenue opportunities in an increasingly challenging global market," said Jay Cohen, Vice President of Publishing at Ubisoft.Do you remember when the people who made games really loved games? Obviously many developers still do, but their voices are a lot quieter now, a lot more difficult to pick up below the hum of business-speak. Now the voice of the industry is provided by men who spew out ugly soundbites like this. Leveraging. Revenue oppertunities. The blank, souless language of the boardroom. This is just one example, so I'm not specifically picking on Ubi Soft - and really, the context is the thing. In-game advertising has been coming for a long time, but only recently have we seen companies beginning to specialise in the medium. How utterly depressing. Advertisers naturally want to catch us with our guard down. And let's face it, we're very open to suggestion while playing games. We, like sports fans, film-goers, and mobile phone users, have become revenue oppertunities, captive audiences, loyal drones. We are targets on the brand leveraging plan of attack.There is a compelling argument, of course, for featuring real brands in games: it adds to the realism. Everytime we open our eyes we're assaulted by advertising - brand names and logos form an unavoidable part of our daily image intake. So when a game character walks down a street in an otherwise photorealistic game but one in which the shops and fast food restaurants are ficticious, it breaks the spell. The movie Minority Report was heavily criticised for the enormous amount of product placement it featured, but those hi-tech ads in the background immediately placed Tom Cruise in a familiar environment, they communicated very quickly and simply, 'this is a sci-fi film, but it has relevance to you, the viewer. It could happen'.But that doesn't make the whole concept of an in-game advertising industry any easier to stomach. And while product placemantcanadd to realism, it can also be incredibly jarring. Nothing is more deflating, more incongruous, than a movie hero finishing a great motivational speech then opening a Coke, camera panning in on can, panning out to hero looking refreshed. Pan out further to audience thinking 'hang on, that fizzy drink just got more screentime than some of the side plots.'I remember once interviewing Adrian Smith, co-founder of Core Design, who's now development director at Circle Studios. He told me that back when Core was producing Amiga titles, there was an occasion, probably forced by a missed development deadline, where the whole development team, the whole company including Adrian and his brother Jeremy, went down to the factory where their game was being duplicated and spent all night packaging copies themselves.I don't know why I thought of that just now - it was, after all, an anecdote designed to impress a slightly gullible young games writer. But that was the games industry I grew up with. Everytime I hear about maximising revenue and core demographics and all of that nonsense, I am reminded that those days are long gone. For better or for worse. Never such innocence again.
An online security breach at Reed Elsevier has allowed access to the personal details of hundreds of thousands of people - nearly 10 times as many as previously thought - the company admitted yesterday.The Anglo-Dutch group said personal information on as many as 310,000 American citizens might have been accessed fraudulently in its Seisint division, part of LexisNexis. Last month the company had put the figure at just 32,000.The disclosure will raise new fears over online security and the growing threat of identity theft, estimated to cost American consumers and businesses $50bn a year (&#163;27bn).Information that might have been accessed includes names, addresses, social security and drivers' licence numbers, the company said.Seisint is a risk management database that stores and provides personal information on millions of individuals for use by the private and public sector, the media, police and federal investigators. It also provides data for Matrix, a crime and terrorism database funded by the US government that has alarmed civil liberty groups.In a statement following an internal investigation, Reed said it had found 59 incidents where unauthorised users may have fraudulently acquired personal information using the identities and passwords of legitimate customers.Neither the LexisNexis nor the Seisint technology infrastructure had been breached by hackers, nor was any customer information compromised, Reed said. It added it was implementing "significant improvements" to customer identities and passwords to help prevent future incidents.The company is offering fraud counselling to the individuals affected as well as credit monitoring for the next year and fraud insurance to protect them against identity theft. Reed has alerted the relevant law enforcement authorities and said it is "proactively assisting" in their investigations.So far, the company said none of the original 32,000 individuals identified had notified the firm of any identity theft. "We are not being complacent, we know there's still work to do but so far this is encouraging," said Reed spokesman Patrick Kerr.Only 2% of the original batch of 32,000 people had taken up the company's offer of credit monitoring.Mr Kerr said the company hoped the federal investigation would bring the matter to a conclusion. "That will hopefully throw up answers to the questions that people have about who did this and how," he said. The database in question does not hold financial records, medical records or personal credit histories.The company uncovered the problem after a billing complaint by a customer. Reed bought the business for $775m last August and began a review while integrating its systems into the group. "That's when the situation started becoming obvious," Mr Kerr said.Another US firm selling access to personal databases, ChoicePoint, announced last month that the personal information of 145,000 Americans might have been stolen by fraudsters. The incident has led to at least 750 people being defrauded, according to authorities.
It's now 40 years since Intel co-founder Gordon Moore published something about "Moore's Law", and the company would like an original copy. Intel has therefore offered a $10,000 reward for a mint copy of the April 19, 1965 issue of Electronics, the magazine in which he made his forecast.Reuters' storyquotes Intel PR Howard High saying: "We're kind of hopeful that it will start a bit of a scavenger hunt for the engineering community of Silicon Valley, and hopefully somebody has it tucked away in a box in the corner of their garage. We think it's an important piece of history, and we'd love to have an original copy."
An interesting selection of mobile games has been released and/or announced over the last couple of days, so here's a quick run-through. This is all rather low-key considering Microsoft's announcement, but, well, life goes on. After all, will the new Xbox have a pub fighting simulation? No, but you can now play one on your phone...Pub FightYes, Iomo's funny and pretty daft pub sim is now available for download from all the usual sources. You play as Terry the landlord fighting off four generations of lager louts, including gangsters, hippies and break dancers. It's not a beat 'em up really, more a rhythm action game based around casual alcohol-fuelled violence. There's a different setting for each decade - the seventies is set in a pub toilet and each bout starts with you at the urinal. Your character zips up, turns round and starts kicking disco dancers. That, to the best of my knowledge, never happened in Street Fighter.Golf Club 3GJust released byElkwarethis is, as the title cunningly suggests, a 3D golf sim. The visuals look quite nice, and there are weather effects and customisable characters.Midnight PoolAnother new release,thisis a very polished, very playable 2D pool sim from Gameloft. The single player mode has a kind of Hustler feel - it's all based in a smokey pool hall, and you have to gamble cash on each match. You also get extra money for pulling off special shots, which is quite a good idea. The press release they sent me proudly boasts 'with Lynyd Skynyrd's Sweet Home Alabama, Midnight Pool is the first mobile game featuring licensed music!'. This is both funny and sad: funny because it reminds me of the eighties when you got things like 'featuring digitised speach!' and '100% machine code' emblazoned on game covers. It's sad because mobile gaming is obviously desperate to ape the console games market, treating any form of licensing as a guaranteed cash cow.Splinter Cell Chaos TheoryIt's out everywhere now and youreallyhave to try it.This2D take on the stealth adventure genre is a lesson in brutally simple yet highly effective game design. Possibly the most accomplished mobile game conversion I've ever seen. The press release comes with some impressive stats:"On the day of its release, Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory was made available to Gameloft's 130 operating partners, as well as 150 affiliates. Seven hundred different versions were developed in Gameloft's internal studios to accommodate 180 mobile phone models and 5 languages. The game is available today in 65 countries worldwide".Totally SpiesGameloft has acquired the rights to produce a mobile game based around this French cartoon series. If you've somehow missed it, here's what it's about:"Totally Spies is an animated series that enjoys worldwide success.Sam, Alex and Clover, three young college students from Beverly Hills, find themselves thrust into the thrilling world of international espionage. Thanks to their respective talents, the three heroines must meet a formidable challenge: balance school with the fast paced lives of secret agents!"Teenagers acting as spies?! This hasneverhappenedbefore!
"We're delighted to announce that Guardian Unlimited has been nominated for a Webby award. We're the only British site shortlisted in the newspaper category alongside three American big boys (the New York Times, Wall Street Journal and Washington Post) and the US entertainment paper Variety," reports our very ownNewsblog.
Maybe I shouldn't have booked those E3 flights after all. Microsoft have announced a "sneak peek" MTV show that will unveil details of the next-generation Xbox. The broadcast will be on 12th May (US) and 13th (rest of world). That's nearly a week before E3 starts. Apparently, "the special will feature never-before-seen, action-packed gameplay of future Xbox games, a peek into the future of the Xbox Live™ online gaming service, backstage celebrity interviews and exclusive insider footage on the making of the next-generation console." Hmm - can't wait for those celebrity interviews... With Sony unveiling the PS3 on Monday 16th May - two days before E3 starts - Microsoft are clearly firing the first shots. The next console war is about to begin.
The word archive has an old, dusty feel about it; there seems nothing very dynamic, nothing much to stimulate young people or spark anyone's creativity. But in the world of UK television and film, the impact of archive material is about to take on a new dimension.The BBC, Channel 4, the British Film Institute (BFI) and the Open University have joined together to create the creative archive licence, which launches later this week. The new licence grew out of the BBC's online archive project, first announced by the corporation's former director general Greg Dyke in 2003 as a visionary plan to make thousands of hours of BBC content available to the UK public on the internet for non-commercial use.The new initiative is meant to create a legitimate way for people to get free access to the archive material of the BBC as well as material from Channel 4, the BFI and the Open University but within certain prescriptions. "This isn't just the BBC looking to do something for us but actually a framework for many organisations in the UK," says Ashley Highfield, the BBC's director of new media and technology. "We have started with a group that has a clear interest in this, but this does not preclude others from coming on board."The new licensing scheme, which is based on a flexible copyright scheme from the US called the creative commons (www.creativecommons.orgis meant to be about more than just downloading old programmes from back catalogues. The idea is to give the public access to footage from the different archives so they can use it to create new things, either to pep up a school project or to create a home movie or make their own music video."We are focusing less on the archive aspect and more on how to enable audiences, especially younger audiences, to whom we think we have a very valuable connection, to develop their creative skills," says Heather Rabbatts, head of education at Channel 4 and its representative with the creative archive licence group.Channel 4 will actually make very little of its own broadcast content available under the scheme - at least initially - because as a commissioner of content rather than a producer, it does not own the rights. Instead, the channel plans to use the licence to build on its PixnMix music video project. "For us this is more about digital creative collaboration," says Adam   Gee, commissioning editor of interactive for Channel 4's education unit. "This isn't about making wildlife films available, it's about getting the stuff people create back into the online repository so it can be shared around."The BBC has plans to make some of its factual and learning content available, but exactly how much will be determined during an 18-month trial that begins on Wednesday with the launch of the new licence and website (http://creativearchive.bbc.co.uk- accessible from Wednesday)."It's true that antelopes don't have agents and so it makes sense to start with factual programmes," says Highfield. "But the intention of the pilot is to look at other areas as well, some audio content from BBC radio, local history, science and, of course, factual and learning. We will trial different packets of content, different genres, clips and full programmes as well, and see what audiences do with it. Will they just download it, or will they edit it up?"The BBC plans to submit the new scheme to a public value test after the pilot concludes next year.Highfield is quick to point out that the creative archive licence is separate but complimentary to the BBC's interactive media player (IMP). The BBC is already using IMP to allow the download of some of its radio programmes, and there are plans to begin using it for some BBC TV programmes later in the year. "IMP is about making programmes available one week after transmission with secure digital rights management that limits usage, whereas the creative archive licence is for archive material and for stuff that you can keep in perpetuity," says Highfield.Rights issues mean that the BFI's use of the creative archive licence will cover mostly old newsreel footage, early literary adaptations of Shakespeare, and out of copyright silent comedies such as the 1914 short Daisy Doodad Dial, which features a woman in a face-pulling contest.Meanwhile, the Open University, which has been working with the BBC since 1971 making programmes such as Rough Science and What the Ancients Did for Us, plans to offer five hours of video under the new licensing scheme, including a volcanic eruption and footage of several different chemistry experiments that are no longer allowed to be performed in schools because of safety concerns.The project clearly targets the more computer-savvy, but with broadband already in one in three UK homes and growing rapidly, now is the time to figure out how to adapt to this new distribution platform, says Highfield.Given the global nature of the internet, limiting usage to UK residents will be difficult to control. "If we had started at the policing end we'd never have gotten anywhere with this," says Highfield. "Where you've got to start from is, how do we make more content available? I believe this can be a win-win. UK licence-fee payers get more access to our content, and having it out there also stimulates various commercial sales markets. I don't believe one has to detrimentally affect the other."
Yum.FromEngadgetamong others
