We're late, so let's get chatting fast - what have you been playing?
A selection of 23 new and notable apps for you today:Kingdom of Plants with David AttenboroughSir David Attenborough's new TV show is airing on Sky rather than the BBC, which is a sign of the times. As is the official iPad app, which blends text, videos and panoramic photos of the Royal Botanic Gardens in Kew.iPadSidecar.meAiming to provide "smart calling for your smartphone", Sidecar is the latest Voice-over-IP app looking to add extra features to standard voice calls. In this case, that includes the ability to share live video, photos and location data while chatting. It's free to use with other Sidecar users.Android / iPhoneNike Golf 360°At the time of writing, Nike's new golf app appears to be a US-only affair. It tracks your rounds and statistics, uploading everything to the NG360° website for later analysis. Swing videos can be uploaded and analysed too, with golf-focused workouts and tips also included.iPhoneMass Effect: InfiltratorAnother treat for hardcore gamers on Android devices, as EA brings its latest Mass Effect game to Google-powered devices. That means spiffing graphics, touchscreen-optimised controls and lots – LOTS – of shooting.AndroidLouboutinShoes! Posh shoes, at that. Fashion label Christian Louboutin has an official app showing off its latest collection, including designers' sketches, a store locator, and a wish list feature to store details of your favourites.iPhoneKateThe Daily Mail is the latest newspaper looking into one-shot apps for iPad, with its tribute to the Duchess of Cambridge. It offers articles and photos from the year since her marriage to Prince William, with a focus on her frocks.iPad#BeyHiveHashtags in app titles? That's 2012 for you. This app is a fan-project devoted to all things Beyonce, offering "a social network" for fans around the world. They sign in using Twitter, then get news, photos, links to music and the ability to earn points for their fandom.Android / iPhoneEuro Finals from BetfairGambling service Betfair has a new app dedicated to the Euro 2012 football tournament, giving a quick way to access all its markets around the finals, place bets and then cash out from the device.iPhoneRed Bull Racing SpyRed Bull has launched a new Formula 1 app, promising news, gossip and party photos from the F1 circuit. The spy of the title is Red Bull's "man on the inside", who's also running his own Twitter account.iPhone / iPadTrailrHere's an interesting use for image recognition technology: an iPhone app that when pointed at a movie poster, advertisement or DVD cover, searches for and plays its video trailer. It's the work of LTU Technologies – a showcase for the company's in-house tech.iPhoneCluefulSpooked by reports earlier in 2012 about how apps are sharing your personal data? Clueful is an iPhone app that aims to show you what apps are running in memory, and what they're doing with your data. It can also be used as a reference guide before installing an app, to see what it does.iPhoneAT&amp;T mHealthThis is only available in the US for people with an invitation from their employer or health management company, but it's still something to track. AT&amp;T's mobile health app focuses on diabetes, helping people manage their condition, track their blood glucose levels, and share data with medical staff.AndroideWowBooksThe latest startup looking to provide a book-apps platform on iOS is eWowBooks. Its app is out now, including a 30-page story called My Random Digi-Life, aimed at young readers. It blends animation, interactivity and social features. Going forward, the company is hoping to work with other publishers and authors to get new stories onto the platform.iPadBitPixPhoto-sharing app BitPix might not end up being sold to Facebook for $1bn, but it looks good fun. It turns photos into "8-bit goodness" with visual filters based on vintage consoles and computers.iPhoneSamplodicaThe latest innovative iPhone music-creation app is Samplodica, which offers a selection of digital instruments, as well as the option to record your own samples – all played by "whipping your iPhone in the air, like a rhythm egg or a drum stick".iPhoneDigifit iCardioFitness app iCardio has made its debut on Android, helping you track cardio workouts "indoors and out", mapping the latter and sharing (well, bragging) about runs, rows and other exercises on Twitter and Facebook. It works with Polar's Bluetooth heart rate monitor too, to track your heart rate.AndroidWeAreTennis by BNP ParibasTennis buffs getting ready for the summer season should love the WeAreTennis app, which promises news, live scores from major tournaments, and push alerts from individual players. There's also a social feature to make your own commentary for classic match moments and share the results with friends.iPhone / iPadMen In Black 3Gameloft bagged the licence for an official mobile game based on the new Men In Black 3 film. It sees you building and running a Men In Black agency, as well as whizzing around New York to fight aliens. The link above is for Android buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadSkyrise RunnerProtect the forests in this environmentally-sound Android game, which offers lush side-scrolling platform action with crystals to collect and great eagles to, er, morph into.AndroidPerrette and the Pot of MilkThe flow of high-quality kid-apps from iOS to Android is improving, with Perrette and the Pot of Milk the latest example. Offering a choice of English, French, Spanish and Arabic, it's an adaptation of a famous story, with 50 interactive illustrations.AndroidRocka Bowling 3DThis 3D bowling game for iOS offers a six-person local multiplayer mode, and uses a freemium model funded by in-app purchases of bowling alleys, pins and balls. iOS developers may smile at the developer's attempt to ensure it's found on the App Store – the developer is listed as 'Best 3D Bowling Game Arcade, Action &amp; Sports Free Game - Flick Ball Online Multiplayer! A Ten 10 pins best game for Kids! The sudoku Puzzle Free Games! Bowling Games! Funny Cool Fun Free Apps! Free App Creation Company'.iPhone / iPadMoosejaw Sweaty And WetOutdoor gear and clothing firm Moosejaw has released a new augmented reality app for its summer collection, which involves virtually soaking the models with water. Dreadfully sexist? Well, the models are male and female...iPhone / iPadHooters Calendar Sexy Screen Wash HDWell, indeed. Included here purely for its disclaimer text: "This application does not actually wash or clean your iPad screen. However, this application includes a video of a talented model/actress simulating a screen wash."iPad
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Facebook Fallacy &gt;&gt; Technology ReviewMichael Wolff:Facebook is not only on course to go bust, but will take the rest of the ad-supported Web with it.Given its vast cash reserves and the glacial pace of business reckonings, that will sound hyperbolic. But that doesn't mean it isn't true.A dramatic exposition of what happens when growing inventory (space to put ads in) meets limited advertising numbers. Extreme, but none of it seems impossible.Data in the Fast Lane &gt;&gt; Microsoft ResearchThe team, led by Jeremy Elson in the Distributed Systems group at Microsoft Research Redmond, set the new sort benchmark by using a radically different approach to sorting called Flat Datacenter Storage (FDS). The team's system sorted almost three times the amount of data (1,401 gigabytes vs. 500 gigabytes) with about one-sixth the hardware resources (1,033 disks across 250 machines vs. 5,624 disks across 1,406 machines) used by the previous record holder, a team from Yahoo! that set the mark in 2009.(Thanks @PaulJReynolds for the link.)Video: Angry Birds Space trojan &amp; drive-by Android &gt;&gt; F-Secure WeblogOn Monday, we released ourMobile Threat Report for Q1, and in that report we mention there's a growing number of mobile trojans that "deliver on their promises". What do we mean by that?Well, in the past, mobile malware often offered something such as "free" mobile web services as bait, but then, during installation, the trojan would display some kind of decoy error message.At that point the folks installing the trojan would typically search for answers, either because they were suspicious or because they were troubleshooting. That would then lead to actual answers on forums that what they had in fact installed was a trojan. These days, when even non-nerds have smartphones, the bait is quite a bit different.No decoy messages. The "bait" actually works. Here's a video of trojan installing a working copy of Rovio's Angry Birds Space as it compromises the phone.Scary.Why The iPhone's Success Has Women To ThankIt's noPinterest, but according to data from now Google-owned Admob, iPhone users were split pretty evenly along gender lines in February of 2010, with women accounting for 43% of iPhone owners. As for Android, that number was at 27% - less than a third. In 2011, asurveyof 15,818 Hunch users found that iOS users are more likely to be female, while Android users still trend male. But why?It's about the advertising, although this focusses on the US. Is there a gender bias in phone adverts here?Apple maintains top mobile PC share in Q1'12 on strong iPad shipment growth &gt;&gt; DisplaySearchRather weirdly, DisplaySearch lumps together tablets and laptops and netbooks into a "mobile PC" category, which isn't very informative. More informative is the table for tablets, which suggests (even if you take Apple's shipments as 11.2m, as Apple says, rather than the 13.2m given here) that Samsung only managed to ship one-tenth as many. It's looking like the iPod market.Ryanair taking the biscuit &gt;&gt; Speed Communications BlogAndrew's tweet read:"Ryanair exhibit A. Looked up fare yesterday, total £123.00. Returned today and fare is £237.00. Flushed cookies. Fare back to £123.00."What this means is that Ryanair has purposefully tracked when Andrew's visited the site, looked at a specific fare and not made a booking. Usually this sort of thing is done for targeted advertising across other sites, but Ryanair it seems has something else in mind. The next time Andrew visited the site to look at the same fare he had look at previously, Ryanair had hiked up the cost. I assume this is to get a customer to worry that the cost will go up further and book a trip there and then.Not illegal. But ethical? Can anyone confirm this?Joaquín Almunia statement on the Google case &gt;&gt; European CommissionJust in case you haven't read in detail what he said, with the "four points" (vertical search, content copying, ad exclusivity, ad portability) where the EC is concerned Google is abusing its dominance.I have just sent a letter to Eric Schmidt setting out these four points. In this letter, I offer Google the possibility to come up in a matter of weeks with first proposals of remedies to address each of these points.If Google comes up with an outline of remedies which are capable of addressing our concerns, I will instruct my staff to initiate the discussions in order to finalise a remedies package. This would allow to solve our concerns by means of a commitment decision - pursuant to Article 9 of the EU Antitrust Regulation - instead of having to pursue formal proceedings with a Statement of objections and to adopt a decision imposing fines and remedies.The summary seems to be: change how you do things, or get fined and be forced to change.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
This week, Guardian Technology editorCharles Arthursits in for Aleks Krotoski.  On the show Charles talks to tech blogger and patent expertFlorian Muellerabout Google's takeover of Motorola and what this means in the battle for mobile.Also, Charles meets one of the leading brains behind Google search,Amit Senghal. Charles discusses how search has changed in the 12 years that Amit has worked with Google, and asks him what's next in this complex and powerful technology.Guardian games correspondentKeith Stuartjoins Charles to discuss the technical hitches toBlizzard's launch of Diablo 3and why the future of gaming is tied to our Wi-Fi signal.And we hear from the co-founder of theTactical Tech Collective,Stephanie Hankey, in Berlin – a new kind of NGO that is leading the way in data-based activism.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Google has marked the birthday of music pioneer Robert Moog by creating a 'Doodle' in the form of an interactive electronic synthesiser which can be played by clicking on its keys using a cursor.Although musical synthesisers already existed, Moog transformed pop music during the 1960s by producing and marketing a small keyboard synth which could be used with relative ease.Bands including the Beatles and the Doors used the Moog synthesiser, while others later became fans of the Minimoog, a stripped-down version which followed it in the 1970s.The New Yorker, who would have turned 78 on Wednesday, had been encouraged to dabble in electronics from an early age by his father and built his first electronic instrument,a theremin, at the age of 14The pair started their own company in 1954 to sell theremin kits by mail order. After studying at the Bronx High School of Science, Moog attended Queens College before graduating in electrical engineering at Columbia University and earning a doctorate in engineering physics at Cornell.Of the Moog synthesiser, which appeared in 1964, the inventor was to later recall: "I didn't know what the hell I was doing. I was doing this thing to have a good time, then all of a sudden someone's saying to me, 'I'll take one of those and two of that.' That's how I got into business."Moog died in 2005 at the age of 71, after being diagnosed with a brain tumour four months previously. However, the Moog sound has lived on, with musicians such as Fat Boy Slim choosing to continue to use it even in the digital era.
It is too soon to tell whether Facebook shares will end up being a good buy or a turkey, but the reaction to the initial public offering (IPO) since the first day of trading should serve as a serious warning. While the website may have hundreds of millions of users worldwide, it is not clear that this will translate into profits for the company – and themarket seems to be pricing in this skepticism, as the share valuehas continued to slide this week. Facebook could follow in the footsteps of Pets.com, Webvan and other end of the century start-ups that quickly collapsed following multibillion dollar IPOs.Of course, Facebook is unlikely to go out of business, but it is certainly possible that its business model is not sufficiently robust to justify a position among corporate America's elite in market capitalization. A year or two down the road, it may well turn out that its share price ends up at half or less of its IPO price (at time of writing, it is already off 13%).In this case, there will have been an enormous transfer of wealth from the purchasers of Facebook stock to those able to cash out following the IPO. This will make many of those on the inside of the company fantastically wealthy. However, much of their wealth would not result from making a good product that society valued; rather, it came from being part of a successfully hyped company.These insiders benefited from the ability of Mark Zuckerberg and his colleagues to convince investors that Facebook had much more profit potential than, in fact, was true. This ability to hype a product (in this case, company stock) can be an incredibly valuable skill, but it provides nothing of value to society. In that way, it is similar to the skills ofFabrice Tourre (aka "Fabulous Fab"), who was apparently very skilled inputting together complex mortgage derivatives for Goldman Sachsthat weredesigned to fail.In the last two decades, the economy seems to have created many openings for people whose primary skill is lifting money out of other people's pockets, not in doing anything productive. Wall Street is the center of such practices.Many of the country's biggest earners run hedge funds that specialize in computer algorithms that allow them to front-run large trades. This means that if a major investor is about to buy a large amount of a company's stock, these high-speed traders can buy sharesahead of themand then resell the shares, second later, for a profit.In effect, this is a form of insider trading. It is very profitable for those who can do it successfully, but it provides no benefit to society. It actually harms society and the economy since it reduces the return to honest investors, making them less willing to put their money in the stock market. Wall Street has many other tricks, most notably being able to rely on the no-cost government insurance provided by the implicit too-big-to-fail guarantee.But this week's story is not about Wall Street, or at least, not directly about Wall Street; rather, it is about over-hyped technology companies. Even if Facebook ends up losing much of its value in the years ahead, it is virtually certain that Mark Zuckerberg and other inside players will remain incredibly wealthy individuals. After all, Steve Case is still one of the country's richest people even though his former company, AOL could be purchased for pocket change today.The wealth that these people command was not created out of thin air. It came from suckers who bought the hype.With Steve Case, the big suckers were the top management at Time Warner. They effectively sold the largest media company in the world for almost nothing, giving away most of the company's shares in exchange for AOL stock. Shareholders who took the deal but did not immediately dump their AOL shares lost more than half of the value of their holdings.If Facebook shares plunge, we don't yet know who the big losers will be. Insofar as it is individual investors who knowingly took risks in the hope that Facebook will look more like Google than Webvan, the loss is part of the game. This is like buying a lottery ticket.But if the list of losers ends up including pension funds, university endowments and other institutional investors, then the public should ask some serious questions of the people who manage these funds. Typically, they get paychecks that are many hundreds of thousands, or even millions, of dollars a year. They should know better than to be suckered by an over-hyped startup.Of course, it may turn out that Facebook recoups its IPO valuation and is actually worth its market value – in which case none of this discussion is relevant. We will have to wait to know for sure. Until then, though,don't believe the hype.
Financial regulators are to investigate whether the banks in charge of Facebook's initial stock offering broke the rules by selectively releasing negative news about the company before shares went on sale.The financial industry regulatory authority (Finra) is looking into allegations that Morgan Stanley and other banks released reduced revenue forecasts for Facebook to big investors – but not the general public – before Friday's IPO.  Such activity could constitute a violation of securities law.Mary Schapiro, chairwoman of the securities and exchange commission, said it also had concerns. Speaking to reporters outside a Senate banking committee hearing into JP Morgan's financial reporting, she said: "I think there is a lot of reason to have confidence in our markets and in the integrity of how they operate, but there are issues that we need to look at specifically with respect to Facebook."Facebook stock charted a lackluster performance in its first day of trading before falling steeply at the start of this week. News of the Finra investigation drove the stock down more than 8% Tuesday.It is the second regulatory investigation tied to the Facebook IPO. The SEC announced Friday that it was looking into reports of breakdowns in trading mechanisms at the Nasdaq exchange as the stock went on sale.And the SEC investigation isn't the only headache for Nasdaq after the Facebook IPO. An investor is suing the exchange, accusing it of negligence in handling trades that resulted in losses for traders, Reuters reports.All three banks that worked on the Facebook deal – Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs – will be investigated for allegedly sharing the negative news with institutional investors but not the public at large, Finra chairman Richard Ketchum told Reuters."If true, the allegations are a matter of regulatory concern to Finra and the SEC," Ketchum said.The Facebook underwriters already had come under criticism for rolling out the stock at a price the market could not sustain, although the aggressive pricing netted $16bn for Facebook owners.Barry Ritholtz, the widely followed financial blogger and chief market strategist at Fusion IQ in New York, criticised all sides – Facebook, Morgan Stanley and Nasdaq."Thus, what we see are a series of bad decisions made by Facebook's executives going back many years," hewrote on his blogTuesday. "The insiders got greedy, too clever by half, in how they used secondary markets. They picked a bad banker and an awful exchange," Ritholtz said.
Google has put its former head of sales in the Americas, who trained as a lawyer and consultant but has no former experience in the mobile phone industry, in charge of its biggest-ever acquisition – the mobile phone and set-top box maker Motorola Mobility (MMI) after its $12.5bn (£7.9bn) deal finally closed on Tuesday.Dennis Woodside, a Google employee since 2003, replaces Sanjay Jha, who had built Motorola's handset business back up from a calamitous position less than five years ago by adopting the Android mobile operating system for its smartphones. Jha – who forced Google to push up the price it paid for the company by 40% from its original bid last July – will depart as CEO, along with a number of his senior executives, but will help out to ensure a smooth transition, Google said.Woodside oversaw Google's acquisition of Motorola Mobility, and is former president of Google's Americas region. Google says he has "worked with partners, governments and advertisers in more than 30 countries."Most recently, Woodside was responsible for Google's sales and operations in the Americas, where the company says his team drove revenue from $10.8bn to $17.5bn in under three years. He formerly worked in Google's Europe offices.According to Bloomberg BusinessWeek, Apple chief executive Tim Cook tried last year to recruit Woodside to head the company's sales side – but Google CEO Larry Page tempted him to stay by offering him the Motorola position.The completion of the acquisition, which finally got thegreen light from Chinaon Saturday, means that Google has by default entered the hardware business for the first time ever.But Page indicated that MMI will be run separately of the main search engine business so that investors can get a clear idea of its real performance. MMI, spun off from the larger Motorola business in January 2011, has made an operating loss for seven of the past 10 fiscal quarters, and a loss in its mobile phone business for eight of the 10. With 20,500 staff it generates about one-third the revenues of Google with 33,000 – implying that Woodside's captaincy will require him to carry out painful job cuts.MMI's smartphone business has been slow to grow compared to the wider market, despite its early adoption of Android, so that in the first quarter of 2012 it shipped just 5.1m smartphones – compared to a world market of 144m, giving it just a 3.5% share.Even so, some Android handset makers have indicated concern that MMI will get favourable access to early releases of Google's software via Android chief Andy Rubin. That concern is thought to be behind the Chinese government's condition of its approval that Google make Android free and open for the next five years at least.Woodside told BusinessWeek such preferences would not be sought or given. "Andy [Rubin]'s job is to maximise the number of devices running Android," he said. "My job is to make Motorola as successful as possible and deliver innovative hardware as a licensee of Android."He said he had three goals: make MMI profitable, use Google's technical skills to make improvements in areas such as battery life, and get those improvements into MMI devices as quickly as possible. He also suggested that the 20 smartphones MMI released in 2011 was too many – implying a paring-back there.The Android software already powers more than half the smartphones being sold around the world, but until now Google has kept out of the handset business. But days afterlosing a high-stakes bid for a group of patents from the bankrupt Nortelto a consortium of Apple, BlackBerry-maker RIM and Microsoft, its mobile chief Andy Rubin and Page turned up at Motorola with a bid.The key reason was patents: MMI owns around 17,000, many relating to mobile, and Page perceived them as essential to protect Android from courtroom attacks from Microsoft and Apple, which were pursuing different strategies against Android handset makers – Apple suing them to prevent sales of what it saw as products that infringed its patents, and Microsoft suing them to extract a per-handset levy. Microsoft's strategy has so far been more successful, with HTC, Samsung and others signing payment deals. Apple has managed to delay some shipments of HTC phones into the US, and had limited success in delaying some Samsung phone sales in Europe. But it has lost nearly as many cases as it has won, with little clear benefit.With its patent portfolio, MMI has been locked in battles with both Microsoft and Apple. But because in some of those cases it has asserted some patents that are deemed "standards-essential" and meant to be licensed freely, it is presently under investigation by authorities in both Europe and the US.MMI will also weigh on Google's financial position. Its losses will effectively drag down Google's operating profits, though tax allowances from MMi's spinoff in January 2011 from its former Motorola parent could ease any losses.Google has been signaling recently that it has been drawing up more ambitious plans for MMI. Besides producing smartphones and tablet computers, MMI also has a profitable line making cable TV boxes that could provide Google with a springboard for delivering more of its services, including advertising, to living rooms. However, cable companies control the market for set top boxes, and might not like the intrusion into their realm.Macquarie Securities analyst Benjamin Schachter believes Google is particularly interested in developing a snazzier tablet computer powered by its Android software to compete against Apple's hot-selling iPad and Amazon's Kindle Fire. Industry rumours have suggested that Google would release a 7in tablet to compete directly with the Fire within the next couple of months, together with Taiwan's Asus.In a blogpost announcing the news, Pagesaidthat "as a company who made a big, early bet on Android, Motorola has become an incredibly valuable partner to Google."He added that this was "a great time to be in the mobile business".
Chrome is challenging Microsoft's Internet Explorer as the world's most-used desktop browser, having passed Firefox, according to new data collected by Statcounter, which samples the browser-agent string used of thousands of sites.Thedata for the "world" region on StatCounter for the month so farshows IE just ahead, at 32.42% against Chrome's 32.29%. That share varies by day as well, because a number of people use IE at work and then Chrome at home.Update:StatCounter has asked us to clarify: whileStatCounter's weekly statsshow Chrome passing IE on a worldwide basis (and fluctuating a great deal if you look at weekends, when Chrome tends to get a "bounce"), the data here are based on the data for themonth so far. Weekly (and daily) data can fluctuate a great deal depending on events, which is why we prefer to take a longer sample.It's a remarkable triumph for Google's browser, which was onlylaunched in September 2008- and attests both to its quality and, arguably, the benefits of being advertised on the front page of the world's most-visited search engine, where a "Download Chrome" button marked the only time the company has advertised any product rather than a charitable offering such as blood donation (as it did after the US 9/11 attacks in September20112001).Chrome is one of a new generation of browsers, conceived from the ground up to be both more stable and more secure than those which preceded it. Thus for example every separate tab or window runs as a separate process which can be killed individually; and if one of them crashes, it won't bring the other tabs/windows down. (This can make it memory-hungry, but on modern desktops and laptops that's not a significant constraint.) It has also proven to be very secure, surviving its first two years at the Pwn2own contest - although this year it was the target of focussed attention by "grey hat" hackers who found and exploited flaws. (Google fixed them soon after.)But while the headline figure is straightforward, once you start to dig into the figures the story becomes more intriguing.Here's the world map, country by country, drawn from the StatCounter data. IE is blue; Firefox is brown; Chrome is green. All the data relates to the month so far and shows only the leading browser for each country, no matter how narrow the lead - so in that sense this gives you an overview that's rather like "first past the post" voting. No, it's not perfectly representative. But it's indicative. It's also only for this month, up to 21 May, so it's the freshest snapshot we can get.(Thanks to Pete Warden's wonderfulOpenHeatMapfor letting us render this map. Go to the site and buy one of his books, why not.) You can alsoview this map directly on OpenHeatMap.You might expect that Chrome would enjoy its strongest position, and have taken the lead, in the US - since that is after all Google's home.In fact, according to Statcounter, IE is the leader in the US and Canada. On reflection, that makes sense, since those countries will have the largest and oldest installed base of PCs, and those are most likely to be corporate, and locked down to using IE.In fact the "regional" breakdown according to StatCounter for May is as follows:Worldwide:IE 32.4%, just ahead of Chrome 32.3%; Firefox 25.4%,Africa:Firefox 40.6%, Chrome 29.9%, IE 23.6%North America:IE 38.3%, Chrome 25.3%, Firefox 21.9%. (It's also the only region with an appreciable Safari usage, at 12.5%.)South America:Chrome 49.4%, IE 26.6%, Firefox 21.4%Europe:Firefox 30.7%, Chrome 29.4%, IE 28.5% (the closest three-way fight)Asia:Chrome 37.6%, IE 32.5%, Firefox 24.3%Oceania (Australia/Pacific):IE 34.9%, Chrome 25.5%, Firefox 22.5%.Antarctica:Firefox 75.1%, IE 15.6%, Chrome 5.8%Statcounter does IP detection so that it knows where a browser request originates - so if someone from China, say, is browsing a page in Germany, that counts as a Chinese request, not a German one.In fact the highest regional share for Chrome is found in Asia, although Russian's adoption won't have hurt either.InEurope as a region, Chrome is second, after (surprise!) Firefox. But here again there are variations. In the UK - which is Google's largest market outside the US (more than $1bn revenues per quarter), IE still holds sway, 36% to Chrome's 28% (but ahead of Firefox at just under 20%). In countries such as Germany and France, it's Firefox.Conclusions? I'm going to go back and do a historical comparison to see how Chrome has risen, but the obvious conclusion seems to be the countries which have the newest installations of PCs, and which have the least in terms of legacy installations or reliance on burnt-in IE products (hello, ActiveX) which do best.Quite probably Chrome will pass IE for world share by the end of this month. For Google, that's a benefit: it gets data from users about what they're searching for and where they're going. Butin return users get a fast, secure browser which is being constantly updated and for which Google has a cross-platform plan to integrate it with its Android OS.Special update for Opera lovers:if you zoom in on the map, you'll find that Ukraine is the only country where Opera is the most-used browser. I don't know why it hasn't coloured it differently, sorry, But you'll find its value is different from the surrounding countries.
It had to happen eventually: a slow apps day, with just five new and notable apps to tell you about:The SandboxThere are plenty of Minecraft clones in the apps world, but The Sandbox does something different with the pixelly world-building genre. It's a "physics sandbox" that aims to get you creating your own universe, from mud and sand to plants, walls, metal and, er, light bulbs.iPhone101 Ideas: Flying with KidsGoing on a flight with easily-bored children? This app wants to help you not tear your hair out. It offers 101 "fun activities/in-flight games" that the developers claim "all children will enjoy, from toddlers to young teenagers". Which is a rather optimistic view of young teenagers, but worth a try.iPhoneCalpolTalking of ways to keep children quiet on flights... No, as good parents know, child medicines don't make kids drowsy nowadays. It's all about the pain relief. Now the makers of Calpol have an official app, including a dosage diary, local pharmacy and hospital info, and lullabies to play to poorly children.iPhone9mm HDGameloft has ported its grizzled-cop action title 9mm HD to RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook – the latest in an impressive flow of quality games for the tablet. Here, you're hunting down a gang leader before he hunts you down, with guns all over the shop.BlackBerry PlayBookCrumblyThis may be US-only at the moment, but it's an interesting spin on social location. The app aggregates check-ins and photos from friends on Facebook, Foursquare and Instagram with a view to showing you the most interesting places to visit in your current location. Or, as it styles itself, a "friend-powered compass".iPhone
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe world's hottest digital markets: a music map &gt;&gt; paidContentSurprising reason why Germany and France buys lots of CDs: because classical music sells well. Lots of interesting nuggets from a neat map.Fugitive hacker Christopher Doyon, or Commander X, tells why Anonymous 'might well be the most powerful organization on Earth' &gt;&gt; National PostQ: As strictly an online army of hackers, how powerful is Anonymous?A: Anonymous is kind of like the big buff kid in school who had really bad self-esteem then all of a sudden one day he punched someone in the face and went, "Holy s-- I'm really strong!"Summer's coming. (Doyon's in Canada; he's not stronger than the police.)China market: Booming sales of Windows Phones could be short-lived, say sources &gt;&gt; DigitimesAccording to Michel van der Bel, COO of the Greater China region at Microsoft, sales of Windows Phones have accounted for 7% in China's smartphone segment recently, compared to a 6% share for Apple's iPhones.The strong sales enjoyed by Lumia phones at present are typical short-term results for the newly launched model, and it remains to be seen whether the sales momentum will continue, commented industry sources.Given that sales of iPhones totaled over five million units in China in the first quarter of 2012, it would be difficult for Windows Phone models to yield the same results in a quarter, the sources commented.Party poopers.WoA tablet PCs struggling to hit price targets &gt;&gt; DigitimesWoA (Windows on ARM) tablet PCs, based on estimated general BOM costs of US$300-350 for 10-inch tablet PCs and US$150-200 for 7-inch models, are struggling to meet vendors' price targets for competition against Apple and Amazon's tablet PC products because of the additional US$90-100 fee for Windows 8, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers.The average price of tablet PCs has been dropping rapidly sine the launch of Amazon's Kindle Fire. But PC brand vendors, who are used to price wars, are nevertheless struggling to compete, because unlike Amazon they do not see additional revenues from post-purchase content sales.While Digitimes has a shaky reputation, the post-purchase point is an important one.Samsung begins blocking unofficial S-Voice requests &gt;&gt; TheNextWebThe S-Voice APK, which contained services that were exclusive to the Galaxy S III, allowed owners of other Ice Cream Sandwich-powered smartphones to install Samsung's new voice assistant (its Siri rival) and perform commands on their devices.It appears that in the last 24 hours, Samsung (and its partner Vlingo, the technology behind the voice functions) have begun detecting requests from non-supported devices and blocking them, displaying the message: "Network Error. Please Try Again."Doing it on device ID.Smartphone hijacking vulnerability affects AT&amp;T, 47 other carriers &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaIronically, the vulnerability is introduced by a class of firewalls cellular carriers use. While intended to make the networks safer, these firewall middleboxes allow hackers to infer TCP sequence numbers of data packets appended to each data packet, a disclosure that can be used to tamper with internet connections.Complex, and presently theoretical... apart from the test that the researchers carried out using some smartphones, in which they spoofed a variety of sites, including banks. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Tour the Pyramids Online &gt;&gt; Discovery NewsIndeed, this is not just another too-clean looking and ultimately boring 3-D virtual tour of Egypt's famous archaeological site."Many 3-D models of ancient sites have more to do with fantasy and video games than with archaeology. The colors, surfaces and textures are not researched and appear quite flat or unrealistic," Peter Der Manuelian, Philip J. King professor of Egyptology at Harvard University and director of the MFA's Giza Archives, told Discovery News.Then again, the real pyramids don't have Lara Croft pinging around them. The site itself is interesting, though note that (1) needs Firefox in 32-bit more (2) you need to download and install a 3D browser plugin. (Thanks @TehGreatGonzo for the link.)Why Wasn't I Consulted? The web's fundamental question &gt;&gt; Paul FordA really fascinating, thought-provoking essay.A sitcom works better on TV than in a newspaper, but a 10,000 word investigative piece about a civic issue works better in a newspaper.When it arrived the web seemed to fill all of those niches at once. The web was surprisingly good at emulating a TV, a newspaper, a book, or a radio. Which meant that people expected it to answer the questions of each medium, and with the promise of advertising revenue as incentive, web developers set out to provide those answers. As a result, people in the newspaper industry saw the web as a newspaper. People in TV saw the web as TV, and people in book publishing saw it as a weird kind of potential book. But the web is not just some kind of magic all-absorbing meta-medium. It's its own thing. And like other media it has a question that it answers better than any other.One wrinkle: the web is increasingly being used via mobile. He thinks that's different from the non-mobile-screen web. Does that change the question? (Thanks @nomster for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Well, that's Monday over, welcome to the delights of Tuesday. Any gaming fun last night?
Shares in Facebook fell by 11% on Monday as underwriters deserted the stock and questions continued to be asked about how Nasdaq, the second largest US stock exchange, handled the flotation.Pre-market trading had seen heavy selling of the stock, which was supported just above its $38 listing price on Friday by the leading banks who bought shares ahead of the initial public offering (IPO).Within minutes of the shares going on sale again on Monday they were in freefall, and were soon trading close to $33 before recovering to end the day at $34.03.The fall added to the embarrassment over Friday's share issue, when trading on Nasdaq was delayed by more than 30 minutes due to technical glitches. Facebook's arrival set a record transaction volume for a market debut, with nearly 89m shares traded.By midday on Monday in the US some investors still did not know whether orders placed on Friday to buy or sell the shares had gone through. "I heard a lot of brokers ranting and raving on Friday about this," one adviser to Morgan Stanley's brokerage affiliate, Smith Barney, told Reuters. The adviser said Smith Barney had a "large number" of market orders that were entered on Friday for the trading debut of Facebook stock that had still not been reconciled.Nasdaq's chief executive, Robert Greifeld, said at the weekend he was "humbly embarrassed" by the outcome. The exchange had now modified its system for handling initial public offerings."It was just a poorly done deal and it just so happens to be the biggest deal ever for Nasdaq and they pooched it, that's the bottom line here," said Joe Saluzzi, the co-manager of trading at Themis Trading in Chatham, New Jersey.Henry Blodget, the former Wall Street analyst who, ahead of the IPO, called the shares "muppet bait", said on his Business Insider site on Monday  that the lack of big jump in first-day trading was probably good news for millions of small investors, who had been discouraged from piling into the stock.Hereckoned that a fair value for the companywould be somewhere between $16 and $24 a share, depending on its results.That would value Facebook at between $50bn and $85bn – a substantial amount, but far from the $104bn (£65.8bn) that the $38 share price put on it.Investor sentiment cooled over the weekend after seeing the lack of "pop" – a spectacular jump in price – for the shares on Friday. But the Nasdaq itself rose 2.4% as US stocks rebounded from their worst week in a year. Apple stock rose by 5.8%, apparently as some investors who had unloaded the company's shares last week to buy Facebook reversed their positions.Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter, who came out with an "outperform" rating on Facebook before the IPO, said he thought underwriters had overestimated demand for the company's stock. Last Tuesday, the underwriters, led by Morgan Stanley,increased the offering's price rangefrom $28-$35 to $34-$38. On Wednesday, Facebook's early investors and other stockholders increased the number of shares they were selling in the IPO. Both had seemingly been signals that there was strong demand for shares."The late addition of 84m shares to the offering overwhelmed demand, limiting the first day price," Pachter said in a note to investors.Having been listed at $38, with a greater number offered due to "high demand", the shares then began trading on Friday – after an embarrassing glitch – at $42.02. But they soon came off that level, to settle at a closing price of $38.32.By Monday, sentiment had apparently turned against Facebook so thoroughly that underwriters seeking to unload the shares were forced to take substantial losses as the market marked the shares down.Having seen a number of investment funds buy the shares on Friday as fund managers loaded up in the expectation that Facebook would bring a boost to their portfolio, the remaining buyers in the market on Monday were less willing to pay a premium – leaving the underwriters with no option but to accept a loss if they wanted to pass the shares on.
Facebook shares have fallen sharply on a second day of trading, leading to questions about the valuation of its IPO and the handling of the sale by its bankers.At the close of business on Monday, shares in the social networking site were off more than 10%, down to $34.03 from the initial price of $38. The market value of the firm took a $10bn hit as a result of the slide.The slip appears to confirm the views of analysts who said Friday's flotation was overvalued. Questions were also being asked of Morgan Stanley, Facebook's bankers, who provided the advice that led to Facebook increasing the number of shares for sale and raising the opening price just ahead of the flotation."The underwriters completely screwed this up," Michael Pachter, an analyst at Wedbush Securities, told the Wall Street Journal. He said Facebook ought to have offered far fewer shares: the social network decided on Wednesday to increase the potential number of available from 388m to 484.4m.Executives at the Nasdaq stock exchange also expressed their embarrassment at ongoing technical problems. The chief executive, Robert Griesfield admitted that a delay to the start of the sale on Friday was "not our finest hour". About 30m shares were affected by the delay, he said.Morgan Stanley's brokerage affiliate, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, which handled the sale for Facebook, still has a "large number" of market orders that have still not been reconciledWhen trading finally began Friday, shares briefly climbed before beginning a slow descent back to the initial asking price. The slide continued on Monday. At one point in early trading, the stock price dropped to $33.It rallied briefly to $36.66, but slipped again, ending the day at a touch over $34 – down just under 11% on its opening price."There must have been some sober second thoughts about this," explained Brian Wieser, a market analyst at Pivotal Research Group. Wieser suggested that a fair price for the stock would be $30.John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Capital Markets Group, said: "When you start the downward momentum it can be difficult to turn it around unless there is a positive surprise pertaining to the company itself."Lonski suggested that the IPO price tag – which had valued the company at $104bn – had been buoyed by over-enthusiasm surrounding the launch. "Investors were being swayed more by hype than by underlying long-term value," he said."The truth is that in the hi-tech sector, nobody really knows what the predominant product might be five or ten years from now." As a result, many had underestimated the stock's risk, Lonski suggested.Despite Facebook's share price fall, the Nasdaq index ended the day up 2.46% to 2847.21, as US stocks rebounded from their worst week in a year.Apple was among the market risers. Stocks in the computing giant bumped up by almost 6% in trading Monday, to $561.28.
The UK passed a significant milestone in March when Virgin Media's 100Mbps superfast broadband reached half the country. The rollout of Britain's fastest widely available internet speeds across our network is the most recent realisation of over £13bn of private investment made during the past two and a half decades.&nbsp;Why is this important? Well, throughout history, communications have underpinned economic growth and success. This country's rise as the first industrial power rested in large part on the flow of goods, people and information along the canals and later the railways. Tomorrow's economic powerhouses will be those that embrace and harness the latest communications – with today's virtual equivalents already moving at the speed of light.&nbsp;We all want a world-beating digital economy fit for the future – but what does success look like?&nbsp;&nbsp;Much focus is given to international speed league tables, in which the UK is often said to languish. Yet this simple measure fails to take into account availability or affordability. Latvia, for example, is 5th fastest in the world [according to Akamai's recent State of the Internet report] yet only one in five Latvians can get fixed line broadband. The UK is down in 16th but this hides an important disparity: where there is cable in Britain, the market has seen aggressive competition drive up speeds at the same time that prices have roughly halved in five years. If Virgin Media's customers were a country, they would rank amongst the very fastest in the world.&nbsp;The impact of competing infrastructure cannot be underestimated. Across Europe, nations with cable as well as a former state-owned telephony network are typically two or more years ahead of the rest in terms of speeds, fibre-optic availability and take-up. Hence, even with the UK's current infrastructure, our country has the largest and fastest growing internet economy of any industrialised nation [according to Boston Consulting Group research]. The development of that economy will require the wider take-up of broadband services with higher speeds. Success must therefore be that all these indicators improve.&nbsp;So the government is right to be ambitious but, critically, targets should be stepping stones rather than end points and are not a substitute for policy. The key long term question is how to succeed while stimulating the sort of genuine competition that will drive a virtuous circle of progress.&nbsp;While we continue to expand our network within our own means, typically adding around 150,000 homes each year, the outcome of current government policy is likely to be the subsidy of already dominant infrastructure in areas where we are not to the sum of hundreds of millions of pounds of public money.&nbsp;If we agree competition is the best way to encourage further sustainable investment, and that embedding dominance in markets is bad for consumers, we must also accept that providing the vast majority of available public funding to an incumbent is not in the UK's best interests. Throughout the formation of the government's broadband policy, we've advocated the most open and ambitious fibre-optic proposals, not just breathing life into the existing copper network. However, this requires a national approach and an appetite for helping the rapid roll-out of alternatives. Without the 1984 Cable and Broadcasting Act for example, Virgin Media's network would not exist and there would be no challenger today.&nbsp;The absence of such a national view means the noble ambition of locally procured rural broadband networks is protracted and likely to favour the incumbent, freezing out new entrants, while the availability of public Wi-Fi in major cities remains inconsistent and piecemeal.&nbsp;&nbsp;So how could government ensure we don't end up with those outside our towns and cities facing a monopoly provider, a digital divide and higher prices in the long term?&nbsp;The first priority must be to focus public subsidies in areas where competition is currently limited, to promote better and, crucially, alternative infrastructures. This will underpin sustained competition, investment and improvement, rather than entrenching an incumbent.&nbsp;Secondly, a national framework akin to the 1984 Cable Act but for public Wi-Fi will encourage a faster and more straightforward way of getting better connectivity out of the home.&nbsp;Third, government should look to other technologies to provide much needed competition just as cable has done in urban areas. For example, the availability of 4G could provide consumers with genuine choice in areas where there is just a single fixed network.&nbsp;Fourth, takeup can be encouraged by ensuring content owners and distributors offer consumers new commercial alternatives to access and consume the content they want. People expect this and, as we've seen with music, when legal models don't exist or are priced prohibitively they find other ways to get what they want, even if it's illegal.&nbsp;And finally, there are many politically, legally and morally difficult judgments to be made around whether and to what extent the internet is to be regulated. Issues such as automatic website blocking, net neutrality and protection of privacy are reverberating around the world, with deep misunderstanding around what current technologies can and cannot actually deliver. Individual ISPs are not able to make these judgements alone. We need holistic leadership from government, the courts, consumer groups and the whole industry to build clarity and consensus around all our rights and responsibilities going forward.&nbsp;A successful digital economy demands that people can connect and make decisions for themselves, empowered by relevant and understandable information. At Virgin Media we are committed to providing world-class infrastructure to support and empower this, and to contribute to a successful and prosperous Britain.
The government is spending "hundreds of millions of pounds of public money" subsidising BT Group, the House of Lords will hear on Tuesday.A total of £980m has been earmarked for improving Britain's broadband network, including £530m during this parliament to get a basic 2Mbps broadband service to Britain's hardest to reach areas. But rivals fear most of the money will go to BT."The noble ambition of locally procured rural broadband networks is protracted and likely to favour the incumbent, freezing out new entrants," the Virgin Media chief operating officer, Andrew Barron, said ina letter to the Guardianthe day before giving evidence to theLords communications committee's inquiry in to the UK's broadband strategy. He claimed true competition with BT existed only in areas where Virgin Media's cables provide an alternative. Cable now reaches half the UK population, but mostly in urban locations."The outcome of current government policy," writes Barron, "is likely to be the subsidy of already dominant infrastructure in areas where we are not, to the sum of hundreds of millions of pounds of public money."Public funds are being awarded via theBroadband development UK(BDUK) process. BT and Fujitsu are the only two bidders left from an original longlist of nine suppliers in the BDUK framework agreement, which covers 35 local authorities.Cable &amp; Wireless withdrew, as did Geo Networks, claiming BT had an unfair advantage. Rivals had wanted cheaper and more extensive access to BT's ducts and telephone polls, which reach most homes and businesses in the UK.A further nine areas are running their own procurement outside the BDUK framework, with multiple bidders. BT has won the only two contracts awarded so far, in Lancashire and Rutland, and Fujitsu is only bidding for two, in Cumbria and North Yorkshire.Barron writes: "If we agree competition is the best way to encourage further sustainable investment, and that embedding dominance in markets is bad for consumers, we must also accept that providing the vast majority of available public funding to an incumbent is not in the UK's best interests."He criticises the lack of an ambitious national broadband strategy, saying the UK needs an equivalent to the 1984 Cable and Broadcasting Act which effectively created Virgin Media's network by allowing predecessors like Telewest and NTL to build franchises around the UK.Public money should be used to promote alternative infrastructures to BT, including the use of 4G mobile networks as an alternative to fixed line broadband, and a national framework for Wi-Fi to get better out of home internet coverage.A BT spokesman said: "BT would be more than happy to compete directly with Virgin for BDUK funds but we doubt that will happen. That is because Virgin have steadfastly refused to provide open wholesale access to their network – a key BDUK requirement – and because they have shown no interest to date in supplying rural areas with broadband."This is in contrast to BT who offer broadband services on a wholesale basis to 99% of UK premises. Fujitsu have announced their intention to bid for funds and so there will be a competitive process. We are already seeing this in several part of the UK."Barron will be giving evidence alongside Labour's communications infrastructure spokesperson Chi Onwurah, and the former chief executive of BT Openreach, Steve Robertson.• This article was amended on Tuesday 22 May 2012 to include a response from BT.
Google has been given a last chance, and a deadline of "a matter of weeks" by Europe's antitrust chief, to explain how it will end concerns it is abusing its dominant position in search to push its other products, and effectively locking out rival advertisers.In a significant move, Joaquín Almunia, the European Commission commissioner, haswritten to Google executive chairman Eric Schmidtwarning there are four areas "where Google business practices may be considered as abuses of dominance".He now wants Google to propose fixes – or else, he warned, the EC will move to a formal investigation which would lead to fines and legally enforceable remedies. Those could amount to billions of pounds, with the EC able to levy up to 10% of the search giant's revenues.Rivals to Google applauded Almunia's move, saying that whatever it does, its growing control of a number of search-related areas will be reined in. "There are only two outcomes," said one rival, who preferred to remain anonymous. "Either Google takes the easy option, and makes substantial changes, or the EC moves in on it. We now have an endpoint, which is remedies that are binding, and which restore the level playing field."Google said in response on Monday that it disagreed with the commission's conclusions but that it was happy to discuss the issues further. It controls 86% of the European search market, according to online data tracking service comScore, though other measures put it higher.Almunia said his letter to Schmidt cited Google's use of its own products in "vertical search" (such as shopping), and its copying of content from competitors such as travel or restaurant guides, which are then provided in search results, as two of his key concerns.The first, he said, could be preferential treatment that would hurt those rivals; the other could discourage investment that would otherwise benefit internet users.The two other concerns relate to how Google shuts out rival advertisers when people choose to use its search-related adverts on their own websites, and the lack of portability of advertising campaigns built around Google's Adwords to other search advertising platforms. Google's UK business, which is almost entirely advertising-based, amounted to more than $1.15bn (£727m) in the past quarter, making such portability a key question.Sources close to Google indicated that Almunia's announcement was the first time he had outlined to it which areas of its business he was concerned about – even though the EC has beencarrying out its investigation since November 2010, beginning with a series of letters seeking evidence from a number of Google partners and rivals.The investigation was sparked by complaints from a tiny British shopping comparison site, Foundem, as well as Microsoft-owned Ciao, the French legal search engine justice.fr, and the German maps company Hotmaps, that their services appeared artificially low on Google's general search results.Icomp, an internet lobbying group sponsored by Microsoft which has complained about Google's dominance, and whose members include the Premier League, the music licensing organisation PPL, Hotmaps and Foundem, said it welcomed Almunia's statements.An Icomp lawyer, David Wood, said Almunia "implies that the commission has found that Google's behaviour constituted an abuse of its dominant position in the online search market".He added that it was vital that any settlement should include measures "to quickly redress the harm caused to European businesses and consumers and are sufficiently robust to ensure that such harm is not repeated".Almunia said the problems needed to be dealt with quickly because the high-tech industry changes so rapidly. An investigation could drag on for years, by which time such concerns might be obsolete. The EC was criticised in the past for drawn-out battles into Microsoft and Intel, where restorative measures were seen as outdated once introduced."Restoring competition swiftly to the benefit of users at an early stage is always preferable to lengthy proceedings," Almunia said.Google also faces a similar antitrust investigation by the Federal Trade Commission in the US.Solving the current investigation will not end Google's wrangles with the EC. It has just received the green light from the Chinese authorities to complete its $12.5bn acquisition of Motorola Mobility (MMI), the US handset maker. But MMI is being investigated by Almunia's group over its use of patents that should be freely licensed in lawsuits against Apple – creating a fresh antitrust headache for the company.
When Diablo III came out last week and was promptly bought by millions of people (although only about nine of them have actually been able to play it, if Twitter anguish is anything to go by), I couldn't help but wonder how many of those people had bought the original Diablo in 1996. I'm guessing not many. We also saw the return of another series after a long absence: Max Payne, transformed by Rockstar from rather old-fashioned cheesy noir action game into slickly-presented and wonderfully playable cheesy noir action game. Again, I'd bet that not that many of the people who spent last weekend falling over in slow motion whilst filling gangsters with high-calibre bullets were doing the same thing back in 2003.We see series resurrections and reboots all the time in film, but they're less common in games, partly because of gamers' neophilism – until quite recently, anything more than five years old had no place in video games, as developers fell over themselves in pursuit of something newer and better to offer instead. That's changing now. Along with all the HD remakes and digital re-releases of the past year or so, the successful return of these older gaming names signals something good about the maturity of the industry. We're getting to the point where we can look back at the past and see not just a sea of obsolescence, but games worth celebrating – or reinterpreting.Gaming isn't without its enduring icons, but most of them are rooted in childhood nostalgia rather than adult appreciation; it's difficult to hold Final Fantasy or Sonic up as examples of mature entertainment, much as we might love them. But Diablo and Max Payne are games for adults – and they are now being enjoyed by a different generation of adults than the one they were first created for. This is how great brands such as James Bond survive: they're continually picked up, enjoyed and remade by new generations. When gaming brands get to that point – and I honestly think we're getting there now – they will have reached a very significant milestone.Of all the myriad things that have enabled this to happen, the slowing pace of technological change is surely foremost among them. Twenty years ago you'd only be familiar with a certain game franchise if you'd happened to own the console it was on at the time that it was out; the popularity of things such as Chrono Trigger and Shenmue was localised to an astonishingly small (and usually very young) audience. If you weren't there at the time, chances are you didn't play it. But you don't refuse to watch the Godfather trilogy because you weren't around when it was released in the early 70s – that would be ridiculous. Plenty of good art resonates with its own times, but only great art resonates across the generations.When I was growing up with video games, they were moving so fast that what I was playing at 10 wasn't remotely similar to what I was playing at 15 – let alone what people 10 years older than me where playing. Only the odd rare series endured past a single console generation, come to think of it. Nintendo was always the exception to the rule, of course; Mario and Zelda have endured for 25 years, and mean as much to plenty of teenagers and children now as they did (and still do) to me. I love seeing kids now playing the same things that I was enjoying when I was younger – particularly Pokemon, which I returned to last year after a decade's absence and adored more than ever.The Diablo situation is a little different, though; this is successive generations of adults playing a game in the same series. There are 15 years between Diablo and Diablo III – 35-year-olds who played the original are now Diablo 3 gamers alongside 20-year-olds who've never played another game in the franchise. This hasn't happened before, really; video games weren't old enough as a medium to support it. Now that they are, I'm hoping we'll start to see more gaming franchises revisited for a new generation of adults, surviving a 15- or 20- or 40-year lifespan rather than a brief two-year flash of popularity before their appeal is milked dry.This is the kind of brand value that companies such as Activision – and, these days, Nintendo too – are in danger of eroding with their yearly iterations. Any series that saturates its audience with continual updates is destined to peter out prematurely; just look at Guitar Hero. Nintendo has always seemed to value the endurance of their flagship brands, only letting a new Mario or Zelda out of the gate every five years or so and maintaining their worth while Sega ran Sonic into the ground, but recently new Mario games have been coming thick and fast, which raises questions about long-term strategy.It's good to see franchises surviving this long. I like to think that we're already at the stage where particular games such as Pac-Man and Zelda are beloved childhood artefacts for multiple generations of children, like the Narnia books or Disney films (well, the pre-2000 ones anyway). But having game franchises as cultural touchstones for successive generations of adults, like Lord of the Rings or The Godfather? This is new, and even more exciting.• Keza MacDonald is UK games editor at IGN.com. You can follow her on Twitter@kezamacdonald
QA tester tweets revised Wii U controller design &gt; Games RaderA QA tester at Traveller's Tales Games (makers of the LEGO series) going by the Twitter handle @MATTYBOOSH has posted a picture to Twitter of what appears to a revised version of the Wii U controller. This correlates with rumors we'd heard earlier this year of the Wii U tablet seeing some redesigns before being shown off again at E3 next month.The big change appears to be a swap to analogue controllers, rather than the the circular buttons on the 'previous' design.Max Payne takes UK number one &gt; MCVRockstar's Max Payne 3 has beaten Blizzard's Diablo III to the No.1 spot in the UKIA GfK Chart-Track All Formats Top 40.It's Rockstar's first No.1 since LA Noire almost a year ago. It's the first time that a Max Payne title has claimed No.1 in the UK, bettering the week-one performance of Max Payne 2 by a ratio of 10-1.As the story points out, the figures don't include the digital sales of Diablo III via Blizzard's battle.net service.David Cage: the games industry is too focsed on violence &gt; DevelopAn intertesting interview with the founder of Heavy Rain developer Quantic Dream."All I want to do is offer some diversity to the medium. I want to give people the chance to buy something other than ten different first person shooters and RPGs.There should be games for all ages, all tastes. Whatever is possible with interactive entertainment should be explored, and I don't think we're seeing that right now.The industry is too far balanced towards kids and teenagers. It's too focused on violence."Possibly true, but then Quantic's last gamedidhave scenes in which the lead character has to cut off his own finger, then shoot a drug dealer in cold blood.Video game used in stroke rehabilitation &gt; EngadgetThink the Wii has the market cornered on gaming rehab? Think again -- neuroscientists at Newcastle University are developing a series of motion controlled video games to make stroke rehab more fun and accessible. The team's first title, dubbed Circus Challenge, lets patients digitally throw pies, tame lions and juggle to help them build strength and regain motor skills. As players progress, the game ratchets up its difficulty, presumably to match pace with their recovery.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 19 May 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (42)12 (–)Diablo III(15+)PC (100)13 (2)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (50)104 (1)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (48)PC (-3)35 (3)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (34)Wii (8)3DS (3)346 (4)Prototype 2(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (41)47 (11)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (39)PC (7)Wii (2)288 (9)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (39)PC (9)309 (10)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (2)2510 (8)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (62)3DS (38)2511 (5)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (30)PC (10)1112 (14)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (49)Xbox 360 (28)PS3 (17)3DS (6)2013 (6)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (43)814 (7)Kinect Star Wars(12+)Xbox 360 (100)715 (12)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (36)PC (20)2816 (15)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (45)PC (5)2017 (–)Catherine(15+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (48)218 (13)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (43)PC (2)2619 (18)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (93)PSP (7)1120 (–)Rayman Origins(7+)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (30)VITA (21)Wii (17)11UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Authorities in China have put a surprising condition on their approval of Google's $12.5bn (£7.9bn) bid to buy the US phone and set-top box maker Motorola Mobility (MMI): that the Android operating system must remain available to all for free for the next five years at least.The Chinese approval, granted on Saturday, was the last regulatory obstacle in the way of the acquisition, which was inked in August 2011 and is expected to close this week. Previous approvals had come from the US, European Union, and Israel.The takeover will be Google's largest ever. The expressed reason for acquiring MMI is its 17,000-strong patent portfolio, many of them relating to mobile phones, so that Google can fight back in multinational lawsuits from companies including Apple and Microsoft relating to Android devices.The precondition on Android's remaining free for at least five years – slightly longer than it has so far been available to phone manufacturers, who first saw it at the end of 2007 – suggests that the Chinese government wants to ensure that the burgeoning number of Chinese handset makers now producing phones and other products based around Android will not be threatened by Google trying to close the platform just as they are dependent on it.Though there is no indication that Google would ever shut off access to Android's code – because the platform of 250m devices thrives from being used by a wide number of companies – it has restricted it once, when itlimited access to the source code of its Honeycomb version 3.0 for tablets in 2011.But with Android adoption soaring, especially in China, the Honeycomb move looks more like a blip.Motorola Mobility is involved in a number of patent fights in the US and Germany with Apple and Microsoft, which led last week to an import ban on Motorola products into the US, and in Germany has forced Apple to disable push notification to its devices.By acquiring Motorola, Google is for the first time taking over a company which makes hardware – in MMI's case, phones, tablets and set-top boxes.That has led to concerns among some rival Android makers that it will compete directly – which Google has aimed to assuage by insisting that it will effectively run it at arms' length.Instead, it would use MMI's patent portfolio to fight back against the lawsuits affecting Android handset makers including Samsung, HTC, and others.But MMI has run into trouble with competition authorities in Europe, where its assertion of standards-essential patents (SEPs) that should be licensed freely to all comers on an equal basis, in lawsuits against Apple and Motorola, led in April to the opening ofan investigation by the European Commission's antitrust authorities. That questioned whether MMI abused its SEP rights in lawsuits.Patents observers have noted that while Apple and Microsoft have pledged not to assert SEPs in lawsuits where they are licensed, Google made no such commitment relating to MMI's patents ahead of the takeover.The EC and US are also deliberating separately on whether some Google activities relating to search and advertising breach antitrust laws.The US Justice Department found no evidence that Google's ownership of Motorola Mobility would lessen competition in a mobile device market that is becoming increasingly important as more people connect to the internet on smartphones and tablet computers instead of desktops and laptops.The union with Motorola Mobility will open new opportunities and pose potentially troublesome challenges for a management team that so far has concentrated on internet search, ad sales and other software-driven online services.Motorola Mobility's expertise in mobile devices and set-top boxes for cable TV will allow Google to play an even more influential role in shaping the future of hand-held computing and home entertainment.The $12.5bn price paid by Google is more than the combined amount that Google has paid for the 185 other acquisitions that it has completed since going public in 2004.
Third up in our Apps Pitch series is finance appCoinKeeper, which was recently released for iPhone and Android. Ilya Chernetskiy, head of product group at developeriFree Innovations, explains all:What is your app called and what does it do?The app is called CoinKeeper and it's a personal finance management tool.Lots of people feel the need for being financially sustainable, spending less and saving more, but to do that you need to record your transactions, how much we spend and what for.We know how boring that can be, even if you rely on the services that track your credit card spendings you still have cash and other types of different accounts. So the problem that we address is making recording transactions fast and sort of fun. We also make the overall view of your money and budget very visual and simple.What devices is it on, and what are your plans?Right now there are iPhone and Android apps, and we plan to launch an iPad version soon. Windows Phone 7, Android tablet and web interface will follow later.What is the business model and why have you chosen it?We released a paid iPhone app first, and this is still on a paid business model (cost £1.87), but to give more people an opportunity to try our approach to financial management we decided to move towards a try-and-buy and freemium models.So, the Android app is free of charge with 15 days trial and three subscription plans after it: 62p for 1 month, £1.87 for 6 months or £6.20 for a lifetime subscription.What's innovative about the app - what sets it apart?It's amazing how little financial management tools have changed over the years. Games are changing much faster and with the beginning of the iPhone era they have rapidly evolved from button-controlled to touch-based, but finance apps are still mostly "tables and charts" with lots of fields to fill about transactions.So we took a different approach - the main screen of the app represents all your income sources, accounts and expense categories in a form of coin icons.To make the transactions simple you drag an account icon (i.e. Cash) and move it to expense category (i.e. Street food), type an amount and press "Today" (or "Yesterday" or choose another date) to finish.Very fast, intuitive and a little game-like. Some people even told us they tend to spend more often at first because they loved this gesture and animation, of course we didn't want that to happen but still we were very happy we managed to create a product which is not only useful, but also beautiful and engaging.What's the competition - who else is out there in this area?There are hundreds, maybe even thousands of personal management apps on the market, but none of them has the same approach as ours.There is strong competition from services which access and parse your bank account, making it unnessesary to record some transactions manually, but they need to make relationships with the banks, and it is almost impossible to ensure coverage for all the countries and all the banks. But we certainly will move in that direction too.What are your future plans for the app?We have lots of plans: most of them are in two areas. One is how to make transaction recording even faster and nonintrusive – apart from parsing bank accounts we are thinking of check scans, voice input and some other very innovative ideas.The second issue is helping people understand what is happening with their money. What's the forecast, how will their life change with current incomes and spendings, and give a piece of advice on that. We don't want to overload the app with dozens of charts: we want to give people clear answers.Tell us more about the company behind it?I-Free Innovations, a subsidiary of i-Free Ltd., features a unique team of professionals dedicated to the development and publishing of applications and games for smartphones and new network devices.We are constantly engaged in the research of new prospective technologies and approaches to application development. For example, we have a large trending project "Everfriends" – a virtual assistant app with fun and helpful 3D characters powered by voice recognition, voice synthesis and nature language processing.We also have several utility apps like Grocery Mate, a simple but handy shopping list app, or Shoptimus - a mobile shopping mall. We also act as publisher for games: recently we launched an addictive puzzle game Zombie Granny on Android, and soon we shall be launching two beautiful Playstation Network games that were adapted, or better said, re-invented for iOS: Cuboid and Magic Orbz.
A selection of 26 new and notable apps for you today:Moshi Monsters: MoshlingsThere have been a couple of branded Moshi Monsters apps before, but this is the first actually published by Mind Candy, the maker of the hugely popular online world for children. It's focused on the Moshlings characters from the site, with more than 60 to personalise with digital stickers and share with friends and family.iPhone / iPadTom Daley Dive 2012In good time for the Olympic Games, british diver Tom Daley has his own iPhone and iPad game, released by Chelsea Apps Factory and sponsored by Adidas. It's a 3D diving game where you twist, duck, somersault and bellyflop into a pool. Well, three of the four.iPhone / iPadTelmap NavigatorTelmap has launched a free version of its satnav software Telmap Navigator for BlackBerry, with listings and reviews built in, as well as support for RIM's BBM messaging service.BlackBerryPeppa Pig - Polly ParrotPeppa Pig makes her second official app-earance on Android, courtesy of P2 Games. Here, you get four mini-games and a digital sticker book to play with, including the Talking Parrot game familiar from Peppa's Nintendo DS outing.AndroidTivoli RadioRadio manufacturer Tivoli Audio has launched its own iPhone app, which offers a curated selection of streaming radio stations from around the world, from Swiss jazz to Irish folk.iPhoneShop Scan SaveShop Scan Save is the latest shopping app aiming to save money – in this case, with a UK focus. The app offers deals on brands from KitKat and Lenor through to Lurpak, Jack Daniels and Bacardi Breezer, with 22,500 stores in its network.Android / iPhoneLook &amp; Learn: Animals Vol. 1National Geographic has launched an app aimed at children, encouraging "a child's awareness of the natural world through beautiful photography, animal sounds, and age-appropriate learning games". The three mini-games are Animal Bounce, Animal Match and Animal Words.iPhone / iPadCNET GlobalTechnology news site CNET has a new Android app providing its news, videos and podcasts from around the world, as well as product reviews, comments, user reviews and social features.AndroidEverymeSoon we'll need a private social network for all the private social networking app. The latest looking to 'do a Path' is Everyme, which says it believes "most stories are meant to be shared with your closest friends and family, not with 500 random acquaintances". Which means "intimate Circles" of contacts.AndroidNectarUK loyalty scheme Nectar has ported its official app to Windows Phone according toWPCentral, although I can't get the Windows Phone Marketplace link to work. If it is live, expect a working link from Nectar's official apps webpage, which is the link above.Windows PhoneCNNMoney for iPadCNNMoney has launched a new iPad app offering stock prices, personalised news feeds, alerts and business/financial news, joining its existing smartphone version.iPad23snapsPhotography app 23snaps wants to help parents capture shots of their children and share them securely with friends and family – essentially a private social network for baby snaps. With the added benefit (possibly) that you won't be spamming your non-baby-interested friends on Facebook...iPhoneBejeweled HDPopCap Games has released an all-new version of its Bejeweled puzzle game for iPad, with four modes of jewel-swapping action and visuals optimised for the latest iPad's Retina display.iPadClickCard*Android app ClickCard* is the latest attempt at taking business cards digital, with a card that can open the phone dialler, email, Google Maps, websites, and social networking profiles.AndroidChelsea FCJust in time for the club's Champions League triumph, Chelsea FC has an official app for Nokia phones, developed by InfoMedia. It includes news, videos, live match stats and commentary, and live streaming audio from games.NokiaLee Clow's BeardCult Twitter spoof Lee Clow's Beard now has its own app, allowing you to "hear the beard" or "be the beard" – said beard belonging to advertising industry legend Lee Clow.iPhoneTotal CommanderOne for power Android users, this: a smartphone version of desktop file-manager software Total Commander, with an impressive spread of file management features, and languages support.AndroidOrient-Express TravellerThe latest travel-browsing app for iPad comes from the Orient-Express, without a murder in sight. This focuses on tourist hotspots with photography, travel tips and social sharing features.iPadTweetrafficTweetraffic is a nice idea, although it will need a lot of people using it to be at its most useful. It's about sending and receiving traffic info, including reports of jams, accidents and roadworks for other users to see on a map.iPhoneCrossDJThe music technology team behind the CrossDJ software have launched an iPad version, promising a blend of professional-grade mixing features and intuitive controls.iPadHojokiWith numerous cloud services entering the market, how to keep track of all your stuff on remote servers? Hojoki wants to help, promising to "make all your cloud apps work as one". That means hooking into Google Docs, Dropbox, Evernote, Basecamp and other services.AndroidPro Zombie SocceriOS undead-football hit Pro Zombie Soccer has made the jump to Android. "if you want an excuse to kick a soccer ball into space, realign an orbital weapons platform and launch a death-ray to explode the heads of the zombies sneaking into your soccer field – then THIS IS IT..."AndroidGardeners' World Magazine - 100 Best PlantsThe BBC's flagship gardening magazine has a new iPad spin-off: a selection of 100 best plants with all the information you'll need to make them flourish in your own back-patch.iPadConvoConvo is an app for Android smartphones and tablets offering a business-focused mobile social network, designed for teams to communicate while on the go. Looking for a piece of Yammer's enterprise action, in other words.AndroidSmugMugPhotography community SmugMug has a new Windows Phone app, helping people to browse the day's most popular images, and log in to see their own, and share shots directly from their handset.Windows PhoneApptoyz Alien AttackThe latest appcessory action comes from this Android game, which is designed to be used with the gun-shaped Apptoyz Appblaster peripheral. The game is an augmented-reality shoot 'em up with hosts of aliens to shoot.Android
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows 8 Release Preview: RIP, Aero (2003-2012) &gt;&gt; Windows SupersitePaul ThurrottLMicrosoft quietly revealed this week that it will kill off the Aero glass interface in Windows 8 and replace it with a flat, Metro-like Explorer that's more in line with the company's current design mantra. But this change isn't just about obfuscation. It's about the Windows team abandoning the very market that drove Windows's success for over 25 years in order to chase a coming and potentially illusory market for tablet devices.He suggests it's for battery life. But also that "I'm starting to see more clearly what's happening here and starting to accept that Windows is growing into something that isn't so much for me anymore as it is for some mythical tablet user base that may or may not appear in the future...Windows 8 isn't even Windows anymore. It's a tablet OS that's been grafted onto Windows like a monstrous Frankenstein experiment." Strong words from someone who has rarely had anything but praise for Microsoft's desktop work.Apple fires back in lawsuit over Siri's performance &gt;&gt; WSJ Law BlogApple Inc. is defending its voice-recognition software Siri - she of the iPhone 4S - against claims that it doesn't perform as advertised.A cluster of lawsuitsseeking class action status in Oakland, Calif., allege that iPhone 4S commercials and company statements about the phone were false and misleading. Siri, they say, is brilliant on TV, but she's dim in reality...The plaintiffs don't say how the advertisements are misleading, or how their personal experiences relate to those advertisements, Apple said. And if Siri so disappointed them, they could have -- but did not, apparently -- avail themselves of Apple's 30-day return policy, the company said.Google says it won China's approval for Motorola deal &gt;&gt; ReutersGoogle said on Saturday that Chinese authorities have approved its $12.5 billion purchase of Motorola Mobility Holdings, the last regulatory hurdle to a deal that would allow the world's No. 1 Internet search engine to develop its own line of smart phones...A main condition of the deal is that the Android system remain free and open for five years, said a source who is familiar with the Chinese approval but not authorized to discuss it.So now we'll get to see what Google's plans for Motorola actually are. Let's hope it's a lot more than (counter)suing Apple, Microsoft and Nokia over Android.The Internet at the dawn of Facebook &gt;&gt; The AtlanticIn 2004...Britney Spears was Google's most popular search query -- followed by Paris Hilton, Christina Aguilera, and Pamela Anderson. (Yes! Pamela Anderson!)Janet Jackson's Super Bowl wardrobe malfunction was the most searched term to date on Lycos.people still used Lycos.The Howard Dean campaign was pioneering grassroots organizing and fundraising on the Internet.And plenty of other fascinating facts from the year when Facebook was born and Google floated.Today Is Just the End of the Beginning for Mark Zuckerberg &gt;&gt; PandoDailyThink about it: this may well be the only time Zuckerberg will take a company public. That moment of being in New York and ringing that bell is something many entrepreneurs dream about. And he's forgoing it. Instead, he's pulling an all-night hackathon with the team as I write this post. It may be posturing but, if that's the case, it's brilliant posturing.Because, as she points out, after an all-night hackathon, nobody's going to be able to count their fingers, let alone their fortunes.Under construction - ITER in LEGO &gt;&gt; Scientific American Blog NetworkIt's possible this will work before the real thing. It's certainly going to be finished a lot sooner. (Thanks @spikediswhack for the link.)How Yahoo Killed Flickr and Lost the Internet &gt;&gt; GizmodoThe ever-readable Mat Honan on how Yahoo didn't get Flickr right, even though it was poised to do so in 2005 with social sharing. Why? Corporate Development. (Thanks @TehGreatGonzo for the link.)U r bias: Top 10 tech troll catchphrases &gt;&gt; CNET UKSlow news day? I'm never coming to this site again.Windows Phone takes China by storm - already 7% market share, ahead of iPhone &gt;&gt; WMPoweruserWhen Microsoft announced at the launch of Windows Phone Tango handsets in China that passing the iPhone in China was just an interim goal on the way to overtaking Android, it did seem rather grandiose.It seems Microsoft was right however, with Michel van der Bel, COO Greater China Region at Microsoft saying that a mere 2 months after the launch Windows Phone 7 handsets already had a 7% market share in China, ahead of the 6% of the iPhone there.Intriguing. What's not mentioned is who the makers are of these Windows Phone phones. HTC? Samsung? ZTE? Or perhaps Nokia, which has launched there.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
In this day and age, making video games is a hair-raising equation of risk versus reward: the risk being Hollywood blockbuster-sized budgets, and the reward being the potential to generate Hollywood blockbuster-sized income.That's why so many developers and publishers have recently opted to play things safe by making low-budget mobile, social or download games. So Capcom deserves all the plaudits known to mankind – it's difficult to imagine how it could have undertaken a riskier project than Dragon's Dogma.Not only is it a full-blown, open-world RPG (and therefore eye-wateringly expensive to develop), but it's the Japanese developer-publisher's first, which partly explains why it is arriving in such an unheralded manner. Luckily – and a tad unexpectedly – it's shot through with quality, and surely destined to become a cult classic.Dragon's Dogma starts in time-honoured fashion, as far as RPGs are concerned, with an extensive character customisation phase, the ability to choose your sex and character class (warrior, mage, ranged-weapons specialist and all the usual suspects are available) and a typically mediaeval setting.The intro shows a dragon arriving to terrorise your sleepy seaside town; you take up arms against it, but it singles you out and rips your heart out. However, you miraculously survive, and find yourself lionised as The Arisen (and not the first Arisen, you learn, in the land of Gransys). So you embark on a quest to find the dragon that stole your heart, saving Gransys from the forces of evil in the process.So far, so bog-standard, you might think. But the whole Arisen thing has a point beyond adding a layer of back-story. Your semi-undead status means that so-called pawns will follow you: also semi-undead, they won't act autonomously, but otherwise seem like perfectly normal beings. So, you get to pick a main pawn, who stays with you throughout the whole game and levels up as you do, plus two other pawns, thus generating a full questing group.As you play, you encounter countless supplementary pawns, who you can hire on the spot. It's crucial to do just that, since not only can you adjust your party's skill-base that way (if, say, you need to draft in an extra mage), but you can find replacement pawns with better skills and stats than your current ones. You can also hire and fire pawns at rift-stones, found it most settlements, forts and the like.The pawn system works beautifully as, indeed, do most other aspects of Dragon's Dogma. It looks pretty good – something like a cross between Skyrim and Dark Souls. The crucial battle system is exemplary: as you learn new attacks, you can assign them to your button of choice, and you can acquire stat and skill-enhancing perks.Early on, you learn the importance of your kit. If you're a warrior, for example, a better sword makes your attacks way more effective – and there are three upgrade levels for each item of your equipment (upgrading requires workmen, money plus raw materials). It's tempting to pick up every item you come across, but too much kit makes you awfully sluggish, so you learn to store inessential kit and distribute the rest among your pawns. Again, the inventory system is pretty well designed.All Dragon's Dogma's processes, then, are nicely designed, as you would expect with competitors such as Skyrim out there. But it could still fall into the trap of being generic. Happily, it doesn't – indeed, it has loads of character, and plenty of the quirkiness for which Japanese games are renowned.There are some superb, mythology-inspired enemies to fight, such as griffins and chimeras, which are part-serpent, part-lion and part-goat. And, taking a cue from Shadow of the Colossus, you can grab onto them and climb towards their weak spots – hacking away at them, for example, in mid-air.While there are countless sub-quests to perform (such as eliminating bands of thieves, clearing mines of ogres, shadowing cultists and so on), the main storyline sees you increasing your renown until the Duke invites you into his castle, at which point things really begin to take off. Typically, your first encounter with the Duke sees you wearing a jester's hat, and being caught in the Duchess's bedchamber lands you with a spell in the dungeon.It isn't, of course, perfect: like all open-world RPGs, you will encounter the odd bug and moment of raggedness. You can lose something like half an hour's play if, say, you encounter a major enemy unexpectedly at night having forgotten to save for a while; and your pawns can annoy you with their repetitive banter (although you can actually influence your main pawn's conversational skills).But those are minor gripes in the grand RPG scheme of things, and Dragon's Dogma has everything that RPG-heads crave – you can lose yourself in tinkering around, collecting items, finding arcane quests and seeking random enemies for days. It's reassuringly complex, and astonishingly well-executed given that this is Capcom's first attempt at such a game.It may apparently have come from nowhere, but Dragon's Dogma has the wherewithal to go places. If you've extracted all you can from Skyrim, this will fill the resulting void in your life.• Game reviewed on PlayStation 3
And, here we go again, with another week of game chatter. But what did you do over the weekend? Diablo III? Max Payne 3? Minecraft? Pes? Do tell.
It may have taken Nasdaq (possibly borrowing the London mayoral computer systems) a couple of hours to work out how much Facebook shares cost. But it took the market less than 60 minutes to test the will of Facebook's underwriters, pulling the shares down to the opening $38 to see if there was somebody prepared to save Mark Zuckerberg's face. There was, of course – how else does one earn one's 7% fee? – and the stock ticked back up, because, make no mistake, a Facebook first-morning discount would be little short of a calamity. A point not lost on shareholders of the Facebook games company Zynga, whose shares tumbled 13% on Facebook's so-so debut.There is no shortage of debate on whether Facebook can justify its inflated $106bn valuation (at the time of writing). It has been well noted that its revenues fell in the first quarter of 2012 to $1.06bn, compared with the $1.131bn achieved in the fourth quarter last year. In the United States, where Facebook is clearly more mature, the company's ad revenue an hour is in line with the take for the proven and mature market of television, according to Enders Research. People in the US already spend 14% of their online time on Facebook (can there really be more growth in that?), which may explain why Facebook wins an estimated 14% of US online display spend. Perhaps in the world's largest economy Facebook is already mature.Hold tight, though: there are plenty of arguments to keep the bulls happy too. Facebook's real prospects are to spread globally in the way that a single commercial broadcaster would never be allowed to do, not least in China, and to see if the company can develop a new line of business, hence all the speculation about getting into phones. Even on today's numbers, Facebook's revenues imply that each monthly active user generated just $4.11 last year; each daily active user $7.68. Compare that to ITV, to which about two-thirds of British people tune in every week; they are worth £43 a year to advertisers.So given the difficulty of making predictions, it is possible to take whatever numbers you need to justify your position. What's interesting, though, is that most people argue that Facebook looks overvalued, yet we would not know what to do if that prediction came true. We have more invested in Facebook succeeding – because it is a more worrying question if it doesn't. The essential narrative of our times rests on the notion that technology is a constant motor of change, which brings with it great wealth.Facebook, in this sense, is the heir to Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and above all Google, an extraordinary pipeline of companies. But it is also our lodestar for the next direction in media: if Facebook does not succeed, then perhaps all this talk of navigating the web through the medium of our friends was overrated; referrals to news websites, after all, still primarily come from Google.Yet while Google's remarkable commercial success helps sustain the notion that there is a viable digital future out there for the rest of us, the failure of Netscape or the dotcom crash ought to lead us to consider that not every good idea becomes a global hit. And if Facebook falters on the stock market, there is no fresh company to take its place. MySpace et al have gone, and Twitter is a long way from generating the kind of cash that would allow it to excite.Arguably, it would be more frustrating still if Facebook did quite well – growing by 50% a year rather than doubling, or whatever is required by the elevated valuation set by Wall Street. The credibility of social media would be dented, with a vocal group of frustrated investors – while those who pushed the valuation up to this level, and particularly those who sold out today, will have generated quite a return.
Mark Zuckerberg, the newly enriched Facebook founder, has updated his status to "married".Zuckerberg and 27-year-old Priscilla Chan wed at a small ceremony at his home in Palo Alto, California, on Saturday, capping a week during which the social network he founded listed on the share market for more than $100bn.Multi-billionaire Zuckerberg took his company public on the Nasdaq stock exchange in one of the most anticipated moves in Wall Street history on  Friday. Chan graduated from medical school at the University of California, San Francisco, on Monday, the same day Zuckerberg turned 28.The couple met at Harvard and have been together for more than nine years.A company spokeswoman said Zuckerberg designed the ring – featuring "a very simple ruby" – himself.The ceremony took place in Zuckerberg's backyard before fewer than 100 guests, who all thought they were there to celebrate Chan's graduation.Tens of thousands of people "liked" his status change, which was accompanied by a photo of the couple in wedding attire.
One of the great cautionary adages of our culture is: "Be careful what you wish for; you might just get it." And it applies in spades to the kind of instantaneous, always-on connectivity that many of us now enjoy, courtesy of the internet and mobile phones. Except that enjoy is perhaps not quite the right word. Talk to any busy person nowadays about the joys of email, for example, and the most common response is a rueful shrug. A technology that was once a magical tool for communicating has somehow become a millstone round people's necks.It was bad enough when email was confined to desktop PCs. But, once the smartphone arrived, first with the BlackBerry then via the iPhone and Androids, email had the power to penetrate into the deepest recesses of the day – and night. The result was an inexorable lengthening of the working day, especially for those working in high-pressure jobs, because of an expectation that they could always be reached by email – and a corresponding expectation that any message would receive a speedy response.Email has become the central communications channel of all modern organisations, to the point where none of them could now function without it. But there's increasing evidence – both anecdotal and empirical – that it has become dysfunctional. It eats into people's working and thinking time, for example, distracts them from doing "real" work and generates guilt feelings that ratchet up stress levels to unsustainable levels.In the old world of desktop PCs, you could at least leave it behind when you left the office. But the advent of the smartphone changed all that. Email has now infiltrated leisure time, family time – even sleep time. It's become a monster that's destroying our lives.Deep down, most of us know this. But we daren't talk about it out loud, for fear of seeming inadequate. After all, our colleagues seem to be able to cope. So each individual comes to see his or her inability to cope with the email torrent as a personal failing, and therefore as a problem to be solved on a personal level. We make resolutions to be more efficient, to respond immediately (and as succinctly as possible) to each message as it arrives, to archive and file messages at regular intervals, and so on.These personal strategies appear to work for a week or two, but they're doomed to failure. This is partly because the more efficient you are at responding to email, the more quickly your inbox fills up in return. But it's mainly because the email problem is a systemic one rather than a manifestation of the inadequacies of individuals. If you work in an organisation that is dysfunctionally addicted to email, no action that you take on your own is going to solve that; indeed, it may have serious downsides for you.Which brings us to some intriguing research by a Harvard academic,Leslie Perlow. Four years ago, Professor Perlow conducted a pilot experiment with a six-person team at theBoston Consulting Group, an elite business consulting firm. The team was a classic example of "always-on" professionals who were caught in what Perlow christened the "cycle of responsiveness"."The pressure to be on,"she writes, "usually stems from some seemingly legitimate reason, such as requests from clients or customers or teammates in different time zones. People begin adjusting to these demands – adapting the technology they use, altering their daily schedules, the way they work, even the way they live their lives and interact with their families and friends – to be better able to meet the increased demands on their time. Once colleagues experience this increased responsiveness, their own requests expand. Already working long hours, most just accept these additional demands – whether they are urgent or not – and those who don't risk being branded as less committed to their work."Perlow persuaded the team to try an experiment – collectively to agree to disconnect from their smartphones and computers for a few predetermined hours every week. She called it Predictable Time Off (PTO). The results surprised both her and them. The consultants reported that they felt more motivated, had increased job satisfaction and were more satisfied with their work-life balance. They also reported that they had become more efficient, effective and collaborative as a team. The PTO experiment was then replicated across most of the teams working in the BCG's north-eastern US offices – with results that confirmed the findings of the pilot study.Perlow has now published an extensive account of her research in a new book,Sleeping with Your Smartphone, which should be required reading for any senior executive concerned about the dysfunctionality of "always-on" connectivity. It shows that, while the email monster might be impossible to slay, it can be tamed by collective action. And that's definitely something worth wishing for.
Davor Hebel, a Croatian-born and US-educated partner at Fidelity Growth Partners Europe, a £100m fund, is explaining where venture capital (VC) investors fit into London's technology ecosystem. It all boils down to the question of whether you back the jockey or the horse. Angel, "seed" or early-stage investors tend to back the jockey – the entrepreneurs themselves – in the knowledge that their idea will undergo a number of iterations before a winning formula is found.A VC, by contrast, usually takes a rather more cool-headed approach. Yes, he or she will assess the team's credibility, but ultimately they will  back the horse. "Not every company needs venture capital investment, of course," says Hebel. "They can grow at a certain rate without us." He leans forward, flashing a Colgate smile, to emphasise his next point. "But when you raise VC investment, the VC will want you to go for a huge exit – that's an exit of £100m plus. They will want you to hit the ball out of the park."There are three things you get used to if you spend time talking deals with VCs such as the affable Hebel. First, they talk in telephone-number sums. Even the European minnows (by comparison with Silicon Valley's breed of great whites) run funds comprising breathtaking amounts of cash. A fund of less than £100m is considered small – or in the words of one investor, "boutique" – while the biggest European players, such asAccel Partners, a global powerhouse that has backed both Facebook and Groupon, has a kitty of $1.5bn (£946m) to invest in entrepreneurs on this side of the Atlantic.Second, technology venture capital in Europe is a very small world. Most of the VCs, who raise their own cash from pension funds and wealthy individuals or families, seem to know each other well. This is because they've often scoped the same deals and worked the same rooms at events packed with twentysomething techies with promising businesses.Third, they pepper conversation with the word "disrupt" – as in: "This company is going to disrupt the social gaming/alternative finance/pedigree pet-grooming world." And by "disrupt" they don't mean "mildly unsettle" or "interrupt". They mean "turn upside down".Arguably, however, it is the VCs themselves, alongside other investors, who are currently doing much of the disrupting. Eighteen months after the prime minister expounded, at a venue in Brick Lane,his vision for east London's transformation into a global technology hub, "Tech City", as it is known to some, ("Silicon Roundabout" to others), is the scene of increasingly cut-throat competition between investors. The once familiar refrain that, compared with the US, talented startups with a breakout idea struggle to get capital investment in the UK is increasingly rarely heard. Indeed, the (bespoke, hand-sewn) shoe is now very much on the other foot: it is frequently the investors who must do much of the fawning and pitching."The best startups not only always get funded, but there is real competition to fund them from a growing number ofangels, accelerators [growth hothouses] and VCs," saysRobin Klein, venture partner at Index Ventures, whose out-of-the-ballpark UK investments includeLovefilm(acquired by Amazon for "close to £200m"),Mind CandyandTweetDeck(sold to Twitter for around £25m). "The availability of capital here far exceeds that of any other European centre. London is now the European technology hub."Indeed, so intense is the competition for the outstanding startup ideas that VC investors are having to elbow their way in much earlier in the game. Where once they could leave the early stage or "seed" investing to friends and family (often derided as "fools and family"), tech incubators/accelerators and angels, today they have to scour tech networking events, meet-ups and demo days (at which startups pitch their businesses) to catch entrepreneurs before they have proven business models – or else risk missing out on the next Facebook or Wonga."This is because the costs to get tech companies up and running are decreasing," explainsTom Hulme, design director of IDEOand angel investor in GoCardless and retail "gamification" platformFantasy Shopper. "Startups can use cloud services to scale [up] or can tap into social networks to market [themselves]. So whereas VCs used to have to wait until businesses were bigger, you see a lot starting to invest at an earlier stage."One such firm isMangrove Capital Partners, a Luxembourg-based €100m (£80m) fund, which focuses on Europe and emerging markets. Its VCs invest before a product launch and, if viable, follow up with further backing (totalling €15-€20m) later."We want to build up a reasonable stake in companies at an early stage because that allows us to have success in our funds," says Mangrove partner Michael Jackson, formerly chief operating officer of Skype. "The mathematics of our funds mean we need generally large companies to be created reasonably fast. Typically, we invest in between 30 and 50 companies per fund, of which we're hoping one will be fantastic."Jackson explains that the best small funds ("typically €50-€200m") have all had one or two large successes. "If one company is going to pay back, say, a €100m fund, which is what we all dream of, it means the VC has to have 10% of a billion-dollar company when it's sold for it to work. What tends to happen if you have 30 companies is that you have one success, if you're lucky, which puts the whole thing into profit and then you have two or three others that do pretty well as well, which delivers some solid extra returns for people who invest in us."The investors vying for a slice of the action, high valuations and acquisitions such as Facebook's $1bn (as yet uncompleted) purchase of photo-sharing service Instagram – especially when set against Europe's struggling "real" economies – have led some to speculate that we are in the throes of another dotcom bubble. But that theory finds little sympathy from VCs such as Klein, who says that, unlike 2000 – the year of the last dotcom crash – the fundamentals of the tech boom are very strong indeed."Internet adoption continues to grow and smartphones accessing the web means that many more people have access for longer periods and in different situations. Building companies has never been cheaper. Platforms such as Facebook, iPhone and Android are facilitating wide, global distribution; Google gives consumers easy access via search to goods and services; and technology becomes simpler and more intuitive every day."Pointing to his portfolio of companies, he says: "We are seeing 50%-plus year-on-year growth. Clearly this is not happening in other parts of the economy."
Max Payne is looking pretty good for his age. Well, Max himself is looking awful; older, fatter, drunker, and sporting a beard that only serves to highlight his more than passing resemblance to Humphrey Bogart. ButMax Payne 3looks absolutely amazing.It plays like a dream too – albeit a pretty dark one. Max shoots baddies. He shoots them in São Paulo, New Jersey, football stadiums,favelas, speedboats, helicopters, in the arm, the chest, the groin, the head … and, of course, in "bullet time".Bullet time is not new. But the flawless way the new game engine handles the slow-motion combat that is the essence of all Max Payne games is something to behold. And because it's aRockstartitle, this potentially gimmicky glue holds great big chunks of story, double-cross and humour together beautifully. Never leave a TV set unwatched: the effort that has been put into the news reports, ads, offbeat cartoons and crazy Brazilian soap operas has to be enjoyed, whether or not you speak Portuguese.You'll be hooked from the moment Max's gravelly voice starts moaning about a succession of very bad days at the office, and want to play it again even before you've finished it. Not least because you will miss some of the clues and dismantled golden guns hidden in every level. These not only bling up your arsenal (Max can now carry a mere two handguns or submachine guns and one rifle or shotgun) but do significantly more damage.Just asRed Dead Revolverwas completely eclipsed byRed Dead Redemption, it seems that Rockstar has done it again, this time with a significantly better-known and better-loved hero. They have taken the essence of Max Payne and added a better story, better targetting, improved enemy AI, an arcade mode that ramps up the already relentless shooting still further, plus multiplayer and workable multi-person bullet time. Oh, and gangs that you can take with you toGrand Theft Auto 5.
Price £149,350MPG 17.1Top speed 185mphWe all know chauffeurs drive, but having spent a day chauffeuring at my cousin's wedding, I can tell you that that's the easy part of the job. The hard part is the waiting. To sit at the wheel of a&nbsp;spectacularly beautiful supercar, its 2.5-tonnes of buffed steel, double-stitched leather and burnished walnut held in abeyance, like a crouching sprinter waiting for the gun that never comes, requires reserves of self-control you can only guess at. To idle and feel a peerless 6-litre twin-turbocharged engine burble beneath your poised foot and know that if you moved that foot just 6in you'd hit 100mph in a&nbsp;shade over 10 seconds, but also to know you are going nowhere fast, is… well, let's just say that Tantalus had it easy. At the end of my day's chauffeuring in this 186mph car, my average speed was a&nbsp;staggering 13mph! But weddings are days to linger over, and my slow day at the wheel of one of the most rapid cars on the road gave me a chance to sit back and squeeze every ounce of savour from it.The new Bentley GTC – the convertible version of the hard-topped GT which has been dazzling self-made millionaires in China and America since it arrived in showrooms at the end of last year – is a&nbsp;sumptuous four-seat cloth-top decked out in marshmallow-soft leather, deep-pile carpets and polished wood. It oozes effortless class all the way from its jewel-like daylight running lamps at the front to the double-horseshoe design of its rear lights.There's a new man at the helm of Crewe's great ship, the amiable Wolfgang Dürheimer, who has come from Porsche. And though there is talk of hybrid engines and even an SUV in the future, he knows that what Bentley does well is the past. It's the Julian Fellowes of cars. And nothing expresses that better than Bentley's exhaustive, pathological attention to detail. Whether it's panel&nbsp;gaps thinner than credit cards or the gentle snap of a slow-closing glovebox, nothing seems too insignificant to have the magnifying glasses of the designers pausing over it. An almost imperceptible change of&nbsp;background colour to the winged "B" motif, for instance, is accompanied by&nbsp;a flurry of press releases.As a chauffeur sitting patiently in this great car – I feel really I should have been driving in white gloves – I&nbsp;had time to soak up some of the flawless craftsmanship that is at the heart of these unparalleled cars. Everything is carved, burnished, lacquered, stretched and stitched with solicitous care. The walnut used in the veneer which wraps itself around the chrome dials and shining organ-stop buttons of the dashboard all comes from the trees in 81-year-old Cyrus Jones's orchard in the US.But all chauffeurs have a guilty secret. When the client gets out, it's their time – and the car's. The leading rein comes off and it's a&nbsp;chance to shake out the enforced stillness. After dropping my cousin and his new wife off at the end of their first day as a&nbsp;married couple, I turned the GTC for home. The all-wheel drive car isn't some stately lady to be treated like a&nbsp;fragile maiden aunt. It's a car built for drivers. Hit the throttle and the vast engine ignites. Power pours over you like an avalanche. It's exhilarating, breathtaking, joyous, spine-tingling… and yet rock solid. It's everything I&nbsp;hope their marriage will be.
Set during a violent conflict in a lusciously detailed alternate reality, Akai Katana is the latest western release from the respected Japanese arcade games maker Cave.What makes this particularly  special is the scoring system, which gives an apparently simple, exhilarating 2D shooter real depth.  To masterAkai Katanayou have to learn the nuances of various weapons and techniques, which makes for a really rewarding experience. Its various modes can still be enjoyed in the most basic way – dodging dense clouds of bullets and shooting enemies – but to truly experience the intensity the game can deliver you need to grasp its many intricacies. Fortunately, it comes with some well-considered guides.Akai Katanais not easy, but that is perhaps the point. It sets out to be a proper, teasing challenge for gamers who have grown used to hand-holding blockbuster action releases, and it does a superb job.
When it appeared on PC last yearVVVVVVquickly became an underground hit, despite, or perhaps because of, its simplistic graphics and lo-fi gameplay.Captain Viridian has crashed his spaceship and lost his five crewmates (whose names also happen to start with V, hence the title). In order to find them and escape this weird new environment he must explore his new surroundings, scurrying along the floor, or, having flipped gravity, along the ceiling.This simple (and single) game mechanic makes for some truly stupendous puzzles, mind-boggling twists and three or so hours of completely flawless gameplay.So, if you have a 3DS, buy it. You won't regret it, although you will have to wait to get the level editor that featured in the original.
Robert Kirkman'sThe Walking Deadhas been a slow-burn success story. From cult comic book to popular TV series, it was only a matter of time before the games industry came calling. Thankfully, Kirkman chose to spare the world another generic zombie shooter, instead teaming up with adventure studioTelltale Gamesto deliver an emotional and story-focused version of his apocalyptic tale of survival.The first chapter of this downloadable game introduces escaped convict Lee Everett. While it's unclear if he actually committed the murder he's accused of, between avoiding the flesh-eating undead and protecting Clementine, a young girl he meets early on, there are more important concerns.Play harks back to classic point-and-click games, though you can actively explore locations. Occasional hidden-object puzzles test your wits, but the real challenge is a moral one. Choices have real weight to them, with life-or-death consequences. The people you meet, including some important figures from the series, how you treat them and who survives will affect how the story plays out in future chapters, which will be released later this year.WriterSean Vanamanperfectly captures the bleakness of the originalWalking Dead(comic book readers will grin at coy nods to Kirkman's other printed work), while the  visuals are a brilliant reflection of co-creatorCharlie Adlard's art. Tense, gripping and wonderfully entertaining, this is unmissable for fans and newcomers alike.
SONALI DE RYCKERSonali De Rycker is a partner at Accel Partners in London. From offices around the world, Accel manages funds totalling $9bn. De Rycker's investments include Spotify, Wonga andSeatwave.What's good about the scene in London right now?Silicon Valley has no monopoly on talent and innovation, but in London ambition has not always been as prominent as people like me would have liked. What's struck me in the last 18 months is that the level of ambition here is rising dramatically.What qualities are you looking for?We like to back what we think will be the No 1 player in what we hope to be a disruptive and large category. We like companies that can be very big because we're a hits-driven business – make no mistake about that – and we take all the risks that come with that.What does it take to do your job?Having a nose for the next big opportunity. Huge tenacity and hustle. Almost every single company we've done well with has involved us chasing and hounding. Before I did this job, I thought you'd just sit at your desk and wait for people to come to you. But we've called companies 50 times before we even got to a second meeting.Which investment are you proudest of?The one I think really does define its category in an extremely innovative way is Wonga.And the one that got away?I really admire the team atSoundCloud.BRENT HOBERMANBrent Hoberman, co-founder oflastminute.com, is investment partner at PROfounders Capital, an early stage £26m fund whose investments include easyCar, bespoke furniture sitemade.comandTweetDeck. He is also a non-executive director of Observer and Guardian publisher GMG.What do you do all day?There's a lot of going out and finding new talent. One of the secrets is filtering which companies you meet with, because there are huge numbers you could meet.What's good about the scene in London?Startups are hot, people want to mix with them, bigger companies want to do deals with them. But a lot of the buzz is about the creative talent wanting to be in London.What qualities are you looking for?It's got to be about passion and not about making a quick buck – I always get worried when I meet founders who are thinking about the exit right at the start. But the thing I get most excited about is disrupting industries that haven't yet been disrupted.What does it take to do your job?If you've gone through the rollercoaster of being an entrepreneur yourself that definitely helps you empathise with the people you invest in.Which investment are you proudest of?I really like [home from home rental service]onefinestay, because it's not a copy ofairbnb[the social accommodation network valued at $1bn], but an innovative take on that model.And the one that got away?There are quite a lot of them. The main one is [black cab app]Hailo– the first time I used it I thought, How could we have passed on this?DAVOR HEBELDavor Hebel is a partner at Fidelity Growth Partners Europe, a £100m  fund, whose portfolio of companies includes fashion siteStylistpickandWahanda, a health and beauty marketplace.What do you do all day?We spend our time finding deals, doing deals and managing our portfolio. For the first of those, we may identify 1,000 companies to do one deal.What qualities are you looking for?We look for large markets undergoing fundamental transformation. After that, we look for great teams, good products and business models – companies that have actually built something that is differentiated.What does it take to do your job?It's a combination of a few things: strategy, operational expertise, analytics and people skills. Sometimes you need to be bullish and really supportive of entrepreneurs. But ultimately, we are investors of capital – so we have to make a return.Which investment are you proudest of?That's like choosing among your children. One I'm very proud of isInnoGames, a German company whose founders dropped out of school to build a free-to-play game. They now have almost 50&nbsp;million registered users.And the one that got away?Spotify. It was very early and very expensive when we met them. We loved the team, but it was a difficult business model. Now I think it could potentially be a $10bn company.EILEEN BURBIDGEEileen Burbidge is a partner at Passion Capital, an early stage or "seed" fund of £37.5m (£25m of which is government money), whose investments include social micropayments siteFlattrandGoCardless, an online payments service.What do you do all day?It's pretty much meeting people – my partners, the founders of the companies we've already invested in and getting a feel for entrepreneurs who are looking for investment from us.What's good about the scene in London?There's just a huge amount of energy and excitement, which comes from things like the impending Facbook IPO, the Zynga and LinkedIn IPOs from last year, acquisitions like Instagram's by Facebook. All this helps to churn up a lot of activity and attention and this sense from startups of: "We can do it as well anyone else."What qualities are you looking for?It all comes down to the founders. How much passion, enthusiasm and tenacity they have. And their ability to assess what's happening in the market and adapt to those conditions.Which investment are you proudest of?One we're very excited about is [academic research management system]Mendeley, which is disrupting a publishing market worth in excess of $25bn.And the one that got away?Smartphone market research toolQriouslyis a great team and proposition, but credit to them – they were able to secure a valuation beyond what we target for our seed investments.
The guests wore jeans and T-shirts. The venue was a sports bar. The menu was buffalo wings, mini-burgers, pizza and beer. The entertainment was a mechanical bull, which bucked in a corner, and screens showing basketball and football. Welcome to a hundred-billion dollar party, Facebook-style.It looked like college kids out for a typical Friday night, but the scene in the Old Pro, an unremarkable bar tucked off a sidestreet in Palo Alto, the heart of Silicon Valley, was the celebration of a cultural and financial milestone which mesmerised the world."Yeah, it's been a big day," grinned a lanky software engineer. "So we're here chugging a few." He checked his watch. "Still happy hour."He and his colleagues clinked beers, manifestly happy. Facebook had just completed its first day as a public company after one of history's most frenzied share sales valued it at $104bn. The trading took place in New York but the company's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, stayed with 2,000 employees at their colony in Palo Alto, the capital of social media.As the largest shareholder Zuckerberg, 28, ratcheted up a paper fortune of $20.4bn. An estimated 88 employees saw the value of their individual holdings exceed $30m. The extraordinary sums, the website's mercurial rise and its role in connecting more than 900 million people made the initial public offering (IPO) an event watched far beyond Wall Street.Had they received this windfall, Russian oligarchs might have celebrated by buying Manchester United. Investment bankers might have bought bigger yachts and jets. The lords of tech munched onion rings. "The taste that can't be beat," according to the bar's website."This town, it's a very unusual place," said David Batista, manager of the Palo Alto Creamery, a cafe where Zuckerberg used to map strategy over milkshakes. "You could be sitting beside a billionaire and not know it. A day like today and where do they go? A sports bar. It's all very low key."Internet revolution, Hollywood movie, global impact on human interaction, byword for self-promotion – few outsiders consider Facebook to be discreet. But employees are exactly that."You might think as soon as they make a million they buy a house in Palo Alto, but a lot of these guys live in apartments, don't have girlfriends and bicycle to work. And they work all the time," said Alan Dunckel, an estate agent. Those who did buy houses – $1,000 per square foot – did not flaunt wealth, he said. "They wear T-shirts and hoodies." Many sellers, said Dunckel, had withheld properties in hopes of a boom. "Expectations are huge." Facebook has promised $1.1m to Menlo Park's cash-starved authorities to fund capital projects, prompting hopes more will follow.The employees' celebration at the Old Pro, however, was muted. Whereas non-Facebook groups booked tables with their names on them, Zuckerberg's troops clustered in anonymous little knots. They had been drilled by headquarters not to speak to the media. Ostensibly it was to avoid spooking the markets at a delicate time but it followed a company tradition of reticence – opacity, critics say – ironic given concern over Facebook users' privacy guarantees."Sorry, buddy. Normally I'm really interesting to talk to but I just can't right now," one employee, drinking an ale, smiled sheepishly. Others recoiled as if questions were radioactive. One confirmed a rumour that Zuckerberg was hosting a party for some staff that night at his home – a relatively modest $7m house – several blocks away.Blink on the highway and you could miss the company's Menlo Park headquarters, a nondescript complex of two and three-storey buildings which employees of the previous occupier, Sun Microsystems, nicknamed San Quentin, after the jail. An entrance billboard with the familiar thumbs-up icon is Facebook's only concession to marketing.Instead of trumpeting its historic day the company rebuffed interview requests and corralled television crews in a car park across the street. While theObserverinterviewed an employee's mother inside the grounds – "a historic day for the way the world is going", she was saying, beaming – security guards swooped, complaining about trespass, and threatened to summon police.Friday's bounty was preceded by austerity. On Thursday night employees made a round-the-clock "hackathon" of writing code. They wore newly printed T-shirts which said: "Stay focused &amp; keep hacking."Some emerged early Friday for a ceremony at the centre of the complex known as Hack Square, where Zuckerberg rang the opening bell to start the Nasdaq stock market's trading. Then they returned to their computers.Canteens with free gourmet food and outstanding coffee keep staff inside the complex, disappointing nearby restaurants and cafes. Hairdressers like Nina Phana, however, who runs a salon two blocks down, say the techies emerge for the occasional trim and blowdry. "They tip good."A hundred billion dollars is a gargantuan sum for a company started eight years ago in a college dorm, and the fact that Friday's frenzied trading ended with shares at $38.23, just a fraction over the opening price, stoked claims the company was overvalued.Ali Ghotbi, an executive at Box, a cloud computing developer, shrugged off concerns of another dotcom bubble. "Back in the 90s it was, oh, you have a website, here's a million dollars. Now it's more controlled, more selective."A colleague, Tom Cochran, predicted Box would be Silicon Valley's next big thing. "Our chief executive, Aaron Levie, is a genius like Mark Zuckerberg. But with charisma."The rate of startups in this corner of San Francisco bay – renovated premises filled with newly arrived geeks with Harvard and MIT baseball caps – suggests widespread confidence. Or hubris.
On Friday morning, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder, CEO, and majority shareholder, rang the Nasdaq opening bell and made history with one of the largest IPOs in years. It was exactly the kind of mania that made the dotcom era a profoundly silly time – irrational exuberance all the way to the bank in an era that became known more for the greed, ridiculousness, and excess than it did from the occasionally groundbreaking work that was changing how people did business at the dawn of the modern internet era.Except, on Friday, the mania didn't show up on schedule.After weeks of breathless anticipation, the Facebook IPO fizzled, with institutions having to step in and buy shares to keep the stock from slipping below the strike price of $38. This shocking and heartbreaking development will now be accompanied by the sound of a thousand fingers clattering over keys, aspundits and analysts everywhere tweet and blog and chatter over what went wrong.But this supposes something has actually gone wrong.Let us remember, first, that Facebook the company had this IPO in order to go public with its stock, and raised more than $16bn for its troubles. So, they aren't unhappy: that's what they were expecting, and that's what they got. Before IPOs became carnivals of capitalism, that was actually the point.Zuckerberg and the other Facebook pre-IPO shareholders aren't unhappy this weekend – they're rich. Yes, some of them could be wishing that they werealmost incalculablyrich instead of merely being the more prosaicfilthyrich, but if you catch one of them at a fake German beerhall in Palo Alto bitching about this, you should punch them immediately – the way they trained us in our self-defense classes years ago, when we were all taught these techniques in case an insufferable internet millionaire douchebag might one day desperately need an attitude adjustment.Is it us? Are we the ones who are disappointed? I don't know – given how restricted and voodoo-y IPO stock launches are, I doubt the average reader skimming this article was in on the first day of trading. I know I don't have any Facebook stock, and I doubt you do, too.So, who is upset? Who didn't get what they were looking for? One hint: you're looking at it, and in another age, it was used to wrap fish.Media loves the big IPO stories. They love every part of them: they love the narrative arc; they love the idea of workers slaving away every day and then, one magical morning, getting millions and millions of dollars. They love the skullduggery of how they get set up, and the way it all seems to rest on the fate of a single day – what happens in those first moments, as the stock hits the market and demand asserts itself.Stories like this make financial analysts' eyes dilate, the blood quicken, the pulse sound in the ears. We all recognize it, because it's pornography. There are different types of porn: war porn, patriotism porn … and this, of course, is finance porn. You can tell it is porn because it demands nothing of the viewer, and comforts those who get off on it. But no matter how nice porn can be, it's not a dialogue. It's not news. It is spectacle, and by participating in it, we devolve the dialogue.We are perhaps hungry for it because we have no dialogue with the corporations. Now that labor is a relic of the past that is largely ignored, there's no battlefield to make the corporation look human, to make it fit into the narrative of a great story. There are no strikes, no unrest: workers aren't capable of raising more than a mild sense of indigestion at whatever they face, and they choke that down lest they endanger their positions.We have been trained to believe that a business story only exists from the top down – and through that lens, there are few things as dynamic and newsworthy as an IPO. In an environment without financial stories that the media wants to tell, the IPO becomes a bar mitzvah, a coming of age where, instead of bringing gifts, the public company showers its faithful with riches instead.No one suffered when there wasn't an outbreak of abject mania at the Facebook IPO. In fact, maybe many of us gained: if the markets behave in a rational manner, if we do not submit to hype and hysteria, perhaps we can live a rational life within them? Work for the sake of what is done, not what is gained? Perhaps, we can dream of leaving the dotcom era behind?Perhaps. But the lure of narrative is strong, and we are always seeking the next trend. In Fight Club, Ed Norton taught us that you are not the things you own. It's a decade later, but we may need to learn that we are not our share prices, either.
Max Payne 3, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Max Payne was the series that brought John Woo-style "bullet time" to games, enabling slo-mo dives while pumping rounds two-handed into any unfortunate in your line of sight. Naturally it's back for this instalment, along with Max's hilariously dark commentary, growled through a haze of Kong whiskey and painkillers. The latter provide a handy health recharge as well as proving highly addictive; as Max says, "I meant to end this how I began it. Heavily medicated." Set predominantly in São Paulo, the deeply noir atmosphere is leavened by a black sense of humour and the colourful favelas and luxury haunts of the VIPs Max has taken to guarding, even if the action comes so thick and fast that enjoying the scenery is at most a fleeting indulgence. Like Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto series, character animation, script and voice acting come together to create a remarkably solid and expressive set of characters, while online multiplayer modes provide a wealth of levelling up and social options to go with its breathless campaign.Rockstar, £39.99-£49.99Minecraft, Xbox 360MinecraftStarting with a virgin world and your bare hands, you can carve chunks of wood from trees and laboriously tunnel out stone and gravel. Crafting the raw elements you find leads you to make tools, then a furnace so you can smelt any metal ore you find into ingots, opening up a world of armour, building materials, cookery and weapons. At its heart though, Minecraft is a game of survival: when night falls, monsters come and if you don't have a solid shelter to hide in, death is swift. Simplified from its PC incarnations, crafting is now a more straightforward process. The result is that this lacks the PC iterations' intimidating vastness, but is easily the most welcoming and approachable version of a game with no points and only a fuzzily elucidated end goal, which gives you a whole world in which to lose yourself.Mojang, 1,600 MSP (£13.71)Games newsDiablo IIIGames are currently rated by both the Video Standards Council and the British Board Of Film Classification. From July, however, they will only receive aVSC PEGIrating and staff found selling to underage shoppers could face a prison sentence …Sony's £3.6bn loss last year has prompted their CEO to announce 10,000 job cuts, although reports thatAtariplanned to closeEden Games, the studio behind the Test Drive Unlimited series, turned out to be unfounded…Also out this week isDiablo III(PC, Mac), the new instalment of the classic dungeon-crawling adventure that's already causing significant dents in employee attendance and an upsurge in the sale of Doritos and caffeinated soft drinks …Joining it on shelves is the entirely self explanatoryGarden Simulator(PC) …But Sony'sRatchet &amp; Clank HD Trilogy(PS3) – originally due for release this week – is now out early next month.
Wow, so much space above my head. What am I going to do with it all? Perhaps that's the Tepee part, except that tepees are pointed and conical. This is much more square and box-like. Or maybe it's called Tepee because there's room to wear the full Native American headdress in here. I'll fetch my eagle feather war bonnet, then, and my squaw, too. Why not? These sliding doors certainly make it easy to get the papoose, little Shitting Bullock, in the back. Off we set then, to Little Bighorn… OK then, Sainsbury's, if I'm honest, but we are doing the full hand-on-and-off-the-mouth war cry. Ah woo ah woo ah woo…What about the Outdoor part, though – this is the Peugeot Bipper Tepee Outdoor. Is there an Indoor version, too, and what use is an Indoor car to anyone? Oh, Outdoor is just a slightly chunkier version, with raised suspension, fog lights, roof bars, etc. To make it look as if it&nbsp;could ford the Little Bighorn river if it had to.Which it almost certainly couldn't. Because what this really is, is a van, of course. That's why it's so&nbsp;high – unnecessarily so, if it's just people, not stuff, you're carrying. But then it's obviously not built for speed or sporty handling, and the height doesn't seem to affect its fuel consumption or emissions figures, which are both excellent.The French like turning their vans into cars – cutting windows in the sides, sticking seats in the back. This one has bigger siblings, in the Partner Tepee and the Expert Tepee. I like them – you get a lot of accommodation for the price. And there's a nice, no-frills functionality, a cheerful, utilitarian charm about them. People carriers for the people.This one is no exception. So it's not going to set your world alight or your pulse racing. The driving experience is undemanding, unexciting, unmemorable; not unpleasant, though. It's a little bit noisy (that'll be its commercial vehicle DNA), but the ride is comfortable. And it's surprisingly easy to park.It won't, I'm afraid, have your neighbours drooling the bitter green drool of envy. It's quite cute, though, in a funny-looking, I'm-clearly-really-a-van kind of a way. Especially this Outdoor version, which has more personality than the Indoor (actually S, but I prefer Indoor).Its attractive cheerfulness continues inside, where it's practical, simple, light, airy, roomy. Remarkably spacious for a car of its length, in fact, and for its price. Plus there's all that lovely headroom. Giving you the option of driving in the full Native American headdress. Or indeed any other lofty headgear of your choice.Peugeot Bipper Tepee Outdoor HDi 75PriceFrom £13,245Top speed99mphAcceleration0-62mph in 16.8 secondsAverage consumption65.6mpgCO2 emissions119g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating7/10
Away from all the hubbub over thatothersocial network, how is Google+ - described by Larry Page and others as the new "social spine" of the company - doing?As far as user numbers go, swimmingly: Page said that it has crossed the 100 million user mark. In April, Vic Gundotrasaidthat "More than 170 million people have upgraded to Google+". That's a lot. That's more than Twitter claims as monthly active users (140 million).But as far as user engagement goes,previous studieshave said that it's not a hit. What we don't know is how many of those 170 million are active users of Google+ in the past 30 days. The suspicion, because Google has been evasive, is that the answer is: not many at all.And now anew analysis from RJMetricsis reinforcing that suspicion. It says:• The average Google+ post has less than one +1, less than one reply, and less than one re-share.• 30% of users who make a public post never make a second one. Even after making five public posts, there is a 15% chance that a user will not post publicly again.• Among users who make publicly-viewable posts, there is an average of 12 days between each post• A cohort analysis reveals that, after a member makes a public post, the average number of public posts they make in each subsequent month declines steadily. This trend is not improving in newer cohorts.The obvious question to ask of that analysis - which, as a caveat, is only made against public posts (because private posts are, well, private, and there's no way of knowing how many of them there are) - is how it compares against other social networks, partciularly Facebook, Twitter and the new kid on the block, Pinterest.Note too that these areaverages. There will be significant extremes; this is unlikely to be a normal curve. Most likely at one end there is a colossal number who don't do anything (and whose engagement may have been minimal - and perhaps nonexistent), while at the other is Robert Scoble, who never stops.That would suggest the likely distribution of Google+ users is bathtub-shaped - high at both ends, very low in the middle. Because the people who like it really like it, as with any social network.So how high are the ends and the middle?Analysing the sidesThe Google+ data analysing 40,000 randomly-chosen users, from RJMetrics, says that the chances are good that someone will make a second post - 70%. But, says Robert Moore, the author of the post, "after that, Google Plus does not perform as well as other social services that we have analysed. In charts like these, we typically expect to see the probability of repeat posts shoot up to well north of 90% by the time the user has made several posts. This is basically the 'once you're using it you're hooked' principle."Cumulative average number of public posts on Google+ by length of time on the service. After eight weeks, the average is less than six. Source: RJMetricsBut instead, he says, "with Google Plus, this number never crosses the 90% mark. Even after having made five such posts, the chance of making a sixth is only 85%. That means that 15% of people who have made five posts never came back to make a sixth."It's possible of course that the sixth is made privately - but it seems counterintuitive for someone to post publicly five times in a row and then shift entirely to private sharing.Moore also notes that Google+ users "are less and less likely to make additional posts even a few months after initially joining."In other words, Google+ just isn't sticky. Or, alternatively, it's attracting people who start and then go "periscope down".But is this a pattern that's common to social networks? Not at all, he says, and contrasts it with Pinterest - which recently won an investment round valuing it at over $1bn.Pinterest: pinterestingRJMetrics did asimilar analysis against Pinterestin February, and found completely different behaviour. "Pinterest's traffic charts aren't hockey sticks - they're rocket ships," Moore noted then.It found that Pinterest was retaining and engaging users two to three times more efficiently than Twitter had been at a similar stage in its history. Over 80% of "pins" were re-pins from elsewhere on the site, indicating a lot of viral activity. (For Twitter at the same age, only 1.4% of tweets were retweets.)But it was the user engagement that was surprising. By breaking people down into cohorts based on the months in which they joined, it could follow how active they were – with the expectation that they would drift away and become less active. But instead, the older cohort remained just as active."This either means that no one who starts using Pinterest ever stops or – more likely – that users who continue to use Pinterest become so much more engaged over time that their activities fully make up for those of any users who leave," Moore noted.Of course a key point about Pinterest compared to Google+ is that Google's nascent social network is much larger, so you might not expect the same level of excitement on average. Another potential factor is that many new joiners are in effect co-opted in via their Gmail account, which "upgrades" them to Google+ whether they particularly want to or not. That's always going to degrade the level of user interaction compared to something that people actively choose to join.Pinterest pins per user in February 2012, organised by 'cohort' of when they joined the site. The growing line indicates continued interest. Source: RJMetricsBut Pinterest users look like a determined bunch. "Between 40% and 60% of [Pinterest] users are still actively pinning even as far out as week 8," notes Moore. "This may seem like a steep dropoff, but for a consumer internet business it's exceptionally good."And then, TwitterAnd for comparison, he goes back to aTwitter analysis he did in 2009- when the service was just three years old. I did ask Moore whether there have been any more recent analyses of Twitter; he doesn't (though might run one now).What he found then was that Twitter decay rate - how many unique tweeters were still at it 8 weeks ahead - was down around the 20-22% mark. And also: "Once a user has tweeted once, there is a 65% chance that they will tweet again. After that second tweet, however, the chance of a third tweet goes up to 81%." And: "If someone is still tweeting in their second week as a user, it is extremely likely that they will remain on Twitter as a long-term user." Remember that this was back in 2009, when it was still part of a comparatively tiny demographic, and by his estimate had about 49 million accounts. Now that's up to 140 million, according to Twitter's release earlier this week.But here's his conclusion on Pinterest in February: "Pinterest demonstrates some of the strongest user engagement, retention, and virality metrics I have ever seen in an online business.  The company has found tremendous success among its core demographic".Time since previous post on Google+, by number of posts. Even for those who have made 6 posts, it can be 12 days. Source: RJMetricsOK, and now how about Google+? Less good. In fact all the metrics are less good (apart from the user numbers). On average, a user waits 15 days between making their first public post and making their second. This number declines with each subsequent post, but not drastically. There is an average of 10 days between a user's fifth and sixth public posts.But we've already brought up the caveat about public posts, and it's entirely possible that some people make their first post in public, but after that restrict themselves to private posts, or keep posting with a constant frequency but only make their posts public occasionally. (One challenge is that it's hard, if you're a Google+ user who's in someone's circle to which they post, to know whether that post is public or not. So Google+ users themselves aren't in a great position to know this.)Next, Moore looks at the much more public face of Google+: +1s, replies and sharing. He writes:Of all the categories, we feel that this is the least likely to be biased by the fact that we only studied public posts. These public posts will still be visible to each member's private networks, and actually could attract +1s, shares, and replies from external users as well. If anything, we would expect our numbers here to be higher than in the general population.Nope. From 70,000 posts, he gets• an average of 0.77 +1s per post (or, put another way, out of 10 posts, 3 won't even get the equivalent of a Facebook "Like")• an average of 0.54 replies per post (ie, about 1 reply per two posts - no wonder people don't post; it's unrewarding)• an average of 0.17 re-shares per post (or slightly less than 1 in 5)I asked Moore what, of all the data about Google+, he found the most remarkable. "It's not the absence of activity that we find noteworthy here, but the drop-off," he responded. "You can speculate on the reasons why people stop posting publicly (in certain cases maybe it was a behavioural change from wanting to post publicly to wanting to post privately), but the drop-off is so consistent across the population we studied that we speculate there may be an underlying drop-off in overall activity."He added: "I would not expect our stats on likes, +1s, and re-shares to be biased downward.  Activities like these on public posts are just as visible to private circles and also can be acted upon by members of the public."In astatement to Fast Company, which saw the study early, Google said: "By only tracking engagement on public posts, this study is flawed and not an accurate representation of all the sharing and activity taking place on Google+. As we've said before, more sharing occurs privately to circles and individuals than publicly on Google+. The beauty of Google+ is that it allows you to share privately - you don't have to publicly share your thoughts, photos or videos with the world."ConclusionIt's interesting to look back at whatSteve Rubel, a PR expert, wrote back in June 2011when Google+ started.On the plus side, pun intended, the company has clearly rethought how people may want to share and they have learned. Google+ is basically what Google Buzz should have been. However, unlike its predecessor, there's no easy way for consumers to pull in content from other networks - at least for now.However, at least where we sit today, I believe that Google+ will leave consumers nonplussed - e.g. bewildered. While the interface is terrific and Circles and Hangouts both offer a strong value proposition, Google+ doesn't solve a consumer problem that Facebook already hasn't - or soon will - solve.
Facebook's first day as a public company ended with the company narrowly avoiding the embarrassment of its stock dipping below the $38 (£24) starting price, in one of the most frenzied share sales in history.Shares in the social network giant ended the day at $38.23, up 0.61%, having soared 11% earlier in the day. A record 566m shares traded hands as the company joined the Nasdaq stock market where it is now valued at $104bn, more than the combined worth of Goldman Sachs and Nike.Mark Zuckerberg, the company's 28-year-old founder and Facebook's largest shareholder, saw the value of his holding reach $20.4bn by the time the market closed.The sale got off to a messy and inauspicious start. Early trading was delayed until 11.30am as the exchange systems seemed unable to cope with the scale of the initial public offering (IPO) and failed to send electronic reports back to traders and firms to confirm that shares had been bought or sold. After the market closed, CNBC reported that the Securities and Exchange Commission was looking at the Nasdaq trading problems.When trading eventually did start, more than 82m shares were traded in the first 30 seconds. The share price soared 11% before quickly collapsing to close to the $38 offer price.Dealers speculated that Facebook's army of bankers had stepped in to stop the shares falling below $38, a move that would have landed the social network with a public relations disaster on its first day as a public company.Sam Hamadeh, founder of the analyst PrivCo, watched the day unfold at the Nasdaq exchange. "It was stunning," he said. "I have not seen anything like it in 20 years of watching this market."He calculates that the banks who underwrote the share sale stepped in and bought $300m worth of shares to stop Facebook dipping below $38, a move that would have marked Facebook as a "busted IPO"."It doesn't matter so much to Facebook, they raised their money butit's not a great start," said Hamadeh, who said he believed Facebook was worth $24-$25 a share. "And that's being generous."Before the shares started trading the estimated price reached $45, triggering a wave of sell offs that Nasdaq could not handle, said Hamadeh. Nasdaq did not return calls for comment. He predicts that the shares will fall further next week. "The banks can't support this thing forever," he said.For now the share price is not Zuckerberg's primary concern. "Of course the money means something to him," said David Kirkpatrick, author of the Facebook Effect. "But he's not doing it just for the money and he assumes that rather than focus on the money, he should focus on making sure Facebook does well. He is highly analytical in everything he does, extremely disciplined. He is not going to be watching that stock price every day, I can tell you that."Facebook's stock market debut had begun with Zuckerberg - wearing his trademark navy blue hooded top - remotely ringing the opening bell for the New York-based stock exchange from outside his California headquarters as staff cheered him on. Forbes calculated that as he did so, he was the world's 23rd richest man – two places above Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin.However, the riches generated by Facebook went wider. At $38 a share Facebook created 88 people with fortunes of over $30m, according to Wealth-X, an analyst that monitors high net worth individuals. If the price reaches $43, there will be 265 Facebook millionaires worth more than $30m.The sale reaped enormous rewards for Facebook's co-founders and early backers. Co-founder Dustin Moscovitz is now worth over $5bn. Elevation Partners, an investment firm that counts U2 singer Bono among its partners, holds shares worth over $1.6bn.Facebook's IPO is the most hotly anticipated share sale since Google's in 2004. Google's stock started trading at $85 and ended the day at $100.34. Google's shares now sell for over $620.As with the Google IPO, there has been a lot of scepticism about Facebook's ability to turn its phenomenal number of users into a business able to support a $100bn-plus valuation. Facebook's revenues were $3.7bn last year. Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, had revenues of close to $29bn and is valued at half Facebook's current value.The social network now has over 900 million people on its service and will soon top a billion. For its fans, Facebook is the defining company of the 21st century. "His impact on the world will be as least as big as Bill Gates and probably already has been," said Kirkpatrick.Kirkpatrick has spent many hours with Zuckerberg writing the only authorised history of the company. He said Zuckerberg had a "laser focus" on business and planned to spend Friday working rather than watching the share price."He really doesn't believe in paying attention to that stuff. He's much more focussed on product development, on penetration of the service around the world," said Kirkpatrick.The sale comes amid what some are calling a new bubble in tech companies. Facebook's IPO follows a mixed set of share sales from other social media firms including Groupon, the online coupon company, and Zynga, the games firm behind Words With Friends and Draw Something.Facebook itself has driven up the bubble, according to some, by spending $1bn on Instagram, a profitless photo-sharing application.Earlier this week Pinterest, a social site that lets people "pin" pictures and content to create collections of interest, raised $100m at a price that valued the company at $1bn."There is a frenzy going on. I think this is a bubble," said Alan Patrick, co-founder of technology consultancy Broadsight. "Short term I can see that Facebook can be valued at $100bn on sentiment. People believe that it is going to make a lot of money. But sentiment doesn't last."He said Facebook had yet to prove that it could make money on mobile devices, the fastest growing way in which people access Facebook.However, the share sale comes in a week when General Motors announced it was dropping its own Facebook ads and said they were not working. GM is one of the world's largest advertisers and spent $1.83bn on US ads last year, according to Kantar Media, an ad-tracking firm.Nigel Morris, chief executive of ad giant Aegis Media Americas, said: "We handle a number of clients who are advertising very successfully on Facebook. For others we are evaluating the right approach. The issue for Facebook is not whether revenues will grow, it's whether they will grow fast enough to justify this valuation."Whatever the future for Facebook, its founders and early investors were certainly celebrating. Co-founder Eduardo Saverin, who is now worth over $2.7bn, congratulated Zuckerberg on his Facebook page: "Congrats to everyone involved in the project from day one till today, and I especially wanted to congratulate Mark Zukerberg (sic) on keeping tremendous stead-fast (sic) focus, however hard that was, on making the world a more open and connected place."
The day ofFacebook's first day of trading as a public companybrought with it a strange perspective: the highest manifestation of a social media bubble and its ugly aftermath, all in the span of a few hours. Who would have thought that Facebook's much-hyped IPO – in its bold $16bn size, the apotheosis of uncontrolled, frothy, capitalist ambition – may have been just the thing needed to bring Silicon Valley high spirits back down to earth and send ambitious techies snuggling back into their hoodies?The day opened with crowdsawaiting Facebook's debut in New York's Times Square, waving at cameras. Gleeful Facebook employees, with sugar-plumdreams of newly-minted fortunes, crowded with smiles behind CEO Mark Zuckerberg at the company's Menlo Park headquarters.The Wall Street Journal created a Zuckerberg Wealth-O-Meter($20bn at the latest count) and the New York Times revealed thesubtle-wealth secrets of 1,000 new millionaires created by the IPO.Just to play a concise version of the parlor game that went around the stock markets, Facebook's market value at $104bn – with $3.7bn of profits – would have made Facebook worth more than: internet megastore Amazon.com; global beverage behemoth PepsiCo; petro-giant Total; BHP Billiton; and McDonald's. It was not far off the valuation of JP Morgan Chase, an international bank with $1tn in assets. Over the previous weeks, one brief glimpse of Mark Zuckerberg in a hoodie, heading to an investor meeting, launched the kind of press coverage we've hardly seen since the Beatles. JP Morgan itself, one of the company's banks, flew the Facebook company flag next to the stars and stripes of the United States, and papered its headquarters with Facebook signs.One was tempted to caption many of the pictures, media packages and general euphoria with a single sentence: "On the sixth day, He created Facebook." It was a vision of capitalist paradise, all the richer because Zuckerberg openly disdained the money-waving bankers and investors of Wall Street. What could possibly go wrong?The popping of this culturally focused Facebook bubble – if not the financial one – was decisive. A few hours later, the scene was decidedly more morose.The IPO was delayed three times on the Nasdaq exchange because of technical difficulties. Facebook's stock price began a determined move downward – until its 33 banks rushed to buy up shares to avoid embarrassing the company. Zynga, the publicly traded company that makes Farmville and contributes 12% of Facebook revenues, took the aftershocks from Facebook's struggle strongly: its stock fell so fast that its trading was halted. Financial television pundits turned tail and suddenly cautioned against putting faith in an irrational frenzy about Facebook.The bubble giveth, and the bubble taketh away. What brought Facebook's prospects down – at least, on its first day of trading – was the simple fact that the relationship between a company's stock price and its true value has always been an uneasy one. It is more so for this strange breed of social media leaders – Facebook, LinkedIn, Groupon, Zynga – which appear in front of millions of people but have relatively little in revenue to show for it.Facebook, as the leading social media company of our time, tested the limits of whether investors are willing to pay anything to participate in the popularity of social media – the way they filed like lemmings to invest in hapless dotcoms like Pets.com in the late 1990s. With Facebook as their avatar, other social media companies have sought high valuations: Instagram recently sold for $1bn, and the most recent estimate on the scrapbooking site Pinterest was $1.5bn.What happened was a decisive statement. Wall Street is trying to capitalize on the financial hype by sending out companies like Facebook, LinkedIn, Zynga and Groupon public before they are mature enough to sustain the pressure of being publicly-owned companies. But what Wall Street wants and what Wall Street gets, these days, are two very different things.Regular investors – just normal Americans – bought 20% of the Facebook IPO. They are usually known derisively as the "dumb money". They have wised up a bit, perhaps, in the decade since the dotcom bubble. Most of the hype, and the expectation of vast riches, came from Wall Street bankers and professional investors – another sign, perhaps, that the finance industry is trapped in its own bubble, out of touch with American sentiment.For Facebook, the first day of trading was mildly embarrassing – no big "pop". It closed on the day moving down: the stock closed at $38, the exact prior price set by the underwriters. As a metaphor, this was irresistible: after all the excitement, talk, euphoria and disappointment, Facebook ended the day right where it started.
Block 18.30am ET/1.30pm BST:Mark Zuckerberg will ring the bell for the opening of the Nasdaq stock market at 9.30am as he kicks off a share sale that will value the company at $104bn.We'll be live blogging the day's events here in New York, and you can see how the fortunes of Zuckerberg and the social network crew rise (or fall).Not since Google's initial public offering (IPO) has a share sale been as closely watched. It's Super Bowl for social media: every commentator in the land has an opinion on whether the firm is really worth that sort of cash, and is lining up to share it.At $104bn, Facebook is being valued at more than the combined value of Nike and Goldman Sachs. Last year Facebook had revenues of $3.7bn. Goldman's were 10 times that.But this is a company with massive potential. Facebook will have more than a billion people logging in to its service this year – that's more than three times the populations of the US – and it hasn't got started in China. Nearly 400 million people log on six days a week. In the first three months of this year those people "liked" or commented on Facebook items 3.2bn times a day.Google added a verb to the lexicon; Facebook redefined "friend" and "like". Now Zuckerberg has to find a way to make his social network live up to its massive promise.Block 28.30am ET/1.30pm BST:Mark Zuckerberg will ring the bell for the opening of the Nasdaq stock market at 9.30am as he kicks off a share sale that will value the company at $104bn.We'll be live blogging the day's events here in New York, and you can see how the fortunes of Zuckerberg and the social network crew rise (or fall).Not since Google's initial public offering (IPO) has a share sale been as closely watched. It's Super Bowl for social media: every commentator in the land has an opinion on whether the firm is really worth that sort of cash, and is lining up to share it.At $104bn, Facebook is being valued at more than the combined value of Nike and Goldman Sachs. Last year Facebook had revenues of $3.7bn. Goldman's were 10 times that.But this is a company with massive potential. Facebook will have more than a billion people logging in to its service this year – that's more than three times the populations of the US – and it hasn't got started in China. Nearly 400 million people log on six days a week. In the first three months of this year those people "liked" or commented on Facebook items 3.2bn times a day.Google added a verb to the lexicon; Facebook redefined "friend" and "like". Now Zuckerberg has to find a way to make his social network live up to its massive promise.Block 38.52am ET/1.52pm BST:Trading action on Facebook sharesis not likely to commence until 10:30am ET at the earliest, as bankers work through the mechanics of the offer, market sources said.Block 49.13am ET/2.13pm BST:The delayeddebut of Facebook stockthis morning affords us time for a walk down memory lane... back to 2004, when FB chief Mark Zuckerberg was still just a cocky college student bragging about his hacking exploits in instant messages to friends.Those messages are now a matter of public record.The Guardian's Josh Hallidaywrites:Zuckerberg appears to confirm in one message that he secretly hacked into the website of the Harvard University newspaper, the Crimson, by guessing the emails and passwords of two people in the college database."So I want to read what they said about me before the article came out and after I complained," he told a friend. "So I'm just like trying the email/passwords of everyone who put that they're in the Crimson. I wonder if the school tracks stuff like that."In another message, Zuckerberg boasts about deactivating college students' accounts on the internal Harvard social network, ConnectU. "I got bored so I started deactivating accounts on ConnectU haha," the future cyber-grandee writes.Block 59.23am ET/2.23pm BST:CNBC, which is tracking the Facebook IPO, is reporting on theovernight "hackathon"at the company's Menlo Park, California, campus. In the run-up to today's big splash, employees spent the night at their place of work writing computer code, over-caffeinating and giving their eyes a little extra practice staring at computer screens. The event reflects the company's youthful, creative, spontaneous, creative culture.Employees ordered Chinese food and there was talk of them making a run to In-n-Out Burger, CNBC reports. How does the news change your bet on what Facebook stock will do today? Let us know in the comments.Block 69.28am ET/2.28pm BST:Hackathon Update.It turns out there was one Facebook face who declined to participate in last night's ritual of camamaderie and computer fun. Zuckerberg apparently called it a night early in the evening, Josh Halliday reports. He went home to his girlfriend Cilla and their Hungarian sheepdog, Beast.When you're the boss you get to do that.Block 79.30am ET/2.30pm BST:Mark Zuckerberg has justrung the bell opening the Nasdaqmarket. He did so from a stage at the company's Menlo Park HQ. Then he hugged COO Sheryl Sandberg. The stage is full of other FB execs, with a sea of employees all around. A boom camera is capturing the action in the cheering, waving crowd. Looks like Bonnaroo. "A Woodstock event," someone on CNBC just called it.Block 99.39am:Thescene at Facebook HQin Menlo Park in the run-up to the IPO. The company is valued at $104 billion as shares go on sale to the public.Two Facebook employees share a high five outside Facebook headquarters in Menlo Park, California. Photograph: Stephen Lam/Getty Images9.36am ET/2.36pm BST:The Guardian's Dominic Rushe has beentalking to David Kirkpatrick, author ofThe Facebook Effect– the only book written so far with Facebook's cooperation – and a man who has spent many many hours with Mark Zuckerberg."His impact on the world will be as least as big as Bill Gates and probably already has been," Kirkpatrick tells Rushe. "Like Gates I'm positive he is going to end up being one of the world's great philanthropists. I believe he has a very strong social conscience."He says this will be a big day for Zuckerberg but that while the Facebook boss may party later, he'll try to keep things as normal as possible once he has rung the bell.Then the real work begins..."I spoke to Peter Thiel [Silicon Valley investment legend and one of Facebook's early backers] and he said Facebook had this peculiar quality, it will either completely dominate or it will completely go away. I don't think it's going away anytime soon though."Fitzpatrick predicts that Zuckerberg could soon be the world's richest man.Block 109.40am:One take onthe big offering.Wocka! Wocka!twitter.com/dmataconis/sta…— Doug Mataconis (@dmataconis)May 18, 2012Block 1110.10am ET/3.10pm BST:Facebook is summoning great spectacle in its rollout this morning – butwill the stock price hold up?When the excitement dies, will the company warrant its $104 billion valuation, and the $38 share price?One main place investors locate value in Facebook is its potential power as an advertiser. With 900 million users and counting – and a potentially vast market in China still waiting to be tapped – Facebook has an unparalleled capacity to put ads in front of eyes.But earlier this week, US auto manufacturer GM decided that those ads weren't worth it, ending its Facebook campaign. The company had been spending $10 million a year to advertise on the site, but none of the reports measuring those ads' profitability came back positive. TheEconomist spoke with Chris Perry, marketing chief for GM's brand Chevrolet, who confirmed that "a routine marketing review concluded that the site delivered 'insufficient' results.Companies still believe that Facebook is an indispensable tool for spreading buzz about new products, however:That viewpoint was echoed by the senior media buyer at a major Detroit ad agency, who asked not to be identified by name because he is not authorised to discuss strategy with the press. Based on clicks-throughs alone, he says, Facebook "doesn't pay off." His agency's approach is to use the service as part of broader social media campaigns.Block 1210.21am ET/3.21pm BST:Facebookco-founder Eduardo Saverincame in for a drubbing last week when it was revealed that he had disclaimed US citizenship in favor of residence in Singapore, which does not have a capital gains tax. Saverin responded to the criticism by saying that his move was not a tax dodge; he simply prefers Singapore.Last night Saverin set the controversy aside to offer his former colleagues a hearty congratulations  onhis personal Facebook page. He misspelled his co-founder's name – but it's the thought that counts?On the eve of the Facebook public float, 8-plus years in the making, I as co-founder wanted to look back and cherish Facebook's early beginning. Congrats to everyone involved in the project from day one till today, and I especially wanted to congratulate Mark Zukerberg [sic] on keeping tremendous stead-fast focus, however hard that was, on making the world a more open and connected place.Block 1310.37am ET/3.37pm BST:A majorstatus updatefor the Facebook cofounder: as Mark Zuckerberg rang the bell to open the Nasdaq exchange, his account automatically spread the news.Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook status update.Zuckerberg tagged fellow executives Chris Cox, vice president of product; the chief finance officer David Ebersman; the vice president of finance Cipora Herman; and his trusted No 2, Sheryl Sandberg.Block 15A chart illustrates the growth of total Facebook users.10.46am ET/3.46pm BST:Facebook as a growing concern. Whatever happens with the stock price today, theimmense market draw of the companyis plain to see in a chart tracking users, from about 300 million in March 2009 to 900 million today (blue is all Internet users worldwide; brown/gray is FB users):10.42am ET/ 3.42pm BST:T-minus three minutes and counting:Nasdaq has just announcedthat trading in Facebook shares will begin at 10.45am ET.Block 1611.02am ET/4.02pm BST:Reuters is reporting that theopening of tradinghas been pushed back a bit:RT @ProducerMatthew: Reuters: Facebook IPO extended by additional 5 minutes, to trade at 11:05 AM ET - NASDAQ— Anthony De Rosa (@AntDeRosa)May 18, 2012Block 1711.23am ET/4.23pm BST:Nasdaq has announced that there has been adelay in the start of Facebook trading. We're reaching out to sources at Nasdaq to find out more about the holdup.The latest delay is the third or fourth of the morning. Nasdaq itself puts out time call information. Meaning the market itself is failing to predict when the market will go to work.The Wall Street Journal is now reporting that traders are having problems changing or canceling their orders ahead of the Facebook IPO.Will Zuckerberg have to change his status again?Block 1811.27am ET/4.27pm BST:IPO delayed indefinitelyby glitch in market: This isn't the headline Facebook was looking for this morning.Wow, Nasdaq found the only way possible to upstage the Facebook IPO.— Heidi N. Moore (@moorehn)May 18, 2012Block 1911.30am ET/4.30 pm BST:Mark Zuckerberg and colleagues ringing the opening bell for Nasdaq at 9.30am ET.Looks anticlimactic now.Block 2011.30am ET/4.30pm BST:And they're off.Facebook is now on sale – and the first shares cross at $42.05, a good deal higher than the $38/share rollout price.For the time being, at least, the company has 100 billion reasons to cheer.Block 2111.34am ET/4.34pm BST:How big istrader interest in Facebook? 82 million shares were traded in the first 30 seconds, according to Nasdaq.The stock price is bumping along at the $40-$41 level. You canfollow the stock price here.Block 2211.36am ET/4.36pm BST:How will Facebook shares perform in the first day of trading?Tell us what you think.For extra credit, let us know in the comments what you think the high price and the low price of the day will be.Block 2311.50am ET/4.50pm BST:As the Facebook share pricesettles back to $38, The Guardian's Nils Pratley contributes hisanalysis of the pricing dynamics. If the stock goes too high, insiders who sold in advance of the IPO may resent the investment bank. A share price of around $41 would satisfy most everyone, Pratley writes:A 10% pop should satisfy the IPO advisers. When you start getting to 20%-plus, the insiders who are selling feel short-changed and accuse the investment bank advisers of misjudging demand. 10% is ok - it meets the "leave something on the table for the next person" rule.Block 2411.56am ET/4.56pm BST:A look back atthe hot tech IPOof 20 years ago:Celebrating Facebook IPO today while reflecting on AOL IPO 20 years ago. Valuation was $70 million. Most thought Internet was a fad.#wrong— Steve Case (@SteveCase)May 18, 2012Block 2512.03pm ET/5.03pm BST:One stock thatreally doesn't like what it's seeingin the Facebook IPO: Zynga, the Internet gaming company.Zynga, which depends on Facebook for a platform for its games, had an underwhelming IPO  of its own in December, when it fell 5 percent in its first day of trading.So far todayZynga is down 13 percent.UPDATE 12.07pm ET:Trading in Zynga shares has now been halted.Block 2612.18pm ET/5.18pm BST:Facebook stockhas been out of the gate for 50 minutes. After opening at just above $42 the stock dropped to the break-even level of $38. But instead of continuing to fall, the stock staged a resolute recovery:Facebook's share price dropped to $38 before staging an abrupt recovery.So what happened?Here's Dominic Rushe:Facebook's shares came dangerously close to falling below $38, the offer price, and have now rallied. This chart shows what happened. The speculation is that the underwriters have piled in and supported the price that we are chasing now. If it's true, they can't support the price forever and you can expect FB's shares to fall next week.But – and it's a big but – there have clearly been problems with the IPO at Nasdaq, orders for shares were backed up and may have caused these weird price movements.There are however signs that investors are underwhelmed. Zynga shares were suspended after they crashed this morning – not a good sign as the game firm is largely dependent on Facebook for its business.Block 2712.34pm ET/5.34pm BST:Haveunderwriters stepped into hold Facebook shares above $38?A screen grab of the order book for Facebook. The big yellow block represents bids for shares at $38.Business Insidergets a look at the order book, sent in by Twitter user@Bourbon_Meyer."It strongly appears that there's ahuge perma-bid at $38on Facebook,"Joe Weisenthal writes. "Check out the big mass of yellow on the left column... all those bids at $38."Block 2812.39pm ET/5.39pm BST:If you don't own Facebook shares yet, are you currently missingan historic opportunityto get in on the ground level of a company that's about to break all previous records for stock growth?Warren Buffett apparently doesn't think so. Here's what the Oracle of Omaha has to say about IPOs in general:It's almost a mathematical impossibility to imagine that, out of the thousands of things for sale on a given day, the most attractively priced is the one being sold by a knowledgeable seller (company insiders) to a less-knowledgeable buyer (investors).Block 2912.55pm ET/5.55pm BST:Facebook staffershave flocked to the social network to bask in the post-IPO glow, the Guardian's Josh Halliday reports.Lindsey Cochran, who works in marketing at Facebook, writes: "I vividly remember signing up for facebook in the upstairs quad of 508 Thurston ... in April of 2004. I can't believe I am now going to be a part of such a historic moment. Feeling incredibly lucky!"A status update from Lindsey Cochran of Facebook.Gabe Hernandez, another staffer, says: "While I won't be in any of the Facebook offices to celebrate today, I am wearing my hoodie in solidarity. Thanks everyone for making my job far from the last place I ever want to be. Now stay focused and keep hacking!"A status update from Facebook staffer Gabe Hernandez.Meanwhile, Zuck has returned to his Facebook to note: "This is a pretty awesome hack."Block 301.09pm ET/6.09pm BST:Till death do us part – or your company doth go public. Will the Facebook IPO cause a spike inshareholder divorcesas new millionaires are created and relationships become more liquid, as it were?The Financial Timeshas a morbidly droll (and paywall-protected) report:"When Google went public, there was a wave of divorces. When Cisco went public there was a wave of divorces," says Steve Cone, a divorce attorney based in Palo Alto, near the social network's Menlo Park headquarters. "I expect a similar wave shortly after Facebook goes public."Block 311.16pm ET/6.16pm BST:Dominic Rushe checks in on theInternet gaming company Zynga, and what the poor performance of its stock today could mean for Facebook:Facebook's shares have recovered after dropping worryingly close to their $38 offer price. But over at Zynga there are still problems.As we mentioned earlier, it looks likely that Facebook's battalion of bankers moved to make sure FB didn't drop below $38. Zynga had no such luck and was down more than 13% at one point. It's now down nearly 6%.Zynga is basically a way to trade Facebook, since nearly all of its business comes from the social network. So is this what FB's share fall would look like if the bankers hadn't piled in? Just sayin'.Block 321.22pm ET/6.22pm BST:Guardian tech editor Charles Arthur looks atwhat's next for Facebook:What to expect now? Don't be surprised if the next big thing is a Facebook phone – running its own software and developed from top to bottom to involve you in the site all the time.Zuckerberg's team has been advised to do this directly, because it needs to reach the "next billion" internet users, and they are mainly going to be using mobile phones, not desktop or laptop computers. Selling its own phone would mean it could make itself the background hum of many peoples' lives everywhere – and show adverts and collect data on its own terms.Read Charles'full analysis here.Block 331.55pm ET/6.55pm BST:Bloomberg reports thatFacebook underwritersdid in fact start buying shares at $38to keep the stock from falling below its offer price:Facebook Inc. (FB) underwriters purchased the company's stock to keep it from falling below $38 a share after debuting on the Nasdaq Stock Market, people with knowledge of the matter said.The bankers supported the stock after Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) faced difficulties delivering trade execution messages after the initial public offering, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the transactions are private.Block 33Passers-by are reflected in the window of the Nasdaq media center as they view reports of trading activity on Facebook's stock. Photograph: Bebeto Matthews/AP1.42pm ET/6.42pm BST:If you haven't checked out our live tracker of topFacebook shareholders' wealthbased on today's fluctuations in the FB share price, you canhave a look here. For the record, Mark Zuckerberg is currently "worth" more than $20 billioBlock 342.59pm ET/7.59pm BST:One person we haven't heard a lot from today isSheryl Sandberg– but expect that to change. Here's Dominic Rushe:Sandberg is one of the most impressive execs in the US with a resume that includes the US Treasury, Google and McKinsey.You can read my profile of her here.Sandberg was late to the Facebook party; she joined in 2007 when Zuckerberg poached her from Google. Back then Facebook had 70m users and no profits. How things change. She holds 1.9m shares and has made a small fortune today.Sandberg stands to make a far larger fortune in the near future. She has 39m restricted stock units, most of which are tied to performance targets. If she hits them – and history suggests she will – Sandberg will become a billionaire, which is a rarity for employees. That kind of reward usually goes to the founders, not the help.Block 342.52pm ET/7.52pm BST:Dominic Rushe places the Facebook stock performance in the context of thelackluster Nasdaq showingthis week:"OK I admit it. I've had a bit of a downer on Facebook at $100bn plus. It's an amazing company but I just don't think it's proven worthy of that kind of valuation yet. And maybe bankers are propping the share price up.A tough week for Nasdaq."Even so, today's performance needs to be set against what has been happening to the rest of the Nasdaq companies this week. One look at this graph of the Nasdaq over the last five days shows, this wasn't an easy week to launch."Block 353.02pm ET/8.02pm BST:With an hour to go until the Nasdaq close, Facebook's shares are at $39 a share and Mark Zuckerberg has outpaced several of theworld's richest men.With wealth of over $21bn, Zuckerberg is now worth more than Jeff Bezos at Amazon or either of the Google founders, according to the Forbes list of billionaires. He was briefly richer than New York mayor Mike Bloomberg, but has now just slipped behind B's $22bn pile. Poor thing.Block 363.20pm ET/8.20pm BST:Has theFacebook IPO been a success?With 45 minutes to go until the closing bell, the stock is slowly sinking from around the $40/share range back to its opening price of $38. In theNew Yorker, John Cassidysees a party that fizzled:At 11:30, the stock opened at $42, jumped up to $43, fell back $42—and kept falling, back to $40. "For market sentiment, this is not going to be positive," said Simon Hobbs, the network's resident Brit. Melissa Lee was equally crestfallen: "Forty minutes ago, I don't think anybody thought $40," she said. David Faber had been working the phones, and he reported that his sources had told him the stock might well fall below the issue price of $38, which would be a big embarrassment to the banks underwriting the deal, led by Morgan Stanley. "The big story is that Facebook, the social network, is now a public company," he said. "The smaller story is that after five minutes, it's only up six per cent."Henry Blodget, in contrast, congratulates the investment banks for rolling out a stock that was"perfectly priced":This price level was ideal for almost everyone involved--with the exception of short-term traders who bought the stock only to instantly flip it. (And no one should cry for them).With such a modest pop, Facebook and its selling shareholders did not leave tens or hundreds of millions (or even billions) of dollars on the table--an expensive mistake that most companies make.When LinkedIn went public, for example, the bankers underpriced the deal, and the company needlessly handed $100+ million to institutional investors.Heidi N. Moore has been arguing that the failure of the stock to lift and hold above its initial offer price of $38 ismaking for a "rocky" debut.What you're not seeing right now is 33 banks all seeking to blame each other for why this stock is barely clinging to a decent open. $$ FB— Heidi N. Moore (@moorehn)May 18, 2012Block 373.26pm ET/8.26pm BST:Here's aeye-catching list from Heidi N. Moore,comparing Facebookto other big companies in terms of market value and revenue. She calls the list "One of These Things Is Not Like the Others: Facebook Edition."At $40/share, Facebook ranks 6 out of 10 in terms of market value ($112bn).Guess where Facebook ranks in terms of revenue?Google: Market value $200 billion; 2011 revenue $37.9 billionJP Morgan Chase: Market value $127 billion; 2011 revenue $99.8 billionVerizon: Market value $117 billion; 2011 revenue $110.9 billionMerck: Market value $115 billion; 2011 sales $48 billionGlaxoSmithKline: $112 billion; 2011 sales $44 billionFacebook: Market value $112 billion; 2011 revenue $3.7 billionAnheuser-Busch: Market value $111 billion; 2011 revenue $39 billionPepsiCo: Market value $109 billion; 2011 revenue $66.5 billionMcDonald's: Market value $91 billion; 2011 revenue $27 billionCisco Systems: Market value $89 billion; 2011 sales $10.4 billionBlock 383.41pm ET/8.41pm BST:Facebook stockon the day of its IPO after four hours of trading: $38.Facebook share price at 3:38pm ET. Looks familiar.Block 393.50pm ET/8.50pm BST:Facebook shares seem to be trying their hardest tosink below the $38 offerprice. The underwriting banks are in the market to shore up that price. And they're dealing with a lot of volume: record volume, in fact.The previous record for most shares traded on the day of an IPO was set by General Motors Co. (GM), at 458 million. With 10 minutes to go in the trading day,Facebook has already smashed the record with 532 million.Block 403.54pm ET/8.54pm BST:And this, folks, is as good asfinancial TV gets.EPIC: FACEBOOK UNDERWRITERS WAGING HUGE BATTLE HAPPENING RIGHT NOW TO HOLD THE $38 LEVELread.bi/M24r5A— Joseph Weisenthal (@TheStalwart)May 18, 2012Block 414.00pm ET/9pm BST:And the close: Facebook sharesend their first day of tradingat $38.23 – up 23 cents a share on record volume.Block 424.06pm ET/9.06pm BST:Here's whatthe last hour of tradinglooked like for Facebook. Down to $38 and then flat, flat, flat. It's almost as if there was an artificial floor holding it there.Facebook investors held the stock at $38 for the better part of the final hour of trading.Block 434.10pm ET/9.10pm BST:It's hard to see how the headlines now aren'thard on Facebook. The market didn't want the stock at that price.Some schadenfreude on Twitter:Currently lol'ing at the people who thought $FB would close at &gt; $60 today.— Ethan Klapper (@ethanklapper)May 18, 2012After final trading volume of 565 million shares, an IPO record, the price didn't move.Hey, keep it on the down low, but I hear there is still a chance to get in on the Facebook IPO at the offering price!— James Sununu (@jsununu)May 18, 2012Block 444.47pm ET/9.47pm BST:Heh.My two cents: Whole lot of frantic for 38 penny advance in share price.— david carr (@carr2n)May 18, 2012Block 454.50pm ET/9.50pm BST:TheSecurities and Exchange Commissionannounces that it will investigate what caused the delay this morning in the Facebook rollout,CNBC is reporting.The regulator will look into why it apparently was that not all traders had the same information at the expected time.Block 464.55pm ET/9.55pm BST:We're going towrap up our live blog coverageof the Facebook IPO. It wasn't the fireworks display some investors expected to see.This morning market watchers were discussing whether Facebook would post double-digit gains in its first day. Precedents such as LinkedIn, which jumped 107 percent in its May 2011 IPO, made it seem possible that Facebook could hit $50 or higher.It has been a tough week for the markets in general – the worst week for stocks in all of 2012 so far, in fact. The Dow dropped 450 points this week, or 3.5 percent. The Nasdaq and S&amp;P 500 were both down.But the spectacle of the underwriting banks that set Facebook's offer price of $38 having to buy shares for the final hour of trading to shore up that price made the offering feel flat.Here's a summary of what happened:•Facebook ended the day virtually even.The stock opened at $38. The stock closed at $38.23 (up .61 percent).•The company shattered the record for IPO volume,with 565 million shares changing hands. GM held the previous IPO volume record with 458 million shares.•Because of a Nasdaq glitch, in which traders were unable to get confirmation of their trades early in the day, the IPO was rolled out about a half-hour later than expected.The first Facebook shares traded at 11.30am ET. The SEC has announced it is investigating.•At today's valuation, Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook fortune tops $20 bn.
The world's largest technology IPO is providing not just fees for bankers but fodder for comics. "It's great — now you can lose all your money in the same place you lost all your time," quipped late night comic Jimmy Fallon on the NBC network this week. With Facebook's share price expected by many to crash back down to earth within weeks or even days, the only people guaranteed not to rue their investment are those who bought in while the company was privately held.We list Facebook's early backers are a potent mix of Silicon Valley insiders, Russian oligarchs, Wall Street financiers – and a pop star called Bono.The insiders – directors and board members past and presentMark Zuckerberg. Cash raised from selling into the IPO: $1.15bn. Paper value on Friday yesterday morning at $38 a share: $19.1bn. Zuckerberg is now a paper billionaire many times over and on Friday morning was level-pegging with financier George Soros on the Forbes rich list.Edward Zuckerberg. Paper value $76m, number of shares sold undisclosed. He never exercised his option to buy 2m shares, but in December 2009 the company allotted them anyway.Sheryl Sandberg. Not selling in the IPO. Paper value on Friday morning: $72.2m. Facebook's chief operating officer and self-described "grownup" in the room joined from Google in March 2008 when Facebook had 70 million users. She has steered it steadily to 900 million users and America's second largest initial public offering.Marc Andreessen, paper value $251m, number of shares sold: undisclosedA technology legend, Andreessen helped inflate the first tech bubble by co-founding Netscape Communications. The company behind the first big internet browser raised millions from its 1995 IPO before Microsoft developed a rival product that killed it off.Peter Thiel. Cash from IPO: $640m. Paper value on Friday  morning: $1.059bn. Silicon Valley legend and PayPal co-founder. He is on Facebook's board and was an early investor.Dustin Moskovitz, not selling in IPO, paper value on Friday morning: $5.1bnFacebook's co-founder left in 2008 to form a new software company called Asana.Sean Parker. Not selling in IPO. Paper value on Friday  morning: $2.65bn.Almost as famous for co-founding Napster, the music sharing site that changed the face of the internet, as he is for his involvement in Facebook. Parker was the firm's first president and an early mentor and fundraiser for Zuckerberg. He sold in previous rounds but is nEduardo Saverin. Estimated net worth $2.7bn. Saverin owned a third of the company he co-founded with Zuckerberg before being squeezed out and seeing his holding diluted to 5%. Having relocated to Singapore and given up his US citizenship to avoid paying tax, he will save an estimated $39m from his Facebook windfall.Jim Breyer and Accel Partners, cash from IPO $1.9bn, paper value on Friday morning: $5.8bnThe principal at venture capital firm Accel partners, Breyer sits on the Facebook board. Accel invested in 2005, reportedly spending just $12.2m.Early backersDST Global Limited. Cash from IPO: $1.7bn. Paper value yesterday morning: $3.3bn. Yuri Milner's DST Global has been the main conduit for Russian investment. His own backers include steel tycoon Alisher Usmanov.Goldman Sachs. Cash from IPO: $1.1bn. Paper value yesterday morning: $1.4bn. Goldman Sachs sheltered Facebook from scrutiny by creating a special purpose vehicle to offer shares to its wealthy clients under one name. This prevented Facebook from falling foul of rules requiring companies with more than 500 shareholders to share the same information as publicly owned groups.Elevation Partners. Cash from IPO: $176m. Paper value yesterday morning: $1.4bn. Bono is a lead investor in Elevation and has been keen to stress any IPO winnings will be widely distributed.Mail.ru Group, cash from IPO: $745m, paper value on Friday morning: $1.4bnA listed internet company used as a second investment vehicle by Yuri Milner and his Russian oligarch contacts.Mark Pincus. Cash from IPO: $38.4m. Paper value yesterday morning: $163.6m. The co-founder of online games group Zynga, whose Farmville and Mafia Wars games are played mostly on Facebook, will now owe more than one fortune to Zuckerberg.Tiger Global Management, cash from IPO $889m, paper value on Friday morning: $1.2bnScenting a killing, the New York hedge fund run by 36 year old Chase Coleman increased the number of shares it was planning to sell from 3m to 23m on Wednesday.Li Ka-Shing. Paper value $780m, number of shares sold undisclosed. Hong Kong ports, telecoms and property tycoon spent $120m on shares in 2007 and 2008, he helped push Facebook's valuation up to $15bn.Missed the boatWashington Post chief executive Donald Graham will be keeping his bunting in storage. Graham has been a mentor to Zuckerberg since they met in 2005 and joined Facebook's board in 2009, but passed on the chance to buy into the company during its early funding rounds. He has an option on 1m sharesbut they were not released to him in time for the IPO. Fellow board member Reed Hastings, chief executive of Netflix, has 20,000 unreleased shares but like Graham never dared to take a punt with his own cash. Zuckerberg's Harvard roommate Joe Green was one of the first to walk away from the company. He helped set up the network's predecessor FaceMash but decided to continue his studies instead of following his friend to California.Google, Yahoo! and US media giant Viacom were among the companies that failed to persuade Zuckerberg to sell. Even the $15bn offered by Microsoft in 2007 was rebuffed. The software giant does, however, have a small stake, worth a tidy $997m at the opening price.
Facebook became a public company on Friday after one of the most frenzied share sales in history led to the social network giant being valued at over $100bn.The share sale makes Facebook worth more than the combined worth of Goldman Sachs and Nike. Mark Zuckerberg, the company's 28-year-old founder and Facebook's largest shareholder, is now sitting on a fortune of over $21.6bn.Facebook shares were priced at $38 overnight but early trading on the tech-heavy Nasdaq stock market was delayed for two hours until 11.30am as the exchange systems seemed unable to cope with the scale of the initial public offering (IPO) and failed to send electronic reports back to traders and firms to confirm that shares had been bought or sold.More than 82m shares were traded in the first 30 seconds, as investors chased after the stock in a float that brought back memories of Netscape's 1995 float that began the first technology boom – and with the social network being valued at 27 times its turnover, comparisons even with the days of Dutch Tulip Mania or the South Sea Bubble.The stock soared 11% initially before dropping to close to the $38 offer price. Privately dealers speculated that Facebook's army of bankers had stepped in to stop the shares falling below $38, a move that would have landed the social network with a public relations disaster on its first day as a public company.Wearing his trademark hooded top – coloured navy blue – Zuckerberg remotely rang the opening bell for the New York-based stock exchange from outside his California headquarters as staff cheered him on. Forbes calculated that as he did so, he was the world's 23rd richest man – two places above Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin.However, the riches generated by Facebook went wider. At $38 a share Facebook created 88 people with fortunes of over $30m, according to Wealth-X, an analyst that monitors high net worth individuals. If the price reaches $43, there will be 265 Facebook millionaires worth more than $30m.The sale reaped enormous rewards for Facebook's co-founders and early backers. Co-founder Dustin Moscovitz is now worth over $5bn. Elevation Partners, an investment firm that counts U2 singer Bono among its partners, holds shares worth over $1.6bn.Facebook's IPO is the most hotly anticipated share sale since Google's in 2004. Google's stock started trading at $85 and ended the day at $100.34. Google's shares now sell for over $620.As with the Google IPO, there has been a lot of scepticism about Facebook's ability to turn its phenomenal number of users into a business able to support a $100bn-plus valuation. Facebook's revenues were $3.7bn last year. Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, had revenues of close to $29bn and is valued at half Facebook's current value.The social network now has over 900 million people on its service and will soon top a billion. For its fans, Facebook is the defining company of the 21st century. "His impact on the world will be as least as big as Bill Gates and probably already has been," said David Kirkpatrick, author of The Facebook Effect.Kirkpatrick has spent many hours with Zuckerberg writing the only authorised history of the company. He said Zuckerberg had a "laser focus" on business and planned to spend Friday working rather than watching the share price."He really doesn't believe in paying attention to that stuff. He's much more focussed on product development, on penetration of the service around the world," said Kirkpatrick."In some ways he is a typical American suburban guy. Of course the money means something to him. But he's not doing it just for the money and he assumes that rather than focus on the money, he should focus on making sure Facebook does well. He is highly analytical in everything he does, extremely disciplined. He is not going to be watching that stock price every day, I can tell you that."The sale comes amid what some are calling a new bubble in tech companies. Facebook's IPO follows a mixed set of share sales from other social media firms including Groupon, the online coupon company, and Zynga, the games firm behind Words With Friends and Draw Something.Facebook itself has driven up the bubble, according to some, by spending $1bn on Instagram, a profitless photo-sharing application.Earlier this week Pinterest, a social site that lets people "pin" pictures and content to create collections of interest, raised $100m at a price that valued the company at $1bn."There is a frenzy going on. I think this is a bubble," said Alan Patrick, co-founder of technology consultancy Broadsight. "Short term I can see that Facebook can be valued at $100bn on sentiment. People believe that it is going to make a lot of money. But sentiment doesn't last."He said Facebook had yet to prove that it could make money on mobile devices, the fastest growing way in which people access Facebook.However, the share sale comes in a week when General Motors announced it was dropping its own Facebook ads and said they were not working. GM is one of the world's largest advertisers and spent $1.83bn on US ads last year, according to Kantar Media, an ad-tracking firm."Facebook's shares were always going to pop at the open, that's no suprise at all," said Sam Hamadeh, co-founder of PrivCo, a financial analyst. "After the first couple of weeks, I think it'll drop back down to the mid twenties."Hamadeh said he believed Facebook was worth $24-$25 a share. "And that's being generous," he said.Whatever the future for Facebook, its founders and early investors were certainly celebrating. Co-founder Eduardo Saverin, who is now worth over $2.7bn, congratulated Zuckerberg on his Facebook page: "Congrats to everyone involved in the project from day one till today, and I especially wanted to congratulate Mark Zukerberg (sic) on keeping tremendous stead-fast (sic) focus, however hard that was, on making the world a more open and connected place."
Thursday night was just like any other for Mark Zuckerberg. On the eve of his company's dizzying stock market debut, the 28-year-old gave his weekly address to Facebook engineers and opened its "hackathon" jamboree of computer code, caffeine and Chinese food.Zuckerberg did not stay long into the night, leaving his company's campus-style headquarters in Menlo Park, San Francisco, to be with his girlfriend Cilla and their fluffy Hungarian sheepdog, Beast.His modest way of life has been described as monastic by some commentators, who contrast it with the lavish extravagances enjoyed by other self-made billionaires. On Friday he became the 23rd wealthiest person on earth, according to Forbes magazine.But Zuckerberg does not own a super-yacht or a mansion. He is rarely seen out of his trademark navy hoodie, and last year the Harvard dropout drove around San Francisco in a discreet $30,000 (£18,995) Acura TSX.Those who have worked with Zuckerberg over the past four years describe an earnest and unassuming young developer whose social network has grown to connect one-eighth of humanity."He's not off on himself about how this whole thing has happened," one of these people said. "He's just earnest about developers and the product; he's definitely not some kind of evil genius. It's easy to make a caricature of him, but he's not a caricature – he's a good guy, and it could have been so easy for him to be a dick."Much has been made of Zuckerberg's apparently awkward social manner. Technology news sites are awash with videos of early interviews showing an unblinking, dry-mouthed 20-something struggling to explain his quasi-religious belief in engineering and openness.But those who worked with Zuckerberg say he has gone "way out of his comfort zone" to improve on his press relations, guided by his widely admired No 2, Sheryl Sandberg. "Mark is clearly gifted, but he doesn't make others feel small or flaunt his success. There is no 'I'm the boy genius wonder, where's my Gatorade?'" said one person.Even hisown Facebook profileis unpretentious. His history timeline mentions the mammoth social network only once – when he founded it in 2004 – and otherwise charts his own personal milestones: in 2010 he started learning Mandarin Chinese (Cilla is half Chinese and a fully qualified doctor); in 2011 he became vegetarian; in April this year he joined an organ donation scheme.The 5ft 8in New York Yankees fan lists "minimalism" and "openness" among his interests, he enjoys reading Plato, and tennis and fencing are among his favourite sports. Like your typical young American male, Jay Z and Nirvana feature heavily on his iPod. Less is known about Zuckerberg's wildly ambitious formative years.The son of a dentist father and psychiatrist mother, Zuckerberg enjoyed a comfortable upbringing with his three sisters, Randi, Donna and Arielle. He was a voracious computer programmer, building a network for the family home dubbed "Zucknet" aged 12. Later he reportedly created a computer game version of Monopoly based on his middle school in Dobbs Ferry, New York.A rare insight into his teenage mind came to light in 2010, whenthe Business Insider websitepublished a series of instant messaging conversations between Zuckerberg and his Harvard college friends in 2004. The correspondence is notable both because it exposed a steely ambition but also because Zuckerberg's machine-gun-fire missives were remarkably close to his unusually flat way of speaking.Zuckerberg appeared to confirm in one message that he secretly hacked into the website of the Harvard University newspaper, the Crimson, by guessing the emails and passwords of two people in the college database."So I want to read what they said about me before the article came out and after I complained," he told one friend. "So I'm just like trying the email/passwords of everyone who put that they're in the Crimson. I wonder if the school tracks stuff like that."In another message, Zuckerberg joked that 4,000 people had submitted emails, pictures and addresses to his budding Harvard social network. "People just submitted it ... I don't know why ... They 'trust me' ... dumb fucks."Zuckerberg latertold the New Yorkerthat he regretted the exchanges and that he had since grown up and learned from his mistakes. "If you're going to go on to build a service that is influential and that a lot of people rely on, then you need to be mature, right?" he said.The signs are that Zuckerberg, guided by his close-knit group of experienced internet executives, has grown up markedly since those Harvard hijinks. Hidden in the corner of his Facebook profile are three favourite quotations, including this from Pablo Picasso: "All children are artists. The problem is how to remain an artist once you grow up." That will no doubt resonate more strongly than ever as Zuckerberg enters a bold new chapter with his $100bn-valued social network.
With its flotation, many think that Facebook is now a juggernaut, sitting pretty on $16bn (£10bn) of cash and a valuation that started the day at more than $100bn.Friday's launch was fun (cue Zuckerberg's droll status update: "Mark Zuckerberg listed a company on Nasdaq") but there's a tendency to see stock market flotations as the culmination of a company's existence. That's a common mistake, like first parents being excited about the baby's birth, and forgetting it's the next bit that really matters.It has taken eight years to get here, yet it's easy to forget that this is actually just the beginning.What to expect now? Don't be surprised if the next big thing is a Facebook phone – running its own software and developed from top to bottom to involve you in the site all the time.Zuckerberg's team has been advised to do this directly, because it needs to reach the "next billion" internet users, and they are mainly going to be using mobile phones, not desktop or laptop computers. Selling its own phone would mean it could make itself the background hum of many peoples' lives everywhere – and show adverts and collect data on its own terms.WhenGoogle floated in 2004, everyone knew it was good at search, but they didn't think it would last. Microsoft was going to come after it, and anyway the founders' lack of respect for the investment banks (something Zuckerberg hasn't mimicked, hoodies aside) meant the float was not so anticipated.Yet, in the eight years since,Google has bought YouTubeand made it the internet's biggest video destination. It has launched Android, the mobile operating system whichnow powers more than half the smartphones being sold worldwide.It has won millions of corporate customers for its Google Apps suite. The IPO, at $85 per share, was just the start: on Friday, Google's shares were $630.Similarly for Facebook, everything so far, and the money and public presence it now has, are just a beginning. It has more users now (901 million) than were using the internet at the end of 2004 (817 million); but the total number of internet users has meanwhile tripled, so rather than having 816 million potential new users, it has 1.38 billion. The potential market has nearly doubled.But can it carry on growing, or will it sputter out, like Myspace and Bebo?Ed Barton, director of digital media at the research firm Strategy Analytics, thinks that getting that next billion will be a significant challenge."Facebook depends on advertising, and I would highlight that the fastest-growing internet media markets are China and the Far East, India and Brazil," he told the Guardian."Facebook's potential is nowhere near as strong in those as it has been in the US. And in those markets there are often a number of locally oriented social networks already in place."China in particular, where Facebook has so far been banned, has many thriving social sites, as does Russia with VKontake claiming about 290 million users (compared to Facebook's 901 million).Barton doesn't think there's any risk of Facebook fading out where it's strongest, in the west: "In the places where it's already strong, it has a defensible position," he said, arguing that we "invest" in the networks we use, and don't want upheaval.So rather as Google cornered the market for internet search early this century, not by being the first but by being far and away the best, Facebook wasn't the first social network, but its management has been far better – and unlike Bebo (bought by AOL) or Myspace (bought by News Corporation) or Friends Reunited (bought by ITV), Facebook had no parent that could feel threatened by its rapid growth.So for some, it looks like a one-way bet. Andrew Schneider, a hedge fund adviser and CEO of San Francisco-based Schneider Family Office, was busy on Friday selling shares of Apple and LinkedIn on Thursday to free up at least $20m of cash for Facebook shares. "You've got 900 million users, and you've got real solid revenue, and the company is earning money," Schneider said.But the present limits to growth could be dictated by its heritage. Facebook was founded on a desktop computer in a university dorm room, and while it long since broke free of the latter, it's the former that prevents it reaching those 1.38 billion, and the next billion to come.That's because a growing number of internet users aren't going online through the PC, but through the smartphone. By next year, there will be more internet-capable mobile phones (1.83bn) than PCs (1.78bn),according to research company Gartner. Which is why analysts have been itchy about Facebook's stark admission that it doesn't make any money from mobile advertising: it's missing half the market.What's the solution? The Facebook mobile app isn't enough; people only spend a little time there, and showing ads on a mobile screen doesn't pay well. Horace Dediu, who runs the independent consultancy Asymco, spent a day at Facebook's headquarters a few months ago and told them to talk to Chinese smartphone manufacturers, create their own version of Google's Android (as Amazon and China's Baidu search engine already have) and start selling a "Facebook phone"."My recommendation was that they should do a handset," he told the Guardian. "Because it means they can control the user experience, and capture all the information that they might need to monetise the experience. For Facebook, they could offer it as making your life richer as a social participant."While there's no indication of whether Zuckerberg's teams will act on Dediu's advice, the rumours that Facebook is working on a phone have surfaced from time to time – most recently in April, when the Taiwanese news site Digitimessuggestedit is working with Taiwan's HTC to build a device integrating all the Facebook functions, for release this autumn.Digitimes has a mixed record for rumours like these, but it would be a smart strategy.If that seems strange, consider that Google realised it needed to control mobile search or it would lose its dominance; hence Android. But Facebook can create a version of Android that doesn't rely on Google. (It could use Microsoft's Bing search engine – which some executives there offered to sell to Zuckerberg early in 2011; he demurred).Everything is in place for this mewling infant of the internet to turn into a real force, if it chooses. And Zuckerberg certainly will choose to.
"Direct empowerment of people" and "more accountability for officials" are two of the virtues Facebook says its service promotes. It is referring in its IPO prospectus to the interaction between citizens and governments, which is just as well since most shareholders in Facebook will travel in a third-class carriage. The first-class lounge is reserved for Mark Zuckerberg alone.The founder, chairman and chief executive is keeping control via a dual voting structure that gives each 'B' share held by insiders such as himself 10 times the voting power of the ordinary 'A' shares. In addition, Zuckerberg also has arrangements with fellow 'B' holders so that he ends up with total voting power of 59%. Outsiders don't even get to choose how they would manage without Zuckerberg; the boss has the right to nominate a successor in the event that he dies in harness.It wouldn't happen in the UK. The principle of "equal votes for equal economic risk" is an unwritten rule of corporate governance that no grown-up quoted company has dared to defy for a couple of decades. The last hold-outs surrendered for a variety of reasons - from quarrels among third-generations family members to a basic inability to raise equity capital from outside investors on attractive terms.Zuckerberg has no such worries. Facebook doesn't need cash for investment and the voting arrangement clearly hasn't affected demand for stock. Maybe there are arguments in favour. Aren't the most successful technology firms, like Google, controlled by the founder or founders? Haven't Facebook's original backers become rich by giving Zuckerberg the freedom to pursue his vision? Don't you mess with that formula at your peril? And it's not as if there could be a punch-up over dividend distributions - there won't be a dividend any time soon.All the same, there could be trouble ahead. Zuckerberg's letter to potential investors is mostly about why the company's "social mission" is important. In the end, though, it's the commercial mission of milking the base of 900 million users for advertising and other revenues that will determine whether the $104bn (£65bn) valuation is justified.As matters stand today, it's possible (just) to believe the twin missions complement each other. But what if events don't run so swimmingly? Will Zuckerberg choose to operate a vulgar advertising medium or be a heroic pursuer of a more open and connected society? OK, the choice may never be so stark. But there could be tension over strategy and, judged by his public statements, it's impossible to tell which shade of grey Zuckerberg would prefer. Don't forget, he is rich enough not to worry about the odd billion being removed from his personal wealth.But those buying Facebook shares for profit, one assumes, would be less relaxed. Surely they would applaud more commercialism if it makes the share price go up. Well, nobody's forcing them to buy stock, it might be said, and Zuckerberg's complete control of Facebook is not being disguised.True enough. But, viewed from London, it is quite amazing that dual voting arrangements survive in the US. The UK does not have technology successes of the size of Google or Facebook to shout about, but equal votes for equal economic risk still sounds an excellent principle. In economic terms, Zuckerberg has 28%. He should not have complete control. Facebook may be the future but, in governance terms, it's a trip back in time.
