A longstanding hit on PC,the Il-2 Sturmovik range now makes its bow on console. And it's business as usual for this quality second world war flight and fight sim.Named after a Soviet ground-attack fighter (apparently, the most produced plane during the war), Il-2 Sturmovik's reputation is a strong one. It's graphically excellent, with backgrounds and landscapes based on period photos and footage, easy to pick up and play, and tough to master.Accordingly, fans of the genre will already be salivating over this spot-on console translation, its backgrounds, the vast number of missions across six different "theatres of war", the "all new damage effects engine", the opportunity to pilot 40 planes, the chance to pull off Immelmans and barrel rolls, etc. Conversely, anyone who's never seen the point of a flight sim won't be converted. They might take some initial pleasure in throwing a Spitfire around the sky over 1940s Kent but that will pall by the third or fourth virtually identical challenge and the initially amusing "Sausage Fleet over the Briny" style radio chatter of this stage is also likely to grate.However, you certainly have to admire the depth of the game and its sense of history. Successful completion of challenges unlocks archive footage, and the game itself moves from the Battle of Britain to the Battle of Berlin, via the Battle of Stalingrad, the Allied invasion of Sicily, the Korsun Pocket (yep, I had to look that one up too) and the Battle of the Bulge. Yes, the missions within these "theatres" can feel much of a muchness but mastery of the different planes takes time and effort.As as result, finally taking out a fast moving German plane in a dogfight is extremely satisfying. The online game will also win over a few people. Collaborative missions take on a new depth when you actually know your fellow pilots, and seriously, who could resist a little gamer-to-gamer dogfight action? Those who loathe flight sims need not apply and fans have no doubt already got it on pre-order. It's the neutrals that matter here then, and Birds of Prey certainly provides enough challenge to keep them happy for several hours.
After the distinctly average Watchmen, you might be expecting the next comic-book conversion to be another by-the-numbers affair, but think again.Within seconds of the superbly atmospheric intro to Arkham Asylum, as your brooding hero accompanies The Joker through his entrance to the "supposedly" maximum security unit of the title, such reservations are dispelled. From the impeccably drawn 3D interiors (powered by the ubiquitous Unreal engine) to the smooth scrolling and an optical zoom function that for once actually works (magnifying detail down to the stubble on the Dark Knight's chin) this is a hugely imaginative, evocative and well-balanced game.Arkham Asylum is an arcade adventure, heavily reliant on hand-to-hand combat but with the dark, eerie atmosphere of Bioshock and none of the usual drawbacks. No dodgy roving camera, no button bashing randomness and most definitely no hastily tacked on storyline. In fact the cut scenes and dialogue, featuring a rare star turn from Mark Hamill as the Joker, could easily grace a graphic novel; hardly surprising given the writer, Paul Dini, has contributed to the real DC comic.We're not going to go spoiling the plot here but basically, once the Joker makes his inevitable escape, it's down to Batman to track him down through an asylum now literally taken over by the lunatics. These include the usual collection of ex-cons and preposterously named arch villains  including the Riddler, Harley Quinn&nbsp;and Killercroc, encountered in a series of set pieces requiring different tactics but all drawing on a handful of core abilities that can be upgraded as the game unfolds. Among these are punching, feinting, dodging and countering, each mapped to a controller button, animated with convincing heft and effective use of slowdown during the takedowns.And, of course, there are gadgets – from the Batarang (which can be either manually or auto-targeted) to a Batclaw (for grappling onto overhead objects) and a variety of more explosive weapons you pick up along the way. There's also Detective Vision, a hugely versatile tool activated with a flick of the left trigger, that can be used to highlight interactive objects, follow DNA trails, see through walls or pick out evidence to be analysed. What's even more impressive is how smoothly all these elements have been linked, so you can switch from scoping a room to swinging into action to fighting in one seamless, realtime motion. Oh, and worry not – the Batmobile is in there too!If you wanted to quibble, you could say the gameplay is linear, leaving little scope for real exploration other than to find hidden clues and rewards. However, with set pieces, action, structure, storyline and atmosphere this good, it seems ungrateful to complain too loud. Arkham Asylum is comfortably the best Batman game yet and arguably the best use of a comic franchise we've ever seen.• Listen to an interview with Batman Arkham Asylum co-writerPaul Dini
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Apple'smuch-talked-aboutbut still unconfirmed tablet computer isdemanding all of Steve Jobs's time, according to theWall Street Journalciting plenty of sources "familiar with the matter". The report contains a couple of interesting details, however, including that "Jobs killed the project twice in recent years, the first time because the battery life was too short, and the second time because there was insufficient memory".&bull; Remember all that fuss aboutage ratings on games? Turns out that it meant nothing, because of an administrative slip by the Tory government in the 1980s and 1990s which, in the words of culture minister Barbara Follett, means the Video Regulations Act is"no longer enforceable".&bull; It's got everything: Lego, stop motion animation, C64 games, Mario, Tetris and a bloke with a beard. This video - called8 Bit Trip- apparently took more than 1500 hours. That's dedication for you.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
While many people have been loudly celebrating this year'sdouble commemorationof 200 years since Charles Darwin's birth and 150 years since the publication of On the Origin of Species, another scientific anniversary has crept up relatively quietly, marking an event which arguably changed human thought and the way we see ourselves even more irrevocably.Exactly 400 years ago today, on 25 August 1609, the Italian astronomer and philosopherGalilei Galileoshowed Venetian merchants his new creation,a telescope– the instrument that was to bring him both scientific immortality and, more immediately, a whole lot of trouble.A refinement of models first devised in the Netherlands, Galileo'sslim, brown stickwas puny even by the standards of something one might buy in a hobby shop today. But his eight-powered telescope, and the more powerful models he soon produced, when pointed skywards led Galileo to a series of groundbreaking conclusions.The moon was not, as long believed, completely smooth. Another planet, Jupiter, also had moons. Meanwhile Venus showed a range of moon-like phases, something which could not happen if both it and the sun orbited the Earth.This latter phenomenon had been predicted byNicolaus Copernicuswhen, nearly a century before, he had proposed the notion of a planetary system with the sun at the centre, not the Earth.Galileo's discoveries were, perhaps predictably, not best welcomed by the Catholic church, and he spent the final decade of his life under house arrest.It was certainly a revelation which upset the orthodoxies – and the churches – at least as much as Darwin's, and perhaps merits a bit more of a fuss, althoughmuseum-goers in Philadelphia and Stockholmcan view one of Galileo's very early telescopes, on loan this year from Florence. A good deal more people are likely to be alerted thanks toGoogle'sday-long adaptation of their main page logo to aGoogle Doodlein honour of the event.
People who persist in swapping copyrighted films and music will have their internet connections cut off under tough new laws to be proposed by the government today.The measures also include taking the power to target illegal downloaders away from regulator Ofcom and giving it to ministers to speed up the process.The decision to cut off peer-to-peer filesharers is unexpected since it was ruled out by the government's own Digital Britain report in June as going too far.In the report, the then communications minister Lord Carter said illegal filesharers should receive letters warning them their activities could leave them open to prosecution. If that failed to reduce piracy by at least 70%, Ofcom would have the power to call on internet companies such as BT to introduce so-called "technical measures" to combat piracy. The most draconian of these measures was to slow down a persistent filesharer's broadband connection, but it would not appear until 2012.But today the government will take the unusual step of proposing much stricter rules midway through the Digital Britain consultation process. Illegal filesharers will still get warning letters but if they continue to swap copyrighted material they could have their internet connection temporarily severed, although it may be possible to retain basic access to online public services.A similar law in France under which filesharers could be cut off for up to a year was recently kicked out by the country's highest court as unconstitutional. In the UK, privacy groups are likely to challenge any similar legislation as contrary to human rights law.The power to introduce technical measures, meanwhile, will rest with the secretary of state, not Ofcom and their introduction will not rely upon an arbitrary 70% reduction in piracy but be up to the minister's discretion as he tries to secure the future of the UK's creative industries."The previous proposals, whilst robust, would take an unacceptable amount of time to complete in a situation that calls for urgent action," according to a draft of the government's new plan.The surprise move will intensify speculation that Lord Mandelson reached a secret deal to protect the film and music industries with Hollywood mogul David Geffen earlier this month.The business secretary met Geffen, founder of Asylum Records and the man who set up DreamWorks with Steven Spielberg, at a private dinner with members of the Rothschild banking dynasty at the family's holiday villa on Corfu.Following that meeting with Geffen, a long-term and outspoken opponent of online piracy, Mandelson instructed officials at his Department of Business Innovation and Skills (BIS), charged with tackling online piracy by June's report, to clampdown even harder on the pirates.Last night, a BIS spokesperson said there was no discussion of online piracy when Mandelson met Geffen and there is no connection between that meeting and the government's new proposals on illegal filesharing.The music and film industries had campaigned hard to have measures introduced earlier than 2012 and the fact that persistent pirates can be cut off is likely to be welcomed. The UK's internet service providers, however, will be less pleased by the plans. Several have made it quite plain they have no desire to police the web on behalf of another industry.They will be particularly annoyed that the government reckons the cost of technical measures should be borne by the ISPs and it wants that enshrined in the autumn's Digital Economy bill. The content industry, meanwhile, will continue to pick up the tab for identifying illegal filesharers and preparing enough information for them to be targeted by the ISPs, while the costs of the letter-writing campaign will be split equally.Dubious downloadsTop 10 pirated films of first half of 2009 (downloads in millions):Watchmen16.9Curious Case of Benjamin  Button13.1Yes Man13.0Twilight11.6Fast &amp; Furious10.6Gran Torino9.9Marley &amp; Me9.1Slumdog Millionaire8.8Bolt8.7Australia8.6Source: BigChampagne, Box Office Mojo.com
Just in case you're not keeping up, there are growing rumours of an imminent Xbox 360 price cut circulating the industry. Many think we'll see the Pro model replaced by a cheaper Elite, set to retail at $249 or $299 depending on your source. US site Kotakuscanned advertsfrom a forthcoming Walmart ad on Friday going with the higher figure.This would, of course, bring the Elite price in line with the new PS3 Slim in the States. However, as the top-of-the-range Xbox is already just £230 in the UK (£20 cheaper than the launch price for PS3 Slim) it's unclear if we'll see a reduction, too.Add in fresh gossip about anXbox re-designand it's an interesting time for the HD console face-off. There's parity on price and HD size as well as extras like video-on-demand offerings...It's customary to suggest that it'll be down to the games now, with system exclusives and downlodable content deals playing a key role. But, actually, a huge majority of the key Xmas 2009 titles are multiformat: Modern Warfare 2, Assassin's Creed II, FIFA 2010, Borderlands, Need For Speed: Shift, etc. PS3 owners, though, can add Uncharted 2 and the latest Ratchet and Clank adventure. Meanwhile, Xboxers will have Forza 3, Halo ODST, Splinter Cell: Conviction and Left 4 Dead 2.As for next year, PS3 promises Gran Turismo 5, Last Guardian, Agency, Heavy Rain, God of War III and MAG, while Xbox 360 owners can look forward to Alan Wake, Mass Effect 2, Crackdown 2, APB and Halo Reach. There will also be a peripherals showdown - the PS3 motion controller facing off against Natal. Intriguing stuff from both parties.Is this it then? Is 2010 the final round? The last set? The culminative innings for the current gen bruisers? They're cheaper, they're leaner, but is one going down? Well, let's face it, no. With the next generation of both machines almost certainly being assembled in R&amp;D labs, this really isn't a war any longer - it's more an unending battle of attrition. At least until cloud gaming arrives - then all bets are off.
Apple's newest operating system, Snow LeopardApple has let the Snow Leopard out of its cage a little early.The next version of its operating system,OS X10.6 aka Snow Leopard, was supposed to be out in September, but Apple announced today that it will go on sale on Friday.The update offers several refinements rather than a host of new features.Apple has released a major update to its QuickTime multimedia software, which will make it easier for even novices to edit video. It also has built-in support to upload your videos to YouTube. The new QuickTime will also do screencasts, recordings of what is happening on your screen with narration. It is often used by companies to create tutorials or demos of their software or websites.UPDATE:For an additional fee,Apple's mail and calendar applications will also support Microsoft's Exchange 2007 e-mail and communications server software, helping Apple's operating system compete better in the workplace.In the past few years, the computer chip industry has been in the process of two major transitions, one from 32-bit chips to 64-bit and from single cores to multiple cores. Both are reflected in Snow Leopard.The update to the operating system boasts better 64-bit support. The main advantage of 64-bit computing is the ability to address more memory. Apple's Mac Pro workstations can hold 32GB of RAM, but 32-bit applications can only take advantage of 4GB of that memory. Apple's own applications, including the Safari web browser and iCal, have all been rewritten as 64-bit, helping them run faster. Indeed, Apple says its TimeMachine backup software will work 80% faster.The other major trend of the past few years has been the move to multi-core chips. Apple laptops all have dual-core chips, and Apple's Mac Pro workstations can accommodate up to two four-core chips. Applications need to be rewritten to take full advantage of all of these cores, but Apple's new operating system has a new technology that they are callingGrand Central Dispatch. The company says will make it easier for developers to write applications to take full advantage of multiple cores.Modern computers also have very powerful graphics processors. Normally, these processors are only responsible for decoding video and rendering graphics, but they can also be used to supplement the general processing power of the computer. Apple has also included support for OpenCL, a technology that makes it easier to tap this extra computing power.The operating system also trims 7GB from the installation. Some of the space savings is down to end of support for the olderPowerPC chipsthat Apple used in its computers from 1994 until it began to transition to Intel chips in 2006.Microsoft will also be releasing a major update to its operating system. Windows 7 is set for release on 22 October.
Nokia Booklet 3GNokia has released a "mini-notebook".&nbsp; With the flurry of netbook models since the launch of the Asus EEE in late 2007, the mobile phone giant enters a crowded market.This isn't to say that Nokia's Booklet 3G doesn't have some features that allow it to stand out in the crowd. It has an integrated assisted GPS and HDMI for HD video output.  HD netbooks aren't all that common. Style-wise with its aluminium case and 10-inch glass screen, it looks to be pitched a bit more towards mobile executives who might splash out on sub-notebooks. Sub-notebooks are full-fledged laptops packed into a tiny package, but the cost of the small package is a huge price tag.Detailed specifications will be released next week at the Nokia World conference. Nokia has said that it is powered by an Intel Atom processor. That, probably wed to 6- or 9-cell battery, accounts for its reported 12 hours of battery life. If you're watching HD video, you'll most likely get no where near 12-hours of battery life.Next week, we'll also find out exactly what kind of Intel Atom chip and chipset is inside. HD video was beyond the first generation and most current generation netbooks, but earlier this year, Intel released the N280 Atom processor with a new video chipset, theGN40, which added 720p video playbackand1080p streaming internet video. Nokia also could have added Nvidia's Ion chipset, and some HD netbooks manage to push the pixels by using standard laptop video cards.Nokia's netbook is running Windows 7. The GN40 supportsWindows' graphically intensive Aero interface, if that is the chipset that Nokia has chosen.While this is a crowded market, the launch makes some amount of sense because mobile phone carriers have begun to offer netbooks from Dell and Samsung packaged with data plans. Some might argue that this actually builds onNokia's N800 series of mobile internet devices, but Nokia's internet tablets are slightly different creatures than a netbook.I'd have to agree withRobert Andrews on MocoNewswhen he says, "Indeed, services is a big play here". With the GPS, the netbook will work with Nokia's Ovi Maps services and its otherOvi servicesincluding mail, contacts, online file storage and photo and video sharing. This might just be something to bolster the attractiveness of its services.Could the Booklet be too expensive but not expensive enough? Netbooks have become popular because they are light and low-cost. Nokia's mini-netbook seems to be pitched somewhere between a netbook and a sub-notebook. Will it be fully subsidised with the price of a mobile phone carrier data plan? With an Atom processor, it probably won't be as expensive as a full fledged sub-notebook, but it's also not as powerful. Could it be that it's too expensive for netbook buyers but not powerful enough for the executive sub-notebook buyer? We'll know a lot more next week when pricing and other details are revealed.
A new political party intent on legalising not-for-profit filesharing of music and films is aiming to capture the youth vote in the general election, according to its leader.The Pirate Party UK hopes to capitalise on the success of the Swedish Pirate party, which gained 7.1% of the vote and an MEP in the European elections on the back of publicity over the trial and conviction of the founders of Pirate Bay, a popular file-sharing site.The British party, which wants to legalise non-commercial filesharing, has been inundated with membership enquiries since it registered with the electoral commission at the end of June, its leader, Andrew Robinson, said."With government plans, outlined in the Digital Britain report, to fine people who have shared even one file up to £50,000 and an estimated 7 million filesharers in the UK, this is a very big issue indeed," he said.The party, which also wants an overhaul of copyright and patent law and more checks on state surveillance, intends to contest as many seats as financially possible in the next general election, which must be held before by June 2010. It may stand in any byelections before then.Although it is unlikely that any of its candidates would be elected, Pirate Party UK, which is affiliated with the Swedish movement but separate in legal and constitutional terms, aims to influence the leading political parties by gathering a groundswell of support for its policies."For us this is a way of being heard, of getting the debate around these important issues moving," said Robinson.Peer-to-peer filesharing sites, often seen as the bete noire of the recording industry, should instead be regarded as the modern-day equivalent to public libraries, where music, and other files like films, can be stored and shared for the good of society, said Robinson.Record labels and industry bodies will be difficult to persuade. Attracting more than 7 million users, filesharing sites cost the industry an estimated £200m a year,according to the BPI. In a recent piece ofUK Music research, more than 60% of 14- 24-year-olds admitted to downloading music through peer-to-peer networks or torrent trackers, 83% doing so on a weekly or daily basis.Filesharers are often blamed for ruining carefully planned single and album releases and have claimed some high-profile scalps. Former X-factor star Leona Lewis became the most recent target when her new single, Don't Let Me Down, a collaboration with Justin Timberlake, was leaked on to the web before its official release, much to the ire of Simon Cowell,But rather than being the enemy, filesharing sites are a way of advertising and marketing musicians' work, said Robinson, arguing that fans who discover their music and download it for free are more likely to buy tickets for live concerts, and premium products like limited edition CD and DVD sets.Record labels, not filesharers, are artists' real opponents, he claims, adding: "The major labels are a cartel that have had the ability to say yay or nay to artists and decide what is the next big thing. They fight filesharing sites not because they think it is morally wrong, but because they do not want to lose control."He points to Radiohead, who allowed fans to decide how much to pay for their album In Rainbows and offered their last single as a free download, and Prince, who created a subscription website, Lotusflow3r.com, for his last three-album package with exclusive music, lyrics, animation and video, as examples of bands who have broken free of the record label stranglehold and are making money despite illegal downloading.Although the Pirate Party UK provides an "interesting additional voice" to the debate, its influence is likely to remain limited, said music industry analyst Mark Mulligan, vice-president of Forrester Research. "Its problem is that many of the people who might support it aren't old enough, or motivated enough, to vote. When you have a group of disgruntled teens against the lobbying power of the media industry, it's difficult to see how they could shape policy," he said.The system of proportional representation and a sense of nationalism around the Pirate Bay site had helped the Swedish party in the EU elections, he added.Robinson admits that many of the party's potential voters are either unregistered or too young to vote, but is confident that the party will make an impact."We are gathering strength and momentum as a lobbying group," he said."The Swedes are definitely being heard. The party has a huge following in the under-30 age bracket, and that has got to be scaring the hell out of the major parties. I see no reason why the same thing won't happen here."
A strange legal case from Texas, whereAffiliated Computer Services- a $4.4bn IT services giant with links to many large public and private bodies in the US - is suing a rival company over allegations that it stole trade secrets online.How? According to thecase brought before federal court in Dallas, Duncan Solutions used Outlook to fake the email addresses of 25 ACS employees, redirecting all incoming messages to their own systems - thereby gaining access to all sorts of private business information."The stolen emails reveal not only information about specific prospective and existing clients, but also confidential and proprietary information regarding ACS' general business strategies and plans," said the complaint.Compared to the complexity of most computer crimes, this seems almost dangerously simple. Duncan is contesting the charges.
Not content withperpetrating the biggest credit card scam in historywhen they stole more than 130m people's details, the hacking ring behind theHeartland Payments intrusionwere also responsible for a widespread cash machine fraud.According to reports, a$750,000 strike in New York earlier this year- that hit Citibank cash machines inside American 7-11 convenience stores - was the work of the same group. How did they do it? ASQL injection attack- one of the basic tools used by hackers.Last week I spoke to Linda Foley of the Identity Theft Resource Centre in San Diego, who told me that she thought the original case would go much deeper. "Is this the end of the Heartland case? No," she said. More financial institutions would get dragged in, she predicted, undermining confidence in the system. Seems like she was right - the question is where it ends up next.
Four Chinese citizens have been fined thousands of pounds and sentenced to prison for their role in distributing unauthorised copies of Microsoft's Windows.The quartet were sentenced on Friday after being found guilty of creating and circulating the so-called "Tomato Garden" version of Windows XP, which disabled the copy protection and authentication systems put in place by Microsoft.According to state-controlled news agency Xinhua, alleged ringleaders Hong Lei and Sun Xhianzhong were each given a three and a half year prison term and ordered to pay a fine of 1m yuan (£88,500), while two others received two year sentences and fines of 100,000 yuan (£8,500).Meanwhile Chengdu Gongruan Networking Technology, the company behind the site hosting the bootleg, was fined 8.77m yuan (£770,000).The case was the latest attempt to crack down on piracy in China, an issue that has escalated in recent years as many western corporations attempt to expand their businesses into the country. It has also become a hot topic for China's political leaders, who are keen to address piracy publicly in order to encourage large companies to invest in Chinese operations.Pirated copies of Windows in emerging markets have been a particular issue for Microsoft, which has attempted a number of methods to stop others profiting from copying its software without authorisation. Tactics include what some call the "black screen of death" - a system which causes the screen of computers running unauthenticated software to black out every hour.Last year Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer said that piracy was so rampant in China that it was hampering the company's chances to extend its business."China's not really very important to our business right now," hesaid at a meeting in Australia. "I'd like it to be but it's not because of the high rate of piracy of intellectual property."
Despite many distractions this weekend – the Ashes! Sunshine! – I did actually get some gaming time.  Most of it was spent onSiege of Spinner Cay, the second episode in the new Monkey Island series. Like the previous title this is an accomplished and entertaining –albeit fairly short – slice of puzzling. This time round you get a slightly darker tone, more islands to visit and a host of new characters to share wisecracks with. The puzzles seem tougher too and even experiencedGuybrushfans will be stumped on occasion. Luckily there are numerouswalkthroughsavailable online if needed - all a far cry from the expensive LucasArts tips phoneline you used to have to call when stuck on the pre-internet Monkey Island 1 &amp; 2.This weekend's other gaming centred around PES 2009. Yes, I know many have moved over to FIFA but I still think PES plays the better game on the pitch. PES is more fluid, more varied and simply more fun to play. FIFA is still too rigid, with the players never totally feeling under your control. Off the pitch it's a different story of course. PES 2010's online modes – get ready for numerous acceptance screens – are basic and underwhelming compared to FIFA's 10vs10 and player leagues.  Despite this the on-pitch superiority makes PES the main footy game I play.Anyway, how was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Concerns over possible antitrust issuescould halt the search deal between Microsoft and Yahoo, reports theAssociated Press, though it presents scant evidence for the claim. The two companies,which have linked up Open Book Alliance,&bull; Disgruntled San Francisco sysadmin Terry Childs, who infamously locked government workersout of the city's computer network last year, is facing reduced charges after ajudge threw out three charges of tampering in court on Friday, according to theSF Chronicle. Last year Childswas chargedover the event, but only handed over the security codeseight days after being caught, following a meeting with the mayor (and candidate for governor) Gavin Newsom.&bull; Astroturfing - planting fake support for an idea or product - has been around the technology industry for a long time, but new claims have dragged Apple and the iPhone into the mire. The allegations fromCrunchGearare that one PR firm has beengetting interns to post positive reviews for clientson the iTunes Store. It's disappointing, and likely just the tip of a big, dirty iceberg: I'm sure that we're going to see more examples turn up very soon.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Feverish speculation all over the internet, gadget shoppers nearing mass hysteria and pundits predicting our lives will never be the same. It must mean that an Apple product launch is on the way.The company that makes the Mac computer, iPod music player and iPhone is reportedly poised to launch a tablet computer – small enough to carry in a handbag or briefcase but big enough to comfortably surf the web, read newspapers and watch films. It could be Apple's latest billion-dollar jackpot.Months of rumour and hype have reached a crescendo in recent days withsome reports suggesting that the tablet could be launched by Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, next monthand be in the shops by Christmas. Such is the fascination with all things Apple that blogs are humming with speculation and a new mention of the tablet crops up on Twitter around every eight minutes."The Apple magic is great technology and great marketing," said Leander Kahney, a blogger and author ofThe Cult of Mac. "We've seen it with the iPod, the iPhone and, before that, the Mac. That's why this is so exciting."He added: "They've been working on this for the past six years. People expect it to be the ultimate Apple surprise. This thing will knock people's socks off."Apple product launches are celebrated rituals where the talismanic Jobs, in black sweater and jeans, stands on a stage in San Francisco and unveils the company's latest innovation, cheered by adulatory crowds with near religious fervour. The Californian giant has sold more 200 million iPods since their launch in 2001.Famously secretive, Apple has refused to comment on the tablet speculation. But Tim Cook, its chief operating officer, recently hinted that the company was working on something "very innovative". Jobs – now back at work after a six-month leave of absence following a liver transplant – is thought to have been personally involved in the development of the device over the past two years.The tablet is rumoured to be any size and scale between the iPhone and the MacBook laptop. Some have described the tablet as a "Kindle-killer", potentially usurping the Amazon Kindle and other electronic book readers. It would be billed as a solution for people who work a lot on the move but don't want to carry a laptop. What experts believe would set the tablet apart would be that, instead of a keyboard, it would use a touch-sensitive screen. Kahney said: "Apple will totally rejig the computing experience. You won't manipulate a keyboard and mouse any more but rather use an intuitive touchscreen. It will very tactile. It will be a whole new paradigm."It might also prove the launchpad for an "iTunes for newspapers", allowing commuters to read news on screen instead of in print. Even magazines might be reproduced convincingly on the high-resolution screen. Kahney said: "Instead of reading a review of a band, you could have audio and video embedded and listen to them and watch them being interviewed."Expectations flared recently when Gene Munster, a technology research analyst, said that he had haddiscussions with an Asian component supplierthat claimed to have received orders for a touchscreen device which needed to be filled by the end of the year. Munster took this as evidence that Apple would launch a tablet in early 2010.He estimated that an Apple tablet, with an onscreen keyboard like the iPhone, would cost around $600 (£363), putting it between the highest-end iPod Touch at $399 and the MacBook, which starts at $999. At $600, Munster calculated that sales of 2 million tablets could add $1.2bn (£727m) to Apple's sales next year.Sales of Apple laptops are stalling as they face competition from netbooks, the smaller and lighter laptops that have proved popular among students. Rival companies have also introduced tablets but lack the hype that guarantees Apple mountains of free publicity.Bill Thompson, a technology author and blogger, warned, however, that Apple's run of dramatic breakthroughs was unlikely to last for ever. "If Steve Jobs stands up and announces this, it could be his last hurrah. The technology industry has matured and, unless Apple does something completely unexpected, we have a pretty good idea what this will look like. The world has been shaped by technology in such a way that it is no longer surprising."
Apple has rejected claims that it is unfairly blocking rival companies from putting their software onto the iPhone, as US regulators probe whether the company and its partners acted illegally by obstructing Silicon Valley rival Google.The informal investigation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) surrounds the fate of Google Voice, a free application that allows users to direct their phone calls and send text messages via the internet.Google Voice was rejected from Apple's iPhone app store last month, prompting speculation that it was blocked because it competed with – claims thatled the FCC to begin looking intowhether the move constituted anti-competitive behaviour.But in public statements to the commission on Friday, both Apple and AT&amp;T - America's largest telecoms provider and the country's exclusive iPhone supplier – downplayed the way the situation had played out.In a letter to the FCC which itpublished online, Apple denied that it had rejected Google Voice and instead said it had simply not yet approved it. According to the company, it had not given the program the go-ahead because it"It appears to alter the iPhone's distinctive user experience by replacing the iPhone's core mobile telephone functionality and Apple user interface with its own user interface," said the company."Apple spent a lot of time and effort developing this distinct and innovative way to seamlessly deliver core functionality."Although early speculation had suggested that the move was brought at the bidding of AT&amp;T, amid possible concerns that Google Voice's free services could undermine its business, the company denied that it had any involvement in the decision.In a statement, Jim Cicconi - AT&amp;T's senior executive vice president of external and legal affairs - said the companywould "fully support" the FCC's investigation."To that end, let me state unequivocally, AT&amp;T had no role in any decision by Apple to not accept the Google Voice application for inclusion in the Apple App Store," he said. "AT&amp;T was not asked about the matter by Apple at any time, nor did we offer any view one way or the other."Google, which filed its own response to the commission's questions, did not reveal publicly what reasons Apple had given it.The investigation is the FCC's latest attempt to tackle in America's mobile phone industry, but it also marks the first time that Apple has spoken openly about the process of reviewing iPhone applications – a procedure that hascaused problems for many programmersin recent months thanks to its high level of secrecy andseemingly arbitrary standards.In its letter, Apple revealed a number of details that it has so far refused to share with the plethora of application developers that it subjects to the process. The company revealed that it has 40 full-time reviewers who examine more than 8,000 applications each week, and that each application is checked by two individuals to ensure "that the review process is applied uniformly".As well as raising questions about the nature of America's mobile industry, however, the investigation also marks the latest stage in the growing rift between Apple and Google.In the past, the two companies had been very close, with Google chief executive Eric Schmidt eventaking a seat on Apple's board in 2006. But after pressure over the role, particularly since the companies compete in an increasing numbers an increasing number of areas such as mobile phones, web browsers and now computer operating systems, Schmidt left the jobearlier this month.
In 1992 Wolfenstein 3D's tale of cyborg Nazis was the world's introduction to the first-person shooter, a genre which reduces your avatar to a floating gun muzzle, then liberally funnels enemies towards it.Fast-forward 17 years and the Nazis-meet-forces-of-the-occult-meet-aliens plot remains in place, although this time with ludicrous "Cherman"-accented voice acting. Along with the usual clutch of human and alien weaponry, you can make use of The Veil, which lets you walk through specially marked doors, dodge bullets and move at superhuman speed. The gunfights form a series of intense encounters that force you to experiment with the range of the game's arsenal, but rarely elevate themselves above run-of- the-mill.• Activision, &pound;35-&pound;45
Alongside the similarFMyLife.com, this celebration of the dull and mundane offers an honest alternative to the fake kingdoms of Facebook updates and Twitter banter and allows users to admit that their life isn't the non-stop party they'd like it to be. Here the ordinary is honoured, the tedious chores no one would dare tweet - such as the separation of forks, spoons and knives in dishwasher compartments - are pored over and a life without thrills is admitted to, with each post's averageness commented and voted on.
In Trials HD, you use a trials bike to traverse increasingly perilous courses. Although rendered in 3D, the game is firmly two-dimensional, with no steering control, leaving you to accelerate, brake and shift your rider's weight around to overcome its progressively more tortuous challenges. With such a simple conceit, Trials HD's genius is its simplicity married with the invention of its tasks. These take the physical connection between bike and obstacle and test it against dozens of fascinating scenarios. That means everything from balancing delicately on giant metal spheres to remembering exactly where you have to slow down to avoid impaling your rider on a low beam while still earning a gold. As downloadable content gets steadily more impressive, it's games like Trials HD that make an Xbox Live account attractive.• Xbox Live Arcade, 1200 Microsoft points
Freed from the shackles of supporting the film industry, Batman: Arkham Asylum gives everyone's favourite brutally violent cape-wearing billionaire the chance to kill henchmen without fear of getting on the wrong side of Hollywood.The result is a great deal more fun than we're used to from superhero games as The Joker (voiced by Mark Hamill, not that you'd notice) takes over Gotham City's psychiatric hospital and lures Batman in for a good old punch-up. Dividing itself between pleasingly solid and kinetic-feeling fights with bat-wielding thugs and more tactical engagements against groups of gunmen who need to be taken out discreetly, Batman's essential vulnerability has never felt more palpable; without actual super powers, you've got to be clever and make judicious use of gadgets. Although boss fights are clumsy, overall this is an elegantly realised dose of stealth and violence.• Eidos, &pound;35-&pound;45
Fans of the original Star Wars movie (before the prequel insanity) are being invited to remake their own version of George Lucas's 1970s classic, 15 seconds at a time. You claim the mini-scene you want, then upload your homemade footage to be edited together alongside all the others to create a new, utterly unwatchable version of Star Wars. So far there are lots of Sweded-style remakes, but also one or two stop-motion clips using action figure toys and flipbook-style animations. At time of writing there are still 302 scenes untaken - so tape those Danish pastries to the sides of your head and give it your best Princess Leia before it's too late.
The word "tweet" may have entered the international lexicon thanks to an explosion in 140-character microblogging messages, but an attempt by Twitter's founders to trademark it has been rejected.Twitter applied to the US patent and trademark office last month for ownership of the word but the request was provisionally denied on the grounds that other companies had filed for trademarks of very similar words.The authority cited three applications by firms called TweetMarks, Cotweet and Tweetphoto, and said there was a "likelihood of confusion" between the various marks.The ruling is a setback to Twitter's co-founder Biz Stone, who is keen to protect the rapidly growing language surrounding the service.In a blog last month, Stone told users that Twitter-related applications that included the word tweet, such as Tweetdeck, Tweetboard and Tweetie, were not a problem."We have applied to trademark tweet because it is clearly attached to Twitter from a brand perspective but we have no intention of 'going after' the wonderful applications and services that use the word in their name when associated with Twitter," he said.Since Twitter's launch three years ago, the word tweet has achieved a degree of respectability. To tweet was recently added to the Associated Press's style guide as a verb. Australia's Macquarie dictionary  added tweeting to its latest edition.• This article was amended on Wednesday 26 August 2009. A "tweet" can be up to 140 characters in length, not 140 words as we said. This has been corrected.
Shows like GamesCom aren't just about news stories. One advantage it has over E3 is that it takes place later in the year, so there's a possibility that games which weren't sufficiently ready to be shown in anything but the sketchiest manner at E3 could have achieved sufficient solidity to surface in Cologne. A classic example being Star Wars: The Old Republic.Published by Electronic Arts and developed by RPG geniuses BioWare, Star Wars: The Old Republic created a big enough stir at E3, even though all that was shown of the game was a pre-rendered cut-scene.The fact that it is set in the Star Wars universe, developed by BioWare (which made the much-loved RPG Knights Of The Old Republic) and is a massively multiplayer online game (MMO) was enough to trigger mass mouth-watering. But BioWare has been showing proper in-game action at GamesCom, and we're more convinced than ever that The Old Republic is going to be huge.The big message throughout the demo is that The Old Republic will bring a new element to the MMO: a storyline which persist through the game. There will, of course, be countless quests to perform, but also an overarching narrative thread which, indeed, is something that even the likes of the mighty World Of Warcraft have lacked.Then there's the immense appeal of controlling and developing a character in the Star Wars universe – the action takes place about 3,000 years before the era depicted in the first film, and concerns the fall of the Old Empire. Empire and Republic forces are present and correct – you can play as Jedi Knights, Sith Warriors and so on, and light-sabre duelling will be to the fore if you choose to play as an appropriate character.BioWare says choices you make in the game determine the storyline and, naturally, you will have to decide whether to embrace the light or dark side of the Force.Graphically, The Old Republic is quite stylised but seriously impressive for an MMO. BioWare is still remaining tight-lipped on many of the game's aspects, such as how you will pay for it, and how guilds, and so-called PvP play will be handled (although BioWare's Dallas Dickinson promised that the game will support both).But it could emerge as a real contender for World Of Warcraft, which has utterly dominated the MMO world for years – and deservedly, since is oozes class. But if BioWare can bring the quality for which it is renowned, thanks to games like Mass Effect and KOTOR, to the MM0 sphere, combined with the added attraction of Star Wars, it will surely become World Of Warcraft's first credible challenger.And there's no doubt EA will put vast resources behind it, as it has enormous strategic importance for the company: since Activision and World Of Warcraft maker Blizzard merged, EA has lost its undisputed status as the world's biggest publisher, mainly due to having no presence in the MMO market. Star Wars: The Old Republic could make it top dog again.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I have an Olympus digital recorder. Which means that when I have an idea I can record it. It also means when I have meetings I can record them.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Recently, I had the neighbours from hell. So guess what folks? I recorded them too.What additional features would you add if you could?Better mics so you could record atmosphere.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?It'll be on a phone – isn't it already?What always frustrates you about technology in general?The way manufacturers put in "stealth" devices like a printer isn't expensive the ink is. And how they hold back far superior versions so we pay more.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Cell phone.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I don't have one – I am such an anti-techno that I am the last person to ask.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm neither. I don't particulary care for technology, yet am aware of it. I just tend to abstain.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A GPS running watch, but it wasn't even mine.Mac or PC, and why?Mac because you can screen grab images from films and I just got one for my birthday present!Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download more now. I write with scores playing in headsets, so I bought Philipp Glass's score to Cassandra's Crossing plus the score to Home by Armand Amar.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?It's good to work. Bad idea.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Loads of Red cameras and an editing system so I could shoot whenever I liked.•Mark Tonderai's thrillerHushis out now on DVD
Your neighbours are off on a once-in-a-lifetime round-the-world trip, and they reckon they need a new camera. What do you suggest they buy? Is a compact camera the best solution, or would it be better to go for a digital SLR now they are just as easy to use? Or should they take a different approach? Are cameraphones now good enough to replace compact cameras, or should they consider taking movies with something as easy-to-use as a Flip HD video camera?Unlike them, you're also thinking about making sure they have enough storage space and don't lose their pictures before they get home. Upload to a website? If so, which?The floor is open. A selection of your comments will be published in the next issue of the Technology section.
Talking of light emitting technology, I recommendthis fascinating postonBLDGBLOG(in fact, I recommend the entire blog, which is about architecture, urban spaces and the future). It points out the possibilities of using bioluminescent materials to light city spaces - including work from students at theArchitectural Associationthat posited the idea of "bioluminescent bacterial billboard" - cells instead of pixels. (Worth thinking about in the context of thisNew Yorkerpiece about light pollution from a couple of years ago).
The games industry has descended on Cologne in a rare old state of excitement. For some years now, Europe has had a videogames show that wan't really much of a rival to the American E3 – previously known, prosaically, as the Games Convention and based in Leipzig, a city about which it is nigh-impossible to be complimentary.But this year it has rebooted itself as Gamescom, and moved to the refreshingly pleasant environs of Cologne in Germany. The result is a general feeling that a show which was on an upward curve yet still a poor relation has made a breakthrough this year, and with E3 itself staging a comeback after two dodgy years, it could be the pre-eminent forum for showcasing new games.In the style of E3, Tuesday saw press conferences taking place before the show opened, and Sony grabbed centre stage. SCE Europe CEO Andrew House took the reins, running through latest sales figures for Sony's various consoles (the most impressive being for the thoroughly defunct PS2, which has now shifted 138.8m units globally and 51.5m in Europe) and swiftly skimming through its big upcoming games (of which Uncharted 2 looked the likeliest Christmas blockbuster, and the previously unannounced Digital Comics reader for the PSP intrigued).But at the end of the spiel, Sony Computer Entertainment CEO Kaz Hirai, the big boss, took to the stage to unveil the PS3 Slim. Every Sony console has, at some stage of its life-cycle, been shoe-horned into a smaller package and sold at a lower price, and now the PS3 has had that treatment.The PS3 Slim looks like a neat enough machine (although the one demonstrated by Hirai was whipped away from the stage the moment he walked off it) and has the advantage of a 120GB, rather than 80GB hard disk, and will retail at £250. Which is cheaper than the original PS3's £299, but still pricier than an Xbox 360 Elite, let alone lesser Xbox 360s.Given that the magic price-point below which consoles sell in serious volumes is £200 (Electronic Arts' Peter Moore, in an interview, pointed out that 80% or thereabouts of the PS2's sales accrued after it slipped below £200), one has to wonder whether that is enough.Sony, no doubt, would love to sell the PS3 Slim – which will be in the shops in September, while original PS3s are already in short supply and will quickly disappear from retail – for £200 but economics clearly preclude that.Whether – given that we're still in a recession – that £50 price-cut will prove enough of an incentive this Christmas, when parents decide which console to buy for their kids, remains to be seen.But one has to feel slightly for Sony: the PS3 Slim will retail at €299, so we Brits, with our recently devalued pound hovering not for from the €1 mark, should be grateful that we have a price-cut at all.Sony studiously avoided any technical talk about the PS3 Slim, which suggests that it's more or less identical to the original PS3 under the skin. Which would be a shame if it is the case. Because the repackaging should have provided the perfect opportunity to slip in a newer-generation Blu-ray drive than version 1.0 effort in the PS3.We'll be trying to find more about any technical advantages the PS3 Slim has over its predecessors in the coming days.
Researchers have developedflexible LED screensthat they suggest could be used in the future for all sorts of applications, reportsReuters. The screens - developed using a technique described by scientist John Rogers at the University of Illinois at Urban-Champaign - effectively create "rubber stamps" made of LEDs that can be imprinted on any surface. Possible suggestions include car brake lights. (Here's the paper in Science, behind a paywall)
Software giant Oracle has cleared the first hurdle in itsattempt to buy Sun Microsystems for $7.4bn, after US regulators gave the deal their blessing.The Department of Justice gave its approval to both companies to move forward with the purchase, after several months of investigation into whether the deal could damage competition.Clearance had hit hiccups about the licensing of Java, the programming language owned by Sun that runs on more than 7 billion electronic devices around the world including mobile phones and PCs.Despite Sun's struggles in recent years, the deal came as a surprisewhen it was announced in April– largely because Sun had been locked in mercurial talks with another rival, IBM. Although the legendary computer company had made a higher initial bid, discussions broke down after IBM reduced its valuation over competitive concerns.The Oracle deal still has to get the approval of the European Commission, which has traditionally taken a more robust hand to regulating technology companies. Potential antitrust questions surrounding the deal include the future of Sun's MySQL database – an open-source product that it bought in 2008 for $1bn.There had been concerns that bringing that together with Oracle's own database products would create a possible anti-competitive situation - fears that MySQL founder Martin Mickos, among others,attempted to quell.European regulators have said they will make a decision by September 3.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Yup, time to game like it's, er 1989. Following on from LucasArts' recent opening of their retro gaming vault, EA haveconfirmed they are doingsomething similar. VP of EA Montreal Alan Tuscan says it will happen.I am certain that some of them will come back. I won't be able to tell you which one. Look at Ubisoft and what they did with Prince of Persia - in my memory one of the best exercises in taking a beloved franchise and making something really special out of it. So from this example, I'm pretty certain that we'll see within EA as well some franchises that we say hey - we're keen, we're excited, the audience wants it.And which EA "franchise" does he think could be the first to get revived?Maybe it's going to be Road Rash that's going to be one. I don't know.Let's hope not eh? Road Rash would make solid download game at best.So what does this tell us then? Are publishers and developers running out of ideas? Or is the games business finally beginning to match the music industry with its constant reissues and focus on nostalgia?Anyway, it begs the obvious question. Which ancient EA game would you like to see revived?
&bull; Lots of potential ructions after aBloombergreport that Steve Jobs asked Palm boss Ed Colligan tostop recruiting Apple employees. The story, which appears to have come directly from Palm (which is engaged in an ongoing war with Apple) has some extra zing since it comes after the US Department of Justice said it waslooking into allegations of collusion in Silicon Valley hiring(WSJ).&bull; ObligatoryTwitternews segment: the company has said itis getting ready to launch a location APIthat will "allow developers to add latitude and longitude to any tweet". Privacy concerns? It'll be opt-in.Jeff Jarvishas a few thoughts.&bull; If, like me, you mourn the death of Polaroid instant film, you might want to get out to Urban Outfitters on Friday. Jack points me in the direction of thisDazedDigitalpost whichsays they are selling Polaroid cameras and film from the last Dutch production run. Sweet.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
With the movie industry turning to 3D, Fujifilm may have hit on a good time to launch a 3D digital camera. But having usedNimslo3D cameras before, I doubt it. The images still have that cardboard cutout look that makes them seem less real than plain old snapshots, though they do have a certain novelty value.Stereography is as old as photography&nbsp;itself: Professor Charles Wheatstone worked out in 1838 how images from two eyes create a sense of depth. But the&nbsp;Victorian craze for 3D didn't survive&nbsp;the arrival of affordable Kodak box camera prints that are much easier to view. The Fujifilm FinePix Real 3D W1 camera has the same problem. You can see your 3D pictures on the camera's screen, or using a special 8in Fujifilm digital photoframe, but not on your PC; and if you want prints these have to be produced by Fujifilm.The company is using a lenticular screen process so each eye sees a slightly different image. It's expensive. Nimslo also offered lenticular prints in the 1980s – they didn't catch on. All those vertical rules are a bit intrusive.The Real 3D W1 has two lenses 77mm apart and two CCDs to capture two images at once. If you don't want a 3D picture, you can capture one or two 2D pictures – a wide angle and a telephoto, for example, or a 2D and a 3D image.The two lenses can, in effect, be angled towards or away from one another, as you push a button to converge the two images to create one 3D image. This isn't easy in bright sunlight because it's hard to read the 2.8in LCD. In one case, what I thought was the image was a reflection of what was behind me.In a YouTube video, inventor Mikio Watanabe says the screen shows two images in quick succession, one for the right eye and one for the left. Some people may be sensitive to the flicker. The Real 3D W1 stores images on an SD card. A 2D image is roughly 2.4MB, while a multipicture MPO file is naturally twice the size. Fujifilm says it will provide software to separate MPO files into left and right images for traditional stereo fans.Unfortunately, the 2D image is worse than I expected from a 10 megapixel camera. I hope the final models will be better than my pre-production sample. However, you can get better 2D cameras for half the expected £550 price, so unless you're keen on having 3D pictures – or recording 3D-AVI movies – the Real 3D W1 is not a contender.Also, when I tried the camera, I didn't think 3D added anything interesting to most scenes, with the possible exception of wide-angle interiors.Pros:No glasses required; novelty value of 3D shots; takes 3D moviesCons:Clunky interface; prints need special processing; poor 2D imagesfujifilm.com
Asimov's three laws of robotics are well known - but it may be time to prepare some new ones, if research by a team in Lausanne is anything to go by. The group built robots that were able to find "food" and emit light to attract other robots to the food source. However, when the researchers increased the level of competition - effectively pitting the robots against each other for a decreasing amount of food - they discovered that the robots actually learned to suppress information. Instead of shining their light to help find food sources, they discovered that not emitting light meant more food for themselves. AsMIT Technology Reviewputs it,"the researchers suggest that the study may help scientists better understand the evolution of biological communication systems". It could mean a lot more besides. (paper)
The Beatles coming to iTunes is the New Year's Eve of rumours: it comes out once a year and always end up disappointing you. It seems like it's that time again, with a number of outlets includingThe Unofficial Apple Weblogspeculating that it could be on the cards once again. The evidence? Apple's planned product launch in September comes the same day that adigitally remastered library of Beatles songsis released. Last November Paul McCartney said things weren't looking good - telling theAssociated Pressthat"it's stalled". Any chance this isn't just wishful thinking?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
At 225 quid the PSP Go isn't cheap. The price – confirmed yesterday at Gamescom – is actually a little less than many predicted but still seems a lot for a handheld. Heck, scrape together another 25 pounds and you could get a shiny new PS3 Slim. But that's not to say the Go isn't worth a look. I played with it at E3 and found it much more comfortable than the original PSP. It's noticeably lighter too and you can imagine carrying it around far more than the original, rather hefty, version. Sony are clearly hoping the form factor will be key in tempting buyers. SCEE President Andrew Housetold VG247.We've received, to date, some tremendous anecdotal feedback on the form factor and the sheer sexiness of the device which I think bodes well for its launch.Maybe so, but what about those owners of the original PSP who have a stack of UMD discs that can't be used on the Go?We're also looking at some other plans further down the line that will come together for launch around people who have existing UMD libraries and what we can do to incentivise those as well.Clearly these plans will be critical in getting the core user base interested on day one. The free download of Gran Turismo will help too. But what about you? Will the form factor and GT be enough to tempt you? Or is the cost just too high?
&bull; Google books is under fire again,after a class action lawyer filed an objectionto the company's proposed $125m settlement with authors' groups (more background here). That might be of interest to France,where the Bibliotheque Nationale is about to sign a deal with the internet giant, according to theTimes.&bull; Simon Cowell's record label ishunting for the 'hacker' who leaked a new Leona Lewis/Justin Timberlake song online, reportsReuters. The individual in question may be looking nervously at the case of Guns N Roses leaker Kevin Cogill,who was recently sentenced to two months house imprisonment.&bull; It's Thursday, so you'll be able to pick up a copy of theTechnology Guardianprint supplement from your newsagent. Stories include a look atwhy Facebook Lite sheds light on the company's strategy, finding out about newmicro wind turbinesand wonderingwhether the instruction manual is a thing of the past. Just 90p, orread it online.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Last week you said that it would be OK to install on a new computer a boxed copy of Microsoft Publisher that had previously been installed on an older computer running Windows XP. I would also like to do this, but always thought that it was illegal.John WatkinsA program normally comes with a end-user licence agreement – orEULA– and the same program may well be offered with different rights at different prices. For example, some programs are free for home but not business use, or free for a 30-day trial, or whatever. You can only find out by reading the specific EULA, to which you will usually have agreed (by clicking "I agree") when installing the software.Sometimes, software houses sell products via PC manufacturers at heavily discounted prices. They may try to protect their main markets by locking them to the PC with which they are shipped, and by forbidding their resale. These programs may be provided without discs or manuals. Sometimes the idea is that you will buy a full (unrestricted) retail copy when you buy a new PC.With retail packages, the usual assumption is that you have bought the right to run it on one PC, and the right to uninstall it and run it on a different PC. The full version of Microsoft Office allows you to install it on two PCs, usually a desktop and a laptop, with the assumption that you will not be using both at once. The cheap Home and Student version of Microsoft Office allows you to install it on three PCs, which can all be used at the same time.Of course, very few people actually read licence agreements. This probably doesn't matter unless the program requires activation against an online server. If so, the program will either activate or not, and if it doesn't, you may be asked to make a phone call to complete the process. Keep going until you get to talk to a person. If you are civil and have evidence that you did actually buy the program – such as a receipt and/or a credit card reference – then usually the call centre operator will activate the program.
When I open a program in Vista Home Premium, I like it to start maximised. Nothing I do seems to achieve this.Peter JohnsonVista Forums has a good tutorial on this problem,How to Reset Windows Explorer Folder View Settings to Make Vista Remember, along with 41 pages of discussion. If you follow the tutorial precisely then you may have some success, but as it says: "The exact cause of Vista losing its memory on your folder view settings has not been found yet." However, applyingService Pack 2does seem to help.
What's the maximum number of files that can be stored in a folder? I know someone with an 8GB flash drive with 22,000 small JPGs in the root folder and it's giving problems!Jonathan MackThere hasn't been a limit on the number of files in a root directory since the FAT32 system was introduced with the second release of Windows 95. However, the FAT file system gets progressively slower as the number of files grows larger, and Windows Explorer is not particularly good at handling large directories, especially if you use very long file names. (It's busy sorting files, calculating directory sizes etc.)For speed and reliability with FAT file systems, it's better to divide files into subdirectories. I try to keep the number of files in each folder under 1,000, and 500 is better. It might also be worth your friend trying an alternative to Windows Explorer, such as the free version of xplorer² (zabkat.com/x2lite) – you can decline the bundled toolbar – orTotal Commander etc.
A group of young men share a flat. They are a rag-tag crew of fantasists, losers and schemers whose heads are filled with crazy dreams. In the flat above lives a beautiful blonde whose flirtations threaten the gang's friendships and plans. It could almost be a 70s sitcom, were it not for the fact that inLiving with the Infidels– a new comedy series launched on YouTube – the men are Bradford-based jihadists and their crazy dream is&nbsp;a murderous terror plot.The five-part series has been condemned even before it has been broadcast with relatives of those killed in the 7/7 attacks leading the criticism. Its writer and creator is 40-year-old Aasaf Ainapore, a former commercials director who was born into a Muslim family but says he is not himself a believer. Ainapore was inspired to make the series with his partner Kira-Anne Pelican after noticing how often the word "bumbling" was used to describe British would-be terrorists."If you read about the shoe bomber or the attempted attack at Glasgow airport there is something farcical about it," he says. Much of the comedy in Living with the Infidels is derived from the tensions between being both western and Muslim: the characters are torn between aiming for the 72 virgins that martyrdom will bring, or chancing their luck with Abi from upstairs. In the final episode the gang film a suicide video but are hampered when one member starts channelling his inner auteur and urges that they "break down the fourth wall" when filming. "We're making a suicide video here, not some arthouse wank-romp," he is told. "Don't knock it," he replies, "I got plans for Sundance."Ainapore says he always intended that Living with the Infidels would be destined for the internet. "I don't think any television broadcaster would be comfortable with what we are trying to do," he adds. Ainapore says he is interested in using the internet to "build a brand" for his work but he flatly denies that in choosing such a provocative subject matter he is exploiting the issue. What did he make of the criticism of those such as Veronica Cassidy, whose 22-year-old son Ciaran died in the explosion on the Piccadilly line, and who said of the series, "If it happened to one of their children, would they be as keen to put something like this on YouTube?""I am acutely aware that anyone affected by the events of 7/7 would be anxious about the series," he says, "but I truly believe that it is only by ridiculing these extremists that you can hope to persuade young Muslims to turn against radicalism."
In real life, we see images in three dimensions because our left and right eyes see slightly different images that, when combined by the brain, deliver a picture that has depth. In old-fashioned 3D cinematography – the sort where your glasses had red and green coloured lenses – a pair of closely-aligned images with different tints gave the impression of depth by fooling  the eyes. But modern 3D films have developed new techniques to drag them out of their B-movie past, and Avatar takes things a step further by using both computer  generated imagery and advanced stereoscopic filming methods to create the  illusion of reality.So far, most successful 3D movies have been entirely animated – and Cameron, too, has used computer generated images to build his virtual world. Avatar's footage is built from around 70% CGI, including the female lead, a blue alien played by Star Trek's Zoe Saldana. As a result, the cast donned motion-capture suits – essentially, leotards covered in sensors that feed the movements of the body back to a bank of computers – and acted out their scenes  on a "performance capture" stage six  times bigger than anything used in  Hollywood before.Cameron also attempted to crank up the realism by improving the way the suits captured the actors' facial expressions, using a skull cap with a camera enhancement that closely monitored their eyes, mouth and other small movements.Motion capture makes 3D much easier, not just because it allows film-makers to add the special effects later, but also by letting them position the "camera" (actually a viewpoint from inside the virtual world), wherever they want. If the director wants to shift the angle to the left or right, it's done with a click of the mouse and the computer then works out what it would look like. In most ways, the technique is more closely aligned with the way that high-end computer games are developed rather than traditional Hollywood productions.One major advance with Avatar's setup was the creation of a virtual monitor that allowed the director to see the motion capture results in real-time, as they were filmed, instead of waiting for the computer to render the images.Cameron spent much of his own time and a significant amount of money upgrading the systems used for  Avatar, but he hasn't just used 3D for the computer-generated portions of the film: new techniques were also  created for the live action parts.Working with long-time collaborator Vincent Pace – founder of a camera equipment outfit in Los Angeles – Cameron developed a filming rig that is more advanced than anything that has gone before. The setup consists of a number of stereoscopic cameras that each use a pair of lenses built to mimic human eyes – positioned close together and able to move a little in order to focus on objects that are nearby or far away. That allows  the cinematographer to capture two images simultaneously, which align perfectly with and provide the illusion of depth.Filming is just one element of creating a 3D movie, however. The other part – which most people are more familiar with – is viewing it in the cinema. Here Avatar is less revolutionary. Although most of tomorrow's trailers will be shown on the giant, high resolution Imax screens, the audience will be using the same technologies used for recent 3D films such as Bolt, Coraline and Polar Express. Viewing not only requires  a digitally equipped  cinema (sometimes with a silver-coated screen to boost the brightness), but also that stalwart of three dimensional cinema: a pair of  special glasses.But instead of old fashioned  coloured lenses, modern 3D films require audiences to wear polarised glasses – where each lens lets through a slightly different kind of light. This means that your left eye and right eye can see different images shown simultaneously on the screen – and not only are they less headache inducing than in the past, they look much more like ordinary specs too.
EU pushes 4GThe European Union is investing €18m in research into LTE (long-term evolution) for fourth-generation mobile broadband.Route masterThe AA and Postcode Anywhere have launched an online route optimiser that they reckon can save 20% on fuel costs.Gamers are older, fatterA survey by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggests video gamers are older, and fatter, than previously thought.Happy birthday, BloggerGoogle is celebrating the 10th birthday of pioneering blogging site Blogger.At night with BaileyNokia is holding an exhibition of photographs taken by the legendary David Bailey to promote its 8 megapixel N86 camera phone.Speak in more tonguesPC users can now play Sony's free family-friendly online game Free Realms in any supported language, including French, German and Spanish.Wattpad meets OviThe Wattpad ebook reader is now available from Nokia's Ovi store as well as for the iPhone and Blackberry.
Microsoft is now helping its rivals. It has, for example, licensed connections to its Exchange mail server to mobile phone suppliers such as Palm, Nokia and Apple, so that users can pick up their corporate email. It has developed a version ofSilverlightfor the Mac, and encouraged the development of Moonlight, an open-source version for Linux. It has helped Mozilla make Firefox run better on Windows, and Microsoft's forthcoming web-based version of Office will work with both Firefox and Apple's Safari.We've just seen two more examples with Microsoft's link-up with Nokia and the announcement of Outlook for the Mac version of Office.The Nokia deal involves the development of Office Communicator Mobile and the mobile version of Office for Symbian smartphones. This should make Nokia's phones more attractive to businesses, which until now have only been able to get the same level of integration by buying Windows Mobile phones. It should help Nokia to compete with RIM and Apple, though they could also sign similar deals.Meanwhile, Microsoft's new business version of Office for the Mac will include its Outlook email and organiser software, instead of the earlier Mac-only Entourage. It's unlikely that the Mac version will have all the same features, and it won't be able to hook into Windows in the way that Outlook hooks into Windows. Nonetheless, Outlook is key software for millions of users in large corporations, so this will make Macs more attractive to enterprise buyers. And if they buy more Macs, they are likely to buy fewer Windows machines.Of course, Microsoft has always supported the Mac, and co-founder Bill Gates helped promote it when it was launched. This isn't altruism. Microsoft's Mac business unit in California is very profitable, because of the number of Mac users who buy Microsoft Office. Many also buy boxed copies of Windows, which Apple has made easier by providing Boot Camp software to load it.But this time, there's a more important shift taking place. Microsoft's latest financial results show that its business division (which includes Office) is now its biggest source of revenue: $14.3bn over the past nine months. Windows Client ($11.6bn) is second, but Server &amp; Tools ($10.6bn) is catching up.It therefore makes financial sense for Microsoft to focus on growing its key business and server software – Office, Exchange Server, SQL Server, SharePoint and so on – rather than defending the client versions. This is particularly true for Windows Mobile, which brings in hardly any money. (Roughly 20m sales at an estimated $7-$8 is only $140m-$160m.)The changeover will become even more striking as Microsoft cranks up the revenues from its loss-making online services division, which has brought in only $2.4bn over the past nine months.Microsoft is investing heavily in data centres and the development ofAzure, its cloud operating system. This will run existing Microsoft Live services such as Hotmail and Messenger, and it will eventually host Exchange, Web Office and other software. All the major programs that run on or work with Windows Server will be offered in the cloud.And to profit from the cloud, Microsoft will eventually need to work with as many client devices as possible, not just Windows PCs. It won't be competitive if it doesn't.Cloud computing can be cheaper as companies no longer have to buy  servers and run such large data centres. However, while they will spend less on staff and hardware, they may spend more on Microsoft software.Software can be extremely cheap if you buy it once and keep using the same program for four to eight years. When you rent it by the month – which businesses do with hosted and cloud-based services – it costs almost nothing to start, but you end up paying forever.Indeed, if a cloud service owns your business data, you won't have a choice.
In the perennial top of the league clash between FIFA and PES, the former has clawed ahead over the last couple of iterations, with Konami's in-house dev team seemingly running out of ideas. But today the company has confirmed that it's introducing a flexible new control system, offering gamers complete 360 degree control over the direction of the ball when passing and shooting. "Via forums and feedback, the PES Productions team in Tokyo has canvassed opinion on elements fans hoped to see included in PES 2010, and 360-degree control was part of the long list," says the press release.The system, which Konami says will, 'allow players to spread the ball with ease, opening up new attacking and defensive possibilities' is supported by analogue controllers on the PC, Xbox 360 and PS3. The PS3 d-pad will also work, but the 360 pad only offers eight-way directional control.So what do you think? Is this the key to the PES revival?Konami also ran through some of the other key additions and tweaks. Here they are:Manual Goalkeepers"PES 2010 will be the only football title to offer users complete control of the keeper. Players can switch to their goalkeeper at any time, and will enjoy total control of his actions."New Goalkeeper Moves"Players can now perform quick under-arm throws to their nearest defender to get attacks rolling more quickly."All-New Animation"Key animation related to dribbling, running, turning, etc, has been reworked and enhanced, creating a more natural and organic feel to the way players chase down balls, change direction and move around the pitch. The result is a more fluid and natural look to the game."Fine-tuned Close Control"The PES Productions team has worked to improve trapping of the ball and basic close control elements, giving the user more ways to spread and move the ball around effortlessly."Manual Ball Request"The ability to demand the ball when running into space is now available to the player, and will be accessible in all game modes, such as multi-player, online, etc."Simpler Skills"Moves such as feints, drag backs and upper body feints can be applied more naturally when taking on or trying to beat an opponent. The PES series has long been associated with clever flicks and tricks, and PES 2010 will boast the most to date."
MySpace has signalled the latest attempt to turn around itsstruggling businessby confirming the acquisition of online music discovery serviceiLikein a deal believed to be worth around $20m.The agreement, which had been widely trailed in reports earlier this week, was hailed by MySpace chief executive Owen Van Natta as a major part of the company's attempt to restructure and refocus itself."This is focusing around the areas where MySpace has been strongest," said Van Natta, who took over running the site in Aprilafter previous boss Chris DeWolfe was ousted. "iLike has a great team and a great product that we want to continue to extend."Launched in 2006, the service allows users to find new music and listen to it via the web, in a similar way to sites such as Last.fm and Pandora. Unlike those companies, however, iLike operates largely through partnerships with other social networking sites - including MySpace's main rival, Facebook.Around 80% of iLike's traffic is believed to come via Facebook, but Van Natta dodged the question of how that might change after the acquisition."iLike is an important part of a lot of different social network's experience," he said. "We're delighted to continue extending that... our expectation is that social networks are going to be thrilled that we're making iLike an even richer experience."Instead, he said that MySpace planned to take a hands-off approach to the site while encouraging it to branch out from music recommendation and into areas such as video, films and gaming.Although the precise terms of the deal were not made public, it is believed to be worth around $20m (£12.1m). The company's management team, led by brothers Ali and Hadi Partovi, will remain based in Seattle.MySpace, whichlaid off more than 700 workers worldwideshortly after Van Natta arrived, is attempting to refocus itself after losing its position as the world's biggest social network to Facebook.He said it was important that the site played to its strengths and the areas where it was markedly different from its rivals in order to boost its business."The entire web is going through a movement of socialisation, and we are continuing to focus on the areas where we have strength... those are the areas where we're going to be directly applying all of our resources and energies," he said.The deal marks the latest in a string of buyouts that are bucking the economic downturn: last week Facebook announced that it wasbuying another social networking company, FriendFeed, for a reported $47m. But the MySpace deal does not mark a significant return for iLike's investors, who had already pumped in $17m (£10.3m) during three rounds of fundraising - including more than $13m from American entertainment giant Ticketmaster.
