The IBM ThinkPad became the industry's premier notebook brand after the launch of the 700T in 1992, and its distinctive black styling and red TrackPoint became a noticeable part of business travel. ThinkPads were never cheap, but they were very durable, had outstanding keyboards, and you could get support and spare parts almost anywhere. Prices came down after China's Lenovo took over IBM's PC division, but the brand has managed to retain most of its value.I've been carrying ThinkPads everywhere for more than a decade, so I was delighted to see the Lenovo ThinkPad X100e when it appeared at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January. It was almost love at first sight. After using one (Type 2876), I'm less impressed, and my views might have tipped too far the other way.The main problem with the X100e is trying to decide what it is. To most people, including me, it looks like the first professional netbook. To Lenovo, however, it's the entry level model in the ThinkPad X notebook range. To a netbook buyer, the £445 price looks too expensive. To a ThinkPad buyer, the X100e is less than half the price of an X201 (£982) and it looks like a bargain. As a ThinkPad buyer who is shopping for a netbook, I'm torn between both views.The X100e is certainly a good machine. It's better made than the average netbook, and has a very good 11.6in AntiGlare screen with a resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels. The ThinkPad credentials are sustained by the 2GB of memory, ATI Radeon HD 3200 graphics and 32-bit Windows 7 Professional operating system. For comparison, a cheap netbook would get you 1GB of memory, slow Intel integrated graphics and Windows 7 Starter or XP. Now you know where your money goes.Keyboards are critical for ThinkPad users, and again the X100e is hard to evaluate. By the normal standards of "isolated keyboards", it feels exceptional, with responsive keys having plenty of travel. By ThinkPad standards (240X, X31/X41/X61), it's relatively poor. In this case, of course, users also have different tastes.The X100e has both a TrackPoint with two mouse buttons, and a multi-touch pad, with another two mouse buttons. If you're a long-time ThinkPad user, you get the same old controls. If you're a new-age mouse-padder, you also get the same old controls, but the duplication must add to the price.But ultimately, what tips me against the X100e its 1.6GHz single-core AMD Neo NV-40 processor. It's at the very low end for a notebook chip, and doesn't offer much of a performance improvement over an Intel Atom. What you lose, alas, is battery life: the Neo consumes more power than it's worth.Even with the six-cell battery sticking out of the back, the X100e lasts about half as long as a modern netbook – around 3.5 hours of normal use. There's a cute utility that lets you turn down the CPU's power consumption, but this also degrades the performance.For reference, the X100e scores 3.1 on the Windows Experience Index, which is down to the Neo processor. It scores 3.5 for graphics, 4.8 for gaming graphics, and 5.9 for the 250GB hard drive. If Lenovo shipped the X100e with a dual-core Atom N330 and Ion graphics, like the Asus 1201N, then it would be a really good mac hine. (Dual-core Neo X2 versions are coming, but that won't help battery life.) At the moment, however, it's a disappointment.If you're a corporate buyer, the X100e will let you equip lots more staff with an ultraportable ThinkPad for a lot less cash. Most of them will be pleased with the keyboard, the screen, and general robustness, even if they'd rather have an X201. If you're looking for a cheap netbook with long battery life, this is not for you.Pros:Robust; good keyboard and screen; Windows 7 Pro; it's a ThinkPad.Cons:Poor performance by notebook PC standards; poor battery life by netbook standards.Lenovo.com
It's been a tough year for Palm. The company isbetting everythingon its new handsets, the Pre and the Pixi - but with sales not doing as well as expected, the companyissued a profit warning yesterday.To explain what was happening, chairman and chief executive Jon Rubinsteinsent out a memo to the company's staff.As is typical with these things, it was largely stuffed with corporate speak and coded messages - so I've come up with this handy paragraph-by-paragraph translation that might help explain what Palm thinks is going on.Team,Hey guys! Whatever I say, don't forget we're in this together.This morning we announced preliminary results for our 2010 third quarter. Since the quarter has not yet closed, it is too soon to offer exact numbers, but we stated that we expect to report revenues for Q3 between $300 and $320 million.We're not selling as many phones as we thought we would: sales were flat despite the fact thatwe started selling handsets with Verizon- America's second-biggest phone network (with 91m users) - in January.We were expecting sales to go up. They didn't. This could be awkward.We also announced that we expect our revenue for this fiscal year to fall below the guidance we gave to Wall Street, which ranged from $1.6 to $1.8 billion.Given how sales have gone over so far, we'd probably need to double our sales in the next three months to satisfy our original targets. Let's be honest, that's not happening, is it?As we mentioned in our press release, our softer than expected performance is due to slower than expected customer adoption of our products, which in turn has prompted our U.S. carrier partners to put additional orders on hold for the time being.People aren't buying enough of our phones. And networks don't want to order phones that people aren't buying.On a positive note, we expect to exit the quarter with over $500 million in cash on our balance sheet. We're scheduled to announce our full financial results in March.(Before we go on, I'm going to sugar the pill. Over the past year or two we've been burning through our cash reserves like crazy - having some money in the bank buys us some more time. That's awesome news!)I realize this news is difficult to swallow. We made this announcement today to prevent a surprise for Wall Street when we announce quarterly earnings in March.Yes, it sucks - but the pain you feel today is nothing compared to the pain you would have felt if we'd suddenly announced in a few weeks that we'd missed our targets by 30%.In the meantime, the entire executive team has been working extremely hard to improve product performance, and have implemented a number of initiatives to increase awareness and drive sales.We've been trying to work out what's gone wrong...Dave Whalen and I just returned from a very successful meeting with Verizon Wireless, where they acknowledged that their execution of our launch was below expectations and recommitted to working with us to improve sales....and we've decided it was Verizon's fault.To accelerate sales, we initiated Project JumpStart nearly three weeks ago. Since then, nearly two hundred Palm Brand Ambassadors, supplemented by Palm employees from Sunnyvale, have been training Verizon sales reps across the U.S. on our products.In fact, we think they've done such a bad job that we're trying to school them so thatthey actually know what our products do. Plus, we gave it a cool name that implies we're taking action!Early results from the stores have already shown improvement on product knowledge and sales week over week. You may have also seen a growing number of Palm ads on billboards, bus shelters, buses, and subway stations—all getting the word out about Palm.Not many people know we exist - but when they know we exist, we sell a few more handsets. That's got to be positive, right?All of these efforts are examples of how we are working to accelerate adoption and grow distribution of webOS. In the next few weeks, your management will work with you to make sure your priorities are laser-focused, primarily on helping to increase sales, improve product quality and differentiate the Palm product experience.We need to get better at a few things - largely the "making things" part, and then the "selling things" part. Perhaps some of you haven't been as focused as you need to be (yeah, I'm talking to you).Our goals are taking longer than expected to achieve, but I am still confident that our talented team has what it takes to get the job done.I'm not firing anyone... yet.We'll schedule an all-hands meeting after our earnings announcement in March, and I'll be happy to answer your questions.Give me a few weeks to prepare before asking me anything.Go team!!!jonI secretly watch lots of cheerleader movies.
Zombies, it would be fair to say, have had a pretty rough time of it when it comes to the world of video games.The litany of indignities rained upon the undead community by gamers – since they were first led off a cliff in the 1984 ZX Spectrum gameZombie Zombie– would make even Bruce Campbell blush. Exploded heads. Severed limbs. Cranberries songs. Never mind the continued, malicious portrayal of anyone who rises after death as a brain-hungry fiend.Undead Knights, then, will please many by taking a kinder view to the living dead. It's a by-the-numbers hack-'n'-slash in almost all respects, with one caveat – this time,  the zombies are on your side. It's a clever twist, and one that adds some spice to a fairly pedestrian format. Rather than just mashing the "hit with sword" button, enemy soldiers can be zombified to fight on your side. Your gang of reanimated recalcitrants (ahem) can then be "sicked" on enemy soldiers or used to dismantle large obstacles. You can even pick them up and throw them – and you really can't say you've lived until you've chucked a zombie.Sadly, this pleasing novelty is soon undermined by deeply unimaginative level design. Almost every stage consists of some soldiers, an obstacle or two, perhaps one larger foe, and little else. Because of this you're unlikely to want to play all the way through the game once you've experienced the few different abilities and upgrades available, even if you're drawn in by the hokey narrative. The game offers you the chance to repeat levels to complete them in faster and faster times is, but this is pretty unappealing.Graphically the game holds up well, the cut-scenes are as good as any I've seen on the PSP, and there's a pleasing chewing noise as enemy soldiers get munched on. You'll quickly get bored of the drab, repetitive landscapes, but with the large amounts of soldiers and allies you can have battling at once, it's probably more important the game runs as smoothly as possible. Controls-wise, I had some issues with the camera, but in general your character is pleasingly responsive. It's vitally important in a hack-'n'-slash that combat "feels" authentic, and Tecmo have done a very good job of ensuring that here. Every blow landed feels satisfyingly meaty.Multiplayer mode also works well – essentially allowing you to throw zombies at your mates. It's probably here where the game has its most enduring appeal. While it may not reinvent the wheel, Undead Knights at least brings some originality to a well-worn format. And while its replay value is questionable, it is genuinely enjoyable in short bursts – and for a handheld game that may well be all you're after anyway. Who knew zombie empowerment could be so much fun?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?The thing that changed my life, and improved my life, was originally my video [player]. That idea of being able to rent movies genuinely changed me, I think. All of my filmgoing when I was a kid was watching videos. The most modern thing: I love my Sky+. I love the idea that I can use my iPhone and record stuff and having it waiting for me in a big bank. And I don't record movies – I record rubbish.When was the last time you used the Sky+ box, and what for?I used it the other day to record My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding for my wife.What additional features would you add if you could?I wouldn't change a thing, I just love it. I think it's perfect as it is.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I think it will just be better in 10 years' time. You'll be able to get any [programme] you want, at any time.What always frustrates you about technology in general?If you can imagine it, and you haven't got it yet, it's because you're paying for the development stage – that annoys me.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?No, I don't think so.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I'm the wrong person to ask that. If I'm given a gadget, I'm bored of it very soon.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I would say I'm somewhere between the two.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?The new telly that Danny Dyer made me get!Mac or PC, and why?Macs, because they're just beautiful. I don't get virus software – I don't get why we have to have that. PCs are vile.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?I do. DVDs I still buy. I don't want to download – I'm not against the principle, but I want a box, I want a cover, I want to put it on the shelf.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Anything that can clean – that means I can pay for it and get the credit for having done the cleaning – is good. But saying that, I would rather pay some BODY that some THING to do something, because I believe that people should be paid.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A time machine – that's all I can think of that would be interesting.•Christopher Smithis the director ofCreepandSeverance. His most recent film,Triangle, is out on DVD and Blu-ray on Monday, 1 March
The answer to that header is of course, no. The console cycle, that endless Promethean rotation of technological death and re-birth, is not really over, but what everyone in the industry seems to be saying is that it has irrevocably slowed.Earlier this week, Electronic Arts' CFO Eric Brown,told the worldthat there are no new consoles on the horison. And Jack Tretton, CEO of Sony Americahad this to say to US site Fast Company:"We've just passed the third year of the PlayStation 3 and we're just hitting our stride. And I don't think anyone is saying, "This is a five-year cycle; what's new on the horizon?" I can't even imagine what can be done technically beyond the PlayStation 3 in the near future. A question I often get is when we are going to see PlayStation 4. When somebody can craft the technology that exceeds what we're able to do on the PS3, but we are still just starting to harness it."This isn't really surprising. Sony almost destroyed itself developing and mass producing the Cell architecture behind PS3, and then sticking an enormously expensive Blu-ray player in every machine at a brain-melting loss. Meanwhile, Microsoft is still licking its corporate wounds after the whole Red Ring of Death nightmare – now that the Xbox 360 actually works, the corporation is surely happy to stick with it a while, at least while everyone's attention has been diverted toward Windows 7.In many ways this appears to be good news for the consumer. Upgrading your games technology every five years – which was the old familiar industry model - is an expensive business, especially for early adopters. Surely the prospect of a current generation that lasts eight or even ten years is good news in these economically worrisome times.But wait, we are being charmingly naïve. What the big three console manufacturers are actually doing is transferring the hardware cycle to peripherals rather than platforms. This year will see the arrival of Natal and Sony's Motion Controller, as well as whatever whimsical new attachments Nintendo has in mind for Wii. This is the new console war.And you can tell it's a proper war because the execs are already taking verbal pot-shots at each other. Jack Tretton had a sly dig at the whole concept of controller-less gaming inthat Fast Company interview:"I'm not an expert on Micrsoft's technology, but we all know that it was not homegrown. It's certainly technology that we worked with before; we had the experience with the PS2 and EyeToy."And last week Rob Dyer, SCEA Senior Vice President of Publisher Relations,told Industry Gamers:"I'm actually really proud of the way we've handled the motion controller. From Sony's perspective, rather than go out and do a whole PR barrage to give everybody the 'happy, happy, joy, joy' news, we're going to show up and have a line-up of products to show people rather than having a lot of great statements to say, 'This is what's going to happen.'Microsoft has been a little more subtle, but has nevertheless taken up Sony on its 'we'll have loads more games' gambit. Xbox product director Aaron Greenberg recentlytold a hyperactive Destructoid reporter in a silly hat:"We are going to be very careful in the way we think about our portfolio .We are going to be very thoughtful about what we bring to market."Another important sign that this is an actual war is the increasing media intervention. From now on, anyone who gets a microphone in front of a developer or unsuspecting analyst will be looking for juicy motion control titbits. Last December for example,Develop got Traveller's Tales' director Jon Burton to suggestthat "lag issues" may inhabit the success of Natal, while Arc will be, "cheap, accurate and will put buttons at your fingertips, meaning everything from action adventures to FPSes can be handled with the same input."But then along comes talkative mega-pundit Michael Pachterwith this strategic gambit:"I think that the Sony motion controller will have some problems gaining traction, since it is not an "in the box" solution. That will probably limit adoption to one or two million at the outset. Natal is different... It's only one piece (the camera), is likely to be cheaper, and I think it will come in the Xbox 360 package with new consoles once launched, meaning far deeper penetration."Confusion, contradiction, contrary analysis of the same data – all hallmarks of a classic console war. The game is very much on.However, there's a slight downer to this, because the sudden shift in focus to interface design has a precedent: the arcade business. In the mid-nineties, coin-op revenues dropped through the floor because the 32bit home consoles were producing games of comparable graphical performance to their coin-guzzling big brothers – why go all the way to some fleapit arcade to play Ridge Racer, when you could enjoy the perfectly adequate PlayStation conversion from the comfort of your own sofa?In response, the manufacturers realised what they had to do was provide experiences that players couldn't get in their living rooms. And the result was an influx of enormous novelty cabinets festooned with fun control interfaces such as real skateboards (Top Skater), real fire hoses (Brave Fire Fighters) and real tiny plastic horses (Final Furlong). Unfortunately, these machines were so expensive to produce they were also prohibitively expensive to play and everyone had lost interest by then anyway.So the switch from major technological updates to a reliance on novelty controllers symbolised a branch of the videogame industry in crisis and on the verge of total breakdown. And now the console business stands at the same switch.Is anyone concerned? Well, no - the correlation is on the tenuous side, I'll admit that. Indeed, it all seems rather optimistic at the moment and the prospect of a major hardware battle is always enticing, plus there's the scintillating chance that this conflict might actually provide us with some innovativenewexperiences, rather than familiaroldexperiences with better normal mapping. It's just that the one thing the collapse of the mighty arcade industry has shown us is this: disaster, like hardware, is cyclical.
Half-Minute Hero is a Japanese RPG, a geographical/alphabetical combination that's been responsible for many indecipherable gaming experiences. On first appearance, Half-Minute Hero is yet another in that mould.It starts – but of course – with a portentous back-story about how the benevolent Goddess of Time defeated the Ultimate Evil Lord but destroyed the Ruby, the source of her power, in the process. With the world now safe, humans flourished – but all the time, the Ultimate Evil Lord was merely licking his wounds, waiting for his chance. Now he's back, and it's your turn to save the world. And, as the title suggests, do it half-a-minute at a time. That's the big "twist": complete the standard RPG challenges – find this, rescue that, defeat him, save her, etc – before the big evil destroys the world in 30 seconds' time.It sounds positively migraine-inducing and initial appearances – a garish interface and, er, 8-bit graphics – don't help. Give it a couple of minutes though, and there's a considerable transformation. Part of it is, undoubtedly, the nostalgia over the 8-bit style – wonderfully ironic in the same month that brought us Heavy Rain – but mostly it's because Half-Minute Hero is just a novel, challenging and frequently hilarious game. No, really. Cut scenes are full of amusing asides and silly and sarcastic jokes. The realisation that, actually, the challenges can't be completed within 30 seconds heralds the appearance of the Goddess of Time. She can help you slow the clock but, as she explains with gleeful cynicism, she's done with benevolence and worship and is now all about the gold, baby. By the time the girly princess gets all Rambo-esque with her crossbow – "I don't need no ******* tutorial!" is her response if you decline a lesson on how to shoot – you'll be hooked.Gameplay has four basic modes: high speed RPG; a (surprisingly tough) real-time strategy game; the Princess's shooter; and some straightforward action. All are against the clock and latter stages require as much time management as enjoyably frantic button mashing. That doesn't sound like fun – what next? Double Entry Accounting on the Wii? – but it generally works.The game is not without its flaws, however. There is, almost inevitably, a disappointing amount of repetition, some weird enemy AI and, even allowing for the 8-bit limitations, some dodgy animation. But the positives and value – the main games alone will take 15+ hours to complete – make them easier to overlook. For the most part, Half-Minute Hero is a quirky delight.
Thousands of Twitter users have seen their accounts hijacked after a viral phishing attack which sends out messages saying "this you??" or "hey, i've been having better sex and longer with this here" and other sex-related "direct" messages.Among those who fell victim were thePress Complaints Commissionand the BBC correspondentNick Higham- and the Guardian's head of audioMatt Wells.Update:other victims includedEd Miliband, the environment [not transport] minister.Update 2:And First Direct, the bank, which hurried toassurepeople that "Only our Twitter account has been hacked" and that "no personal data has been compromised".The purpose of the attack, which began early on Thursday morning, is initially to draw people to the sites that hijack the accounts, and possibly install malware able to steal passwords on the user's computer. Another purpose may be simple identity theft: because people often use the same passwords and usernames on multiple services, getting access to one service can provide access to others too.But in the longer term, the purpose may be to put the infected sites into search engine results.The web security company F-Securesuggeststhat "We think it could have something to do with some of the recent search engine deals that have been made. Yahoo announced that they'll begin to include Twitter's real-time feed into their search results and Facebook is now included in Google's search results. The bad guys can use social networking trust to enhance their SEO [search engine optimisation] attacks."Even results from hot topics may lead to scams and infected sites, F-Secure warns: "Always be careful when searching for hot topics. This "sea world trainer killed" example is currently being used in SEO attacks and many results will lead directly to scamware." It adds: "We expect to see fresh phishing attacks against Facebook before too long."The attack spreads from each compromised account by sending out a "direct message" to people who follow the user, or simply putting the message in their Twitter feed. Anyone who then clicks on the links - whose destination is hidden by the use of a "URL shortener", which provides a shortened version of the link so that people are unaware of where the link actually takes them - is then at risk of having their account and machine taken over.Twitter users are advised to followTwitter safety account, which provides advice when such scams are spreading.Twitter's status bloglast night warned"While simply receiving this message does not mean your account is compromised, if you do click through and enter your username and password, you'll want to change your password. If you've received this type of spam from a friend, you may want to alert them to change their password."Such "phishing attacks" are increasingly common on both Twitter, where URL shortening - usually required to make standard URLs fit into the 140-character limit of the service - makes it harder to guard against dangerous links.Account-shortening services such as bit.ly can block dangerous links, but only after they are alerted to them. The other option is to inspect the link before clicking on it - which the Twitter web page and Tweetdeck, a cross-platform program, do allow.Spam and phishing attacks are a continual problem for Twitter, which is comparatively easy to join.Graham Cluley of Sophoshas posted a videoshowing how the hack is done to anyone incautious enough to click on the link. The site hosting the attack that Cluley points to is kevanshome.org, which is hosted in China; and the front page of the site is an exact copy of News Corporation's MySpace – even down to the copyright notice.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
The excellentHeavy Rainis finally released today. Perfect timing too, given the damp forecast for this weekend. What better way to spend a rainy Sunday then with the best example yet of a game/movie crossover? Yes, Heavy Rain is a must-play for PS3 owners. You may not be playing it three months down the line like a Modern Warfare or FIFA, but the experience will be long remembered.Heavy Rain may be the biggie this week but there are games of interest coming out today.  Sonic and Sega All-Stars Racing looks the best of the bunch and is out on all the main formats. My copy arrived yesterday but has yet to reach my 360 - expect some impressions of the Mario Kart style racer next week. Way of the Samurai 3 (XBox, PS3) and, er, Sail Simulator 2010 (PC) are also out. More interestingly Might and Magic: Clash of Heroes (DS) is finally released. I'm reviewing the puzzle/RPG next week but early impressions are positive.What are you planning this weekend then? PS3 owner and grabbing Heavy Rain? Planning to check out Sega All-Star Racing? Or still playing Mass Effect 2/Bioshock 2 and the rest?
&bull; Four years after first introducing the 'news feed' to its users,Facebookhaspatented the idea of a constantly updating stream of activities. But it's become the heart of many social networks in the meantime. Will Zuckerberg and co try to enforce their ownership of the idea?&bull; It's been a while since we talked about Palm, and itsongoing struggle to reinvent itself- but given the fact that the companyissued a profit warning yesterday, there may be a lot more to say on the subject. The company said that "driving broad consumer adoption of Palm products is taking longer than we anticipated"; the Wall Street Journal has aletter from boss Jon Rubinstein to employees.&bull; And here's a little something to liven up your Friday afternoon:  A series of little clickable puzzle games calledTwitch. It's designed specifically for Google Chrome, so your mileage may vary on other browsers. And with that, enjoy your weekends.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Facebook caused a bit of a stir whenintroduced its 'news feed' back in 2006, which many suggested was a stalker's charter. But the dust soon settled down and now the feed - that list of things your friends have done recently - is basically the centre of most people's Facebook usage.Now, however, the company is courting controversy again, after it emerged it has patented the news feed concept itself - potentially putting it into conflict with dozens of other social networking sites.Nick O'Neill of All Facebookwho first discovered the award, called it a "huge deal" and he's not wrong.According to theapplication itself- submitted in August 2006 and ascribed to eight Facebook employees including Mark Zuckerberg - it covers a system that's become very familiar to us: a stream of information about the activities of our friends, contacts and links to relevant pieces of data."In some embodiments, the method includes generating news items regarding activities associated with a user of a social network environment and attaching an informational link associated with at least one of the activities, to at least one of the news items.The method further includes limiting access to the news items to a predetermined set of viewers and assigning an order to the news items. The method further includes displaying the news items in the assigned order to at least one viewing user of the predetermined set of viewers.Here's a diagram from the application that shows the system they're talking about.Now, ignoring the stilted legalese, that seems to be a pretty good description of the feed: an algorithm that generates a stream of your activities, your friends' activities and other information drawn from that database of actions.I don't use Facebook very much, but looking at my News Feed it would seem to cover most of what's in there: a series of status messages from various friends and contacts, some links shared by colleagues, my cousin getting tagged in a photo and an old flatmate of mine posting a photo from the NME Awards.But I wonder whether Facebook really inventing anything here that hadn't already been demonstrated before. After all, Twitter - which uses some of the same ideas - was launched in July 2006, while Flickr had already been trialling a similar system for keeping you updated about activity on the sitefor a couple of years.Facebook's application was filed on August 11 of 2006, a few weeks before it launched on the site but after those rival services were already doing some similar things.And then, on top of the questions about whether Facebook invented the news feed (and the eternal question about software patents existing at all) there is the question of what owning the patent means.Facebook may choose to use this as a defensive strategy - protection in case anybody else tries to sue them for copying ideas - but it also now owns an idea that is extremely commonplace online, not least in rival services like MySpace and Google Buzz.I suspect we may be hearing more of this.
Microsoft has been forced to backtrack after it closed down a whistleblowing website after it published a leaked version of the company's "spy guide".The American software giant took action on Wednesday against theCryptomewebsite - which has been running since 1996 - for publishing a copy of the Microsoft Global Criminal Compliance Handbook, a document explaining how law enforcement officials can access millions of people's private information online.The site, which hosts thousands documents relating to free speech and surveillance, said that it was within its rights to hold a copy of the handbook - but under Microsoft said the publication infringed its copyright and lodged a complaint with Cryptome's web hosting company, Network Solutions.Under America's Digital Millennium Copyright Act, Network Solutions shut down the website entirely - a move that caused uproar among civil liberties campaigners, and led Microsoft to withdraw its complaint so that Cryptome could go back online.According to an email from Evan Cox, a legal counsel for Microsoft, the company did not intend to close the site - just remove the document in question."While Microsoft has a good faith belief that the distribution of the file that was made available at that address infringes Microsoft's copyrights, it was not Microsoft's intention that the takedown request result in the disablement of web access to the entire cryptome.org website."The move was greeted as a victory by Cryptome and its supporters, with proprietor John Young saying he was considering taking the company to court for what using copyright law to enforce what he called "draconian shutdowns"."We think all lawful spying arrangements should be made public," he said. "Microsoft should join the others who openly described the procedures, and just may be do if there is a public demand for it."The return of the website does little to eradicate the controversy around the handbook itself, which Young described as "repugnant" for encouraging the authorities to snoop on people's private information.The 22-page document lists the sort of information that Microsoft holds on its users, and gives law enforcement officers tips on how to easily access and use that data.The document lists the sorts of data it can provide, including photographs, contact lists and internet addresses all stored by users of Microsoft services like Windows Live, Xbox Live and MSN Messenger.It even suggests that law enforcement officials request much more information than they need, and lays out example subpoenas to enable them to get the data more easily.Cryptome has been a thorn in the side of the authorities and many companies for years, since Young launched the site to keep tabs on various aspects of surveillance and cryptography.Similar to the Wikileaks website -which had to shut down temporarily due to a lack of funds- Cryptome says it "welcomes documents for publication that are prohibited by governments worldwide, in particular material on freedom of expression, privacy, cryptology, dual-use technologies, national security, intelligence, and secret governance but not limited to those."In the past organisations including the Recording Industry Association of America have tried - and failed - to get the site taken down, and it also hosts documents similar to Microsoft's from companies like Facebook and Yahoo.
Historians 100 years hence will have an abundance of source material about how ordinary lives were lived during the 21st century thanks to the unprecedented way we leave traces through websites, email, Twitter and social networks such as Facebook.Well, that's the theory. In practice, most of this living history will be discarded in digital dustbins unless something is done about it. We are often told that, thanks to startling improvements in technology, all our personal memories will soon be able to be stored on something the size of a sugar cube. But the granules that make up that sugar cube are widely scattered and difficult if not impossible to recover.It is reckoned that the average life expectancy of a website is less than 75 days and that at least 10% of UK websites are lost or replaced with new material every six months. These figures come from a statement by the British Library at yesterday's launch of theUK Web Archive, which will guarantee access in perpetuity to thousands of hand-picked UK websites – some of which might otherwise have faced oblivion.They include Antony Gormley's Trafalgar Square Fourth Plinth Project. This involved 2,400 participants, and the live stream by Sky Arts would no longer have existed online from next month had the BL not taken over responsibility for it. Other projects to be preserved for posterity include a record of the Credit Crunch and the 2010 general election.The BL is doing a marvellous job of preserving key historical events, but what it covers is only a tiny part – about 6,000 sites so far – of the nation's digital memory. Even doing that has proved hugely time-consuming because the BL's small staff has to seek permission every time it takes a copy of anything. This is because of the UK's archaic copyright laws, which will hopefully be partially corrected in the digital bill now going through parliament. Fewer than 25% of the bodies approached by the BL for permissions even bothered to reply.The issue of copyright is a global nightmare for anyone interested in digital preservation. The problems that Google has encountered in its – utterly praiseworthy – quest to digitise the world's books are nothing compared to the problems of preserving documentary films where the multiple permissions needed for each one from commercial interests will,as Lawrence Lessig brilliantly describes in the New Republic, lead to a situation where " the vast majority of documentary films from the 20th century will be forever buried in a lawyer's thicket inaccessible (legally) because of a set of permissions built into these films at their creation".Even if these legal problems could be solved – which they won't, because the influence of corporate lobbyists on copyright law is forever tightening – there are still others. Digital files degrade much faster than paper files and have to be upgraded, sometimes as frequently as every 10 years. No one has yet found the digital equivalent of theRosetta Stone, still intact after well over 2,000 years. You only have to peer into your own digital history to see what a digital black hole looks like. Practically everything I did with my BBC B, Sinclair Spectrum and even Psion computers is lost forever in a jungle of changed formats, obsolete floppy disks and losses from data that was not backed up. But that is nothing to what is happening now. Young people may, or more likely may not, worry that things they say on social networks such as Facebook or Twitter may come back to haunt them but the bigger worry is that in the longer term it won't be there at all as digital dynasties rise and fall. Outpourings on Twitter provide an amazing record of people are doing and even thinking, but they are already history before the end of the day. Does anyone seriously think they will still be there a century hence?There are some estimable bodies preserving archives that include snapshots of the whole web, such as the wonderful not-for-profitArchive.orgwhich will require funding in perpetuity to match its archival ambitions but it admits that no comprehensive archives of television or radio programs exist. Its sister organisation is theWayback Machinewhere you can see, for instance, what theAltaVista search enginelooked like in 1996 before Google came over the horizon. But as for someone in the distant future trying to recapture our photo albums scattered among sites such as Flickr.com or Picasa or wherever, long after the subscriptions have run out or the companies sold on, forget it.It is sometimes argued that if copyright law is standing in the way of a universal archive then maybe the world's collective memories should be placed into some kind of escrow account, not to be opened until copyrights have been sorted out or expired. This sounds plausible, but it would act against the worthy principles espoused by the British Library and others that as much as is humanly possible should not just be available but available now.twitter.com/vickeegan
A digital black hole will open in Britain's national memory without a change in the law to ensure the capture and recording of UK websites, the head of the British Library has warned.After six years struggling to establish theUK Web Archive, launched today, Dame Lynne Brindley admitted efforts were failing. Her library, working with the National Library of Wales and the Wellcome science library, will by next year have archived just 6,000 of an estimated 8m sites, or 1% of the total.The National Library of Scotland is also archiving sites. With the average lifespan of a site between 44 and 75 days, and one in 10 lost or replaced each six months, most of the unrecorded 99% are gone for ever.Brindley's problem is the Legal Deposit Libraries Act, which provides that every UK print publication is automatically deposited by the publishers in the British Library and other copyright libraries, and whichwas only extended in 2003to cover online material.Under the current interpretation of the law, the libraries have to identify and then seek the permission of each individual site webmaster before adding a site to the archive.A spokesman for the library described the situation as ridiculous, and said: "We've got the know-how but we need the rules to say we don't need to ask permission. We're archiving for the nation rather than commercial gain."The Department for Culture, Media and Sport is consulting on how well the act is working.The UK Web Archive would not contemplate collecting every site, but is targeting those considered to have genuine research interest. Sites already in the bag include One&amp;Other, Antony Gormley's arts project last year that put 2,400 people chosen by ballot on to the fourth plinth in Trafalgar Square for an hour each.Vanished companies such as Woolworths, whose stores are now boarded-up shells on many high streets, live on in the archive. There are also plans to immortalise the websites of the scores of MPs planning to retire at the general election.
Yesterday Nintendo showed off its latest wares to the US press - today it was Europe's turn. At its London event this afternoon, the company had playable Super Mario Galaxy 2 andMetroid: Other Mcode (more on that later) and a handful of announcements.So here's the quick guide. Super Mario Galaxy 2 has a UK release date – the second title in the plumber's latest platform adventure opus is out on June 11. Metroid: The Other M is slotted in for a slightly more vague Q3 arrival, whileMontser Hunter Tri, the latest title in the hugely popular creature battling RPG comes to Wii on April 23. The Big N confirmed that online play will be available for all European players with broadband Internet access at no additional cost. You'll be able to form teams with up to three other players, in order to scuffle with the vast array of beasties, all with abilities based on real animals. Apparently, there's also a text chat function and online voice chat via the Wii Speak microphone (which will be part of a special bundle pack, available when the game ships).Then there's WarioWare: Do It Yourself, which has been out in Japan for a while, but will saunter in the direction  of your DS on April 30. Not only are there 90 typically madcap micro-games to plow through, but as the subtitle suggests, you also get to design your own via a simple editor that handles everything from graphics and sound to rulesets.Naturally, players are able to share their creations via the Wi-Fi connection, and Nintendo also says it'll be running regular design challenges in which users have to create a cool game based around a set theme. Alternatively, it's also possible to draw your own four-panel comics and foist those on friends too. Plus, there will be a WiiWare version which adds 70 more microgames and a multiplayer modeandanother mini-game based on the old NES titleBalloon Fight.Operating in a similar landscape of user-generated content and offbeat retro gaming, Photo Dojo was available for hands-on fun. The game requires players to take several photos of themselves indifferent positions, then record ten sound effects. These personalized elements then provide the basis for a side-scrolling fighting game in which the player quite literally (sort of) is the lead character. It's smacking the DsiWare store this spring.For hardcore fans there's the news that Nintendo will be partnering with Square Enix to publishDragon Quest IX: Sentinels of the Starry Skiesin Europe this summer. The DS game has already shifted 4.15 million copies in the Japan, where the Dragon Quest series is something of a national obsession. It'll be interesting to see how it fares here amid the eternal Final Fantasy hype storm. Furthermore, there was official confirmation thatSin and Punishment: Successor of the Skies, an updated Wii version of the cult N64 game from Japanese developer Treasure, will get a Euro release on May 7. Working with the Wii Remote, Classic Controller, GameCube controller and/or Wii Zapper, it's a typically mind-blowing on-rails onslaught from the legendary shoot-'em-up master, complete with co-op mode and an international leaderboard. Which I will be at the bottom of. Or thereabouts.Is that it? No, Nintendo also showed off FlingSmash, a sort of cute version of the PSN download Pain, in which you fling and smash a ball-shaped character through a series of side-scrolling levels using the Wii MotionPlus accessory. "[combines] the precision of racket sports with the unpredictable fun of pinball," says the press release. It's being flung at Wii this summer.So yes, some interesting stuff on there, and I'm particularly looking forward to WarioWare: DIY having spent many happy bus commutes frothing at the mouth through earlier iterations of the series. How about you?
Steve Jobswillbe pleased. Not only did it happen on his birthday, but the 10 billionth song sold through the iTunes Music Store was by one of his musical heroes, Johnny Cash; specifically, "Guess Things Happen That Way", which was bought by Louie Sulcer of Woodstock, Georgia, who receives a $10,000 iTunes gift card.Jobs however was not moved to comment on the sale; instead that was left to Eddy Cue, the company's vice president of "internet services", who said: "We're grateful to all of our customers for helping us reach this amazing milestone. We're proud that iTunes has become the number one music retailer in the world, and selling 10 billion songs is truly staggering."Certainly it is - but how quickly will the next 10 billion roll around? Looking at the best-selling songs indicates that they have all come from the past couple of years.There's another question too: is the number of sales of songs keeping step with the number of iPods, given that it's the iPod that is reckoned to be the driver of sales?Certainly the data (recorded on Wikipedia) suggests that sales keep growing.But iPod sales are growing too - andno matter what replacement period you think there is(as per our story of last November), you can't seeexponentialgrowth in sales of songs compared to the number of iPods out there. People who have iPods don't seem to buy more and more and more songs in the sort of replacement that they did for CDs replacing vinyl (understandably, as CDs are digital, just like iTunes tracks, and you can rip them).In fact, they seem to track each other fairly closely - so that with sensible estimates of between 100m and 150m iPods actually in use (because although Steve Jobsdid say at the iPad launch that 250m iPods have been sold, not all of those are still working, you can be sure), you have to think that music sales are only weakly tracking iPod sales.The graph above shows how the number of songs sold per day has taken off. (Note: we've had to interpolate for the 7bn and 9bn figures, because Apple never announced them. But given the linear shape of the graph we felt it was fair to use a linear interpolation for them, as they fit other numbers that have been provided.)Then there's more bad news: iPod salesfell year-on-year in the most recent Christmas quarter. So if it's iPod sales driving iTunes sales, then the signs already point towards an eventual flattening. Even now, the graph seems to show straight-line growth.It is surelytwilight of the (dumb) iPods- for the iPhone and iPod Touch are still doing well, and the iPad looks like it could do well too. But they'll never be the rocket that gets lit under the sales of downloaded music.So it's a great day for Louie Sulcer, but for the music industry generally, this is only worth one cheer. Salvation, if it exists, will still have to be found elsewhere.
Microsoft turned to a US judge in its attempt to close down a major source of internet spam email: the Waledac botnet. As part of what it called "Operation b49", Microsoft got a court order to force Verisign, which manages the .com domain, to cut off 277 internet domains used for the "command and control" of  Waledac's network. This should stop thousands of bots -- in this case, between 30,000 and 90,000 compromised Windows PCs -- from receiving instructions to send out spam emails, at least for a while.OnThe Official Microsoft Blog,Microsoft said Waledac "was believed to have the capacity to send over 1.5 billion spam emails per day". It said that between December 3-21, 2009, Waledac sent more than 650 million spam emails to Hotmail accounts alone.Microsoft said: "This legal and industry operation against Waledac is the first of its kind, but it won't be the last. With this action, done in cooperation with experts from Shadowserver, the University of Washington, Symantec and others, we're building on other important work across the global security community to combat botnets."However, the take-down does not solve the problem, even for one botnet among many. Microsoft notes that "the operation hasn't cleaned the infected computers and is not a silver bullet for undoing all the damage we believe Waledac has caused." Unless the PCs' owners run Microsoft'sMalicious Software Removal Toolor similar anti-malware software, their machines could be reabsorbed into Waledac or a rival botnet.Almost all the blocked domain names were registered in China. However, the Wall Street Journal contacted the single US owner.It reported:Stephen Paluck of Beaverton, Ore., said in a phone interview that he was doing nothing wrong from his Internet address, Debtbgonesite.com. Mr Paluck said he didn't know what a botnet was and wants Microsoft to return his domain name to him, which he last used to send email from in December."I want it back," he said. "I'm not doing anything illegal."Paluck and other people who registered domain names have until 8 March to reclaim ownership.More could be done to stop botnets, particularly by internet service providers. For example, they could block infected PCs from accessing the internet until their owners remove the malware that enables criminals to control them remotely. However, it is hard to prevent such actions from affecting at least a few legitimate users.Waledac's name came up recentlyin connection with the evil Kneber botnet found be researchers from NetWitness in the US. NetWitness said that "over half the machines infected with Kneber also were infected with Waledac."
The government is to look into the concerns of north-west English MPs that their identities have been borrowed by a website tweeting in their names.Janet Anderson, the MP for Rossendale and Darwen, told Harriet Harman, the leader of the house, in business questions today that an independent website had started sending out Twitter messages in the names of all the MPs in the north west, and in some cases engaging with their constituents.Anderson told the Guardian that the MPs had been told they could assume control of the Twitter feed only by emailing the website from their parliamentary address. Jack Straw, the justice secretary, is also an MP for a north-western seat and is said to be making separate inquiries.In response to Anderson's question, Harman revealed that she too had had her Twitter account hacked in to last week and that the hacker had sent out a "bogus" tweet, or short message.One of the people who received her rogue tweet and replied to it was Alan Duncan, the shadow prisons minister. Today Harman informed him the tweet had been fake.The stakes for MPs should they have their Twitter identities stolen are rather high, with observers responding with incredulity last week when the Labour MP David Wright said that he had not authored a tweet sent out in his name calling the Tories "scum-sucking pigs".Commiserating with Anderson, Harman said she would tell ministers to look into it. "I think there's a real issue here and we've got to sort this out," she said.The website "The year of collaboration" has sent out tweets in the names of all the MPs from north-west England and links through to their pages on the websiteThey Work for You. The website no longer appears to be live but describes itself as a group of "techies in the north west who build things on the internet".Twitter is a website that allows people to send public messages of 140 characters or fewer to a group of contacts.
Ofcom, the UK's communications regulator, is looking for volunteers to help test fixed-line broadband speeds. The research is being conducted bythe Sam Knows website, which has developed a "White Box" that sits in the consumer's home and monitors the performance of the broadband connection.Earlier tests led to the publication of a report,Ofcom UK Broadband Speeds 2009, and the project will now continue until 2012.The first results with 1,600 connections confirmed what users already know: actual broadband speeds are significantly lower than the "headline speeds" advertised by internet service providers (ISPs). According to Ofcom, the "the average 'up to' headline speed in April 2009 was 7.1 Mbps, but we found the average broadband speed was actually 4.1 Mbps."Ofcom adds: "Our consumer research has shown that speeds are the single biggest cause of dissatisfaction in relation to broadband."Users cansign up at Sam Knows.Participants get to see the data from their White Box, but apart from that, it's just a matter of being helpful. There's no guarantee your internet connection will get faster.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Like most gamers over 30 I've got a nostalgic bond with Mario and Metroid. Actually, given the high quality of the 2002's Metroid Prime and 2007's Super Mario Galaxy, admiration for the pair is not just limited to the old timers.  But with most traditional gamers better catered for on the 360 and PS3 will the release of new Mario and Metroid titles tempt them back to the Wii? Judging by initial impressions from the US the answer is "probably".  Super Mario Galaxy 2 getsfavourablewrite-ups. Joystiq concluded:All in all, the Super Mario Galaxy 2 I played today felt, looked and sounded just like the original game -- it'd just learned some neat new tricks. I don't know about you, but that's just fine by me.Venturebeatare keen too:This game is sure to be one of Nintendo's blockbusters for the year. The only disappointment is that it's a single player game; my family got used to playing four at a time with the debut of the New Super Mario Bros. game last fall. This game comes out on May 23.The "new tricks" mentioned are centred around classic character Yoshi and Mario's new ability to drilll through the planets. The Yoshi stuffsounds like it should pleasethe fans.Another good addition is Yoshi, the dinosaur that you can ride. Mario sits atop Yoshi and gets to zoom through levels after Yoshi eats a hot pepper. That lets Mario zoom up giant walls or loops. You can land on power-ups that turn Yoshi into a big air bag that rises into the air and slowly loses its air, allowing you to fly from one place to another.Metroid Other M was the other main title shown but it got a less convincing write up from Venturebeat.On some levels, this game is a disappointment. It's a shooting game, but as a standard definition game with somewhat limited 3-D graphics, it can't hold a candle to a lot of shooting games on the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3. It's not particularly easy to control, using a Wii remote with a Wii Motion Plus attachment.1 Up are more positivethough:Certainly the action is far more brisk than in previous Metroid titles. Enemies no longer appear one or two at a time, minding their business; rather, they attack in large numbers, and tend to rush after Samus. The controls are simplified out of necessity. It's difficult enough to face off against three Sidehoppers all at once without having to worry about pausing to aim. Still, the intensity of the action doesn't seem to have impacted the traditional structure of the Metroid style in the least.More impressions are likely to surface over the next 24 hours (hopefully Europe will get a chance to play soon too). But what do you think so far? Can't wait? And if you are a 360 or PS3 owner will Mario and Metroid tempt you back to the Wii?
&bull; Further to the news on Tuesday night thatGooglewas fighting, the European Commissioncame out yesterday to clarify matters: namely that it is investigating complaints by three companies, but that it is not yet a formal, legal investigation. Does that make things any better or worse for Google? Not really, though it does call into question the internet company's decision to go on the offensive in the first place.&bull; If you want somereallitigation, then, why not turn to the local listings websiteYelp? A lawsuit filed in Los Angeles yesterdayclaims that the site offers companies the chance to bury bad reviews if they buy advertising, something the claimants call "an extortion scheme". Similar complaints have been mooted before, so it will be interesting to see what Yelp's position in court is.&bull; Remember the crowd-funding music startupSellaband? Turns out the site has gone bankrupt, and sold its assets to a German entrepreneur, Michael Bogatzki. It's almost three years sinceSecond Person became the first UK act to reach the $50,000 funding mark, but things haven't been going so smoothly in recent months:Public Enemy announced plansto raise the money for a new album through the site, butstruggled to make its target. The big question is what this means for acts who used the site - and what it means for similar crowd-funding sites likeKickstarter.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
&bull; Apple's iTunes Store hit the 10 billion download mark at about 10pm GMT last night: details of the winner weren't immediately available. Alist of the most downloaded songs was, though, and very interesting it was: Black Eye Peas at the top with I Gotta Feeling, followed by Lady GaGa (with Poker Face). What's absolutely clear is that the "all-time best sellers" are all released in the past couple of years - which you'd expect: there are more iPods and copies of iTunes around, so of course they will have driven more sales.A more interesting question is whether sales are slowing down at all. From theWikipedia graph, it looks like they're not  - it's continuing on a steady climb. The key question is, will it ever turn downwards?Bonus trivia point for some future Apple-themed game of Trivial Pursuit: it  happened on Steve Jobs's birthday. He just turned 55, since you ask.&bull; Speaking of Apple, and itsstrange attitude to swimwear(is it porny? Or not?) there are rumours that it's going to introduce an "explicit" category to its App Store. We'll aim to have more about this later today.&bull; Google's woes continued: besides the announcement of the European Commission investigation,three of its executives were sentenced for a YouTube videothey have nothing to do with being uploaded in Italy.The sentences are suspended, but it essentially suggests that Google is responsible for what appears on YouTube - potentially, criminally so. So what should Google do? Well, someone could review every video before it goes up. At 20 hours of video uploaded per minute, that would mean ... how many people being needed? Actually, I worked it out - read about it over at Comment Is Free, inGoogle is slave to the algorithm.Bonus link: Business Insider's Chart of the Dayshows where Google's profits come from. It's really not very diverse.&bull; Bad news I'm afraid: an executive at Electronic Arts says there areno new consoles on the horizon. Whaat? The Xbox 360 is five years old! The Wii is four! That other one is... yeah, well. So it seems like Project Natal will be the next one.&bull; Finally, in case you haven't noticed, if you like an article you can tweet it - there's a little button up at the top right, just by the headline on the article. (You won't see it if you're doing this via RSS, obv.)You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
This may surprise those who never play computer games, but they're quite hard work.For one thing, there's the "grinding" common to many role-playing games. Grinding means doing the same tasks again and again to increase your in-game character's strength or dexterity or their ability to summon ancient and hideous demons from the netherworld. I once lost four months of my life grinding in World of Warcraft predecessorDiablo II. It can be soothing – at least in a computer game if you put in the work, you'll get the achievement. But after a while I started to wonder whether the best way to relax after a day doing repetitive tasks in an office was to do the same thing at home.Games often involve skills that take a lot of effort to master. Some, like the millisecond-timing ofplatform games, are transferable, and some have to be acquired fresh each time. It can sometimes be dubious whether it's worth the effort required to master those skills. It took me 120 hours of lessons to pass my driving test and I'm not ashamed to admit it. All right, I am quite ashamed. I'm an adequate driver now, but only because I spend about an hour every day practising. So while I love mucking about inGrand Theft Auto IV, stealing cars and cinematically leaping from their burning carcasses just before they explode, I'm pretty lousy at completing the actual missions.  I find it hard enough to drive across town at the best of times, let alone when being timed, shot at and chased by the police.I suppose hardcore gamers might say that I need to play more to reap the rewards, but frankly it sounds like a bit too much of an effort to me.
Do you have an opinion on iobit.com? I use their anti-virus software, but I'm worried now by comments from Malwarebytes:IOBit's Denial of Theft Unconvincing. I used the software as it was on a Computer Shopper DVD, and I was using their maintenance tool, Advanced SysCare. Its "System Optimisation" really does work (my anecdotal experience on several PCs).Martin DayIn its user forum, IOBit responded witha denial of Malwarebytes' accusationsand then said it hadcleaned up its database"to remove all disputed data". It is currently hosting58 pages of debate.But I think you should stop using IOBit Security 360 because it doesn't seem to be very good -- according to thisPC Magazine review-- and because it's not on the VB100 list. (Virus Bulletinprovides independent testing of anti-virus software.)It's not worth taking a risk on an unknown product when there are so many good free alternatives such as Avast, AVG Free, Avira AntiVir, Microsoft Security Essentials and many more.There's aVirus Bulletin chartthat will help you choose a replacement.I have not used IOBit's Advanced SystemCare Free, but I think Windows tuners can do more harm than good. The only one I use myself is CCleaner (formerly Crap Cleaner), which you can download free viahttp://www.ccleaner.com/download(If you are asked for money for CCleaner, then either you have the wrong program or you have downloaded it from a scammer. You can donate to support CCleaner but it's free.)Advanced SystemCare Free is quitehighly rated as a CNet Downloadso it probably is not an immediate risk. However, IOBit must know that if users don't trust its anti-virus software, then in the long term, they probably won't trust any of its software. It should aim to re-establish its credentials by getting independent verification and testing of its anti-virus software. Declarations are not enough.
Tomorrow evening GameCity, Nottingham's wonderful videogame festival is starting a new monthly project. Taking place at the city's brand new Antenna centre for creative business, GameCityNights is essentially a series of 'talks' by leading gaming luminaries, followed by Q&amp;A sessions, snacks and a, in typical GameCity style - a videogame trivia quiz.This week's inaugural event will featureHello Games, the indie gaming start-up behind forthcoming digitally distributed stunt bike sim, Joe Danger, which has already been enthusiastically embraced by the likes ofEdgeandEurogamer- partly because the guys behind Hello Games have immense pedigree, coming from senior roles at the likes of Criterion, Sumo and Kuju; and partly because it looks bloody great. "They will be sharing secrets, anecdotes and show'n'telling this brilliant new game and they *might* even let you play," says festival director Iain Simons. It seems that From Software's lovely3D Dot Game Heroeswill also be making some sort of appearance.Tickets are £3 on the door, and there's more infohere. You can also follow the GameCityNightsTwitter feed.I think there should be events like this up and down the country on an extremely regular basis. Now that games are a mass market sociable proposition there just aren't enough opportunities to get together and talk about them in a, ahem, real-world setting.On Gamesblog, we've often talked about the prospect of gaming versions of book clubs, while there are plenty of film clubs where indie cinemas show off new and forthcoming movies followed by Q&amp;A sessions with the makers; this format can work just as well for games, as hopefully tomorrow evening's soiree should show.Videogames have made it as a mainstream entertainment business, but they're yet to slip comfortably into the sociocultural milieu.BAFTAis making a lot of important strides in this direction, adding game-related events to its calendar of talks and discussion nights: just last week, Mark Morris and Chris Delay fromIntroversionwere at the David Lean Room talking about Darwinia + (there's a reviewhere).What do you think? What would make a good videogame-related semi-cultural night out for you?
2010 is the fifth year of the Xbox 360, and the fourth year since the Wii launched. Historically this would be about the time when gamers looked forward to a new console. Times have changed though and Microsoft's Project Natal is about as close we will get to a "new" console in the near future. So why is this? Electronic Arts' CFO Eric Brownthinks pricing and powerful hardwarehave stopped Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony bringing out new consoles.I think pricing has not come down as much as we would have expected at this point in the cycle compared to the last.  Last cycle, approximately 48 percent of PlayStation 2 units were sold at a price point of $149 or less. Clearly at $299 we're nowhere near that price point.He has a point. The 360 and PS3 are not cheap, though you are getting a lot more tech than you ever got in the PS2. And this is key. What major upgrades could we realistically expect to see from an Xbox 720 or PS4? You would normally expect better graphics from a new console but Brown argues that thanks to the 1080p maximum resolution on HD TV the graphical differences would be minimal.Today we have two of the three consoles that operate in full high-definition and are running games at 60 frames-per-second. If you have a multi-billion capital investment to develop the next generation hardware, the question I would ask is, 'If you were to produce that, what would you display it on?' You could upgrade in theory, but you wouldn't get the obvious graphic benefit that we saw that drove the transitions in the prior cycle.Of course, the one console that would see a graphical benefit from a hardware upgrade is the Wii. But overall I think Brown is right. I wouldn't expect a new 360 till 2012/13 at the earliest and at least a year later for a new Playstation. Expect a ton of software updates though - especially for the online services - and the occasional peripheral (Natal, Arc etc).Anyway, what do you think? Agree with the EA exec? And if so, do you miss the days when new consoles arrived more regularly?
Apple is (if you trust the counter on the front of its website, which perhaps you shouldn't, as we'll explain) about 2.5m songs short of selling 10 billion songs through its iTunes Music Store, which was launched in April 2003.Update:the magic number was reached at about 10pm GMT.The person who downloads that 10 billionth song can expect to be feted - as therelated page explains, you could win a $10,000 iTunes Gift Card. (Conditions: have to be over 13. No purchase necessary.)The offer seems a bit... focussed compared to previous iTunes milestone giveaways: the billionth song, bought by then-16-year-old Alex Ostrovsky in February 2006, got him ten iPods, a $10,000 iTunes gift certificateanda scholarship in his name at Juillard school of music. Compared to that, the 10-billion downloader is just going to get to play a sort of Supermarket Sweep. No iPods; no scholarship.But it's instructive to consider that in the almost-seven years since the iTunes Music Store opened, Apple has risen from nowhere to become the largest single music seller in the US. It's been the subject of investigations over its pricing in Europe. It's become an overwhelming force in music - and it doesn't create any at all; it's just a shopfront. And the record labels have come to fear its power, and especially its use of single pricing initially. Only the threat of withdrawal of content persuaded Apple to change that. It's not clear whether it was Apple or the labels - or both - who wanted to go to DRM-free music: Apple because it meant less messing about, or the labels because it might break the iPod's iron rule -  but either way, customers have benefited from the latter, at least. Variable pricing? Arguable whether that's good for customers or not.Anyway, here's the rundown of the milestones,shamelessly cribbed from Wikipedia:* 100 million songs sold: Summer, 2004 (by then 20-year-old Kevin Britten of Hays, Kansas: he got a call from Steve Jobs congratulating him.)* 125 million songs sold: September 1, 2004* 150 million songs sold: October 14, 2004* 200 million songs sold: December 16, 2004 (by Ryan Alekman of Belchertown, Massachusetts: it was one of the tracks on U2's digital box set The Complete U2.)* 250 million songs sold: January 24, 2005* 300 million songs sold: March 2, 2005* 400 million songs sold: May 10, 2005* 500 million songs sold: July 18, 2005 (by Amy Greer of Lafayette, Indiana, USA: "Mississippi Girl" by Faith Hill.)* 850 million songs sold: January 10, 2006* 1 billion songs sold: February 23, 2006 by Alex Ostrovsky: "Speed of Sound" by Coldplay.* 1.5 billion songs sold: September 12, 2006* 2 billion songs sold: January 10, 2007* 2.5 billion songs sold: April 9, 2007* 3 billion songs sold: July 31, 2007* 4 billion songs sold: January 15, 2008* 5 billion songs sold: June 19, 2008* 6 billion songs sold: January 6, 2009* 8 billion songs sold: July 21, 2009* 8.6 billion songs sold: September 9, 2009And since you're wondering what that looks like as a time plot, it'savailable on Wikipedia.Oh yes, the counter thing. Well, it's odd, but if you leave the page with the countdown/up on it open, and then disconnect your computer from the internet, the count continues. It may be that it's somehow magically connecting with the iTunes Store. Or it may just be a guess at what the real number is. Digging around in the source code of the page doesn't point to any obvious calls to the iTunes Store - but we'll see.Good luck if you're entering the competition - you don't even need to buy anything. Only 25 entries per day allowed, mind. Get clicking. And just try to forget about the scholarship at Juillard.
Document sharing website Scribd is making a more direct challenge to Amazon and Apple by launching a mobile service that it hopes will make it easier for millions of people to read on the go.The move could put the well-regarded startup –described as "YouTube for documents"– into more direct competition with larger rivals such as Amazon and Apple, which is set to launch the iPad and its iBooks application next month.Scribd already offers more than 10m documents online, including books from major publishers such as Random House and Simon &amp; Schuster, but from today will also begin offering users the chance to read their files on any smartphone or ebook reader.A simple system to send files to their device – regardless of what it is – may help erase complexity and give people easy access to much more content, said Trip Adler, Scribd's co-founder and chief executive."Right now people are confused about which e-reader to buy, they're confused about how to get content onto their devices," he told the Guardian. "This solves all of that by putting all these devices so you can read any content on Scribd on your device."At the moment, most ebook readers acquire new titles through applications specifically built by the makers of their gadget – such as Amazon's Kindle book catalogue. Adler suggested that providing a broad range of material across all devices was largely uncharted territory, but that it should boost the popularity of ebooks and downloads of other types of documents."This should help increase sales, because if people can read things they buy on the web on their device, they are more likely to buy it," he said.Amazon already offers access to its catalogue of books through the Kindle, as well as an iPhone application, but Scribd's 50 million users will also be able to download other documents shared through its site – including how-to guides, research papers and self-published books.The move is part of a wider mobile strategy that the company says will help it tap into the huge mobile devices market. Over the next month, it plans to launch a range of applications for the Kindle, iPad, iPhone and Android handsets, as well as a number of other platforms.It is also launching developer tools that will enable programmers to create their own applications to search and link to any of the documents held in Scribd's archive."There are maybe a million ebook readers out there, but there are billions of smartphone users," Adler said.The launch comes on the heels ofa similar effort by Kobo Books, an American ebook retailer which earlier this week unveiled its own system aimed specifically at the UK market.Kobo has agreements in place with most major publishers – including Bloomsbury, Penguin and Faber &amp; Faber – and says it will also offer many titles for free.But while the ebook industry has plenty of momentum, it has also been dogged by controversy.Some publishershave said they will delay ebook releases to protect hardback sales, and Macmillanrecently found itself in a feud with Amazonover the price of digital texts.The outlook for sales, meanwhile, remains unclear. High street retailer Waterstone's, which has its own ebook store, said that just 80,000 titles were sold in the run-up to Christmas andAmazon is still silent on Kindle ebook salesdespite continuing to boast that they now make up a significant part of its business.Adler said that platform-agnostic selling was a significant step forward that would not only encourage more people to buy ebooks, but could also convince publishers to sell unprotected files, rather than encumber their products with anti-piracy locks.Scribd has raised almost $14m from investors since being founded in 2007, with backers including Netscape founder Marc Andreessen and former PayPal executive David Sacks.
Google responded furiously today after an Italian court found three of its executives guilty of violating the privacy of a child with autism who was shown being bullied in a video posted on its site.The company vowed to appeal against the ruling, which it described as "an attack on the fundamental principles of freedom on which the internet was built". The three executives were given six-month suspended sentences.The two prosecutors who brought the case against the US-based firm praised the ruling for protecting personal interest above corporate profit."We are very satisfied because by means of this trial we have posed a serious problem: that is to say, the protection of human beings, which must prevail over corporate interests," they said in a statement.The video, which showed the boy being beaten and insulted, was made by four students at a Turin secondary school in May 2006. It was posted to Google Video on 8 September and remained there until 7 November, when it was taken down after a complaint by Italian police.The case has potentially vast implications for the future of the internet. Hosting platforms such as Facebook and YouTube argue that they cannot be held responsible for content created by their users until they are informed that something is illegal. The Italian prosecutors contended that Google was negligent in not removing the video sooner.This issue became fundamental to the trial. Google's lawyers said the company had taken the video off the site within three hours of being formally notified by the Italian police. But the prosecution argued that it had shot to the top of the most-viewed list and been a subject of heated controversy long before.The indictments had been sought by a local lobby group for people with Down's syndrome, and the four Google executives were sent for trial before a Milan judge, charged with libel. Three, including Google's senior vice-president and chief legal officer, David Drummond, were also charged with privacy violations.The judge, Oscar Magi, dismissed the libel accusations but upheld the other charges. The other two people sentenced were Google's retired chief financial officer George Reyes and its global privacy counsel, Peter Fleischer. The judge also ordered that a summary of the sentence should be published in all of Italy's main national daily newspapers.The Down's syndrome lobby group and Milan city council, both of whom have sought damages for libel, had their petitions rejected. The relatives of the boy who was shown being bullied had also brought a civil suit against the executives, but their case was dropped.All of Google's employees, who were convicted in absentia, denied wrong­doing. It is expected that the company's lawyers will argue on appeal that the verdict is at odds with an EU directive from 2000 that gave hosting platforms a so-called "safe harbour" from prosecution, so long as they acted promptly to remove illegal content.In a statement, Google called the outcome of the case "surprising to say the least, since our colleagues had nothing to do with the video in question: they did not make it; they did not upload it, and they have not seen it."We are deeply troubled by this conviction for another equally important reason," it added. "It attacks the very principles of freedom on which the internet is built. Common sense dictates that only the person who films and uploads a video to a hosting platform could take the steps necessary to protect the privacy and obtain the consent of the people they are filming."The prosecutors maintained that "this was not a trial about freedom of the internet as some have said. Instead, and for the first time in Italy, a serious issue has been raised about the rights of the individual in today's society."
The rickroll, one of the internet's favourite memes, has been badly hit by the removal of the video on which it was based. Instead of being tricked into watching Rick Astley singing Never Gonna Give You Up, victims who click the link get a YouTube message:"This video has been removed due to terms of use violation".Update: If you clicked the above link earlier, then you just might have been meta-rickrolled. It turns out that the video was removed by mistake, after YouTube suspended a user account flagged by a member of its spam team. SoRickRoll'Dis back, and it still has more than 30m views.Rickrollingstarted at the 4chan forum (via the eggroll andduckroll), but became part of the mainstream in 2008. It brought Astley a new level of fame, though one that perhaps became tiresome. In response toa Fox News query, "a spokesman for his record label wrote back a single line: 'I'm sorry, but he's done talking about rickrolling.'"There are, of course, several videos of Astley singingNever Gonna Give You Upand other songs on YouTube, so you can keep right on rickrolling people, if you really must. The problem is that removing the D version breaks a large number of internet links, and there's no way to repair the damage short of YouTube reinstating the missing video.Also, that kind of thing ultimately reduces trust in the net....Hat tip:Neowinand itsupdate.
Thejudgment by a Milan courtagainst Google's employees throws a bucketful of sand into the machinery of YouTube, the video site that the search engine company bought for $1.65bn in October 2006. The clear implication of its decision is that every video should be screened before it is put on to the site – and with more than 20 hours of video uploaded every minute worldwide (Google does not break down the figure for Italy), monitoring all that content, even for a single country, could prove enormously expensive.That in turn would put profitability for the site – which is thought to have lostbetween $100m and $500m in 2009– further away than ever. YouTube has never made an operating profit in its five-year history, and Google has been trying to sell adverts on videos to make the site profitable.Italy recently seems to have taken a more extreme stance over internet content than many other European countries. Its tax authorities have demanded that eBay should hand over information about its customers relating to goods sold on the site between 2004 and 2007; Yahoo was fined €12,000 last year after Milan's public prosecutor demanded information about private emails sent by suspected criminals; and the Italian interior ministry has required Facebook to hand over personal information about users who created groups said to "glorify" Mafia bosses, and again last October over a group said to promote the violent death of Silvio Berlusconi, the prime minister.Today's judgment found three Google executives – David Drummond, Google's senior vice-president of corporate development and chief legal officer, Peter Fleischer, global privacy counsel, and George Reyes, a former chief financial officer – guilty of invasion of privacy following the uploading to Google Video in September 2006 of footage of four Italian teenagers bullying a youth with Down's syndrome. The premise is that Google is responsible for any content that appears on its site.Googlesaid on its blogthat the ruling "attacks the very principles of freedom on which the internet is built". The company had argued that because it removed the video immediately after being notified of its content, and co-operated with the Italian authorities to identify the bullies so they could be brought to justice, it had discharged its duty. It said hosting platforms – such as YouTube, Facebook or Twitter – did not create their own content and so could not be held responsible for what other people upload.Google is already fighting a number of legal actions over content on YouTube. The largest is from the entertainment company Viacom, which hasaccused the siteof "contributory infringement" and other offences for carrying videos uploaded by users containing Viacom's copyrighted material.The Italian decision creates a monumental headache for Google, which is already under pressure in Europe after the announcement last night that itfaces an anti-monopoly investigationinto whether it penalises competing websites in its search rankings. If it has to monitor every video before it appears on YouTube, that would push its costs up substantially: people are a comparatively expensive link in any business chain, which is why Google has sought to replace them with computers  where possible.The censoring of websites has become a hot issue in Italy in recent months, following a spate of hate sites against officials, including Berlusconi. The government briefly studied plans to black-out such sites after fan pages emerged praising an attack on the premier, but the idea was dropped after executives from Facebook, Google and Microsoft agreed to a shared code of conduct rather than legislation.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull;Googletried to take the initiative last night by announcing that it was beinginvestigated by the European Commission over allegations of anti-competitive behaviour. The claimants include UK company Foundem,whose criticisms we detailed last summer. What does it mean? I think it could stir upall kinds of trouble for the companybut it's too early to predict which way the commission is going to go with this one.&bull; After the hacking attacks on a range of American companies, it's emerged thatIntelhasalso been hit by a series of online strikes. In financial filings, the company said that a sophisticated strike had attempted (and failed) to access its systems last month - but a spokesman told the New York Times that "the only connection between what we saw in January and the attacks on Google is timing".&bull; AndApplehas continued to confuse pretty much everybody with itsbizarre, skew-whiff stance on 'adult' iPhone apps. After plenty of criticism over its policies, it seems that the company hasreinstated the swimwear catalogue application that caused the latest kerfuffle. Looks like this one's going to come back again and again until Apple fixes the process.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
In many ways, it was unavoidable. When a company becomes as large and as dominant as Google has managed to become in web search, it is usually only a matter of time beforethe European Commission launches an antitrust investigation.But just as the company tried to take the offensive byannouncing that it was subject to an EC probe, the question: even if Google succeeds in fighting off these particular allegations, will it be the end of the internet giant's troubles - or just the beginning?Let's look first at the specifics of the commission's investigation. The complaints apparently come from three rival businesses; a British site called Foundem -whose grievances we have documented in the past- a similar French service called eJustice, and Ciao, a price comparison website bought by Microsoft in 2008.They argue, in various ways, that Google deliberately screens out or demotes their sites - something that they claim is monopolistic, anti-competitive behaviour that should be regulated by officials in Brussels.Are they right? On first glance, the case is a tricky one.There are a lot of metasearch engines that make money by optimising themselves to appear high up in Google search results. There are also a lot of sites that spam Google's index in the same way. If Google builds an algorithm that discriminates against sites it feels aren't adding value for users -a process described very nicely in this recent Wired piece- is it being anti-competitive? There's a very fine line, but given Google's de facto search monopoly, it has to tread very carefully here."Though each case raises slightly different issues, the question they ultimately pose is whether Google is doing anything to choke off competition or hurt our users and partners," said Julia Holtz, the company's senior competition counsel."This is not the case. We always try to listen carefully if someone has a real concern and we work hard to put our users' interests first and to compete fair and square in the market. We believe our business practices reflect those commitments."But beyond the intricacies of this investigation, the bigger question is how many more complaints we might see coming out of the woodwork. Will it be a single, isolated case, or will it open the floodgates?My suspicion is that this may be the beginning of a long and often torturous set of complaints for the Silicon Valley company, perhaps in a manner highly reminiscent of Microsoft's troubles with regulators over the last 15 years.After all, Google has used its quest to "organise the world's information" as the subtext to expand in every direction, filling almost every gap imaginable online. Beyond the basic search engine for which it is most famous, it now has a strong presence in dozens of other areas, includingvideo,office applications,email,maps,mobile phones,web browsersand many more.And while it doesn't necessarily dominate all of the markets it moves into, it often distorts things by cross-subsidising its efforts with the enormous piles of cash made through internet advertising.You may question whether that's right or wrong, but it's clearly something that is changing the landscape in all sorts of ways - the type of impact that entrepreneur Chris Dixon alluded to in a recent diatribe in which he argued that"every time an engineer joins Google, a startup dies".We've heard before that the US Justice Departmenthas had its eye on Google, andregulators have already looked at the company's links with rivals like Apple and Yahoo.Now, with the company's core business in the sights of Brussels, the stage could be set for a much wider set of issues to come out - not least because the European Commission often uses small antitrust concerns as a proxy for a much larger stick.The long-running battle with Microsoft, for example, often picked on relatively insignificant aspects of the company's business while appearing to try and discourage monopolistic behaviour in general.So while Google will defend the small details of this particular case, it's got a much larger issue on its hands - and must act quickly if it doesn't want the problem to swell to immense proportions.
Google is facing a preliminary anti-monopoly probe by the European Commission into its dominant position in online browsing and digital advertising following allegations that it demotes competing websites to the lower echelons of customers' search results.The Silicon Valley internet company revealed today that the commission has sent out formal questionnaires seeking information aboutcomplaints from three firms – the British price comparison site Foundem, a French legal search engine called eJustice and a shopping site, Ciao, which is owned by Microsoft.The complaints centre on the way in which Google's search results are compiled and on the terms and conditions the company attaches to deals with advertisers.Although the commission's investigation is only at a tentative stage, the fact that Brussels is taking the issue seriously is likely to set off alarm bells at Google.The commission has a history of coming down forcefully on powerful technology companies — it has levied huge financial penalties on Microsoft and Intel in recent years for tactics to squash competing software.Google handles 80% of European web searches, according to research firm ComScore, compared to 65% in the US. But in a blog posting, Google's senior European competition counsel, Julia Holtz, shrugged off the complaints, saying: "This kind of scrutiny goes with the territory when you are a large company."She said Google had nothing to hide: "We are confident that our business operates in the interests of users and partners, as well as in line with European competition law."Google is likely to characterise the issue as an attack partly orchestrated by Microsoft, which recently merged its search business with Yahoo's in an effort to challenge Google's comfortable market lead.Holtz pointed out in her posting that not only is one of the plaintiffs owned by Microsoft but that a second, Foundem, is part of a trade grouping sponsored by Microsoft called the Initiative for a Competitive Online Marketplace.However, the European complaints are merely the latest in a series of critiques of Google's position. Thousands of authors have been battling plans by Google to digitise the contents of millions of books. In Italy, prosecutors are challenging Google's YouTube video website on the grounds of invasion of privacy. And newspapers in countries including Germany have attacked the free use of their content on Google News.The chief executive of Vodafone, Vittorio Colao, last week added his voice, calling for a European investigation into Google's 80% share of the mobile phone search market: "The fact that 80% of the advertising online goes down one funnel is something that should be looked at in the future debate on net neutrality."Getting the European Commission to quiz Google is a victory for firms such as Foundem, which has complained for three years thatthe vagaries of Google's search algorithm have huge consequences for the number of visitors to its website, which compares the prices of anything from flights to microwave ovens.Google argues that it never deliberately discriminates but that its search engine produces results based on quality, with websites that merely "scrape" content from other sources faring poorly.
You may well have noticed today's big videogame business news: Warner Bros has bought a controlling stake in British studioRocksteady Studios, the creator of last year's excellentBatman Arkham Asylum. That title was published by Eidos under license from Warner, but back in December the movie giant revealed that it would be publishing the sequel. After today's revelation, Eidos - or more accurately Square Enix - retains a 25% share in the developer.As most industry news sources are pointing out, this purchase is only Warner Bros' latest videogame land grab. The company bought UK developer/publisher TT Games in 2007, and bailed out several of Midway's studios following the collapse of the games veteran last year. It's also another case of an independent British studio becoming a development arm for a foreign owner. Over the past four years some of the most successful studios in the country have been the subject of similar deals: Lionhead has been bought by Microsoft, Bizarre Creations by Activision, Playfish by EA, Sumo Digital by Foundation 9 and the embers of Free Radical Design by Crytek.It's also symbolic of Hollywood's increasing interest in the videogame business. The likes of Walt Disney and Paramount are also running growing games divisions, looking to claw back some of the lost revenues from the slumping DVD market. Plus, in a world of CGI-splattered, intricately branded action flicks, a close relationship between film and game production makes a lot of sense.Naturally, Rocksteady is being put to work on further Batman titles, but it seems the team will also be looking at other Warner Bros 'properties'. "The Rocksteady team is very much looking forward to creating more great games based on widely recognised Warner Bros. brands like Batman," said Rocksteady games director Sefton Hill. Some are already speculating whether this may include the Mortal Kombat license that Warner acquired as part of its Midway purchase. Others are hoping that the likes of Superman, Bladerunner and The Matrix may fall into the hands of a studio that produced the finest comic book license for a decade.So, is this a glowing endorsement of the UK as a seductive creative powerhouse, or a depressing confirmation that Britain has become a development sweatshop with little power or control over the destiny of the industry? Not a politically correct question, perhaps, but an increasingly relevant one.
Why is Apple pulling blue.. er, porn.. er, "adult" content from its App Store? Is it to cleanse it ahead of the launch of the larger-screen iPad? Is it a sudden fit of blue-stockinged horror at the sight ofwhat Gok Wan would term ladies' "bangers"?Apple announced the change (to developers) in an email last Friday: "We have decided to remove any overtly sexual content from the App Store, which includes your application," the letter from the iPhone App Review department reads. "Thank you for your understanding in this matter. If you believe you can make the necessary changes so that [app name] complies with our recent changes, we encourage you to do so and resubmit for review."Why? Why why why? And what is "overtly sexual"? The vagueness of the phrasing is annoying iPhone developers, who would like to know why the criteria for getting an app approved in the iPhone App Store have changed yet again. Getting an app approved - and getting it to stay approved - sometimes seems less like moving goalposts than being Harry Potter chasing the darting, elusive golden snitch in a game of Quidditch.What is clear is that hundreds of apps that incorporate, um, bangers and so on have been removed from the store. And now Phil Schiller, Apple's vice-president of marketing, has sort-of explained why to the New York Times."It came to the point where we were getting customer complaints from women who found the content getting too degrading and objectionable, as well as parents who were upset with what their kids were able to see,"Schiller told the NYT.OK, Mr Schiller, that's helpful. Um - by the way, why can one still get Sports Illustrated's swimsuit issue [although the swimsuits stay resolutely on - CA] and Playboy [where they don't]?At this point things get a little more slippery. "The difference is this is a well-known company with previously published material available broadly in a well-accepted format," he said (of Sports Illustrated, though the logic must also apply to Playboy).So - well-known company's breasts good; startup never-heard-of-ya company's breasts bad. And stay with us, because we have fully-clothed breasts bad too. (Update:or not. stay tuned.)The move hasn't exactly pleased, or made sense to, developers or commentators.John Gruber, whose Daring Fireball blog reflects and links to plenty of developer reaction,comments:"I don't see how it's anything other than hypocrisy to say that Time Warner can have an app showing swimsuit models and others cannot. I totally understand Apple's desire to keep the App Store free of flat-out or even borderline pornography. I do not think it's wise to remove/ban R-rated content, though — isn't that exactly what the 17+ rating is for?"But to allow Sports Illustrated and Playboy to publish it and others not? That's bullshit."However at the WSJ-owned AllThingsD blog,Kara Swisher suggests that it's a storm in a teacup:"For anyone with even a passing knowledge of Web history, this practice [of hypocrisy over sexual content] has been all too common.She explains:"AOL, which I dubbed "The House Sex Chat Built" in my first book about the once popular service, drastically cut back on its sexually controversial stuff, as it moved to the mainstream. In fact, it even considered doing a separate gated business that dealt with racier online fare."Perhaps Apple will do this, creating an area of the App Store that is much more clearly blocked and less accessible. And perhaps not. After all, it is Apple's App Store and not subject to collective decision-making by those who think it a basic right to swipe clothes off a lady on the iPhone."Well, OK, but it gets weirder.A maker ofrealswimsuits has found their app removed from the store: "Designer swimwear retailerSimply Beach, based in the UK, was removed from the iPhone and iPod touch App Store last Friday - and received the same "overtly sexual" email as other folk.It's one thing to say that you don't want to have "overtly sexual" content in your store. However it makes no sense to ban non-sexual swimwear companieswhile allowingovertly sexual content such as Playboy. It's not just hypocritical - it's contradictory, absurd and quite possibly puts Apple in a position where it could get sued for unfair restraint of trade and misrepresentation. That's not smart. Especially not when it has a "17+" category of apps which warn people.Is the problem that the strait-laced Americans can't bear to see search results that hint at sex and sexuality? (The Americans are so strange: a fabulous First Amendment guaranteeing freedom of speech, and then a madly restrictive approach to such speech.) Then why not check the age of the person using the store (you need to have a credit card and give a birthday, surely?) and only provide age-appropriate apps?Truly, it's a strange story which is only going to get more heated in the weeks ahead.Update:we've now heard from the developer of the Swim Beach app and the company itself that the app has been reinstated "without any accompanying communication". The developer, Andrew Long of Exploding Phone, writes: " It can take a little while for application status changes to propagate their way into the app store which is probably why you couldn't see it last night." The same seems to have happened to the Daisy Mae's Alien Buffet application, whichwas out, and then returned. See below for a video of Ms Mae at work.Meanwhile, if you're a developer who's got an app in the Store that's been banned (or reinstated), we'd love to hear from you - email me (charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk).(Weds 1020am GMT: Post updated with new information, some tweaks to style.)
Aleks KrotoskiandBobbie Johnsonmeet a host of digital idealists on this week's programme, including social entrepreneurs in San Francisco likeCatapult Design,InveneoandArchitecture for Humanity, who are bringing technological solutions to developing countries.Plus musician and philosopher Jaron Lanier explains how 30 years at the heart of internet culture have transformed him from a utopian to a virtual pragmatist.Aleks also tackles the latest headlines from around the web, including the latest on Google and China, as the US government tightens the net around the likely perpetrators, and Microsoft's decision to offer its consumers a choice of web browsers in Europe after an agreement was reached between the software giant and the European Commission.And in a daring feat of ducking and diving, Aleks fields listeners' feedback about Google's social search golden goose, Vark.com, and asks for listeners' most wanted: who would you like to see at a live Tech Weekly event in London? Answers, please, in the comments below.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Traveller on a beach, Indonesia. Photograph: Sonny Tumbelaka/AFP/GettyIt's only Tuesday and already it's been an interesting week for the world of digital rights. Not only did the British governmentchanged the wording around its controversial 'three strikes' proposals, but the secretive anti-counterfeiting treaty, Acta,was back in the headlines. Meanwhile, a US judge is still deliberating over theGoogle book settlement.As if all that wasn't enough, here's another brick to add to the teetering tower of news, courtesy ofAndres Guadamuz, a lecturer in law at the University of Edinburgh.Guadamuzhas done some diggingand discovered that an influential lobby group is asking the US government to basically consider open source as the equivalent of piracy - or even worse.What?It turns out that theInternational Intellectual Property Alliance, an umbrella group for organisations including the MPAA and RIAA, has requested with the US Trade Representative to consider countries like Indonesia, Brazil and India for its "Special 301 watchlist" because they use open source software.What's Special 301? It's a report that examines the "adequacy and effectiveness of intellectual property rights" around the planet - effectively the list of countries that the US government considers enemies of capitalism. It often gets wheeled out as a form of trading pressure - often around pharmaceuticals and counterfeited goods - to try and force governments to change their behaviours.Now, even could argue that it's no surprise that the USTR - which is intended to encourage free market capitalism - wouldn't like free software, but really it's not quite so straightforward.I know open source has a tendency to be linked to socialist ideals, but I also think it's an example of the free market in action. When companies can't compete with huge, crushing competitors, they route around it and find another way to reduce costs and compete. Most FOSS isn't state-owned: it just takes price elasticity to its logical conclusion and uses free as a stick to beat its competitors with (would you ever accuse Google, which gives its main product away for free, of being anti-capitalist?).Still, in countries where the government has legislated the adoption of FOSS, the position makes some sense because it hurts businesses like Microsoft. But that's not the end of it.No, thereallyinteresting thing that Guadamuz found was that governments don't even need to pass legislation. Even a recommendation can be enough.Example: last year the Indonesian government sent around a circular to all government departments and state-owned businesses, pushing them towards open source. This, says the IIPA, "encourages government agencies to use "FOSS" (Free Open Source Software) with a view toward implementation by the end of 2011, which the Circular states will result in the use of legitimate open source and FOSS software and a reduction in overall costs of software".Nothing wrong with that, right? After all, the British governmenthas said it will boost the use of open source software.But the IIPA suggested that Indonesia deserves Special 301 status because encouraging (not forcing) such takeup "weakens the software industry" and "fails to build respect for intellectual property rights".From the recommendation:"The Indonesian government's policy... simply weakens the software industry and undermines its long-term competitiveness by creating an artificial preference for companies offering open source software and related services, even as it denies many legitimate companies access to the government market.Rather than fostering a system that will allow users to benefit from the best solution available in the market, irrespective of the development model, it encourages a mindset that does not give due consideration to the value to intellectual creations.As such, it fails to build respect for intellectual property rights and also limits the ability of government or public-sector customers (e.g., State-owned enterprise) to choose the best solutions.Let's forget that the statement ignores the fact that there are plenty of businesses built on the OSS model (RedHat, Wordpress, Canonical for starters). But beyond that, it seems astonishing to me that anyone should imply that simply recommending open source products - products that can be more easily tailored without infringing licensing rules - "undermines" anything.In fact, IP enforcement is ofteneven more strictin the open source community, and those who infringe licenses or fail to give appropriate credit are often pilloried.If you're looking at this agog, you should be. It's ludicrous.But the IIPA and USTR have form here:in recent years they have put Canada on the priority watchlist.
A government minister, not parliament, will decide on the maximum period for which people found guilty of illicit filesharing can have their accounts suspended if the Digital Economy bill becomes law.Although the government insists that it would only implement "temporary suspension" of internet accounts of people deemed to have broken copyright law, it has not defined how long "temporary" is – and the definition does not appear in the bill now before Parliament.Instead, the secretary of state at the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (DBIS) will decide on how long it should be, based on a recommendations from the Ofcom, although the regulator's suggestions are not binding.Presently, the person responsible would be Lord Mandelson, who has beenparticularly vociferousabout the need to take action against persistent illicit use of the net.The only brake on the "temporary" suspension being of unlimited length would be the Human Rights Act – whose applicability to internet access is untested – and the definition offered by DBIS was that "temporary suspension can't effectively mean termination of an internet connection". But there is no definition in the bill of what marks the legal difference between "suspension" and "termination".On Monday the Guardian noted thatDowning Street had responded to a petitioncalling on it to reject plans to disconnect people found guilty of illicit file sharing by saying: "We will not terminate the accounts of infringers ... [but] ... We added account suspension to the list of possible technical measures which might be considered."The Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (DBIS) on Tuesday said that "suspension" meant "temporary suspension".But the Open Rights Groupsaid that this was "semantics"and that the government had simply chosen a different form of words to mean the same thing.Asked for clarification, a DBIS spokesperson said: "Any move to using technical measures on internet connections would only be made as a last resort and only if our initial measures to deal with unlawful filesharing did not have the desired effect."If government decides to use technical measures the Secretary of State would be required to consider an independent report from Ofcom on whether they should be imposed, and on the most effective and proportionate measures."The secretary of state would then decide the upper limit for a "temporary" suspension – which the DBIS indicated would be at least a few days.The implementation of the upper limit would then be laid before parliament in the form of an order constituting secondary legislation amending what would be the Digital Economy act.However, an Order cannot be amended by parliament; it can only be accepted or rejected. Any government with a working majority will be able to get an order passed – and so would be able to implement a "temporary" suspension of indeterminate length without any legislative review.Ministers have repeatedly referred to "temporary suspension" rather than cutting off internet abusers, for example in a speech byTreasury secretary Stephen Timms on 21 January at the Oxford Media Convention.TalkTalk, the ISP which has been most vocal in its opposition to the government plans over filesharing penalties, said on Tuesday: "The government's latest announcement on its copyright protection proposals is nothing more than semantics."It is still the case that on the say-so of record labels and film studios people will have their internet connections suspended (ie disconnected). All that the Government seems to be saying is that permanent disconnection will be reserved for the very worst offenders. But they have been saying that since day one. There is no change."This is simply spin which masks the real issue. The detection system will implicate innocent people whose connections have been hacked into. They will still be deemed 'guilty' and then have to prove their innocence."The Digital Economy Bill will give rights holders the power to act as a judge and jury, allowing them to demand that ISPs disconnect their customers without having to prove their case in a court of law. TalkTalk is the only major ISP that has said it will simply refuse to do this and will fight its case in every court in the land and in Europe if it has to."The proposed copyright protection measures are utterly futile. Determined filesharers will find other, undetectable ways to access material, leaving innocent people to bear the brunt of this oppressive legislation."
My daughter is moving into a house with no fixed line internet access, and she's sceptical about going down the dongle route with her laptop. Her mobile phone signal will be adequate, but not great. How could she best achieve the bandwith needed for (for example) watching TV online? Your 8 October 2009 answer --Can 3G replace a landline?-- suggests that only a landline will do. But are there now other solutions that you'd recommend?Adam ElgarI would love to be able to recommend WiMax (IEEE 802.16), which is much like a long-range version of Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11), but it's very unlikely that your daughter is living in an area where it's available. Given the UK government's/Ofcom's lack of interest in WiMax, I don't see that changing. I would also love to be able to recommend LTE (Long Term Evolution), which is the 4G service of choice among phone network suppliers, but it is probably still a couple of years from common use.Since I can't do either, I'd suggest your daughter either looks into the cost of a landline or tries to find a friendly neighbour who will share an existing Wi-Fi network. Or, particularly in a rural area, considerstwo-way satellite serviceslike Astra2Connect.While I wasn't very keen on mobile 3G dongles last October, I'm even less keen on them today. I had been using my 3 dongle inside the M25 for email and Twitter but I've stopped because it's often not worth the effort -- and 3's HSPDA seemed to me to be the best service!Even with a dongle, you're not connected the whole time, so it's not really "mobile broadband": it's more like "mobile dial-up". And because of line drops/tunnels/tall buildings/whatever, you can spend more time connecting and disconnecting (and downloading 3's pointless home page) than you do tweeting. I wouldn't usually try to watch a YouTube video or iPlayer programme via 3G, though it might be possible.The actual throughput your daughter will get will depend on exactly where she lives:  results can vary on the same street, or even inside the same house. However, I'd be a touch surprised if she got much more than 2.2 Mbps, regardless of the "headline speed". I wouldn't be shocked if she got 1 Mbps, or even less. By contrast, a fixed phone line or cable connection should normally be able to deliver 3 Mbps to 7 Mbps for a lower cost. (You would also have to include the cost of installing and renting the phone line, but sometimes this can be shared between four or five people.)You can perhaps get some idea of the likely performance and the deals on offer by entering  your daughter's post code in the"Speed in my area" page at Broadband Speedchecker. This takes users' speed test results from the past six months and plots them on a Google map. There are a few pins for mobile broadband services, though it could do with more.In the end, I'd guess that mobile broadband is now worse than it used to be because many more people are using it. The market has grown with the arrival of better smartphones (BlackBerry, iPhone, Android etc) and the cheaper deals for dongles and bandwidth taken up by mobile netbook and notebook users, me included.Are the network providers going to expand capacity (which costs money) faster than required by the number of new users? Maybe, but I wouldn't bank on it.
Want to watch Eurosport on your iPhone? That'll cost you £2.39 a month. The sportscaster has released amobile-app versionofEurosport Player, its direct-to-consumer subscription live service.Eurosport launched Eurosport Player in 2008, offering British Eurosport 1 and British Eurosport 2, and it now costs £3.99 a month or £34.99 annually - but the iPhone service comes in cheaper, £2.39 a month or £24.99 a year. The app is free but the in-app subscriptions must renew.The new Eurosport application is for free, but comes with a in-app subscriptionThere are three trends• Media operators are gaining confidence that they can charge on mobile where they don't through other media (Eurosport TV channels are low-tier inclusions in standard Sky and Virgin Media packages)• The recurring-subscription adjunct offered by Apple's iPhone OS 3.0 is proving highly attractive to publishers and broadcasters.• This is an example of how content owners can go direct to viewers, avoiding traditional platform gateways like pay-TV operators.Sport could be particularly attractive in all these regards – fans have long used mobile to get latest-score data; maybe they will also want to watch games on the move, too? BSkyB's Sky Mobile TV app offers a £6-a-month Sky Sports bundle.Butapp users sayEurosport is making them pay once for the Eurosport Player desktop app and again for the mobile app.Eurosport already had afree news and scores app.ViaDigital Spy.
Will your next job come from an algorithm?You'll have noticed that among other things you can get here at the Guardian are jobs. But the way that we find jobs is a bit outdated, isn't it? Plug in a CV, hope that someone picks it up; or alternatively, hunt through job ads trying to find something that fits your experience and skills.Wouldn't it be easier - at least in the programming field to begin with - if your job could find you?That's the possibility being held out by arecent post on Hackdiary, in which Matt Biddulph ("I'm based in Berlin. I'm a software designer and creative technologist. I work at Nokia. I was the CTO of Dopplr, a social network for frequent travellers acquired by Nokia in 2009") notes that his new job involves recruiting people for new projects in Berlin, which he's only recently moved to.The problem: how do you figure out who the people to recruit for your project are, when you're not familiar with the people in the area but need to get going?Well, one option is to analyse submissions toGithub, the open source code repository used by dozens of companies and individual programmers.Biddulph explains:"When I'm hiring, one of the things I always want to see is evidence of personal projects. Over the last two years, GitHub has become an amazing treasure trove of code, with the best social infrastructure I've ever seen on a developer site. GitHub profiles let the user set their location, so I started with a few web searches for Berlin developers. This finds hundreds of interesting people, but how do I prioritise them?"Good question. Of course, another question would be "how do you know if they're any good?" For that, Biddulph moves to the next step:"Another thing that I look for when building a good team is someone's personal network. I've always believed strongly in spending lots of time at conferences meeting passionate people who are smarter than me. A good developer can make themselves even more productive by knowing who to email, IM or DM to answer a question when they're stuck."From there it's a pretty short hop, skip and JMP to his solution:"A recentarticle by Stowe Boyd on centrality and influence in social networksreminded me of some of the network analysis we use behind the scenes calculating recommendations for theDopplr Social Atlas. So I wrote some code to query theGitHub APIand analyse the social graph of the Berlin subset of their users.""The JRuby code uses Yahoo BOSS to do the web search. After querying the GitHub API foreach user's followersit builds an in-memory graph using theJava Universal Network/Graph Framework. Then it ranks each user node in the graph using theBetweenness Centrality algorithm."And, inevitably, he's put thesource code on Github.Your task: see how you would rate against that system. And consider: is the future going to be about doing more in "social programming", where what you've contributed becomes key to your hiring?Bonus link: over at Jeff Atwood's Coding Horror blog (Atwood is the co-creator ofStackoverflow.com, where coders often gather...) he's written about "thenon-programming programmer" - basically, his frustration with people who misrepresent their abilities in interviews.""the vast majority" of so-called programmers who apply for a programming job interview are unable to write the smallest of programs. To be clear, hard is a relative term -- we're not talking about complicated, Google-style graduate computer science interview problems. This isextremely simple stuffwe're asking candidates to do. And they can't.It'sthe equivalent of attempting to hire a truck driver and finding out that 90 percent of the job applicants can't find the gas pedal or the gear shift."Which is why something like Github, where contributions are open and reviewable, are useful.Although you could imagine that the next thing that would happen would be that people would find the most "linked" and "successful" programmers and copy their code and represent it as theirs on Github or similar. So how do you protect against that?And what do you think of the idea of being hired - or at least selected for your next job interview - by an algorithm?
Mobile phone sales declined by 0.9% to 1.211 billion units in 2009, but grew by 8.3% in the final quarter, according toGartner. "The mobile devices market finished on a very positive note, driven by growth in smartphones and low-end devices," said Carolina Milanesi, research director at Gartner.Over the full year, Nokia remained the market leader, shipping 441m phones. However, it lost 2.2 percentage points of market share, falling to 36.4%. Nokia was followed by Samsung (19.5%) and LG (10.1%) from South Korea. In fourth and fifth places, both Motorola (4.8%) and Sony Ericsson (4.5%) saw big declines in market share.In the smartphone market, Nokia's high-volume sales kept Symbian in first place with 81m units shipped for a market share of 46.9%, down from 52.4%. Research In Motion -- known for its BlackBerry smartphones -- came second with 19.9%, an increase of 3 percentage points on 2008. Apple's iPhone more than doubled its unit sales to take the third spot with 14.4%, an increase of 6.2 percentage points,iPhone overtook Microsoft Windows Mobile, which dropped 3.2% percentage points to take 8.7% of the market, with only 15m units shipped.Google's Linux-based Android software did well, shipping 6.8m units for a market share of 3.9%. However, sales of other Linux smartphones fell. Adding Linux and Android together, Linux only gained half a percentage point (from 8.1% to 8.6%).Gartner principal research analyst Roberta Cozza said Android's fourth-quarter growth should continue, but some suppliers had "expressed growing concern about Google's intentions in the mobile market". If this led them to change their product strategies, "this might hinder Android's growth in 2010."
Nearly three years after plans to create a new internet domain specifically for pornography were blocked, the idea could be back on the table once again.An arbitration panel at the International Centre for Dispute Resolution has ruledthat the original decision to prevent the introduction of a new adults-only domain, .xxx, should be reconsidered.The scheme – which proposed a new internet address that would help people filter out explicit material if they wished – was originally blocked by Icann, the group that administrates millions of internet addresses, in 2007.That decision cameafter long deliberations and threats from the US government, which opposed the creation of .xxx on moral grounds and said it would override Icann if it had to. But that interference led the panel to suggest that the plans should be revisited.Stuart Lawley, the chairman of ICM Registry, which had put forward the proposals, called the decision "a victory"."We believe that Icann's new leadership has the vision to embrace the decision as an opportunity to strengthen the Icann model and comply with the rule of law," he said. "We are eager to execute a registry agreement, complete the build-out of our business and implement the vision that started all of this over six years ago."In particular, the 79-page assessment focused on how Icannwas unduly influenced by the Bush administration and other groups lobbying against the idea.While the panel – which consisted of retired judges – said there were no sinister motives behind Icann's decision, they did say that such pressure unfairly biased the vote against ICM."The majority of the board appears to have believed that [it] was acting appropriately in reconsidering the question of sponsorship," they wrote."The board was pressed to do so by the government of the United States and by quite a number of other influential governments, and Icann was bound to 'duly take into account' the views of those governments. It is not at fault because it did so."The proposals to create a new pornography domain stretch back as far as 2003, when Icann announced its decision to open up the number of major domain names. The idea – to expand the existing options beyond addresses such as .com and .net – was seized upon by many groups who saw a chance to create lucrative new internet space for specific purposes.While other groups have submitted plans over the years for new domains such as .music and .berlin, ICM put forward its scheme to create the .xxx domain in 2004.If the decision does get revisited, it may face an easier ride. Since the original ruling, Icann has installed a new chairman and chief executive – and last yearthe US government made the decision to relinquish its control over the group.The concept may, however, face renewed opposition. During the original deliberations, the question of whether .xxx should exist caused controversy on all sides.Not only did it outrage anti-pornography campaigners, who argued that it legitimised the sex industry, but also drew criticism from some parts of the adult entertainment business, who felt that forcing sex sites into a specific corner of the internet would inevitably increase censorship.".xxx is an inherently dangerous idea with no real purpose," said Larry Flynt, the founder and publisher of Hustler magazine, at the time. "Only if it becomes a tool of censorship will it achieve its goal of preventing access to adult content by minors".Lawley said he hoped that the process could move more swiftly second time around. "Too much time has been lost and resources wasted – from both sides – already," he said.
The government's plans for a£6-a-year tax on households to fund super-fast broadbandacross the country were condemned by the Commons business, innovation and skills select committee today.MPs on the committee branded the levy on all fixed-line telephones "regressive and poorly targeted", saying it meant poor people would end up paying for a service that only the wealthier used.The committee also questioned why ministers wanted to spend so much on upgrading broadband at a time when the public purse was under pressure.This criticisms came in a business select committee report into proposals for improving the UK's internet provision, which were unveiled by the government last July as part of the Digital Britain white paper.Under the plans, an extra 50p-a-month charge would be imposed on every fixed phone line, with the estimated revenue of £175m annually going to ensure that every home has superfast broadband – 40-50Mbps (megabits per second) by 2017. The measure is due to be introduced in a finance bill this spring.A spokeswoman for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills defended the proposed broadband tax following the committee's criticism, saying it was "modest, fair and affordable".The MPs warned that while the government's long-term ambitions were "laudable", it was "unwise" to meddle directly in the market at this stage."Early government intervention runs a significant risk of distorting the market and will not allow time for technological solutions to extend the market's reach across the country. Furthermore there is little evidence to suggest a pent-up demand for this enhanced service, with customers currently unwilling to pay the premium for such services," the committee said."We disagree with the government over its proposal to fund its intervention in the Next Generation Access Market with the proceeds of a 50p levy on fixed telecommunications lines."Such a levy would be both regressive and poorly targeted. It would have a much greater impact on the less well-off who will pay for an enhanced service which only a minority will enjoy."If public funds are required for next generation access, they should be raised through general taxation, in the same way as for any other national infrastructure programme."The MPs suggested that cutting tax on fibre-optic cable and improving competition among suppliers would be a better immediate use of public money."In times of great stringency in public expenditure digital inclusion, not next generation access, should be the priority for expenditure. The market can be helped to deliver greater levels of high speed access without significant increases in public expenditure," the report said.However, the BIS spokeswoman said that without public intervention, only 70% of the country would get superfast broadband."Next generation broadband is vital to the UK's growth and we want everyone to access the huge social, economic and health benefits it offers," she added."Our analysis shows that without intervention, the market will only reach up to 70% of the country so it's vital we act now to ensure no area is left behind. The 50p duty we have proposed is modest, fair and affordable and is the best way to drive further investment in our networks."We have always said those on social telephony tariffs will be exempt. The duty will generate some £1bn investment in upgrading our digital infrastructure, which will particularly benefit rural areas. We're currently consulting on the most effective way to deploy this investment with public and commercial benefits in mind, and will consider the committee's report in our final response."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Any game that begins with two rather pretentious artists having to kickstart their creative journey by resurfacing a driveway is always going to be fine with me – and that's exactly how Vivid Games' Artist Colony, gets going. The story involves up-and-coming painter Ben and his singer pal Dylan who set out to restore Ben's father's abandoned sixties artist colony so that it can once again become a productive creative hideaway for sensitive souls.At first, it's all about clearing away rubbish and tending to the flower gardens to create a more inspiring environment, but then inhabitants must set about training in their chosen disciplines, including painting, photography, sculpture and dancing. Through the simple drag-and-drop interface, residents can be set to specific tasks or they can be allowed to wander around, firing up their inspiration by admiring the plants or sitting on the pier gazing across the lake. When their creative juices are gushing, you can pop them in front of an easel or a camera and they will eventually knock out a masterpiece, which then goes in the gallery. Occasionally buyers turn up to purchase a work, which provides the colony with more cash to renovate the various studios, allowing users to reach higher grades of artistic brilliance. The more refined the surroundings, the more artists turn up to become colony members.This is, in effect, a basic people management sim, your role being to assign tasks to your population, thereby maximising the potential of the environment.  At first, the offbeat art setting is intriguing and funny, especially when you get messages like 'Ben has just created a level two photographic masterpiece' – it's amusing to see artist achievement graded in such a pragmatic way. There's also a nice integration with Facebook allowing you to post on your page when you make a new piece of art or recruit a new artist - I'm not sure how many ofmyfriends want to know when I've created a virtual photograph of a modest lakeland scene, but there you go.Also, when you get past this tension between the pretensions of art and the workmanlike business of the sim genre, you're left with a very standard cut-down Sims experience with a limited environment and interaction system. The really promising ideas – like trying to foster love affairs between inhabitants to fire their emotional inspiration are only vaguely sketched out and not interactive enough, while the tiresome business of rebuilding the various workshops and studios stretches out before you like a nightmarish DIY to do list.The experience also isn't helped by a mundanely designed menu system, which puts all the key inventory lists and upgrade options on the pause menu (surely a game design no-no), and makes it laborious to select scenic objects you want to restore.Ultimately though, Artist Colony is a diverting little title for fans of this sim/management gaming enclave, and attempting to get your moody inhabitants to commit to vital training sessions, while bashing out saleable works is undeniably enjoyable. With its pretty visuals and silly dialogue there are the foundations here of a much more expansive and slyly parodic simulation of the art world, but the developers clearly wanted this to be wistful and endearing - more of a Constable than a Munch - and it is, in a small way.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
