A consortium of mobile phone and internet companies including Microsoft and Vodafone is hoping to persuade people to use their phones to surf the web by introducing a new range of internet addresses ending .mobi.After 18 months of negotiations with Icann, the body that assigns internet names, the 11-strong consortium was yesterday given the right to give out .mobi addresses to businesses that want to provide internet content for mobile phones. The first sites with the address should start appearing early next year.Until now the so-called mobile internet has been a disaster. Consumers have been confused by new technologies such as WAP, which were designed to replicate the internet on a phone's small screen. The customer experience was nothing like what computer users expect from the web. New mobiles, such as those offered on fast 3G networks, are able to access the existing internet directly, but the problem is that the internet was designed to be viewed on a computer screen.Some companies, such as Google, have redesigned their .com sites by removing large graphics and reshaping pages. While the site itself can tell if it is being viewed by a PC or phone and send the appropriate version, until now mobile phone users have been unable to tell which sites can be accessed by mobile phone.Rick Fant, Microsoft's representative on the board of the consortium, named mTLD Top Level Domain Ltd, believes this uncertainty has held back the growth of the mobile internet."There has been no real consumer demand because no consumer believes there are services that work on a mobile. We have to create an environment where these services work."Companies buying a .mobi address must adhere to a style guide which will ensure that the site can be viewed on a phone, he said. "So if you see Coca-Cola.mobi going by on the side of a bus you will know that address will work on your mobile device."The consortium consists of Hutchison 3, the GSM Association, Ericsson, Microsoft, Nokia, Samsung, Syniverse Technologies, TIM, Telef&#243;nica M&#243;viles, T-Mobile and Vodafone.The news comes as another long-awaited mobile service is to finally get the green light. MobileATM, a 50-50 joint venture between IT firm Morse and the LINK cashpoint network, announces plans today to introduce mobile banking by the end of the year.MobileATM has spent the last two years developing a simple to use service which effectively turns a mobile phone into a cashpoint machine. Although a mobile phone cannot dispense &#163;10 notes, customers can check their bank balance and top-up pre-pay phones from their bank account through the service, by using their PIN.Banks including HBOS, Royal Bank of Scotland and First Direct are expected to launch services by the end of the year.With the recent collapse of the mobile phone industry's Simpay venture, which was designed to create a global standard for so-called mobile commerce, MobileATM is also likely to become the standard for using mobiles to make deals.
Merton: Has he got tech for you? Photograph: BBCComedian Paul Merton is best known as a panellist on long-running satirical quiz Have I Got News for You?. Last week he was out and about promoting the BFI'slibrary of silent films, andVictor Keegangot the chance to ask him what he thinks about modern technology.The answer? Not much, apparently.Read more...
While the rest of the world has more pressing concerns, American moralists have finally become enraged by the'Hot Coffee'mod for GTA: San Andreas which allows players to access a previously blocked interactive sex scene.Last friday the notorious National Institute on Media and the Family issued a bizarre'National Parental Warning'about the modification. (I'm imagining air raid sirens going off throughout Middle America, children being rushed home from school, angry parents carrying lit torches and gathering outside videogame shops...) In it, spokesman David Walsh proclaims:"While San Andreas is already full of violent behavior and sexual themes, the pornographic sex scenes push it over the edge"Okay, I know these people are an easy target, but let me get this straight: blasting innocent pedestrians in the face in order to steal cars, or engaging in drug deals and then slaughtering everyone else involved - these were to be frowned upon but were not quite of 'National Parental Warning' status. Yet a character having consensual sex with a girlfriend, in a challenge where the aim is to ensure her pleasure? This - one of the only human interactions in the game that doesn't involve violence - is the least acceptable act.Walsh is also widely quoted as saying:"Can you imagine the impact of 13, 14 and 15 year old boys literally enacting this scene?"Here's what I think. A fraction of GTA players will go through the fairly esoteric process of finding, downloading and instaling the modification into their game, they'll give it a quick play, have a laugh with some friends, and then they'll forget about it. Or perhaps they won't forget it - perhaps they'll remember that the crudely realised and daftly portrayed interactive fumbling provided a few moments of calm in an otherwise incomprehensibly hostile environment. Perhaps it will invite them to put their adolescent gangland fantasies of death and retribution into some sort of context.God forbid, eh? God forbid.
The record industry yesterday hailed digital downloads as the saviour of the pop single, as the number of tracks sold over the internet hit 10 million for the year to date.Figures released by trade body the British Phonographic Industry showed that a combination of old and new had contrived to breathe life into the pop single, sales of which had been dwindling for years.While sales of digital downloads are up 744% on the second quarter of last year, sales of seven inch vinyl singles have also soared compared to the April to June period last year.The BPI said that 5,562,638 digital downloads had been sold in the second quarter of this year, taking the total to more than 10m - almost twice the level of 2004, when 5.7m were sold."The record industry has enthusiastically embraced the new legal download services since their emergence in the mainstream little more than a year ago and now we're beginning to reap the rewards," said BPI chairman Peter Jamieson. "The battle against illegal filesharing will continue, but we are delighted to have hit this milestone so soon."After experiencing a 25% fall in global sales over the past five years, the record industry has been pursuing a carrot and stick approach to the internet.The BPI has taken legal action against 90 individuals who share pirated music over the internet, agreeing settlements of up to several thousands pounds, while labels are increasingly promoting the sale of tracks through legal alternatives such as Apple's iTunes and Napster. For the first time, download sales were added to the official chart earlier this year.They hope that the older audience buying tracks online, combined with the opportunity to sample a wider variety of music, will revitalise the music charts and mark a return to the days when a track would slowly make its way to number one.Meanwhile, the resurgence of the seven inch single - up 87% on last year - has been put down to the popularity of home grown guitar bands such as Bloc Party, Babyshambles and the Kaiser Chiefs, with younger fans seeking out vinyl for its retro appeal. "It would be wrong to write-off physical formats just yet," said Mr Jamieson.Sales of singles have been in decline for more than a decade, with record companies blaming the emergence of illegal download services.Others have pointed to the preponderance of heavily marketed acts aimed at an ever younger audience, advance play on radio, the increasing number of music video channels and the high price of CD singles compared to albums as contributing factors.
From messages of support superimposed on well-known London landmarks to angry weblogs and defiant postings on community message boards, the internet was fizzing with responses yesterday to the London bombings.Many of the messages were posted by commuters who narrowly missed becoming victims of Thursday morning's bomb atrocities. Others chronicled the appalled reaction of Arabs and Muslims eager to distance themselves from the acts of the terrorists. But interspersed with moving first-person accounts and agonised soul-searching there was also much defiant humour.One of the fastest growing sites waswerenotafraid.comon which correspondents from as far afield as Italy, Germany and Chile had posted doctored images mocking the terrorists and expressing solidarity with Londoners.The images ranged from the Underground logo with "Still not scared" superimposed on the blue central bar, to sleeping dogs and cats with the phrase "I am not afraid" to a mockup of Osama bin Laden sitting in the road in front of the number 8 bus to Victoria.Alfie Dennen, a 29-year-old London web designer and mobile phone consultant, set the site up on the afternoon of the bombings. By Friday evening he had been inundated by images and wrote: "We're only human, and need to sleep!" He managed to keep the site going by persuading friends to work shifts with him over the weekend. "I didn't realise how big it was going to get," he said.The europhobia blogspot andthesharpener.netboth contained images of the London Eye supermimposed with the words: "We defy terrorism." Below the picture, the sharpener called for people to assemble in London in a demonstration of solidarity with the victims of the July 7 attacks.The blog continued: "I hope and I believe that the attacks on London yesterday will be remembered not for how much they changed Londoners and the world but for how much they didn't."By contrast,livejournal.com, a community forum for London, had posted an image of Big Ben with the words: "Today, I'm a Londoner and today I hurt."According to blog tracking service Technorati, postings increased 30% above normal within hours of the explosions on Thursday, and over the weekend nine out of 10 top searches were about the bombings. It concluded: "This tragic event has affected people worldwide."'You've tried it - now bugger off'Letter posted on London News Reviewlnreview.co.uk"What the fuck do you think you're doing? ... if this is a message to Tony Blair, we've got news for you. We don't much like our government ourselves, or what they do in our name. But listen very clearly. We'll deal with that ourselves. We're London, and we've got our own way of doing things, and it doesn't involve tossing bombs around where innocent people are going about their lives."The gathering of cherubszoogies.net/blog"I found a chilling parallel with the events of 9/11. Hate capitalism or whatever; no one can stop you. But such disgusting disregard for the sanctity of human life cannot pass without retribution."Bignoseduglyguylondon.metblogs.com"This morning, I am sobered by the fact that the revised timing of the Edgware Road blast last Thursday now places me about two minutes away at the next station, Paddington ... I am convinced that we are no different to millions of families who live in London, Belfast, Madrid, Jerusalem, Gaza, Baghdad - ordinary folk who have little choice but to pause, reflect and then carry on as normal."Nosemonkeyeurophobia.blogspot.com"God, us Brits are great. Hardly any panic - more just getting pissed off that it's going to be a bugger getting home. I love this country sometimes."Typed.comtimworstall.typed.com"No grand demonstrations, few warlike chants, a desire for revenge, of course, but the reaction of the average man and woman in the street? Yes, you've tried it, now bugger off. We're not scared, no, you won't change us. Even if we are scared, you can still bugger off."Guardian blogsblogs.guardian.co.ukAlicia Lorente writes from Barcelona"As a Spaniard who lived very closely the March 11 attacks in Madrid, I wish to express my solidarity to all Londoners who have experienced today the unjustified terrorist attacks that some heartless fanatics had carefully planned for a day which should have been plenty of joy and pride for all UK people."Mahmood Al-Yousifmahmood.tv"I completely and unequivocally condemn this terrorist act and its inhuman perpetrators, regardless of the religion or ethnic background they belong to ... The way to beat them is not to give in to them, and more democracy and democratic institutions, a complete overhaul of the education system in the Arab and Muslim worlds and the full separation of mosque and state."Omar Salaymeh, Canadaomars2cents.blogspot.com"I think what happened is truly sad and horrific. It is my view, as well as every Arab that I have talked to since the bombing, that the attacks were bad, and inhumane. What's sad to think about is that there is nothing we can do to stop attacks like these. The stubbornness of both sides, the extremists and the western 'coalition', will only escalate the feud, fuelling more hatred in both sides' hearts."
At ArsTechnica,here, Jon "Hannibal" Stokes reckons that:For the real reason behind the switch, you have to look to the fact that it's the iPod and iTMS — not the Mac — that are now driving Apple's revenues and stock price. As I stated in my previous article on the switch, Apple is more concerned with scoring Intel's famous volume discounts on the Pentium (with its attendant feature-rich chipsets) and XScale lines than it is about the performance, or even the performance per Watt, of the Mac.It's critical to understanding the switch that you not underestimate the importance of Intel's XScale to Apple's decision to leave IBM. The current iPods use an ARM chip from Texas Instruments, but we can expect to see Intel inside future versions of the iPod line. So because Apple is going to become an all-Intel shop like Dell, with Intel providing the processors that power both the Mac and the iPod, Apple will get the same kinds of steep volume discounts across its entire product line that keep Dell from even glancing AMD's way.and....The cold, hard reality here is that the Mac is Apple's past and the iPod is Apple's future. It's a shame that Steve Jobs can't be upfront with his user base about that fact, because, frankly, I think the Mac community would understand. The iPod and what it represents ... is the Macintosh of the new millennium. There was no need to put on a dog and pony show about how IBM has dropped the performance ball, when what Jobs is really doing is shifting the focus of Apple from a PC-era "performance" paradigm to a post-PC-era "features and functionality" paradigm.Comment:For the hard of thinking, it's an opinion piece and it's Jon "Hannibal" Stokes's opinion.
In one of the least surprising transfer deals this summerKonami have resignedThierry Henry to be the "face" of Pro Evolution Soccer.Apparently the Arsenal striker has been "playing Pro Evolution Soccer games for over ten years now." Not only that but he is "looking forward to being closely involved with the creation and promotion of what promises to be a stunning game."Er, thanks for that Thierry. You have to wonder what the point of all this is though. Will anyone actually be buying Pro Evo 5 because of Henry's involvement rather than, say, because it is likely to be the finest footy game around? Any Arsenal fans reading this care to comment?Does the thought of a teenage Henry playingISS on the SNESmake you more willing to buy this than the Rooney-sponsored FIFA 06?Me? I'm aSaintsfan, so unless Konami sign up Matt Le Tissier for Pro Evo 6, I don't care.
Like everybody who had been in transit in London on Thursday morning, my mind was full of "What ifs?" once the extent of the mayhem was known. No fan of the underground at the best of times, I could not guarantee that, stuck in a smoke-filled carriage, I would have had the presence of mind to record the drama via phone camera, or any other device. Yet dozens of people who were not reporters shot remarkable pictures of their ordeal and then shared them via television, newspapers and websites.With the tsunami on Boxing Day we saw the power of the "citizen journalist" in providing instantaneous footage of events when no camera crews or photojournalists were present. But last week marked another step in the disintegration of media hierarchies. When the tsunami happened, people were holidaying, often with video cameras to hand, in a frame of mind in which they were thinking of recording events for posterity, even if they had no inkling of what a very different experience they would be bringing home. The explosions in London happened at a time when commuters and other travellers would not have expected an event, when they would have had to search in their bags or rummage in their pockets for phones.But within an hour of the explosions, according to Helen Boaden, the BBC's director of news, the corporation had received 50 images from members of the public. It was a similar story at ITN and Sky; even at the Guardian's website we had images sent from users' phones. We linked to citizens' galleries of images on websites such as flickr where dozens of images were logged within hours of the events.Carlo Carrington's footage has been shown across the world. He told Sky News: "I thought I was going to die and I didn't want to ... I thought about my daughter, my girlfriend, my mum and dad, and I might not see them again." When despair turned to hope, and he heard an announcement to evacuate the carriage, he decided to film the drama on his mobile phone. "I wanted to give people an insight into what conditions were actually like under there."Boaden's analysis of what she rightly identifies as a gear change is interesting. It certainly represents a new dynamic in newsgathering and a fulfilment of the blogger's adage on journalism: "There's always someone closer to the story than you." At a time when the media have, we are often told, all but exhausted the public's trust, the engagement of the public in disseminating and surrendering news footage must mark progress.But the weight of content that will increasingly be available from "citizen reporters" provides a challenge as well as an opportunity for "big media". After all, authenticity is fairly easy to establish when you have clear footage of train carriages being evacuated, but as the net spreads wider to catch the words and images of ad hoc reporters, verification becomes far harder.This level of difficulty will alarm some organisations into keeping away - many already refuse to run blogs or open comments on quasi-blogs for fear of increased legal risk - but this will inevitably shut off an avenue of debate and a new dimension to coverage.The BBC, with its unrivalled new media resources, has led the field in soliciting and using images from its audience. It has taken steps to engage with, and even offer tips to, citizen reporters in a quid pro quo. As eyewitness accounts become increasingly common, the media have to engage with the idea that opening doors and distribution platforms to everybody will carry a risk as well as a substantial reward.It might take only one faked film, one bogus report to weaken the bond of trust, and, conversely, one misedited report or misused image to make individuals wary once again of trusting their material to television or newspapers.We are in the earliest stages of a revolutionary relationship, and its current urgency is bound to be tempered by setbacks. But it is important that all media owners engage as fully as they can in ensuring that it is a mutually beneficial relationship - one where the public becomes a partner rather than simply a resource.When the Los Angeles Times opened up its editorial to modification in an ill-fated web experiment last month, the debased "wikitorial" had to be closed after a day of abuse and vandalism. But there is an ocean of difference between keeping open a space for your audience to participate in and allowing anyone to trash your journalistic brand. The public have shifted up a gear, and now those in the media have to decide how they wish to keep pace.
It was a new kind of story. Not in the sense of what happened, which was thoroughly and depressingly as anticipated, but in the way it was reported and disseminated. The mobile phone photographers, the text messagers and the bloggers - a new advance guard of amateur reporters had the London bomb story in the can before the news crews got anywhere near the scene.Emerging from inside the police cordon, ordinary tube travellers brought out dramatic footage that defined the media coverage, leading the evening TV news bulletins and staring out from the pages of the next day's newspapers.Seasoned news executives talk of a "tipping point", a democratisation of the news process, the true birth of the "citizen reporter". The public assuming control of the newsgathering process to a hitherto unimagined degree.But what about authenticity? How do recipients of unsolicited video clips and grainy camera phone pictures know where they have come from? Who will be first to be hoaxed? And what about issues of privacy? Imagine, for example, being one of those injured in the blast, when before tending to your wounds, a fellow passenger looms over your body to snap a close-up picture with his or her mobile phone. Here, MediaGuardian writers assess the implications of this new shift in the balance of media power.Citizen reportersHelen Boaden, the BBC's director of news, described it as a "new world" and a "gear change". Minutes after the bombings occurred in London last Thursday, newsrooms around the capital were being deluged with pictures and video clips sent directly from the scene. The long-predicted democratisation of the media had become a reality, as ordinary members of the public turned photographers and reporters.Claustrophobic videos shot in smoke-filled, bombed-out London underground carriages, photographs of the blasted No 30 bus and horrific scenes of body-strewn roads were among the most powerful images to emerge. All were shot by members of the public, and some of them became the iconic pictures of the day."Within minutes of the first blast we had received images from the public," says Boaden. "We had 50 images within an hour. Now there are thousands. We had a gallery of still photographs from the public online, and they were incredibly powerful."The BBC's Ten O'Clock News used two mobile phone sequences shot by members of the public, and the main picture used on its online news service on Thursday was taken by a passer-by. "People are very media-savvy. We saw the use of what we call 'user-generated material' in the tsunami and at the floods in Boscastle. But as people get used to creating pictures and videos on their phones in normal life, they increasingly think of sending them to us when major incidents occur."Boaden believes the growing interaction between the public and broadcasters is changing the media for the better. "It shows there is a terrific level of trust between the audience and us, creating a more intimate relationship than in the past. It shows a new closeness forming between BBC news and the public. Each big story that happens confirms that."More than 300 emails containing an average of three images and about 30 video clips were sent to the yourpics@bbc.co.uk address on Thursday. The iconic picture of the devastated bus at Tavistock Square was sent to the website within 45 minutes of the bombing and was subsequently used on the front pages of the Guardian and the Daily Mail on Friday. Some mobile phone video footage was on air just 20 minutes after being received by rolling news channels.Ben Rayner, the editor of the ITV News channel, says ITN was sent more than a dozen video clips from mobile phones on Thursday, and the clips - some so graphic as to render them unusable - played an important role in getting across to viewers the nature of the story. "It's the way forward for instant newsgathering, especially when it involves an attack on the public," he believes.Mobile phone video clips and stills were posted on to internet sites alongside first-hand accounts of people's experiences, building up a vast catalogue of DIY coverage more comprehensive and wide-ranging than anything available through the mainstream media.John Ryley, the executive editor of Sky News, says video from the bombed tube between King's Cross and Russell Square stations was received at 12.40pm and was on air by 1pm. "It raises questions for the authorities but these devices allow a democratisation of news. News crews usually get there just after the event, but these pictures show us the event as it happens,"says Ryley.One senior BBC broadcaster sums up the effect of mobile phone videos being used on the corporation's news: "I sat down and watched the Ten O'Clock News last night and thought 'this is a media turning point'. It was revolutionary."Julia DayBlogsJust as the internet was said to have arrived as a major news source during the events of 9/11, blogging may come to be seen as the new news essential as of last week - from Wednesday, when email inboxes and irreverent blogs burst with pictures mocking the French Olympic bid, to 24 hours later when the internet mood had utterly changed.And with traditional news outlets initially struggling to make sense of conflicting reports in the minutes and hours that followed the four blasts, many people turned to the internet. It was not the first time that news websites have seen a huge hike in traffic due to a big story, but this time - partly because it took place during office hours and partly because blogs have now become a familiar part of online life - many people also then turned to less formal sites.Anthony Barnett, editor-in-chief at global politics and culture site OpenDemocracy, which runs its own blog, has also noted the change. "The blog mechanism has come in since 9/11 and has created quite a natural form," he says. For Open Democray and others, including some traditional media owners such as the Guardian and the New York Times, the blog provides an increasingly crucial addition to their core online services.LiveJournal, a community site, attracted hundreds of posts during the day. Most of them provided practical information, such as transport updates, pleas for missing persons and links to the latest news updates from around the world. "The community has worked best because it was more timely than conventional news media - but now they're very much on the scene, providing a full news and analysis service, and London is trying to get back to normal," the site's administrator wrote last Friday morning.With every blog posting on the subject and linking to other postings and news stories, it is possible to track the progress of information and conjecture around the web. Technorati, a website that tracks around 12.2 million blogs, reported a 30% increase in blogging activity on Thursday, when nine of the top 10 searches were about the bombings.And while the benefits of the internet in times of crisis were apparent - as a place to find practical information fast, as a giant message board to search for missing people, find communal comfort and debate the issues - last week also highlighted its downside.On some blogs, and certainly on many message boards, rational debate descended into the raving and the    mawkish. And even the plain baffling - witness one US contributor who wrote: "I'm probably only proving that I'm a total Star Wars wonk, but I thought the last page of the novelisation of Revenge of the Sith seemed fitting here ..."Owen GibsonBroadcastThe attack was the first big breaking news story since the BBC published its new editorial guidelines that made explicit the new "accuracy is more important than speed" creed. With so many people turning to breaking news during the day, whether on the digital rolling news channels or the main networks that had ripped up their schedules, clear differences in tone, style and content were laid bare to a mass audience for the first time.BBC News 24 was noticeably more cautious in its coverage than Sky News, which rushed to get as much information - speculation or fact - on air. ITV, meanwhile, sat somewhere between the two. In truth, the differences have been evident for some time, since the Lambert report into BBC News 24 required it to become more distinctive. But with a far bigger audience than the usual news junkie crowd, the differences hit home to many viewers for the first time."We get confirmed facts on air immediately but it's true we're cautious about some wire copy or internet-type rumours that we can't substantiate ourselves," says Roger Mosey, head of television news at the BBC. "At times on Thursday we were getting 'eyewitness accounts' saying completely contradictory things that couldn't possibly all be true."In the two hours that followed the first blast, there was so much conjec ture flying around that the rolling news channels had to be very much on their guard. There are even those who believe the "power surge disruption" explanation was a deliberate piece of disinformation disseminated by the authorities to prevent panic.Mosey says that the BBC would only "put on screen what we know is right - reports from our own correspondents, the official emergency service figures and information from members of the public that we've checked out".This "safety first" attitude was also in evidence on radio: "We now have a very cautious approach to this. We try to get it right even if it sacrifices being first. We are seeking to ensure that our information is very strongly sourced before going with something like a casualty figure," says Stephen Mitchell, BBC head of radio news.Nick Pollard, head of Sky News, makes a subtle distinction, saying viewers are now in tune with the rhythms of rolling news and expect a more complete picture to build up throughout the day. "We take very seriously our reputation as the place to turn to when there's big breaking news. It's what we're there for," says Pollard. "We tell viewers what we can see, what we know and what we don't know."For today's news-savvy audiences, it was important that Sky got the news out quickly on a big developing story, he says, provided that they were told where the information came from: "We scrupulously try to tell people our source - that's something we've learned over the past three to four years."Apart from the proliferation of user-generated content, the coverage was notable for its restraint. "It's a very fine line. I always maintained the point of view that in such a terrible incident we should show what we need to show and no more," says David Mannion, editor-in-chief of ITV News.Mannion believes that the authorities appeared to be over-cautious in updating the casualty figures - with the result that foreign news wires and broadcasters were getting more up-to-date information from their own government sources."I think it was extraordinary to some degree. It seems to me that the Home Office and the Met adopted a policy of not adding to the death toll until they had informed relatives," he says, adding that it led to a situation where the people of Australia were better informed than Londoners. "That is ridiculous. We're all grown ups and I think it's treating the public with a degree of disrespect to hide the truth."Owen GibsonPress"Many of us felt the angel of death brush past us yesterday morning." Suddenly even the agony aunt was a frontline reporter. Last Thursday, everyone was a potential eyewitness and the Sun's Deidre Sanders, who survived the Asian tsunami, found herself at King's Cross just after 9am, face-to-face with survivors of the underground blast. She described in spare, moving prose "the huddle of shaken men and women, with red-rimmed eyes, their faces black with soot".Flick forward a few pages and the paper's TV critic and "Aldgate resident" Ally Ross was shocked to see his own flat flashed up on a television news report. The view from his living room window was unsettling: "Two policemen, armed with machine guns, are standing outside our packed local fun pub," he observed.Some of the accounts were almost too grim to read. The Daily Mail reported eyewitness Carol Miller's description of the carnage at Edgware Road: "I saw an old lady who was ripped to pieces, lying between the two trains," she said. The Mail reporter added: "The force of the blast tore bodies apart and amputations were carried out at the scene." If disasters are best told in pictures, sometimes words bring home the full horror because they confront you with your own imagination.Among the commentators there was a sharp divide between those prepared to point the finger of blame at the prime minister and the Iraq war, and others who felt it was both inappropriate, with the death toll still mounting, and wrong. In her eerily prescient blog on Thursday afternoon, the Mail's Melanie Phillips warned of "something horrible and warped ... lurking just below the surface". She was not referring to George Galloway, rather to belief that the Iraq war "has created more not less terror and that the British would not have been a target at all had we distanced ourselves from the US". The columnist continued: "I expect to see mainstream writers saying as much over the next few days."In the event Phillips did not have to wait that long. In the Daily Mirror, Kevin Maguire, risking the ire of many of the tabloid's readers who thoroughly disliked former editor Piers Morgan's anti-war stance, asked: "Was it because of the war in Iraq? The answers are likely to make uncomfortable reading for Tony Blair ... Responsibility lies firmly with the butchers. However, when the inquest starts, the Iraq war will also be in the dock."Shoulder to shoulder with Maguire was the former Daily Telegraph and London Evening Standard editor - and military historian - Sir Max Hastings, who wrote: "We must acknowledge that, by supporting President Bush's extravagances in his ill-named War on Terror and ill-justified invasion of Iraq, Blair has ensured that we are in the front line beside the US whether we like it or not." Thursday's events made for some strange bedfellows: the Respect MP George Galloway - branded "vile" and "a traitor" in the Sun - said much the same thing in the House of Commons.In the Guardian, meanwhile, Robin Cook - an outspoken critic of the Iraq war - urged bridge-building with the moderate Muslim world. "The danger now is that the west's current response to the terrorist threat compounds the original error," he wrote. "So long as the struggle against terrorism is conceived as a war that can be won by military means, it is doomed to fail." Cook is no doubt one of the "many supple self-deluding figures" referred to in the Telegraph by Mark Steyn: business as usual by the governing class in the face of terrorism is "not a stiff upper lip, but a death wish", he argued. "This is the beginning of a long existential struggle for Britain and the West."Only commentators can afford to be so certain.James SilverThe day in numbersIt was a day in which the number of people visiting news websites soared. As office workers scrambled to find out the latest information, the BBC, Sky News and the Guardian websites reported significantly increased traffic.BBC News accounted for 28.6% of all news page impressions in Britain on Thursday. Sky News was ranked third, with 3.8%, and Guardian Unlimited fifth with 2.4%. The Sun was the eighth most popular news destination, with a 1.4% share, narrowly behind CNN.com.Guardian Unlimited reported that 1.3 million people accessed nearly 8m pages, the most on any one day since the website was launched. More than 500,000 of those users came from the US, while Madrid, scene of the train bombings which killed 191 people in March 2004, accounted for more visits than any other city apart from London.The US accounted for the highest number of users, with 518,524. The UK came next with 392,029, and Canada third with 57,594. Spain accounted for the fourth largest number of visitors, with 35,636. The busiest period was between 1pm and 2pm: 770,000 pages were viewed on Guardian Unlimited, the equivalent of 213 pages a second. On a typical day, Guardian Unlimited has 3.5m-4m full-page views.News websites accounted for 5.6% of all online traffic on Thursday, up nearly 50% on the previous day. Sky News' website rose more than 300 places in the overall web rankings to become the 62nd most visited website.Ratings for the TV news channels were predictably high. On Thursday, Sky News recorded a 4.21% share of viewing, with BBC News 24 on 2.1% and the ITV News Channel on 0.6%.All three news channels were simulcast on terrestrial networks for much of the day: ITV1 was first to switch, taking a rolling service from the ITV News Channel at 10.12am, which continued uninterrupted until 7pm. BBC1 followed suit later, while Five took a feed from Sky News, which was also being simulcasted by Fox News in the US. ITV seemed keen to re-establish its public service principles, breaking off only for episodes of Emmerdale and The Bill before returning with a two-hour news special fronted by Trevor McDonald from 9pm.Despite ITV's mammoth coverage, viewers turned to the BBC in greater numbers. BBC1's early evening news more than doubled its audience: nearly 7 million viewers watched the specially extended bulletin at 6pm, more than twice the 3.3 million who tuned in at the same time the previous Thursday night. At the same time, 4.4 million were watching ITV's news coverage.John PlunkettPR operationThere are few occasions where public relations are as important as in the immediate aftermath of a large scale terrorist attack and the accompanying risk of widespread panic. The Metropolitan Police's PR department, alongside those of the other emergency services and local government, had long rehearsed for yesterday's events and, indeed, far worse scenarios."The eyes of the world are on you at times like this," says the Met's PR chief Dick Fedorcio. "Thursday's attacks began in the City of London police force area, and early on they asked us to take over the media side for them. Before too long we were dealing with all four attacks. I heard the bus blowing up as I walked into the press bureau in Scotland Yard and by then we had already started putting our plan into action."We took the view very early on that we would need access to a large venue. Through government support we quickly got access to the QE2 conference centre which we used for the media. Again, we had planned for that."The Met's deputy assistant commissioner Brian Paddick and the disaster-hardened deputy chief constable of British Transport Police, Andy Trotter, who handled the Paddington rail disaster for the Met, fronted the press conference. "We need to find a senior police figure who is not directly involved in running the operation as we must have access to them round the clock due to the media demands," Fedorcio explains."In a terrorist situation the Met takes the lead over the other emergency services. Since September 11 a whole new series of structures were put in place to manage pan-London incidents under the heading London Resilience. Our initial objectives are: to convey that we are responding, to demonstrate that we are in control, and to reassure people as best and as early as we can. We also need to be as accurate as possible and not to find ourselves in a position of saying things that turn out to be untrue."Nowhere is that more important or sensitive than when it comes to numbers of casualties. Some media executives have expressed frustration at a perceived lack of information in this area: the ITV News editor-in-chief, David Mannion, said he had been called by a Home Office press officer demanding that a newsflash saying that at least 20 people had died be taken down. "I said we wouldn't take it down, because we'd got the figure from an authoritative government source," he said."Numbers are very difficult to manage," admits Fedorcio. "In the Paddington rail crash there was a carriage we    weren't able to get into for several days, but everyone believed a lot of people had got into it. In the event, it turned out there were hardly any bodies in there. When we have a complete body we will count that, but not before. We've had to be very careful with the bus and the train at Russell Square because we won't have a final figure until we have all the bodies out."James SilverUS reactionThe bombings were front-page news all over the US print media. Editors were quick to stress its context in a war on terror that began for Americans with the attacks on New York and Washington in 2001.Memories of September 11 2001 flooded back: "The slow realisation of the magnitude of that crime, the nagging worry that we had not seen the end of it ... " noted an editorial in the New York Times.The New York Post, Rupert Murdoch's bombastic tabloid, devoted its first 15 pages to graphic photographs of damage and dazed and bloodied survivors, while reports on the "Massacre by Savages" stressed Anglo-American unity. Noting the "painful memories of 9/11", the Post contrasted Tony Blair's "steadfast behaviour" with the "surprisingly unfocused" George Bush, and emphasised that the London attacks were another front in the "war on terror" being waged in places such as Iraq."For Britain, it's 7/7," said the Los Angeles Times, stressing the vulnerability of cities in open societies to terrorist attacks. Public transit systems, said the paper, are especially at risk, yet the Bush administration's efforts to boost security were especially meagre.The theme of continued threat at home was taken up by USA Today, America's only national newspaper. "What's being done to prevent an attack on my train, or bus, or subway?" asked an editorial, before concluding, "the stark reality is, not much". Americans, said USA Today, deserved better security. But whereas the US press reaction to 9/11 sometimes degenerated into xenophobia, the response to 7/7 was more tempered.In contrast, the TV networks, notoriously averse to covering news from abroad, tended to emphasise local angles. Which mostly meant wondering how safe Americans' mass transit was. "The pace and tone of American TV news," noted a commentator in the LA Times, "have a way of stoking vague fears." For real news, it was best to turn to the BBC where the tone of coverage could best be described as "adult".Like the other US newspapers, the Washington Post pointed out how new technologies shaped public perception of the London bombings. Americans felt an especial immediacy to events in London when blurry images of footage from the King's Cross blast aired on their television screens. As USA Today noted, paraphrasing the French response to 9/11, today "We are all Britons".Peter Huck in Los Angeles
It's been a long time since I've had any cash, let alone any cash to buy a new car. I don't have a tendency to hang around car showrooms, nor do I watch car programmes on TV, so my little brain had a revolution yesterday when I was in afriend'svery roomy vehicle and was informed that had he wanted to, he could have chosen to get an optional PlayStation incorporated into the body of the car when he bought his automobile.A PlayStation. Not a GameCube, not an XBox, a PlayStation. How did Sony wangle that? A quick search on the Internet has produced a not-insubstantial list of cars with this little extra - none of which offer an option to the Sony machine.What an exceptionally clever move on their part. They have truly infiltrated the nuclear family unit and situated themselves as an integral part in the hearts and minds of the modern mass market, even if it is just a distraction technique for little Johnny or Jane.
I don't know if you've seenMonopoly Live, a promotional online game for the Sunday afternoon classic - which involves and earning in-game revenue every time a GPS-equipped taxi drives through your property.It's a really interesting use of technology, and makers Hasbro say it'sgoing really well: "The beauty of this is we have London as a giant game board. No one else could do this quite as we have done it," says Helen Martin of Hasbro.Does this open up new possibilities for online games? Imagine international online Buckaroo with robotic arms and a million players. Imagine chess being played across a city using GPS.So here's this week's competition question:Which boardgame would you put online, and how?The winner will get themselves a trashy boardgame of our choosing. And on that subject, we've also picked the winner oflast week's competition...Last week's winner was the aptly-named "Time on My Hands", who not only said that the rather spiffy Repton was a favourite 'lost' game, but had the guts to admit ownership of a Repton 3 mug and stuffed toy "from the Repton fan club".That's dedication for you, and the result will be a copy of Sensible Soccer Plus being sent over to you.
What's wrong with dial-up?  If you want real video on your desktop, to play multiplayer games online, or to access bulky files for work, then you need bandwidth and speed. In the early days of broadband, 1MB was seen as the online equivalent of the sound barrier, which was later upped to 2MB then 4MBIt's what?Super-dooper fast internet access. Think broadband on steroids.All this down the phone line?Believe it or not. There may be a spaghetti of cutting-edge technology in the BT exchanges where Be Unlimited is installing its local loop unbundling - think last mile to that white BT box on your living room wall - but in essence, those old copper wires that once connected you to a local operator with a posh accent now link you up to the world.So what can it do?No matter what your local provider tells you, 4MB is about the minimum speed you need for TV-quality video over broadband. You can get video down slower connections - you can even get an ersatz video experience on a dial-up - but for getting that elusive Harold and Maude/The Sound of Music double-bill in the future, the faster the better. With 24MB you should be able to download a DVD-quality movie in less than 15 minutes, in addition to doing what you already do now, at light speed.When can I get it?There's a distinctive country bias with new technology - America gets Sony's handheld gamer, the PSP, before us, while Japan had 3G phones before the rest of the world - but with broadband in the UK it is a postcode lottery. Just under 50 exchanges in London could come online in London by next month, but if you live outside the capital you will have to wait. Still no word on prices, but with other providers launching similar services, expect prices of under &#163;30 by Christmas.
Everyone who was in central London on Thursday morning will have an album of mental snapshots. One image in my photo set was of people queuing up outside the three BT phone kiosks in Torrington Place, 100 yards or so from Tavistock Square.Their mobiles had crashed. The little gizmos can do wonderful things. But they are not engineered for mass emergencies. Londoners, during those panic-striking hours of Thursday, might as well have been carrying Fisher Price toys.In southern California (where "What to do in an earthquake" information is posted in telephone directories) the first instruction is: "After the quake, don't use the phone unless you absolutely have to". If everyone uses the phone, no one can use the phone. The system goes down, taking with it, quite possibly, many injured citizens whose lives could be saved, could an emergency call only get through.Mobiles, on last Thursday's evidence, seem particularly vulnerable to crashing during crisis. The networks are also liable to be shut down to forestall the possibility of mobiles being used as bomb-triggering devices.Landlines are more durable and less corruptible by bad people. But when Londoners needed publicly accessible landlines on Thursday morning many of those in WC1 were out of order, their coin slots jammed, or already decommissioned by BT.For some time, phone boxes have been regarded as a public embarrassment. On July 6 a bill directed against prostitute call cards being posted in them went through the Lords. That's what they had principally become in London: pimp boxes and (in an emergency) urinals. Poor Sir Gilbert Scott. There was no call for the clunky red kiosks now that everyone had their snazzy pocket phone, with all its gegaws and witty ringtones.For some time BT has been trying to divest itself of responsibility for the country's 68,000 public phone boxes - a "universal service obligation" they inherited on privatisation in 1984. These once elegant facilities are no longer regarded by their statutory owners as a public utility, but a non- performing liability. Only six days before the bombings, BT was pleading for the rest of the   telecoms industry to chip in, and help with the cost.The London authorities, after the attacks on New York and Madrid, made commendable preparations for the inevitable attack. But, oddly, they seem not to have given any thought to keeping in working order the most reliable public-emergency communication we have. It was tantamount to still having the police zoom around in clapped out Z Cars rather than state-of-the-art Range Rovers.The history of the Gilbert Scott phone box is a part of Britain's heritage. It was the outcome of a design competition in 1924 - to standardise the appearance of the public facility at a period when most British households no more thought of having a domestic phone than a private aeroplane.Scott's winning design used a steel framework and small-pane glass. After various modifications and minor improvements the K6 design was standardised in 1935, to celebrate the jubilee of George V (England was as proud of its telephone boxes as of its battleships). It was (and still is) recognisably what Scott had come up with 10 years earlier.His kiosks are classics. And - the acid test - they have aged well. Seventy years on, they still look good (how long did those grotesque Chinese pagoda Mercury boxes last?). But they are not merely objects of beauty. They were designed to be tough enough to withstand the elements and (1924 being just six years after the Zeppelin raids on London) to withstand bomb-blast (hence the small panes, and the underground cables).In the second world war, they would be found standing (and usable) amid a wilderness of Blitz wreckage. The hardiness was no accident. As first conceived, Scott's kiosks were not "It's good to talk" things - chatter boxes. They were an emergency service. That's why they were painted pillar-box red. So that they could be easily seen, in a crisis by someone still in shock (in the country, the GPO conceded, they might be painted green, so as to blend with the countryside).If, as seems likely, London is to be targeted again by terrorists, these sturdy kiosks should be refurbished. Not as lovable antiques for the tourists, but as weapons.
Odeo is a new offering from Ev Williams, who founded Blogger, and some of us who saw his demo at this year's O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference thought it just might be the start of something big. Thesitesays:So...we've opened the doors. After months of hard work, we're proud to welcome you to Odeo. We're still very much in beta, so we appreciate your feedback (and patience). But please look around, listen to some stuff, subscribe...have fun.However, the most interesting bit -- Create -- is not ready for use, so you will have to wait to try the online studio:Odeo Studio - A browser-based tool that makes it easy to record and publish audio. With the Studio, and a cheap microphone (or even the one built into your laptop), you have everything you need.
Apart from slipping between different time dimensions to fight gross injustices in the furthest reaches of the universe, Dr Who has also unwittingly created the holy grail of interior car design for today's manufacturers - the Tardis. You see, the Doctor's preferred mode of intergalactic transport is bigger on the inside than it is on the outside. And since the old blue police box first materialised on our screens 40-odd years ago, vehicle makers have been grappling with the idea of the big-small car.No one has quite cracked it yet (obviously), but the Mercedes A-Class has made a good fist of it. The hatchback, which is based on what's called a one-box body, revolutionised urban driving when it first hit our streets. Previously, the stooped small-car motorist had to endure driving with his chest on his knees and put up with a vertical Gavin Henson 'roof static' hairstyle.The A-Class has been playing its space-saving tricks for seven years now and has sold more than 1.1m in that time. When the latest face-lift was announced earlier this year, 50,000 orders were placed in the first week. And it's easy to see why. From the luxed-up interior rammed full of gadgetry to the trademark pin-sharp German engineering, the baby Benz is very much a grown-up car with delusions of grandeur.A Napoleon complex may be an unattractive thing in a work colleague, but in a car it's a godsend.It comes with a 30-year anti-corrosion warranty (by which time Tony might finally have given Gordon a go), there are also cornering lights and rain sensors, there's speed-sensitive power steering and even a transponder which deactivates the airbag when a rear-facing childseat is installed. There is also a revolutionary safety feature which forces the engine downwards and backwards on a frontal impact. This is rather ominously called the 'sandwich concept' - presumably because it stops you becoming the jam in the sandwich when you have a head-on. Starting at &#163;13,655, the feelingis that this is a Mercedes that is a bit of a bargain. But, I'm afraid, that notion only lasts until you turn the key ... I found actually driving it a little disappointing.It's exactly 120 years since Herr Benz invented the world's first petrol engine, and I'm not sure what he'd make of this variant.I was testing the three-door 150 Avantgarde SE, and to me it sounded whiney and weedy - almost underpowered. It's a nippy car without the nip. On top of that the brakes were so spongy as to feel that maybe they actually were sponges, and changing gear reminded me of wobbling a loose front tooth in a six-year-old's mouth. Selecting a gear was like playing the lottery - you never knew which number was going to come up. Is it in third? Is it in fifth?Still, as the Doctor might have said, 'Probably just the flux capacitor that needs tweaking ...'
Ever wondered why every bookstore you go into seems to have piles and piles of a few bestsellers, but not a single copy of anything by Henry James? Or why the video section has all the latest brain-dead Hollywood blockbusters, but not a single copy of Manon des Sources? Or why your local multiplex never shows a foreign language film?The answer, of course, is simple: life is short, space is limited and rents are high. No bookshop or video store can stock everything. Multiplexes have to show movies that are likely to put bums on expensive seats. So, not surprisingly, everyone tries to stock or present things that are likely to sell (remember all those copies of Eats, Shoots and Leaves at Christmas?) And as rents rise and competition increases, the pressure to stock only surefire 'hits' increases. It may not be a law of nature, but it's the iron law of retailing.It's a law that has increasingly shaped our media industries and leads to investment, production and marketing strategies that are focused entirely on maximising the probability of hits.It explains why some books are published and others are rejected, why some films get financed while others languish, why a few bands receive all the promotion while the majority have trouble getting a good designer to work on the album sleeve. It's the way things have to be.Correction: it's the way things had to be, once upon a time. And that time has gone.Here's an illustration. The average Borders bookshop in the US can hold, at most, 130,000 print titles. But Amazon.com earns less revenue from the 130,000 top titles in its catalogue than it does from the rest. In other words, Amazon has discovered that there's more money in 'misses' than there is in hits.Welcome to the world of what statisticians call 'the long tail'.This is the colloquial name given to a well-known feature of statistical distributions in which a vast number of events occur very rarely while a small number occur very often.The huge population of rare events is referred to as the long tail. And it just so happens that in many cases the rare events are so much greater in number than the common events that in total they actually comprise the majority.An oft-cited illustration is the frequency distribution of words in English. 'The' is the most commonly used word, and 'disestablishmentarianism' is used almost not at all (except by my kids when they were learning to spell), but most words in English are part of the long tail.The marketing significance of this was first picked up by Chris Anderson in a Wired magazine article in October last year in which he explored the effects of the long tail on current and future business models. He observed that products that are in low demand or have low sales volume can collectively add up to a market share that rivals or exceeds the relatively few current bestsellers and blockbusters, provided, that is, one critical condition is met: the store or distribution channel has to be large enough.Enter Amazon. No physical store could ever stock everything in the long tail of every medium. But Amazon isn't a physical store - in essence it's a virtual one (though of course it does nowadays have some physical warehousing facilities of its own).Amazon works by making it easy for consumers to locate long-tail items, knowing who stocks them and getting the items shipped to the customer. In the process, it essentially abolishes the iron law that governs retailing in 'meatspace' (aka the real world).The strange thing is that there's nothing virtual about the goods that Amazon ships at present: they are physical objects like books, CDs and DVDs (not to mention cameras, electronic gadgets and all the other stuff you can now buy from the site). But imagine the economics of the long tail in 'pure' information goods - ie products that exist only as downloadable bitstreams.The truth is that every movie ever made, every music track ever recorded, every book ever written - no matter how obscure - could be included in the long tail, made available online and distributed at almost zero cost.The implications of this are profound, but all the evidence I've seen so far suggests that the media industries don't seem to have got the message. They're stuck, as Chris Anderson observes, in 'a hit-driven mindset'. They think that if something isn't a hit, it won't make money and so won't return the cost of its production. They assume, in other words, that only hits deserve to exist. If they don't wake up soon, they won't deserve to exist either.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
For Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen, it's a giant fig leaf. For one government minister, it's a Chopper bike he has owned since he was seven. For Joanna Lumley, it's a wooden trunk which crossed Bhutan on a yak in the Thirties.These are a few of the favourite things of celebrities taking part in a project aiming to collect stories about objects and why they have special places in people's lives. 'Every Object Tells A Story' is gathering images, video and audio explanations of such cherished items - those already posted on its website include a pair of Manolo Blahnik shoes, Wagon Wheel biscuits,  Star Wars memorabilia and a Second World War love letter lost for 60 years.Some objects have been chosen because they evoke memories of a family member or friend. Lumley chose a treasured possession of her grandfather. 'I have a wooden trunk with rope handles, which at the moment is covered with books. But stencilled on its side you can see the name, WEIR,' she said.'It went on a yak across Bhutan in the Thirties with my grandfather, Colonel Leslie Weir, who was the Political Officer in Sikkim. He had been invited to visit the King of Bhutan. The journey, with over 100 pack animals alone, was in midwinter and took two months.'TV presenter Llewelyn-Bowen selected a giant fig leaf belonging to the copy of Michelangelo's statue of David at London's Victoria and Albert Museum. 'I can remember going to the museum when I was quite small with my mother and the statue was on display,' he said. 'I heard some giggling from behind the statue, so I went around to see what the fuss was about and all of a sudden saw this dirty great plaster fig leaf!'I just thought it was amazing to imagine how this enormous thing could have somehow precariously dangled from tiny hooks hidden in David's immaculately coiffed pubes! And it was all to protect the modesty of Queen Alexandra, which always seemed weird to me, because she seemed like such a racy chick.'Many a child has clung to a cuddly toy, but few have had a Spot the Dog bought to cheer them up on the day their family moved from Monaco to London - as did Lady Isabella Hervey.Alain de Botton, the philosopher, eschews a bust of Socrates for his teddy: 'Yellow Bear was the first object I cared for. Babies start off with no attachment at all, and psychoanalysts tell us it's an important stage of development when a small child starts to love an object outside himself.'Perhaps the least surprising choice is that of Channel 4 News presenter and avowed cyclist Jon Snow: a bicycle. He has graduated from a maroon Raleigh with a basket, when he was six years old, to his current bright yellow machine.'An object to die for, if not on. There's not a seam on it, it's hand finished, it feels like silk and weighs only grams. It's so much more than a bicycle.'The campaign to collect stories behind precious personal items is a collaborative venture by Culture Online, the V&amp;A, Channel 4, Ultralab and three regional museums. Even before the official launch at the V&amp;A on 20 July, there are already more than 1,200 entries onEveryobject, David Lammy, the Culture Minister, whose department is responsible for Culture Online, selected a Chopper bike his father bought him when he was seven: 'From bejewelled Faberg&#233; eggs to Cadbury's Creme Eggs, every object has a story attached to it. This project brings together the cultural canon with the opinions of everyday folk.'
Millions of personal email and mobile phone records could be stored and shared with police and intelligence officials across Europe to help thwart terrorist attacks.The Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, will propose new measures at an emergency meeting of European Union interior ministers which will discuss the implications of Thursday's London bombings.He raised the stakes dramatically by claiming they could 'quite possibly' have helped prevent such attacks, by identifying in advance suspicious patterns of behaviour by potential terrorists.The move comes as The Observer can also reveal that the National Crime Squad has contacted internet service providers in the UK, appealing for them to preserve email messages in case they prove useful to the manhunt. The messages could include highly personal information.Although police have no powers to force compliance, the memo sent last Thursday suggests it is 'likely that the perpetrators behind the multiple explosions in central London today have used telecommunications systems in the planning and execution of their act', and there was a risk of evidence being lost.Clarke's proposals for an EU-wide agreement would stop short of such intrusion into the content of emails. But it would require the storing of revealing 'traffic data' - detailing who has called, or messaged whom, with times and locations - for several years, enabling individuals to be tracked across Europe and emerging networks of sympathisers to be monitored.The Home Office is also pushing for tracking of lost or stolen explosives across the EU, to prevent terrorists getting access to the raw materials of bombs; access to EU databases by law enforcement agencies across the EU; and greater co-operation on tracking stolen passports, which can be used by terrorists to create new identities.With emotions running high over the bombings, the move will trigger debate about the impact on civil liberties. However, he said Britain and Spain - which has backed the cause since the Madrid bombing - wanted it finalised by the end of the year.'Terrorism today is by definition international: the more we can survey the way in which people operate, the way in which they make their phone calls, the better your chance of identifying patterns of behaviour which are a threat,' he said.Asked if such measures would have helped prevent the London bombing, he said: 'I think it's quite possible, actually.'Whitehall sources said intelligence services around the world had also been asked to share any 'chatter' about the bombing.Clarke also pledged to review draft plans for a crackdown on so-called 'acts preparatory to terrorism' - expected to include new offences of associating with a known terror suspect, targeting terrorist sympathisers - to see whether further measures are required. A new counter-terrorism bill had been almost complete when the bombers struck.Controversial plans to have suspected terrorists tried by a security-vetted judge and defence lawyer, who would secretly examine evidence submitted by the intelligence services and not seen by the defendant, are on hold. Clarke is said to regard it as too drastic a change to be introduced in the bill due in the autumn.Both the Tories and Liberal Democrats said they would continue to oppose the identity cards legislation currently before the Commons, although privately Labour MPs admit the parliamentary revolt may now be diminished.Clarke admitted he cannot claim that ID cards would have prevented the bombing, although he argues that in Spain, where they are compulsory, they helped trace the alleged perpetrators, via their mobile phones, which Spaniards can buy only after producing an ID card.The data retention proposal would require the saving of millions of pages of personal information for several years: the exact amount of time would be agreed between EU member states, but the UK is thought to favour a minimum of five years. Similar proposals have been opposed by the EU in the past.Simon Davies, director of Privacy International, said some EU countries including Germany were likely to resist. 'There are some celebrated cases where we know, for example, that traffic data and mobile location has been useful to the police,' he said.'But this is mass surveillance at its crudest.' It would lead to 'information overload', he said, stockpiling masses of useless information.David Davis, the shadow home secretary, warned in an interview yesterday that civil liberties should not be sacrificed in the rush to defend Britain. 'The best defence of security is to have the liberties,' he said. 'The first act of the liberation fighter is to try to force the state to do repressive things, because when the state does repressive things it recruits your supporters.'Sources close to Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, said that his party would continue to defend civil liberties vigorously but responsibly. A source said: 'Everything is going to be influenced by what has happened, but the fundamental principles of civil liberties remain as ingrained as they ever were.'Clarke, speaking before another meeting of the Cabinet emergency committee yesterday, said the first priority was the criminal investigation.'The principal problem is getting forensic data that stacks up from the crime scenes themselves,' he said. 'They are appalling scenes and it is very difficult to get the material which can identify who committed these acts and why.'He said nothing had been ruled in or out, including the possibility of a suicide bomber, and pledged 'a very close examination' of the handling of intelligence prior to the attack.However, Downing Street sources stressed that the Prime Minister did not blame the intelligence services and said a formal inquiry into what went wrong was not a high priority: 'Although they will review the situation, their first task at the moment is to find out who did it.'
In an extraordinary outpouring of cyber-solidarity since last week's terrorist attacks, hundreds of people from around the world have been inundating a London website with images emblazoned with the words 'we are not afraid'.The site -werenotafraid.com- is the brainchild of a 29-year-old London web designer named Alfie Dennen. The idea began just hours after last Thursday's bombs, when he posted a mobile-phone photo from a friend taken outside one of the stricken tube stations.Within hours, a huge array of images were coming in - from Italy and America, Germany and the Middle East - with messages of defiance in a range of different languages. 'It was an amazing response,' he told a national newspaper.By last night, Dennen had posted a welcome message on the site saying he was leaving it 'unattended for a while' but would soon be back to resume posting a backlog of some 1,000 solidarity images.The photos submitted    range from family snaps and baby photos to pictures of pets - and even Yoda from  Star Wars, accompanied by the words: 'Fear is the path to the dark side. Fear leads to anger. Anger leads to hate. Hate leads to suffering. Not afraid I am.'One contributor posted a montage showing a tube sign next to the Houses of Parliament. Instead of the underground logo, it proclaims: 'Still not scared.'A woman from Bremerhaven in Germany sent in a picture of herself and her cat, saying she was definitely not afraid - adding, with a helpful arrow pointing at the tabby, 'My cat isn't afraid, either.'A couple from Florence - Vera and Alex - identified themselves as 'adoptive Londoners' and added: 'This is still one of the best places on earth and we are not afraid.'And a musclebound beachcomber named Thomas W defiantly captioned his photo: 'Angry, yes... but not afraid. Stand tall, London.'Dennen said that since putting up the site last Thursday, he had barely had time to eat or sleep due to the volume of messages. 'I can't believe how little sleep I've had over the last couple of days,' he said. 'I didn't realise how big it would get, and how quickly it would happen.'
In response to apostI wrote earlier in the week about Second Life's Virtual Americana, Brad at EEG postedthisthoughtful response on Variety. In it, he recounts his experiences after the terrorist attacks on New York in 2001, and how he realised that people were using virtual worlds to to connect and communicate with people from around the world about these tragic events.What struck me -- and I thought that I already knew this, but maybe I didn't know it as strongly as I know it now -- was that what was happening in the virtual worlds was exactly what was happening in my neighborhood. I'm a hermit, and generally avoid people as much as possible. But in the aftermath of Sept. 11, I found myself walking around Berkeley, talking to strangers, sharing a laugh, and connecting with people for reasons I can't begin to comprehend.I never fully captured that spirit about games -- that for all their blustery sounds and graphics, what we love most about online worlds is that they give us a chance to interact with strangers, not just to go on adventures, but also to say hello. To announce that we exist. And to chat with old friends, virtual or otherwise.Of course, when he wrote it, we had no idea what was going to happenin the real world.This London Memorial was created Thursday by the residents ofSecond Life. It is absolutely covered in displays made by players from around the world. Since it was put up by, there have been constant crowds gathered to talk, to share experiences, fears and support.If anyone else has any examples from other games, please pass them on.
Morehere.
No, not that one. Microsoft bloggerRobert Scobledid a 10-minute interview with Microsoft's chief executive for Microsoft's Channel 9 blogging servicehere. There's a transcript and a 140MB video.
APandReutershave released stories about hidden sex scenes in the PC version of GTA: San Andreas, taken up by Hiawatha Bray atThe Boston Globe.This is old news to Gamesblog readers, of course, which carried the story onJune 14.Basically you have to apply the Hot Coffee mod to reveal a short,cartoon sex scene.This has now stimulated a complaint by "Assembly Speaker pro Tem Leland Yee (D-San Francisco/Daly City), child psychologist and legislator who has pushed for laws limiting children's access to ultra-violent video games, today blasted the Entertainment Software Ratings Board (ESRB) for failing to appropriately rate the best-selling video game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas," according to hispress release.The point is that -- although it's supposed to be inaccessible -- it's in a game. Otherwise it's not as good as stuff you could get on the Mac 20 years ago, and it's a lot easier to find real porn on the Web than go to the effort of making the mod to GTA.Either way, the publicity could give another boost to sales of a game that has made pots of money from being offensive. If Rockstar is really lucky, it could get lots of free promotion inThe Daily Mail.
It's been an incredibly busy week - so here's a selection of some of the best posts we've done here on Onlineblog.SaturdayThe battle for eardrums has begunSundayAdult site sues over sexy imagesMondayMasters of their universeGames we missTuesdayChips chargeChina puts surfers in therapyDoonesbury goes bloggingWednesdayEU rejects software patents directiveFeedback: sharing and daringUS consumers still using CDs and FM radioStop quoting baloneyThursdayFilesharing, Freeman and BitTorrentMan charged with stealing Wi-Fi signalFridayBloggers and photographers chronicle chaos in London
For Tony Figliolo the dream ended at 4.59pm when he was dealt a pair of aces. If the other guy hadn't been holding a straight flush it could all have been so different.But the car parts salesman from Phoenix, Arizona, thought his opponent was bluffing and bet all his remaining chips on the cards lying face down on the table in front of him. As the dealer swept the pretty little pile of multicoloured discs towards his opponent Mr Figliolo's participation in the biggest card game the world has ever seen was well and truly over.The 48-year-old was among the 6,000 players who have descended on the glass and neon edifice that is the Rio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas this week to play in the World Series of Poker, all of them dreaming that when the final card is dealt next Saturday they will be the one holding all the chips.With an estimated prize pot of about $60m (&#163;35m), this is - depending on your definition of the word sport - the richest sporting event in the world. And men like Mr Figliolo, who dream of becoming instant millionaires on the turn of a single card, are the living, breathing embodiment of the poker boom sweeping Europe and the US.When the first World Series of Poker was contested in 1970 there were fewer than 20 players. They went by names such as Thomas "Amarillo Slim" Preston, wore 10 gallon hats, and were as well known for their fighting, drinking and general fast living as they were for their skills with a deck of cards.But now the competitors are just as likely to be human resources managers, accountants and students, many of whom have won places at the $10,000-a-seat world series by playing online tournaments. They come from more than 40 countries, including an estimated 600 from the UK. There has even been a smattering of celebrities, from the Hollywood stars James Woods and Tobey Maguire to the snooker player Stephen Hendry.Sitting alongside them in the cavernous poker room of the Rio are the world's top professional players, who, because of the success of poker on US television, are now as famous as baseball players or racing car drivers. Their shirts and caps are emblazoned with sponsors' logos, usually for the gaming websites that have revolutionised poker. Once it was considered little more than a low-rent game for card sharks and hustlers, but it has now become a mass-market multibillion-dollar business, illustrated last month by the flotation of PartyGaming on the London Stock Exchange.In another of the aircraft hangar-sized rooms in the casino - where for a fee you can have your picture taken sitting on a Harley-Davidson motorcycle with a Vegas showgirl draped across your lap - the assembled masses are busily buying up books, DVDs and magazines, all promising to help them fulfil their dream of becoming the next poker superstar.The main event of the world series kicked off on Thursday at 11am with the shout of "shuffle up and deal!" accompanied by whooping and hollering from the thousands of players and spectators crammed into the casino. But when the blue-shirted dealers began whisking the cards across the baize at dizzying speed, the room became a lesson in studied concentration as the players, many squinting from beneath baseball hats or behind dark glasses, settled down for a marathon session of No Limit Texas Hold 'Em.The whole performance was accompanied by an extraordinary and relentless noise that if you closed your eyes could have been the clack-clack-clacking of a vast swarm of crickets. In reality it was the chatter of thousands upon thousands of plastic poker chips being knocked together.The prize money comes from the $10,000 entry fee -also known as the buy-in - so with about 6,000 players the prize pool this year will be about $60m, with the winner getting $7.5m and $1m guaranteed for each of the nine who make it as far as next Saturday's final. But the vast majority of players, most of whom will be eliminated during the three days of first-round matches that began on Thursday and finish today, will walk away with precisely nothing.Most of the players do not seem to consider poker gambling. Instead they see it as a skilful pursuit that is closer to a sport than it is to the chance games, from the roulette wheels to the craps tables and slot machines, that fill most of the Vegas casinos."It's not a game of chance," insists Shaun Conning, 34, a human resources manager from Watford, who despite only arriving from the UK on Tuesday managed to drop more than $2,500 in less than 24 hours playing in qualifying tour naments. "I've been playing for eight years and I lost money for the first five and a half."But I've had a good run and already made &#163;35,000 online this year."But according to Keith Whyte, the director of the National Council on Problem Gambling, based in Washington, the exponential rise in poker's popularity has been mirrored in the US by a rise in the number of recreational gamblers with serious debts."Gamblers have not had a problem in finding a place to lose their money, but what we are seeing is a lot more people with short gambling careers and more debt," he says. "One of the problems is that because people see poker as a skill game it leads them into thinking that the more they play the better they are and the less chance matters."Amy Calistri, 48, a poker writer from Texas, agrees. "People see all these stars and big money tournaments on the television and they have this false expectation that it will be a life changing event," she says."What they don't see is the people leaving without their shoes."Back inside the Rio's poker room, gambling addiction and debts were the last thing on anybody's mind yesterday. Instead the talk was about who would have the edge this year, the new breed of online players or the hardened casino hands.Henry Campbell-Smith, 21, a philosophy student at Leeds University, is a typical example of the British players who have made the journey to Vegas for the event. He got his seat along with his airfare and accommodation by winning &#163;10,000 in an online qualifying tournament, a hobby he has used increasingly in an attempt to supplement a meagre income."I guess I'm not that nervous. I'll be happy just to make it through the first round," he says.One of the most inexperienced players must be Stuart Beaton, who works in IT for air traffic control in Glasgow. The 36-year-old only started playing in January to alleviate the boredom of a back injury that was keeping him off work. He got his seat by winning $10,000 on PokerStars.com and, when he sits down for his opening round game today, it will be the first "live" match he has ever been in."I tried playing a couple of weeks ago with some friends but we got so drunk that nobody could remember who had won," he says.For Ray Di Silvestro, 63, a retired Chicago cop who moved to Vegas and became a professional player when he turned in his police badge, the online players are manna from heaven.Mr Di Silvestro, who plays poker five days and 50 hours a week, is one of the dozens of players lined up at the registration desk with a $10,000 roll of banknotes in his pocket - it's a strictly no credit card kind of event."There's going to be a lot of dead money on the table," he says with a glint in his eye. "A lot of these online kids think they can come and do wonders, but if you don't have the experience you don't know how to read a person. That's what this game is all about."Buying into the dream&#183;In 1949 Nicholas "Nick the Greek" Dandalos challenged Johnny Moss to a public game of poker at Binion's casino. Moss won the $2m prize&#183;Binion recreated the 1949 game with the first World Series of Poker in 1970. Fewer than 20 players took part, and Moss won again&#183;This year's tournament is taking place in the Rio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas; 450 dealers will be employed at the 200 poker tables&#183;The final two days will be hosted by Binion's, which is too small to host the full tournament this year&#183;The series has been running since June 2, involving about 23,000 players&#183;The record for the number of registered players in a live poker event has already been broken. The previous record, set at last year's world series, was 14,054&#183;There are 6,000 players in the main No Limit Texas Hold 'Em event, from more than 40 countries, including 600 from Britain. Each player has paid a $10,000 "buy-in" in cash in the hope of scooping the $7.5m first prizeKaty Heslop
Super Monkeyball Deluxe (XBOX)That the monkey - trapped in a transparent ball and tilted by you around the game's huge variety of precipitous mazes - has absolutely nothing to do with the game is just one glorious aspect of Sega's new star franchise, now available for PS2 &amp; Xbox. While mechanically identical to the Nintendo versions, its structure doesn't limit you to the usual three lives, allowing you to try each level as many times as you like. Along with a system that lets you select which stages to play, the game features an amalgam of puzzles from previous outings and is even more accessible and fun - qualities it already had in surfeit. Tense, addictive and funny, this also comes with some multiplayer mini-games.&#183;Sega, &#163;40Tekken 5 PS2Administering beatings is something best left to professional boxers and the irretrievably drunk - the disappointingly weak Tekken 4 only served to reinforce this. That Tekken 5 is a dramatic return to form will be comforting for armchair martial arts experts everywhere. With more arenas, an array of fighting styles and a slightly faster feel, join old friends and three new faces including Raven, who bears a striking resemblance to Wesley Snipes in Blade, and Asuka, a slightly sinister, arse-kicking Japanese schoolgirl. Coming with arcade-exact versions of Tekkens 1-3 (drawing a discreet veil over episode 4), this is a monumentally complete way of engaging in theatrical punch-ups.&#183;SCEE, &#163;40NTILondonWhen games and films get together the results are all too often a steaming pile of Tomb Raider: The Movie. Crossovers from Street Fighter to Resident Evil have wrung disaster from much-loved franchises, and players of Enter The Matrix and most other film-based games (save the eight-year-old Goldeneye, Lego Star Wars and a slim group of others) will find the reverse is just as disappointingly true. This weekend NTI (Non Trivial Interaction) at the NFT will shed more light on the emergent scene, drawing lessons from the pioneers such as games industry stalwart Peter Molyneux, the makers of the spectacular Half-Life 2 and Giant Entertainment development director Jonathan Smith, speaking on the aforementioned Lego game. As well as an authentic sit-in Star Wars cockpit, the event will feature previews of forthcoming titles, cinematic-sized gameplay plus a masterclass for 16- to 24-year-olds interested in a career in video gaming.&#183;National Film Theatre, SE1, Sat 9, Sun 10;bfi.org.uk/nti
If you thought the best thing about the Live8 coverage on TV was Ricky Gervais' adverts then you can find them all still online atrickygervais.com. After doing his bit to raise awareness for G8, the comedian returns to his day job with a new sitcom, Extras, beginning next week -bbc.co.uk/comedy/extrashas all the sordid details.Incidentally, if you're still nostalgic for The Office,wernhamhogg.co.ukis still knee-deep in analysing the significance of setting a stapler in jelly and other key moments. If you don't live in London or have digital radio you might have missed the Saturday afternoon show Gervais and co-writer Stephen Merchant occasionally do for Xfm, but you can relive the best bits atxfm.co.uk/ricky.Finally for evidence that the Berkshire legend once attempted a career as one half of a synth duo visitinjenn.net/~tania/seona-dancingfor samples and alarming photos.
Creators of online music services such as composers, lyricists and performers would be able to secure a single pan-European copyright licence for the first time under proposals tabled yesterday by the European commission.The proposals, to be launched formally in the autumn, are designed to boost the growth of legitimate online content services in the EU and close the gap with America in webcasting and streaming.An EC study found the US market was worth &euro;500m (&#163;340m) a year against just over &euro;100m in the EU. The cost of a licence, granted via collective rights managers to commercial users, is about &euro;19,000 for mechanical and performance rights in the EU's 25 countries - &euro;475,000 in total.Given that the profit on each download was &euro;0.10, it would require 4.75m of these to recover the cost of the licences. "We want one licence covering all of Europe via a pan-European authority," EC officials said. A main aim is to ensure more royalties are distributed to rights-holders across national borders.
MondayGame8A Bizarre diaryVirtual AmericanaTuesdayGames at the NFTJeff Minter vs Xbox 360: how Microsoft bought the light synth visionChips are down for Xbox modderWednesdayIndie gaming site reports on year so farPoint and ClickMachinimateThursdayLondon 7th July 2005FridayRead this
The power and reach of internet diary weblogs have been proven in the aftermath of yesterday's bombings in London, according to media executives.With one of the most dramatic domestic stories in living memory breaking over a period of hours, people in the UK began writing and reading blogs as a real-time way to share and access information faster than could be achieved through other media.Emily Bell, the editor-in-chief of Guardian Unlimited, agreed that blogging came into its own yesterday, with the Guardian's Newsblog placed at the centre of the paper's online coverage."The key thing about blogs is that they are not like &#91;internet or newspaper&#93; front pages, where you get the most important thing first. With blogs you get the most recent thing first. When you are following a major story, you want the most recent thing first."She said blogs acted as a quicker way of updating a story than writing a full, traditional new story, and that people turned to the internet to get more up-to-date information than was being offered on TV, as well as using the blogs as a place to connect emotionally with events.Blogs excel as an arena for people to exchange first-hand experiences and many witnesses to the events in London told their tales online while bloggers from around the globe sent messages of support and condolences.Paul Mason, the BBC Newsnight correspondent who has pioneered blogging for the programme with a post from the G8 summit in Gleneagles, said the amount of blog feedback he has received confirmed his belief there is a place for the technology in mainstream media.Mason said he was surprised that, although he was blogging about G8, people used it as a way to contact him about events in London."Blogging is essentially about every person responding to things... The weird thing was that loads of people wrote in to the blog about the London bombs."Americans must have come across the blog when searching the BBC for news about London, and wrote to me saying 'take care' and 'we hope you are all right'. For me it confirmed the dollar of the blog,"Whereas blogs are more usually focused on the narrow, and frequently bizarre, interests and lives, the top eight searches on blog-tracking service Technorati this morning were all about the terrorist attacks on London, with searches including "London explosion" and "London bombing" remaining the top six searches this afternoon.By Thursday evening the number of postings to blogs was up 30% from the previous day, according to the Technorati chief executive, Dave Sifry.And this afternoon the service was buckling under the volume of users blogging on the site."The bombings in London today have had a huge impact across the world's weblogs, and our website is experiencing a corresponding spike in use," said a statement posted on the website.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"The British newspaper The Guardian solicited firsthand accounts of the blasts from those who were there. Responses poured in from people like Matina Zoulia," reportsThe Wall Street Journal Online."On Wikinews.org, a Web site that any visitor can edit, several articles cropped up, each written by dozens of collaborators, while another site began keeping a list of confirmed survivors of the blasts. LiveJournal, which provides free blogging software, has dedicated part of its site to locating Live Journal bloggers in London who haven't been heard from."The article has lots of good links.
France Telecom is going to use the Microsoft Connected Services Framework and develop a LivePhone -- a Wi-Fi smart phone similar to BT's Bluephone. TMCnet has asummary(with pop-up ads).Comment:Might be an interesting add-on to an Xbox Live service, too...
Make sure you read ex-Edge magazine writer Dave McCarthy'sexperience of the London bombs. His account of what happened to him on the tube yesterday sums up the banality of the moments before the blast - playing on GBA - and the shock as realisation set in.
"Police have arrested a man for using someone else's wireless Internet network in one of the first criminal cases involving this fairly common practice," reportsAP.Benjamin Smith III, 41, faces a pretrial hearing this month following his April arrest on charges of unauthorized access to a computer network, a third-degree felony.Police say Smith admitted using the Wi-Fi signal from the home of Richard Dinon, who had noticed Smith sitting in an SUV outside Dinon's house using a laptop computer.
Now you can work out how far it is to walk to the shops. Mark your route and theGmaps Pedometercalculates the distance....
News of this morning's bomb blasts in London spread across the world on the internet within minutes of the first reports from the capital.According to blog tracking serviceTechnorati, there were more than 1,300 posts about the blasts by 10.15am this morning, just an hour after the first report of emergency services being called to Liverpool Street station.Most UK news websites managed to keep running without suffering the crashes that other big breaking news events such as 9/11 caused, but some sites have been running slowly includingbbc.co.uk.However, experts said that when the US begins to wake up to the news and logs on then UK websites could suffer problems."There doesn't seem to be enough traffic at the moment to give websites any serious problems - but that is partly because the US is still in bed. Once they wake up, by 3pm or 4pm, things could all become a bit more difficult online," said Bobbie Johnson, the deputy editor of the Guardian newspaper's Online section.Guardian Unlimited is devoting all its online resources to its web news service and has stripped out unnecessary links and information to free up capacity on the site.Alongside its news coverage the site is providing minute-by-minute updates with reports from journalists at several of the main flashpoints across the capital, with blogs - instant online diaries - becoming an increasingly popular way of creating and accessing information with immediacy.Flickr, a photo-sharing website usually used for pictures of holidays, family and friends, has also started to see people posting images from the blasts around London.The BBC,Sky News,the Timesand the London Evening Standard's website,This Is London, were also among the first UK media to report the news on their websites.US websites began posting a story from theAssociated Pressnews wires' Jane Wardell and within minutes the story had swept across the US via the internet from Kansas to Chicago and New York, with theWashington Posttaking fresh copy from its own wire service.South Africa'sIndependent Onlinewas carrying the news by 11.30am as services in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and India began running the news.Mobile phonesThe UK's mobile phone companies were running close to capacity this morning in the immediate aftermath of the explosions and the networks were failing to connect many calls.Vodafone has issued a plea for its customers in the London area not to make unnecessary or lengthy calls, but said its network was up and running.The mobile phone operator said that, if asked to do so by the emergency services, it could free up capacity on its network by blocking other customers.NewspapersNewspaper publishers took the decision early on to increase their print runs for tomorrow, although many were anticipating problems with distribution with transport in the capital severely disrupted.The Times said all its spare resources were being devoted to covering the story.A spokeswoman said it was still too soon to say whether there would be distribution problems overnight.The Times is printed at Wapping in east London as well as Knowsley near Liverpool and Glasgow.The London Evening Standard just managed to get the story on to its front page for its early editions, but the rest of the paper was taken up with triumphal coverage of London's winning Olympic bid."Bombs on tube kill commuters" was the paper's front page splash, presented in black and white and without a picture.For later editions the capital's main newspaper was planning to scrap its Olympic coverage to devote all of its resources to the explosions and the ensuing chaos.But executives at the Standard's sister paper, Metro, were today trying to work out how it could be distributed if many of tube and railway stations remain closed tomorrow. Metro is distributed using bins in stations around London.Doug Read, the executive director of Metro, said he did not yet know how badly today's events would affect distribution in London tomorrow.TV coverageAll of the commercial TV stations were broadcasting without advertising breaks.ITN was among several broadcasters pulling its senior journalists back to London from Gleneagles as the scale of the attack became clear.ITN said its international news editor, Bill Neely, would return to London to cover the events.The BBC is bringing news staff back from the G8 summit in Scotland to cover the unfolding story in London and is planning a news special on today's attacks on BBC1 this evening.Sky News is bringing back anchor Jeremy Thompson from Gleneagles, along with correspondents David Bowden, Alex Rossi and Paul Harrison.The broadcaster's Scottish bureau - correspondents James Matthews and Jane Chiltern - will continue to cover the G8 summit as will the political team of Adam Boulton and Glen Oglaza.BBC1 ran its first news flash on the bomb attacks from Philip Hayton just before 10am and switched at 10.21am to a simulcast of News 24, anchored by Hayton and Matthew Amroliwala.The corporation was able to call on its security correspondent, Frank Gardner, an expert on the Middle East who was seriously injured when he was shot while reporting for the BBC from Saudi Arabia last year.Gardner had been due to fly out on holiday this morning but returned to work as soon as he heard of the attacks. The BBC's report at 11.32am saying Arab sources had told the BBC today's attacks in London were "almost certainly the work of al-Qaida" was based on information Gardner got from contacts.Gardner was left in a wheelchair after being shot six times by gunmen in Saudi Arabia last year, in an attack in which his colleague, freelance cameraman Simon Cumbers, was killed.Jeremy Paxman is to front a 30-minute BBC1 news special on the London attacks this evening. It will include a report by Panorama reporter John Ware.BBC1's Six O'Clock News is to be extended by an hour, running to 7.30pm, and Huw Edwards is to anchor another 15-minute special BBC1 bulletin from 9pm.The network's One O'Clock News was extended by 25 minutes at lunchtime today, in between BBC1's simulcast of News 24.Christiane Amanpour, CNN's chief international correspondent, is anchoring the US news channel's rolling coverage from its London bureau and the broadcaster also has Richard Quest at Aldgate.ITV1 began simulcasting the ITV News Channel's material from 10.12am.David Mannion, the editor-in-chief of ITV News, said: "At the moment we are planning to be open-ended on this till 7pm &#91;on ITV1&#93;. Beyond this we do not know yet."ITN reporters and producers who work for both ITV News and Channel 4 News are all over London providing reports for both broadcasters. Many of the people working as reporters now were en route to work at the time of the explosions this morning.Five is planning to run a two-and-a-half hour news special from 5.30pm.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Bloggers have been quick to react to today's events in London, from practical advice about how to get home to analysis of how well the major news outlets have covered events.Plum Blossoms writes onWibbler.com: "Things can go from euphoria to a totally different emotion very very quickly." The blog carried a translation of an alleged claim of responsibility for today's bombings from a group linked with al-Qaida.Londonist.compoints out that ferry services on the Thames might be one way to get home tonight given the closure of the Tube and some mainline stations and disruption to bus services.Wikipedia already has a comprehensive entry for the "2005 London bombing" atWikipedia.org.Perfect.co.ukoffered a more personal perspective on the events at 12.19pm. "I'm alive, as are my immediate family and friends. Edgware Rd tube is approximately 200m from my office, and I imagine around half of the people at work use the station during their commute."Ellis Conroy commented on the coverage provided by BBC News 24, which was also simulcast on BBC1. "From a reporting standpoint, they're doing a great job so far; less sensationalism than the rest, and they're breaking the news faster."Rafael Behr onthe Observer's newsblogdescribed what news organisations are going through on a day like today: "There is a taut atmosphere - a mood of extreme alertness I recognise from reporting emergencies in the past, as journalists who are used to being detached from 'a story' strain to focus on news judgement and the necessary mechanics of reporting an event that will clearly also have a massive emotional impact."Many of the comments are linked to from the Guardian Unlimited newsblog atthe Guardian Unlimited newsblog.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
If you, like me, can't focus on what you're supposed to be doing today because of theattacks on Londonand are looking for distraction, I'd once again like to point out the powerful messages of the excellent work done by the team atnewsgaming.com.BothSeptember 12thandMadriddeserve a look on this devastating day.Up to date news coverage on the situation can be found atNewsblogand, of course, on thefront page.Our thoughts are with those affected and respect is due to the emergency services and hospitals.
Our sisterNewsblogis keeping tabs on the situation, as we all try to get a handle on what's happening in London this morning. I hope everyone's safe and well.Some other blogs are trying to keep up with events, too:Londonistis on the case, whileNormbloghas posted some notes and will likely remain updating throughout the day.Update from Jack: There is a Guardian UnlimitedSpecial Reportpage and also a pool of 7/7 photos atFlickr.
Freeman: wants to provide movie downloads. Photograph: Douglas C. Pizac/APA week or so on from Grokster v MGM and there seem to be some positive moves on the filesharing front: Intel has linked up with the studio owned by Morgan Freeman to work on a movie download service, while Opera's looking at BitTorrent.Morgan Freeman - who's previously been something of an anti-piracy poster boy (if you can call a 68 year old man such a thing) - is the face of the new Intel joint venture, named ClickStar.CNetquotes the company's new CEO, Nizar Allibhoy:"Our view is that making content available on the Internet is not an option -it is an imperative for the industry, given piracy and consumer demands for flexibility. Our motto is, 'Anytime, anyplace, on any device.'"Meanwhile, Opera's announced in-browser support for file-sharing protocol BitTorrent.Opera today launched a technical preview of the Opera browser for Windows, Linux and Mac that includes support for BitTorrent. Integrating this popular file-downloading technology in the Opera browser offers the end user a faster download process by utilizing full bandwidth and reducing the chance of in-transfer delay when multiple users download the same file.I haven't had a chance to try it out yet, but the preview - and remember, it is just a preview - ishere.
Illustration: Henning LohleinThis week'sOnlineprint supplement has hit the streets, and it's a bit of a special issue on internet telephony and mobility.We find out how international roaming could become athing of the past, test theleading VoIP services, and look at addingGPS into phones.Elsewhere, we meet technophobicPaul Merton, Jack Schofieldtalks to Michael Delland Ben Hammersley wonders where the BBC'sCreative Archivehas gone.Unfortunately we weren't in time to catch yesterday'srejection of the software patent directive, but we'll be continuing to follow it on the blog.And there's our usual coverage ofgames,gadgetsandinteresting websites.Click hereto see the full contents of this week's issue.
Nokia's previous 3G phone, the 6630, had a great deal going for it but was compromised by an unusual design and poor-quality plastic components. So it is no surprise that with its fourth 3G phone, the 6680, Nokia has played it safe and delivered a handset with its trademark rectangular styling, a businesslike silver-chrome finish and a traditional keypad.Key enhancements include a second camera underneath a pull-down flap at the back, so users can make and receive 3G video calls; and an active home screen, so users can quickly access key applications such as email and the web. Everything else is as it was, including a quality 1.3 megapixel camera, video capture, email, compatibility with Outlook and a full HTML web browser. The phone does feel much chunkier than the 6630, and it is also slow to access the various menu options. Overall, however, this is a few steps on from its predecessor. It is available from free, although the price depends on the network.www.nokia.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
HardwareScreen saversCalifornian company Kaleidescape has brought its high-end video-based entertainment server to the UK. The Kaleidescape, which connects to a screen in the traditional way, comprises a huge hard disk (the basic version comes with 1.2 Terabytes of storage - enough for 180 full-quality DVD movies) and a DVD recorder/player that works using the company's proprietary operating system. When users save DVDs to the hard disk, the system automatically downloads extra information from Kaleidescape's servers, including cover art, a movie synopsis and director/actor information. The system is also compatible with High Definition TV via its HDMI output. Basic systems start at about &pound;14,000.www.kaleidescape.comAhead of the gamePC owners looking for a slice of gaming heaven might want to make a pilgrimage to Evesham Technology, which has announced its new high-end gaming desktop. Fans of brushed aluminium and flashing lights are well served, but the Decimator SLI 78 is more than just a pretty face: it sports a 64-bit AMD Athlon processor and Nvidia Geforce 7800 graphics chips , and 1GB of memory for good measure. The only drawback might be the cost: there won't be enough change out of &pound;2,400 to buy a packet of peanuts, let alone a copy of Half-Life 2.www.evesham.comPlay it safeA device not much larger than a credit card that enables parents to keep tabs on where their kids are via GPS (Global Positioning System) has just gone on sale in the UK. If youngsters carry the Verify Location Sazo with them, their parents can pinpoint their location to within a few metres via the internet on a PC or a mobile phone. The Sazo can also be used to make and receive voice calls and features a panic button which, if pressed, sends a text message to the parent. The device costs &pound;100 with a monthly service charge starting at &pound;10.www.verifylocation.co.ukBroadbandBe the fastestLondon could be looking at broadband speeds of up to 24Mbps, according to an announcement this week from new service provider Be. Current top speeds in the UK are 8Mbps, but Be says it can achieve three times that rate by launching faster ADSL2 Plus technologies. While ISPs such as BT, UK Online and Bulldog are trialling such services, Be says it will launch them within three months. As yet, there is no word on price. Be founder Boris Ivanovic, who has launched a 26Mbps service in Sweden, says the company will use equipment from France, where faster speeds have already been rolled out in some urban areas.www.bethere.co.ukMobile phonesMore choice for 3GVodafone has expanded its range of 3G handsets by offering Sony Ericsson's V600i and Samsung's Z500 mobiles. Both models are available now. They feature video-calling facilities and can access Vodafone's Live! 3G video portal. The Sony Ericsson is a candy bar-style phone that's one of the most compact 3G models to date. It features a 1.3 megapixel camera, FM radio, MP3 player, large colour screen and video capture. The Samsung's clamshell Z500 includes a one megapixel camera and flash, full-colour screen and Bluetooth. Both mobiles are available free if users sign up for an 18-month contract.www.vodafone.co.ukMusic playersSleek soundsCreative has unveiled its latest 20GB hard disk-based music player - the Zen Sleek. Set to compete with Apple's new colour screen iPod and Sony's NW-HD5, the Sleek is compatible with MP3 and Windows Media Audio (WMA) files, including copyright-protected WMAs downloaded from online music stores. The aluminum-finished player also boasts an FM radio, integrated microphone, voice-recording facilities and a new style touchpad. It has a mono backlit display, and battery life is rated at about 16 hours. It will retail for about &pound;200 when it goes on sale at the end of the month.www.creative.comStat of the week - slow to tune inThe world might have switched on to digital music, but adoption of video-playing devices is far slower. Fewer than one in five US households are expected to own a portable media player by 2010 - an indication that a killer device is needed to change the game.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A cut aboveAnother Code: Two MemoriesNintendo DS, &pound;29.99Cing/Nintendo, ****The DS might lose out heavily to the PlayStation Portable (PSP) when it comes to looks, but there's no doubting the quality of software for Nintendo's unconventional handheld.But while games such as WarioWare and Project Rub can't be faulted for ingenuity, longevity is a problem. Once the novelty of rubbing the screen or blowing into the microphone has worn off, there isn't much left. So a release such as Another Code: Two Memories is welcome.Essentially a point-'n-click adventure reminiscent of elderly classics such as Monkey Island, Another Code mixes strong narrative with tricky conundrums to offer something unique on the DS. The plot, which involves liaising with ghostly relatives, is a cut above the gaming norm and streets ahead of anything on the DS. But this is a game, not a book, so luckily the interactivity matches the story.The two-screen setup works well, with the bottom used to move the main character around and the top reserved for a closer-in view. Manipulating in-game objects such as photos with the stylus only adds to the feeling of involvement. The main problem is the one that bedevils the genre - getting stuck.Players will invariably run into puzzles whose solutions are sadistically obscure. The upside is that solving these brainteasers is immensely satisfying. Another Code is likely to appeal to older players who enjoyed Myst, and is a fine example of the new breed of handheld gaming.Greg HowsonA higher planeWarioWare TwistedGame Boy Advance, &pound;29.99Nintendo, ****Nintendo's crusade to prove that lateral thinking can breed innovation even on low-tech platforms continues apace with WarioWare Twisted. Despite being designed for the Game Boy Advance, it offers a unique gaming experience: the extra-fat cartridge it is supplied on contains a motion sensor, which detects clockwise and anti-clockwise movements.Thus, you get the usual collection of gleefully idiotic WarioWare micro-games, stitched together by an endearingly unhinged storyline, but this time around you must simply twist your GBA to work your way through to the boss levels.This may involve violent or delicate movements; as the game progresses, you may have to punctuate the twisting with the odd button-press. Previous versions of WarioWare seemed as intuitive as you could imagine, but Twisted takes that ethos to a higher level. At times, it feels as though your brainwaves are controlling the game. That feeling combines with the irresistible craziness of the microgames to create a gameplay experience that has you chuckling every few seconds.A caveat, though: although the game was clearly designed for the original Game Boy Advance, I found it easier to play on the DS rather than the smaller GBA SP. Regardless, WarioWare Twisted is a must for GBA devotees.Steve BoxerMissed opportunityBomberman HardballPlayStation2, &pound;39.99HudsonSoft/Ubisoft, **In the late 80s, when Japanese developers seemed to be springing great arcade icons on us every few months, Bomberman was one of the best. The idea was simple: run around a maze planting bombs to eliminate your rival while collecting icons to boost the explosive power of your arsenal.Luckily, this basic mode remains in the latest incarnation, albeit speeded up to a manic degree and made more complex by the addition of new types of bomb. However, it also remains the best part of the game - yet, surprisingly, it makes up less than a quarter of the whole game. Hardball also packs mini-games for tennis, golf and baseball, where you can rack up points and unlock hidden items and bonus abilities.Alas, these modes are blighted by a lack of ambition or flair. Golf is pretty but imprecise (particularly in judging the right distance to hit the ball), while tennis lacks the special moves that make arcade tennis so much fun. Baseball manages to be the best of a bad lot, but most annoyingly none of these extra modes feature themed elements - no serving with bombs or driving your ball into explosive bunkers. What a missed opportunity.In the end, what is left is an overpriced bundle of mini-games, lacking the depth to make them anything more than minor distractions. And the less said about the pointless Life Mode the better. Bomberman was a great idea from the golden age of arcade games. They should have left it there.Mike AnderieszTop 5 gamesAll formats1.Medal of Honor: European Assault2.Destroy All Humans3.Juiced4.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas5.Cricket 2005Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Nintendo has always been driven by a strong gaming franchise, stoically asserting that great games sell hardware, not the other way round. With long-running titles such as Mario, Zelda and Metroid under its belt, and two billion units sold in 20 years, the company has certainly put its money where its mouth is."We remain all about the game; actions speak louder than words," said Nintendo's president, Saturo Iwata, at this year's E3, where Nintendo unveiled the first details of its next generation console, the Revolution.While Microsoft and Sony have been all teraflops and anti-aliasing in the promotion of the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation3, Nintendo has taken a more laid-back approach. Even weeks after E3, little has been revealed about the Revolution's capabilities. All the world knows is that it will have 512MB of internal Flash memory, two USB ports, built-in Wi-Fi access and will also allow users to download the company's back-catalogue of N64, SNES and NES games.However, much of the speculation surrounding the system has been about what form the controller will take. Although Iwata has been careful not to reveal too much about the Revolution - Nintendo is planning to release more details at the end of the year - he has expressed reservations about the controllers gamers currently use."There are too many buttons and sticks on controllers for novice players, which is likely to discourage them from ever playing games at all," he says. "We want the Revolution's controller to be relevant to everybody and we really want people to feel like they want to touch and play with it."Capturing the casual gaming market - something Microsoft also wants to achieve - should be an easy ride for Nintendo, which remains family-friendly in terms of content. Nowhere is this more evident than in Japan, where gaming is intrinsically rooted in the entertainment culture."Nintendo is very good at creating games that can appeal to the whole family," says Iwata. "There have been a lot of games created around excessive violence in the past few years and it seems to be escalating. From the business point of view, it doesn't make sense for us to follow suit."We cherish our hardcore gamers, but we always try to attract as many people as possible and expand the existing gaming population."Nintendo recently unveiled its free-to-use worldwide DS Wi-Fi gaming service. The company has been sceptical about the potential of online console gaming, and Iwata still does not feel that Xbox Live is indicative of success because the number of Xbox owners playing on Xbox Live is still low.As far as Nintendo is concerned, the future of multiplayer gaming is in Wi-Fi, not the internet. "If Nintendo sells 5m DSs with Wi-Fi capabilities, then we want 5m people to play with Wi-Fi," he says.Nintendo is very proud of its portable wing and, as Reggie Fils-Aime, chief marketing officer of Nintendo, says: "For 16 years, Nintendo has owned the portable game space. We created it, and we're not moving out." This has lead to speculation that the Revolution is designed to be portable, as its size and storage cradle suggest. Nintendo's secrecy has also sparked theories that the controller is somehow contained within the Revolution - that the machine itself is the controller.Whatever transpires, Nintendo could use its heritage and innovation to provide gamers with an interesting alternative when the next-generation war finally arrives.
The very idea would have shocked the sharp kid who, 21 years ago, was assembling PCs in his college dorm, but his company has now overtaken Cray as a supplier of the world's most powerful computers. The latest Top 500 list of supercomputers includes 21 Dell systems against 16 Crays.Dell has other less conspicuous successes, too. It is, for example, getting big in services, doing things like Unix-to-Linux migration, and it manages "several million" desktop PCs for client companies.Meanwhile, Dell's new printer business "did $1bn in revenues in its first full year. This is going to be a huge business in seven to 10 years," says Michael Dell. "Will Dell be number one? We don't really care. We don't have to win in every single market every single time to be a successful company."Dell is in London to talk to customers and is taking the chance to talk to a few journalists as well. There's no news and no restriction on questions, but most of his answers are predictable enough, revolving around what sells. "We're not in the world peace business," he says.Dell's approach would be familiar to Henry Ford: build what lots of people want at a price they are willing to pay, and make a profit. Customers who don't want what lots of people want are, of course, out of luck.One good indicator is Dell's range of notebook PCs. Dell has become the biggest supplier worldwide, but offers a handful of models where rivals might have a couple of dozen. It's not about how many versions you can think of, he says. And it is not just that you lose money on the last 10 models, it's that the losses bleed over ...Dell's business is based on building systems to order, but the company ruthlessly eliminates less profitable, as well as unprofitable, options. More than 80% of PC buyers choose Intel and Microsoft, so AMD chips aren't on the menu, and Dell dropped its Linux desktop offering in 2001, though it is keen on Linux on servers."The Linux market really started on the server and it pretty much stayed on the server," says Dell. "We see this more as a demand issue than a supply issue. The demand is quite small."He points out that Dell has about 150 product platforms of all shapes and sizes. "Should we test Linux on all of them, and have Linux drivers for every model?"There are other opportunities where the costs currently outweigh the benefits. "We're not in the phone business, and not planning to be in the phone business," he says. "We're not going after every single thing that comes up. We don't do tablet computers or set-top boxes - there are plenty of things we don't do. It's a question of priorities."It seems that Dell's strategy is to enter established markets, not pioneer new ones. It's not very romantic, but it is working so well that Dell could one day become the world's biggest computer company, not just the most efficient.
Free at what cost?My daughter wants to download music from the internet. Is it legal to download fromwww.limewire.com?Janet SmithJack Schofield replies:Limewire is a peer-to-peer file-sharing program, so music is not downloaded "from Limewire" but from the PCs of other people using the service (in this case, the Gnutella network), and potentially from your daughter's PC. Legality does not depend on the site or process used, but on the copyright of the file being downloaded. Limewire will try to identify licences, so it could be used to legally download music released under a Creative Commons licence, for example. Unfortunately, normal MP3 files don't contain any copyright management information, so it may be impossible to tell whether a particular file can be downloaded legally.However, if the music consists of songs from commercial CDs, downloaded from home PCs, you can assume these are not being shared with the permission of the copyright holder. Legal downloads are available from other sources, such as Apple's iTunes Music Store and the Napster 2 subscription service, at a price. There are also scam sites that claim to sell music legally but only provide access to free file-sharing services.Usage meteringMany ISPs offer good deals on "capped services" with a surcharge for usage over the limit. Is there software to let me know how much I am downloading on dial-up before I choose a broadband provider?William DoddsJS:If you open the internet connection icon in Windows' System Tray, it will tell you how many bytes of data you have sent and received in your current session. Keeping a manual log for a few days should give you a good idea of how much bandwidth you might use per month. However, there are lots of programs that will keep a record. Examples include NetLimiter, BWMeter, Traffic Counter, PRTG Traffic Grapher4 (www.paessler.com), Emsa Bandwidth Monitor, Traffic Meter and so on. Seewww.acidfiles.comor search Google for "internet traffic monitor" for examples. Readers may have recommendations.However, I don't think this is always a useful approach: it's like choosing a car on the basis that you only cycle 50 miles a week. Broadband makes it practical to do things such as listen to internet radio stations, watch streaming video and subscribe to music services that can blow your monthly allowance in less than a day. Capped services are more attractive to people who have already explored broadband and found their normal usage comes to less than 1GB or 3GB per month, or whatever.Pop the balloonHow do I get rid of annoying pop-up information labels that appear when I pass the cursor over certain icons on the task bar and so on, in Windows XP Professional SP2.TaliaJS:You can do this with Tweak UI, one of Microsoft's dozen free Powertoys, which allows you to control the user interface settings. Download TweakUI.exe fromwww.microsoft.com/windowsxp/downloads/powertoys/xppowertoys.mspxand install it. Next, go to Start|Programs, choose the folder called Powertoys for Windows XP, and run Tweak UI. Go to the menu on the left and click the + to open Taskbar and Start Menu, and untick the box that says Enable balloon tips.Tweak UI also lets you remove icons from the desktop (eg for Internet Explorer), from the Control Panel, prevent applications from stealing focus (ie coming to the front when you are doing something else), and many other things, so it is a useful thing to have.The quick and dirty alternative is to run Regedit, the registry editor, go to HKEY_CURRENT_USER\ Software\Microsoft\Windows\ CurrentVersion\Explorer\Advanced, and change the DWORD value for EnableBalloonTips from 1 to 0.Idiot's guide to ITI'm not totally clueless on the IT front, but I am getting increasingly boggled by the rapid developments in technology and electronics. Is there a site that provides idiot's guide-style information on all this?Rose YoudJS:There are probably lots, but the two I use most are How Stuff Works (www.howstuffworks.com) and the Wikipedia encyclopedia (http://en.wikipedia.org).Backchat&#183;Dennis Kaye from Huddersfield recommended a website for Epson printer users, and some readers complained that the address didn't work. The address on the Guardian Unlimited website and in my printed issue of Online was correct (www.ssclg.com/epsone.shtml), while the non-working addresses included sscig instead. To avoid transcription errors, use links from the website.&#183;Last week, John Watts asked about displaying images in email, and Julius Honnor thinks I may have misunderstood the question. "Outlook Express automatically previews attached images in the message window, whereas Outlook makes the process long-winded and awkward. The best solution I have found to this is to use a macro to launch an image preview window." Seewww.juliushonnor.co.uk/outlookimages.&#183;Send questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details
Just when the government badly needs to show its competence at running large IT-based projects, along comes another wave of bad news. On Tuesday, parliamentary questions revealed that the cost of running Inland Revenue tax credits has risen tenfold over four years. Also this week, an influential committee of MPs reported that many government bodies ignore one of the main measures introduced to prevent IT disasters.Meanwhile, a prominent industry figure said that, five years since the government tried to get a grip on the way it runs IT, senior civil servants have still not got the message.The Commons public accounts committee, which over the past decade has roasted a succession of IT project managers, was reporting on the effect of measures introduced over the past five years by the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce (OGC).Many of these measures originated in the landmark "McCartney" report on IT, published by the Cabinet Office in 2000. The report is popularly named after its ministerial sponsor, Ian McCartney, though Ann Steward, an Australian seconded to the Cabinet Office, led the review team. Steward is now Australia's chief information officer.McCartney was important because it conceded that IT projects were too often late, over budget or failed to work, and that government needed to change its ways. The big idea was that this was too important to be left to specialists - top-level leadership was needed to ensure not just that the IT worked but that the "business change" did, too. McCartney recommended that every project have a "senior responsible owner" with real clout. It also suggested that projects be independently reviewed before being allowed to pass critical stages. This idea was developed into the Office of Government Commerce's Gateway reviews, which provide reality checks for risky projects.Five years after McCartney, John Higgins, director general of the IT trade association Intellect, says that government and industry are getting better at running projects. But too often, the project owner is not senior enough. "The senior responsible owner has to be someone who has responsibility for operational objectives, it can't just be the IT director."The public accounts committee's report, see link above, focuses mainly on Gateway, which it describes as the measure that has shown the most promise. "There is evidence, however, that Gateway is still not taken seriously enough by departments." One third of projects bypass the crucial first two Gateway stages, entering the process only when they have gathered momentum. When they do happen, reviews repeatedly highlight the same shortcomings.The committee calls on the Treasury to find ways of stopping funding for IT projects where departments "choose consistently to ignore stages of the Gateway process".Gateway reviews award a red, amber or green colour code to denote each project's status. Red means take action immediately. At last count, the committee found that 28% were in this category while 50% were amber and only 22% green. At one level this is good news: it suggests the review process has not been nobbled. However, the committee found that departments' attitude to red lights too often resembles that of cycle couriers.Since April 2003, eight IT-enabled projects have received two successive red gates. It recommends that when this happens, the Treasury should alert the department's accounting officer - the chief executive or permanent secretary.Although the report calls for Gateway reviews to be published, it does not identify which projects have passed double reds.On another tack, the report warns that the government depends too much on too few IT suppliers: 11 firms account for 80% of the market. "This limited field potentially restricts competition and may discourage innovative new entrants." It urges departments to select procurement routes favouring "a more suitable, flexible or innovative solution".In a letter to the London Evening Standard this week, a vice president of one of the 11 suppliers, EDS, said that the government's track record with computer projects is about the same as private industry's. "While this isn't good enough, nobody talks about the projects that work."But while projects that don't work produce such excellent sticks with which to beat ministers, parliament and the media are unlikely to pay much attention to successes.LinksThe impact of the Office of Government Commerce's initiative on the delivery of major IT-enabled projects, public accounts committeewww.parliament.uk
Expensive international call roaming charges, long the bane of overseas travellers, could soon become a thing of the past. Since April, a few thousand pioneering owners of palmtop computers have avoided the additional fees charged by mobile operators when they travel abroad by making free - or extremely low-cost - calls over the internet.Owners of palmtops fitted with Wi-Fi - tiny radio antennas allowing high-speed wireless internet access - can now take advantage of a service previously restricted to fixed-line internet calls. Using a technology called Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), which delivers calls over the internet rather than through the traditional telephone networks, subscribers to Skype's new Pocket PC service have been making international calls for local call rates.This is how it works: an overseas traveller uses Skype's software to dial into the public phone network on a palmtop with a wireless internet connection. The voice data then travels along the regular internet - at no additional cost - until it nears its local destination. If the recipient of the overseas call is also using Skype, the call costs nothing (although the user may pay for the initial wireless connection). If the recipient is using a landline, the call costs approximately 1.2p per minute.Even in the most expensive circumstances - when the end recipient is a mobile phone - the call is charged at a local rate (roughly 20p per minute), as it is routed from the internet to the public telephone network only at the last moment. Prices do vary depending on which country the call terminates in, but they are still a fraction of what they would cost on the regular GSM network.It works the other way, too. A call to an overseas mobile phone is charged at a similar discount, which means you don't get stung with a big bill for incoming calls when you return home. "I could be in Japan, you could call my Skype number and you would just be paying as if it were a call to London," explains Kat James, of Skype. "From a traveller's point of view, that's a huge saving."Since Skype launched its palmtop client in April, more than 1.8m people have downloaded the software worldwide. "You can completely avoid the expensive mobile roaming fees," adds James. "All you need is to get access to the internet using Wi-Fi, which is becoming more and more ubiquitous."Pocket Skype is only available on palmtop computers - sometimes referred to as personal digital assistants (PDAs) - such as the HP's iPaq and O2's XDA, but the service will soon be extended to mobile phones. The Luxembourg-based company recently announced plans to launch its own mobile handset.In Japan, telecoms giant NTT DoCoMo plans to ship a Wi-Fi-enabled phone later this year, while Nokia unveiled a similar device, the 770 Internet Tablet, at the Linux World trade show in May. The 770 cannot be used as a phone, however. But there are many more waiting down the line. Vonage, a leading rival of Skype, already sells the F1000 mobile handset in the US and Europe.John Irving, a telecommunications consultant, first used Pocket Skype while visiting a trade show in Stockholm in April. "I was there for a week and during the show there was a wireless local area network (WLan) provided free. My mobile phone bill is usually about &pound;35 per month and I rarely go over the 800 minutes I get for that. But my bill for that week - just from incoming calls - was about &pound;80. But my outgoing calls were charged about 1p per minute because I was using Skype over the WLan."Mobile operators think it is too early to start fretting about the savings the likes of John Irving are making (and he could have saved even more if he had accepted his incoming calls through Skype).PocketSkype users represent a tiny percentage of the 59m mobile subscribers in the UK and few places have the sort of wireless internet bandwidth needed to make PocketSkype a truly convenient service. But this could be just a matter of time.A number of UK cities are already experimenting with wide area wireless networks. Brighton, Portsmouth and Lewisham in south London offer city-wide wireless networks perfect for making cheap mobile calls. In the US, eight of the 10 biggest cities are building city-wide wireless networks, while smaller wireless public access points continue to proliferate as quickly as new services appear on regular GSM phones.And Skype isn't restricted to international callers. Although there is less financial incentive to use VoIP to make national mobile calls, it is just as easy to do so. A number of local councils are already considering investing in palmtops loaded with PocketSkype as a way of saving on their telecoms spend.Philadelphia City Council, which is building a 135 square mile wireless network, plans to convert the majority of its workers to a mobile VoIP network later this year. Thousands of council workers will exchange their council-owned mobile phones and use palmtops connected to the municipal network instead.According to Diana Neff, the city's chief technology officer, once the initial investment is made, the savings could be as much as $2m a year."We are going to see many more VoIP providers," says Peter George, executive director of the Mobile Data Association. "BT's whole network will be VoIP by 2012. It will simply become the way that telecoms is done. I'm sure the pricing plans of the whole industry will need to adjust to reflect that fundamental shift."George argues that mobile Skype users are not about to forego their Sim cards just yet. Although mobile VoIP networks clearly threaten to undermine the more established networks, he thinks that VoIP providers must first overcome a series of hurdles. PocketSkype is dependent on third-party infrastructure, and a public Wi-Fi connection normally has to be paid for, thus the cost of the call is not always as low as the call charge. "PocketSkype users are not truly mobile as the user must remain within 100m of the access point while making the call," he says.George also says that we have been here before. In the early 1980s, Hutchinson Telecom (now 3) launched Rabbit Telecom, a short-lived mobile phone service that forced users to visit specific locations to make calls. Rabbit was a flop. But there are two significant differences this time around. First, the number of wireless access points is far greater. Second, there is a real price incentive for users to switch to mobile VoIP networks.If you want to look at how popular mobile VoIP networks could be, you could do worse than travel to the British army base in Bergen, Germany. Since 2003, it has been running a nascent mobile VoIP network allowing soldiers to make extremely cheap calls home using "soft phones" loaded on to the screen of their laptop computers."We use a multipoint mesh networking system that rolls out like a mini version of the cell phone network," says Richard Lander of Locust World, the company that built the army's network. "What we have is a system providing wireless broadband over very large areas ... but compared to the GSM networks it costs virtually nothing to set up."Two weeks ago, at a trade show in Singapore, a Norwegian company called IPdrum announced it had found yet another way of making very cheap mobile calls. The company has developed software and a special cable that turns a second mobile handset into a wireless "gateway" for Skype's VoIP software.It is an elaborate solution that requires two mobile phone contracts and a "friends and family" number or the use of "free" minutes of talk time, but successful deployment means that virtually every subsequent call you make need only be charged at a local rate.Another wireless technology, WiMax, sometimes referred to as "Wi-Fi on steroids" is just around the corner. WiMax extends the range of wireless internet coverage from a few hundred metres to several kilometres. Although the standard is not expected to be ratified by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers until December, major companies, including Intel, have already endorsed it and are building components that will be integrated into the next generation of laptop and palmtop computers.Ofcom, the industry regulator, is wary about the prospect of the next generation of wide-area wireless networks, such as WiMax, that offer the potential to allow users to roam more freely.Last week it proposed that "&#91;radio spectrum&#93; licence holders should not be able to change the terms of their licence to offer mobile services similar to 3G until at least 2007".When WiMax operators are allowed to offer mobile VoIP services over their networks one thing is certain. The cost of air time is very likely to fall through the floor.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Political turf warsMichael Cross's attempts to use the internet to change his address (A moving test, June 30) foundered on the same rocks as the Police IT Organisation (Public domain, June 30). No one is in charge so accountability falls through the cracks.This government has struggled since its election to create a robust national address system. Most recently, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister offered us a National Spatial Address Infrastructure, succeeding a failed National Land and Property Gazetteer.All have failed (and will continue to fail) because government agencies and departments, not to forget government-owned PLCs such as Royal Mail, engage in bitter turf wars to protect or secure a share of the monopoly rent that can be derived from controlling intellectual property rights in address databases.Unless cabinet ministers put a stop to these absurd data wars by establishing a modern internet-based address system (such as the internet uses), from which no one can secure a monopoly rent, then the shambles will continue, probably into the 22nd century. The problems are not technical; they are political.Christopher RoperLyme RegisNarrow victoryWhile the US supreme court did declare that Grokster and Morpheus were contributing to copyright infringement, a careful reading of the ruling shows that the "victory" for the creative industries was rather narrow and partial at best (Second Sight, June 30).The justices focused on the fact that both companies actively encouraged file sharing in copyrighted materials and were actively encouraging infringing. That is what they were guilty of.As to whether peer-to-peer file sharing in itself is guilty, I don't see any argument to support it. Therefore, it seems to me, companies that distribute such software could continue to do so as long as they are not actively encouraging the exchange of copyrighted materials and make some effort to prevent this use.Also, if they do not rely on an advertising model, they may still be able to use the Sony defences that Grokster and Morpheus unsuccessfully attempted to use.Rudi MoffittBirkbeck School of Law, LondonHang on to itThe Mustek R580 recorder (What's new, June 30) looks better value than its rivals, but still does not include a Freeview/digital TV tuner. This would allow higher-quality MPeg recordings to be made direct from the TV broadcast, with the benefit of an electronic programme guide for scheduling recordings.Until someone brings out a combined recorder that will outlast analogue broadcasts, I'm hanging on to my money.Mike WhittakerStapletonSimple but effectiveAlthough it doesn't have a DVD writer like the Mustek, I would heartily recommend the Topfield PVR 5800 for making hard disk recordings of TV. The unit has twin Freeview tuners, enabling users to record and view different channels including Top-up TV, and using the electronic programme guide to set up recordings makes it simple to use.Although it does not have a built-in DVD writer, recorded programmes can be transferred to a PC via USB and archived from there.Brian WedgeBerkhamstedHumans still topsI was interested in Stephen Moss's report on computer chess (Beaten by a microchip, June 30) and the theory that human intelligence will likely be superseded by artificial intelligence.What happens if one chess computer plays another one? Wouldn't the one that wins be programmed by the smartest computer programmer?Perhaps human intelligence is tops after all.John ColenuttVancouver, British ColumbiaBlogbackSoftware patents have been debated many times in the EU parliament (Doing justice to patents, June 30). Every time, the idea has been soundly rejected. But democracy means little when money is at stake, and so the decisions of the parliament have been ignored by the various committees involved in the process. Now, software patents are being pushed again, by people who clearly do not understand them, or don't want to. Parliament has spoken, but it is being ignored.http://pintday.orgAleks Krotoski (Gamesblog) says she finds many multiplayer online games tedious. They can be very interesting to play, and allow for meeting many people that you'll get to know outside the game as well - it is how I met one of my best friends, even though we live in different countries. However, some aspects can deter people who would like to have fun and socialise without necessarily being forced to go through a levelling grind or quests that demand hours to be completed.http://thumbgods.com
