Recently, while trawling through app store RSS feeds to find new apps, I stumbled acrossSnoopy’s Sugar Drop Remix– and it made my heart sink.Notjustbecause it was a Snoopy game selling virtual gems for up to £42.99 at a time. No, it was more the realisation that someone had sat down and thought about the rich history of Charles M. Schulz’s comic strip and its instantly-familiar cast of characters, and ultimately decided that it would be perfect for a Candy Crush Saga clone.Related:Sick of freemium? Here are 20 paid iOS and Android games worth supportingMoney talks.Candy Crush Saga players spent £865m on that game in 2014 alone, fuelling a lucrative IPO for its publisher, King, and inspiring a new glut of match-three puzzle games with gems, power-ups and the full freemium works.“Just swipe the delicious candies,” suggested the App Store listing. It was a neat encapsulation of where we’re at in early 2015 with many mobile games, where the massive monetary success of Candy Crush, Puzzle &amp; Dragons and Clash of Clans has spawned a dispiriting clash of clones.It’s not just specific games or genres, but the mechanics that sit within them. Map-like charts of levels with three-star ratings and friends’ Facebook profile pics are now standard, as are timers, pay-gates, precipitous difficulty spikes and push notifications.This may sound like yet another anti-freemium rant, but I don’t have form on that score: I’ve spent a fair amount of time defending these games over the last few years, as free-to-play became the dominant model on the app stores.I played and enjoyed a lot of freemium games, and saw a lot of other people playing and enjoying them too. Free-to-play didn’t seem “evil” as its fiercest critics claimed: it was just a catch-all term for games that would make their money from in-app payments rather than upfront purchases.There’d be good freemium games and bad freemium games, in other words. The reason I’m feeling downcast now is that there are alotof bad ones, and some good ones made bad by the way they try to make money.King of Thieves.More and more, the most popular mechanics within freemium games feel designed to make us pay, rather than to delight us so much that we want to spend money. Timers and energy bars are everywhere, and all too often we can see the monetisation coming from miles away.Recently, I triedWords on Tour, Zynga’s new spin-off from multiplayer game Words With Friends, which has been anenduring mobile hit.The new game wraps a Saga-style structure around Boggle-ish word-finding, and at the sight of the first power-up, my brain leaped ahead to the moment where a level would be so hard, I’d feel the pressure to buy more of them. Suddenly, it didn’t seem fun.Another example:King of Thieves, the new game from Cut the Rope-maker ZeptoLab. It’s a characterful-looking action/strategy game that combines a key-based energy system to stop you playing, with a Clash of Clans-style dynamic of people attacking you when you’re offline. From quite early on, it didn’t seem fun.The way that many freemium mobile games make me feel in 2015 is very similar to the way FarmVille-style clicker games made me feel at the peak of the first wave of Facebook gaming. Never mind the fun; feel the monetisation mechanics.Thatdidn’t turn out so well for Zynga, and I wonder if some of the mobile firms and their partner brands, falling over one another to follow the template of Candy Crush and Clash of Clans aren’t risking a similar decline in the coming years.Yes, there are still many wonderful, creative, quirky mobile games out there, including many that aren’t freemium. Not so many of them are selling well enough to sustain their developers, which may be one reason Apple has startedpromoting “pay once &amp; play” gameson the front page of its App Store.Related:South Park satirises freemium mobile games – today's Open ThreadA world where games like Bean Dreams, 80 Days, Thomas Was Alone, Threes!, Leo’s Fortune, Skullduggery! and Waking Mars (to name just a few) can survive and prosper is a healthy world.This isn’t even an argument against freemium games, as such. More against what feels like narrowing interpretations of how these games should work, and a wave of games with diligently-studied monetisation but no original spark to their gameplay.Freemium certainly hasn’t killed mobile gaming, but I wonder if it’s brought us to the kind of creative rut that will lead developers – supported by app store owners and (hopefully) paying customers – to a new wave of brilliant games. Whichever way they decide to charge for them.
More than 91 million people are using location-based dating apps like Tinder, Momo and Hinge, but nearly two thirds of those users are men, according to research firm GlobalWebIndex.The company’slatest reportclaims that 6% of internet users currently use a location-based dating app, although that puts the category behind niches like augmented reality (108 million monthly users), let alone games and social networking with 655 million and 582 million respectively.GWI claims that 62% of dating app users are men, while 38% are women. It will come as no surprise that 16-34 year-olds are the largest group of users, accounting for 70% of the audience for these apps.“Significantly, just a fifth of dating app users are paying for an online dating service. This might make them three times more likely than the average internet user to be doing this, but it does underline the importance of ad-supported models,” explain co-authors Jason Mander and Felim McGrath in the report.The research comes as Tinder, the most high-profile dating app in the west, prepares to launch Tinder Plus, a new premium tier that will see people paying for extra features. GWI’s report notes that Chinese dating app Momo has signed up more than two million people for its paid tier.Related:Tinder: the 'painfully honest' dating app with wider social ambitionsThese two companies appear to account for the lion’s share of the dating app market, judging by Momo’s claim to have 60 million active users, andpredictions that Tinder could reach 40 million by April this year.However, there are plenty of startups angling for a slice of this market: GWI’s report cites Bumble and Hinge as just two companies touting features that they hope will make them more appealing than Tinder.It’s Momo that’s the biggest dating app, though, aided by the fact that 25 million people are currently using dating apps in its home country of China.The report also notes the popularity of these apps in places like the Philippines, Thailand, Brazil, Mexico, India, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey and Vietnam – all countries where more than 10% of internet users are using location-based dating apps.
He has created some of the most recognisable and iconic objects of our age, but Apple’s head designer Jony Ive has always been something of an enigma. The Briton behind the iMac and the iPod is usually as secretive about himself as Apple is about its products, but recently he and and the tech giant gave unprecedented access for a New Yorker piece.The profile, by Ian Parker, runs to20 pages in printand takes about an hour to read. Perhaps in the spirit of Ive, we’ve rounded the corners and – here are the key things we learned:1. Ive has a lot of famous friendsIve counts Coldplay’s Chris Martin among his friends.Photograph: Christie Goodwin/WireImageColdplay’s Chris Martin, U2’s Bono, Massive Attack, Yo-Yo Ma, designers Paul Smith and Marc Newson (who now works for Apple too), director JJ Abrams and Stephen Fry all crop up as friends of Ive.2. He’s had a hand in the design of the new Star Wars lightsabers thanks to a boozy dinner with JJ AbramsThe new more ‘spitty’ lightsaber.Photograph: Disney/PAIve said Abrams told him his thoughts were partly responsible for the new style of lightsaber in Star Wars: The Force Awakens, although he doesn’t explicitly mention the cross-shaped guards. Ive told Parker: “I thought it would be interesting if it were less precise, and just a little bit morespitty... more analog and more primitive, and I think, in that way, somehow more ominous.”Related:‘Build your own lightsaber’ kit could send Star Wars fans into orbit3. Ive’s not unfamiliar with getting involved in making filmsA shy Ive directs and edits his own Apple videos.Photograph: Graham TurnerJobs gave Ive special dispensation to remove himself from public speaking, instead swapping them for appearances in scripted videos. And despite Apple having one of the most polished images and highly tuned corporate public relations, Ive’s presentation video for the launch of the Apple Watch was largely directed and edited by him.4. Earlier in his career, things were less glamorous: Ive designed a bath, a sink and a toiletHumbler beginnings for Ive, who designed a bathroom set for Ideal Standard.Photograph: John MacDougall/AFP/Getty ImagesBefore Ive started at Apple in 1992 he worked for design consultancy Tangerine in London. There Ive designed the Macintosh Folio tablet concept for Apple, which had a stylus and an adjustable angled screen, as well as a sink, toilet and bath for British bathroom firm Ideal Standard. “It was a very, very simple bowl, and the rim was thick but it twisted,” he said. “It was sort of tipped open at the front.”5. Now Ive has a 12-foot square glass-walled officeIve has a copy of Banksy’s Queen with a chimpanzee face on his wall.Photograph: Martin GodwinThat office has a Playmobil likeness of Ive, a Banksy print of the Queen with the face of a chimpanzee, and a poster saying “believe in your fucking self. Stay up all fucking night ... think about all the fucking possibilities.” His office is in Apple’s design studio, protected by a 10ft-long internal vestibule that obscures all the prototypes and work from all but the permitted to enter.Related:Banksy works go under hammer in auction criticised by artist6. Jobs’s office and Ive’s lab were linked by a special corridor (and Ive didn’t realise this was unusual)Apple’s 1 Infinite Loop campus, in which Ive worked.Photograph: Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesParker writes that: “A covered corridor connects One Infinite Loop (Jobs’s office) and Two Infinite Loop (Ive’s lab). Just before Ive took me into the studio for the first time, he remarked that all the buildings were similarly linked. A colleague corrected him: this was true only of One and Two. Ive said: ‘Really?’”7. Apple has three specialist recruiters who hire designers, and they only hire one a yearIve’s design team is a close-knit group.Photograph: David LeveneThe company has a core of 19 international industrial designers who work 12-hour days starting about 6am and can’t discuss any of their work with the outside world. Only about one a year joins and in the last 15 years, only two have left, one through ill health. Apple employs three recruiters with the sole purpose to find people to join the design team.8. When Jobs came back to Apple in 1997, Ive had his resignation letter in his pocketSteve Jobs and Jony Ive began collaborating on the iMac almost immediately.Photograph: Eric Cabanis/EPAIve said he assumed his job was on the line and a new design head would be brought in, but they instantly hit it off: “It was the most bizarre thing, where we were both perhaps a little – a little bit odd. We weren’t used to clicking.” Jobs visited the design studio and told them: “You’ve not been very effective, have you?” But by the end of that day they started collaborating on the iMac, which Jobs insisted should be “lickable”.Related:Apple 27in iMac with retina 5K display review: oh my that screen9. It was Jobs that brought in Apple’s skeuomorphism, and Ive never liked itLeather skeuomorphism was ditched when Ive took control of Apple’s iOS.Photograph: Paul Hudson/flickrJobs liked digital facsimiles of analog designs, with the fake leather stitching of iCal and other apps based on the interior of Jobs’ private jet. Ive disliked the approach, although thought it was important for the first iPhone for familiarity, but didn’t intervene because he was at the stage of “I don’t think this is right, but I’m really busy doing my stuff”.10. Ive is (unsurprisingly) obsessive about the little thingsIve’s smoothed icons.Photograph: AlamyIt wasn’t until Ive was given free rein over iOS 7 after Jobs’ death that he could finally change the design and smooth out the corners of the iPhone app icons. He says: “They drove me crazy. All I could see were these unresolved tangency breaks”.11. Especially about corners, rounded cornersThe corners must be smooth.Photograph: Graham TurnerPowell Jobs (Steve’s wife) says Ive and Jobs would discuss corners “for hours and hours”.12. His obsession with detail means Apple campus is going to have awesome lift controlsEven buttons in the lift are a target for redesign by Ive.Photograph: Travis Wise/flickrIve says he had “a big fight” over simplifying the control panels for the buildings’ Mitsubishi lifts. No need to ask who won.13. Lift controls are Ive’s domain because he’s also co-designing Apple’s new campus ( …and his own new house)Apple’s new spaceship campus has Ive’s hands on it.Photograph: AppleBoth Apple’s new “spaceship” campus and his house involve Ive working with Foster + Partners. Lord Foster’s firm has 30 architects working on the campus, and the house in Pacific Heights, California sounds like it’ll be pretty impressive too – construction involves driving piles 12 metres (40ft) into the ground. It’s “a curious thing that we tend to compartmentalise, based on physical scale” says Ive – who sees his industrial design skills translating into architecture.14. Not even Ive could stop the protruding camera lens on the iPhone 6The iPhone 6 camera lens sticks out from the rest of the metal back.Photograph: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty ImagesWhen asked about the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus camera lens sticking out of the back of the phones, which allows them to be thinner overall but not sit flat on a table, Ive simply said it was “a really very pragmatic optimisation. And, yeah …”.Related:iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper15. Apple employees tried to live with every 0.1in screen-sized prototypes of iPhonesThe 4.7in iPhone 6 and 5.5in iPhone 6 Plus weren’t pulled out of Ive’s butt.Photograph: Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFP/Getty ImagesIt took Ive three years to settle on the screen sizes for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, with prototypes made from 4in to over 6in before the end of 2011. Colleagues carried around the prototypes for days. Ive says: “The first one we really felt good about was a 5.7 … and then, sleeping on it, and coming back to it, it was just ‘Ah, that’s way too big.’” Or as Tim Cook puts it: “Jony didn’t pull out of his butt the 4.7 and the 5.5.”16. Ive pressed for the iPad before the iPhoneIve would have released the iPad first, if he’d had his way.Photograph: Robert Nickelsberg / Alamy/AlamyIve was the driving force for the iPad, which he thought Apple should make before the iPhone. Jobs overruled him, saying the iPhone would introduce people to the concept of touchscreen control in a more familiar form – he said the iPad first would have had people deal with both a new category of computer and a new way of interacting with it.Related:Apple iPad Air 2 review : Apple's best tablet yet, but is that enough?17. Despite his line of work, he has strict screen time rules for his kidsEven Ive limits the screen time for his kids.Photograph: redsnapper / Alamy/AlamyIve’s twin 10-year-old boys are prevented from accessing the iPad, among other screens, for as long as they would like. Also they still pronounce “aluminium” the British way despite growing up in San Francisco, as does Ive, whose accent is apparently unchanged.18. Ive has got a penchant for cars (so maybe those Apple Car rumours aren’t so far fetched after all)Ive owns one of these classic Aston Martin DB4s.Photograph: Bonhams/EPAHe is in fact a bit of a car nut, attending the Goodwood Festival of Speed every year. He owns an Aston Martin DB4 and owned his first Bentley 10 years ago. He commutes an hour to work every day in another Bentley – which is chauffeur-driven. (He says the reasons for liking Bentleys are “entirely design-based” and he “resisted and resisted” due to the other connotations.) Apple’s head of operations Jeff Williams, says Ive describes his Toyota Camry simply as “Oh God”.19. That slight tendency for bling says something about the design of the Apple WatchThe Apple Watch in its various editions.Photograph: AppleThe first model of the Apple Watch took six weeks to design, but it took Ive a year to settle on the interchangeable watch straps. In Ive’s view, people are “OK to a degree” with carrying an identical smartphone to millions of other people, but a watch needs to be more unique”.20. There’s a very good design reason as to why the Apple Watch’s ‘digital crown’ isn’t where you would expect itThe ‘digital crown’ – not symmetrically placed for a reason.Photograph: Stephen Lam/ReutersThe “digital crown” is positioned off to one side and closer to the screen than the back, rather than being symmetrical like a winding wheel on a traditional watch. Ive says this is because its function is different … to place it centrally would be “literally referencing what’s happened in the past” but “the information about what it does is then wrong.” So that explains that then.Related:Apple iPad Air 2 review : Apple's best tablet yet, but is that enough?21. And of course the face isn’t round for a good reason tooWhen displaying lines of text is the purpose, the screen has to be square, according to Ive.Photograph: AppleIt’s square because “when a huge part of the function is lists a circle doesn’t make any sense”.22. Talking of faces (and cover your ears, Google), the face is ‘the wrong place’ for technologyThe face isn’t the place, sorry Sergey Brin.Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APApple was working on a watch before Google revealed its smartglasses, but even so it was clear to Ive that the face “was the wrong place” and that the wrist was “the obvious and right place” for a notification device. As Cook adds, the device on the wrist “isn’t obnoxious” and doesn’t act as a barrier between people (although Parker notes Cook still gets notifications from a young woman silently appearing in his line of sight with a bit of paper – maybe that’ll change once he has an Apple Watch!)Related:Google Glass review: useful – but overpriced and socially awkward23. And finally, at school Ive was nicknamed ‘Tiny’Ive has been about this size since he was 13.Photograph: Dave M. Benett/Getty ImagesWhen he was 13, as Ive puts it: “I was as big as I am now.”
Tuesday!
Changes to Facebook’s “real name” policy have failed to stop users from being suspended from the site, leading activists to renew their push to have the tech giant change its policy.Dana Lone Hill, a Native American, had her account reinstated last week after being asked to provide multiple forms of identification. Lone Hill is one of many Native Americans to report having their accounts suspended or names changed to match Facebook’s policy.“Katy Perry’s Left Shark from her Super Bowl halftime show has a Facebook page and we have to prove who we are,”Lone Hill wrote in a blogpostlast week.Her account was reinstated, days after her story was covered in multiple national news outlets.“No one should have to rely on media attention to get Facebook to deal with its broken name policy,”Nadia Kayyali, an activist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said in a blogpost.The “real name” policy has been criticized for years, but Facebook defends it by saying it is an important tool to ensure usersare not anonymous, which it believes protects people from abuse.Related:Victory for drag queens as Facebook apologises for 'real-name' policyIn September 2013, drag queens campaigned against the policy after reporting that their profiles had been suspended or deleted because their profile names did not match those on government identification or documents.In October, the companyapologized to drag queensafter meeting with representatives from the community. It also changed its policy to emphasize users’ “authentic identity” and has restored many accounts. Sister Roma, the San Francisco drag queen who led the latest campaign, served as Facebook’sde facto liaisonas users continued to report problems with the service.Despite these moves, the latest controversy has put the policy under a more critical lens as people continue to report issues with their accounts, including drag queens, people who use different names for their jobs and Native Americans.“Over the last several months, we’ve made some significant improvements in the implementation of this standard, including enhancing the overall experience and expanding the options available for verifying an authentic name,”Facebook said in a statement to Colorlines.“We have more work to do, and our teams will continue to prioritize these improvements so everyone can be their authentic self on Facebook.”Kayyali said in a blogpostthat Facebook should institute a solution immediately.“Without putting more controls on how people can report profiles, Facebook has given any user the ability to decide that they are the arbiter of someone else’s name – even when that name represents centuries of cultural tradition, as it does for Native Americans, or belonging in an adopted family for marginalized people, as it does for drag queens,” she said.Related:Facebook's 'real names' policy is legal, but it's also problematic for free speech | Jillian C YorkKayyali said that because they do not expect Facebook to drop its name verification policy, the company should assess its reporting process, develop a clear appeals process and at least make it so people who are flagged can log in to their accounts; currently, they are met by a window telling them that they must change their name or provide identification before they can access the site.In 2011, Salman Rushdie battled the social networking giant when his account was suspended because the site thought he was an impostor. His account was then reinstated with the first name on his passport, Ahmed, instead of the name he writes under.The author appealed to Mark Zuckerberg on Twitter and his account was eventually reinstated under his preferred name.Earlier that year, a Chinese blogger criticized the site for closing his account, which was held under a pseudonym, while Zuckerberg’s dog had an account under its name.
A huge amount of the information we consume and transmit in our everyday lives is perilously ephemeral. Every second, thousands of new photographs are uploaded to social media. Most of the images we take today are uploaded straight from a digital camera or a phone, with the picture never actually existing as a physical artefact.So how will future historians and biographers piece together our lives and times without bundles of diaries, paper letters and professional correspondence? Family photos and emails are important to us personally, but what about more significant losses of our collective heritage? How do we preserve our interaction on Facebook, Twitter, comment threads and citizen journalism across the web? And does the “grey literature” of official reports, briefings and policy statements that are only published online also risk being lost to the future? In a speech last week,Google’s vice-president Vint Cerf warned that a whole century of digital material could be lost.Related:Google boss warns of 'forgotten century' with email and photos at riskThere are some attempts to preserve this digital data. In 2010,the US Library of Congress signed an agreement with Twitterto archive public tweets sent since the platform’s birth in 2006, and to continue preserving tweets to make this data available for analysis and research. In the UK,the British Library is taking bold stepsto rectify what it refers to as the “digital black hole”, where information is lost once it is taken down from a webpage or an entire site shuts down. Since 2004, it has been working to archive websites for future generations, just like paper-based literature. This effort received a huge boost in 2013 when the non-print legal deposit regulations came into force and allowed the British Library, as well as the five other UK deposit libraries, including those at Oxford and Cambridge universities and Trinity College Dublin, to archive all digitally published material. Nearly 5m UK-based websites will be preserved for the historical record, with regular snapshots taken so future historians can track how webpages evolve over time. Online retailers are also getting in on the act – services such asBlurb.co.ukorMySocialBook.comwill print a physical photo album from Facebook posts.But it is not just words and images that we risk losing for ever. Huddie William Ledbetter was an influential American folk and blues musician at the turn of the 20th century, admired as the king of the 12-string guitar. As Lead Belly he is included in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, and is considered the godfather of modern music; Elvis Presley, Johnny Cash, Led Zeppelin, the White Stripes, Red Hot Chili Peppers and Nirvana have all covered his tracks. Yet, sadly,many of his original recordings have already been lost to time. Tapes of his sessions have degraded beyond salvaging – the recording on a tape is stored as a magnetic imprint in a thin film of metal oxide, and if this delicate coating flakes off, the music is irretrievably lost.Lead Belly.Photograph: Michael Ochs ArchivesThe sound archive at the British Libraryis one of the largest such repositories in the world, and the archivists here estimate that around two million of their recordings are fragile and at risk of being lost for ever. These historical recordings exist on large reel-to-reel tapes, cassettes, lacquer discs and even wax cylinders, and are vulnerable not just to physical degradation, but obsolescence and the disappearance of the technology needed to play them. If archivists don’t get to the deteriorating media soon, the very act of trying to copy a recording could destroy it in the process.Similarily, deciding on the best format to preserve them for the next hundred years relies on anticipating what technology is likely to still be available in the future. Computer hard disks can hold vast amounts of digitised information, but everything is lost if it fails or is wiped. Nasa has had great problems trying to recover and archive old information gathered by its space probes, simply because the knowledge had been lost on what archaic format the images and data had been saved in.The sound archives don’t save just music, but recordings of pivotal speeches, oral histories, dying languages and sounds of rare or extinct wildlife. But how far should this information conservation extend? How do you decide what cultural output is worthy of being preserved? Are YouTube vloggers such as Zoella or LOLcats-style internet memes worthy?Does a picture of a cat in a sink have any cultural worth?Photograph: Florchina/Getty Images/RooM RFPerhaps we should be thinking not just about our personal or cultural ephemera, but attempting to preserve a core kernel of human knowledge in case the worst were to happen. Plenty of once-great civilisations have collapsed, and our current industrialised society is by no means invulnerable – in fact, due to the intricate interconnectedness of production and economies around the world today, our technological civilisation is perhaps more prone to a sudden collapse than other societies through history. We buy life assurance to help provide for those left behind if we die suddenly; surely it is also rational for us collectively to safeguard our informational heritage, accumulated over the centuries, to help accelerate the recovery of the society after our own?In fact, there is nothing new about thoughts on protecting the fragility of human knowledge in case of a global catastrophe. The early encyclopedia compilers of the mid-1700s were acutely aware of the volatility of knowledge and the collapse of the ancient civilisations of Egypt, Greece and Rome, leaving behind only fragments of their writing. Denis Diderot specificallyconsidered his Encyclopédie a safe repository of knowledgein case of cataclysm, and compiled not just explicit knowledge but also detailed diagrams of craft skills and practical knowhow.So how could we improve on such efforts today? Wikipedia is a phenomenal monument to what can be achieved by collective human effort; a bank of more than 4.7m English articles compiled by volunteers writing and editing each other without top-down editorial coordination. Internet theorist Clay Shirky estimates that Wikipedia represents about 100m hours of labour, and a comparison run in 2005 by the science journal Nature found that Wikipedia was comparable in accuracy to the Encyclopaedia Britannica. A tongue-in-cheek Wiki page on the Terminal Event Management Policy proposes the rapid export of the online encyclopaedia to physical media in the event of a global catastrophe. In 2014,PediaPresslaunched a crowdfunding scheme on Indiegogo to raise $50,000 to print Wikipedia on to 1,000 books of 1,200 pages each, then send this exhibition on an international tour. Unfortunately, this project hasn’t yet come to fruition.But even though Wikipedia represents a vast repository of information, it is not structured in a way that would guide a post-catastrophe society through stages of recovery. James Lovelock, the originator of the Gaia hypothesis on the natural regulation of the Earth’s climate, argued in 1998 for a Book for All Seasons – a textbook of the most crucial human knowledge, structured in a logical progression. This notion has been picked up by Kevin Kelly, a former editor of the Whole Earth Review and the founder of Wired magazine, with his idea of theLibrary of Utilityon a remote mountaintop. TheLong Now Foundationhas already started collecting volumes for itsManual for Civilisation.The Svalbard Global Seed Vault.Photograph: Sergio Pitamitz/National Geographic Creative/CorbisIt is not just factual information that we need to preserve, but also genetic information. The high-yielding crops we grow today are the product of countless generations of artificial selection – ancient genetic tinkering – as we hacked the life cycle of plant species to better serve our own ends. Even disregarding the chance of a global catastrophe, preserving seeds of many varieties of the world’s crop species, as well as wild relatives, as a reserve of genetic diversity will be vital in making sure we can continue to grow food productively as the climate changes. TheSvalbard Global Seed Vault, on the remote island of Spitsbergen deep within the Arctic circle, was constructed as an agricultural “save file” specifically in case of a global crisis, and stores around 1.5m seed samples. The facility is secured by blast-proof doors, and was built into the side of a mountain so that even if power is lost the permafrost will keep the seeds naturally refrigerated for centuries.While books printed on paper are vulnerable to damp or fire, they actually represent a pretty good medium for a long-duration repository of human knowledge compared to inscriptions on granite slabs or computer drives. Books store a relatively high density of information without being too bulky, and no special equipment is required for accessing it. But we are on the brink of game-changing technology: 3D printing, a capability that would never have been dreamed of by the 18th-century encyclopedia compilers trying to describe the making and use of crucial tools. Perhaps in the near future, all that will be needed to reboot civilisation will be a vault with a 3D printer in the corner, a resilient computer database storing designs and key instruction manuals, and a big print button on the wall. The facility could manufacture a quick-start kit for accelerating development – the tools needed to make more tools. Let’s hope that civilisation never needs it.Lewis Dartnell is a research fellow at the University of Leicester. His latest book, The Knowledge: How to Rebuild our World After an Apocalypse –www.the-knowledge.org– is out in paperback on 5 March. Order a copy for £7.29 including free p&amp;p atbookshop.theguardian.com.
Notorious hacking group Lizard Squad has reportedly launched a fresh series of attacks against games and game services this weekend, including Xbox Live.The anonymous group, which launched distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks against both PlayStation Network and Xbox Live last Christmas, disrupting online game services for thousands of new PS4 and Xbox One owners, has been quiet for several weeks.However, on Friday, Daybreak Games, previously known as Sony Online Entertainment, reported that its servers were being attacked, with its range of multiplayer online games – including zombie survival adventure H1Z1 – suffering connection issues. Later, Lizard Squad tweeted “H1Z1 #offline”.Early Monday morning, Lizard Squad announced on Twitter that its latest target would be Xbox Live, later tweeting “Xbox (360) Live #offline”. Microsoft has yet to officially comment on disruption to its online gaming service. However, gamers quickly began to log problems with the service, including beingunable to access their friend lists. At the time of writing, Microsoft’s support page wasdisplaying a warningthat Xbox Live access is limited.Lizard Squad has a history of directing attacks at Microsoft and particularly Sony. The group first came to wider attention last August when it brought down the PlayStation Network with a DDoS attack. At that time, the group also claimed responsibility for contacting American Airlines and claiming that one of their domestic flights had a bomb onboard – one of the plane’s passengers was John Smedley, the president of Sony Online Entertainment. A series of subsequent tweets from the Lizard Squad account openly mocked Smedley, with one reading “Glad to see you following us. How’s your day?”Related:PlayStation Network attacked by hacker group – Xbox may be next targetIn February, Sonysold Sony Online Entertainmentto Columbus Nova, and the studio, responsible for titles such as Everquest and Planeside 2, changed its name to Daybreak Games and became an independent company. Days later the companyannounced a number of staff layoffs. Smedley, now seemingly a personal target of Lizard Squad, remained in charge of the studio, and has been tweeting from his personal account about the server outages affecting the company – prompting Lizard Squad to tweet, “What’s up, long time no see :).@j_smedley”In January, UK policearrested two menin connection with Lizard Squad’s Christmas day attacks on PlayStation Network and Xbox Live – an 18-year-old from Southport and a 22-year-old from Twickenham. Neither has so far been charged.The latest tweet on the group’s account reads simply, “brb. More to come, it’s about time to re-ignite lizardsquad.”
British customers of banks including NatWest, Barclays and HSBC are being targeted by a wave of malicious emails attempting to install the Dyreza malware on their computers.Security firm Bitdefender claims that RBS, Lloyds Bank and Santander customers are also receiving the emails, which direct them to websites with “highly obfuscated” JavaScript code, which installs the Trojan.The company claims that 30,000 of these emails were sent in a single day from servers in the UK, France, Turkey, US and Russia, with the aim of stealing victims’ online banking credentials.“It installs itself on the user’s computer and becomes active only when the user enters credentials on a specific site, usually the login page of a banking institution or financial service,” said Bitdefender’s chief security strategist Catalin Cosoi.“Through a man-in-the-browser attack, hackers inject malicious Javascript code, which allows them to steal credentials and further manipulate accounts – all in a completely covert way.”Dyreza isn’t a new cyber-threat: it wasfirst detected by online security firms in 2014. Then, as now, its main delivery method was emails designed to look like communications from banks, including PDF attachments.Related:Will increasing cyber attacks spell the end of username and password security?The Trojan has been compared to Zeus, the notorious malware thatinfected tens of thousands of computers around the world in 2009. One of the most concerning aspects of Dyreza – also known as Dyre – is its ability to bypass the SSL security used by online banking services.Cosoi also warned that users may be held responsible for any losses caused by their computers becoming infected by Dyreza.“Considering the malware’s behaviour, it is worth pointing out that mitigating this vulnerability does not lie in the hands of the financial institutions targeted, but in the user’s own actions,” he said.“It’s like using a public computer from an internet café to pay your bills - if you forget to log out from your account, anyone can access it and transfer money to their own pockets.”
Swedish songwriters have written an open letter demanding a bigger slice of the revenue generated from digital music streaming services such as Spotify and YouTube.The piece headlined ‘It’s time to say thank you for the music’ andpublished in Aftonbladet, one of Scandinavia’s biggest newspapers, is signed by 133 songwriters and producers behind hits by acts including Janet JacksonRobyn, the Saturdays and Britney Spears.They point toa recent study, which reported that songwriters are receiving as little as 3% of the revenue that streaming services pay out to the music industry in the US. “No corresponding research has been done in Europe, but the allocation of revenue here surely doesn’t differ substantially,” say the songwriters. Digital music services and record labels use non-disclosure agreements, so it is impossible for songwriters themselves to know for sure exactly what the figure is.They say the songwriter’s voice is rarely heard, “even though the vast majority of music gracing the sales and streaming chart is created by songwriters who are not artists”. Unlike performers, songwriters don’t have the option of touring, selling merchandise or being “compensate[d] in any other way for the loss of income experienced due to the digital market”.“The unavoidable result is that the record labels and other music industry players risk sawing off the branch they’re sitting on, as very few songwriters will be able to afford to create music other than as a hobby,” says the letter.Meanwhile, the founders of Spotify have said they don’t understand why a number of artists have refused to license their music to the service. During the media storm that followed Taylor Swift’s decision to remove all her music from Spotify last November, , co-founder Martin Lorentzontold a Swedish newspaperthat he had “zero understanding” for artists’ demand for better remuneration.“We have totally turned around a music business in freefall by working in blood, sweat and tears, and we are heaping money back to the music industry,” said Lorentzon. “At the same time all music is free to steal, or do what you want with, on The Pirate Bay, torrent clients, Soundcloud, YouTube or Grooveshark.”Spotify says it has paid the music industry more than $1bn since its 2008 launch, but the Swedish songwriters say that very little of that revenue has gone to them. Arecent study, ordered by French record label trade body SNEP, showed that 73% of the payouts from streaming subscriptions go to the labels. Three-quarters of Spotify’s users don’t subscribe to the service, however, opting instead for the ad-funded version. Though deals are covered by a non-disclosure agreement, it’s understood that major labels have a minimum per-stream rate on that version, while songwriters do not.The signatories, including Eagle-Eye Cherry, Andreas Johnson, and members of Hellacopters, Peter Bjorn and John, and the Wannadies, attribute the lopsided distribution to the major labels insisting on tough terms in order to licence Spotify in the first place – including shares in the company and huge advances – while the music publishers and STIM, who represent songwriters, initially agreed to terrible licensing terms in order for the service to even get off the ground. “Nobody wanted to stand in the way of technological progress, or of the opportunity to slap the pirate sites on the fingers,” they explain.The letter, published on Monday, has been timed to appear in the newspaper on the same day that the Swedish Society of Songwriters, Composers and Authors (SKAP) is meeting with the labels, Spotify and other music industry stakeholders, in order to try to create a more balanced allocation of digital revenues.The first step, the songwriters say, should be to discuss increased transparency. “STIM and other collective rights organisations are forced to sign confidentiality agreements, which prevent them from revealing – even to their own members – what the splits of the revenues are.”The open letter continues: “The music industry may be the only business in the world where the subcontractors – the songwriters – aren’t allowed to know how much they get paid for their products, the songs.”The second step, they say, should be to find a distribution model that allows the whole industry to prosper, “not just the labels and distributors, who are making a living off the value we music creators produce”.The third discussion point is that very few streaming services feature songwriter and producer credits, something they would like to see amended.Sweden has been in the forefront of the streaming revolution, being the birthplace of both Spotify and Soundcloud – as well as The Pirate Bay. The effects of illegal downloading hit the country particularly early and hard, while legal downloading never got a chance to establish a foothold. Streaming now claims a whopping 79.2% of the total Swedish record music market. But as the streaming market has matured there are signs of stagnation in overall revenue from recorded music. After half a decade of growth – admittedly starting from a very low point in 2008, when Spotify launched –revenue from recorded music was reportedly down 0.4% in 2014.It remains to be seen if the stakeholders in the Swedish recorded music industry can hammer out an agreement that satisfies all parties, yet the Swedish songwriters’ open letter ends on an optimistic note: “Sweden has come a long way in the development of digital music services. It’s also reasonable to expect that our relatively small music industry and historical spirit of consensus among the different actors in the music industry should show the way to a more sustainable and equitable model.”Earlier this month, the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors (BASCA)launched a campaignentitled The Day the Music Died to demand fair share for songwriters.• Helienne Lindvall is a signatory of the letter
YouTube’s first video may have been uploaded on 23 April 2005, but the website’s domain name was registered on 14 February. Hence the10th birthday milestone this past weekendat a time when Google’s online video service is more popular than ever.From zero to one billion viewers in a decade is some journey, but what lies ahead as YouTube moves towards its teenage years? Here are some predictions.Videos, music... and gamesIn 2015, YouTube remains very much a video service, albeit one that’s in the process of launching a streaming music offshoot:YouTube Music Key. Over the next decade, expect it to expand into an all-encompassingentertainmentservice, where you’ll not just watch and listen: you’ll play.Games, and interactive experiences. In both cases partly driven by YouTube’s evolution into the world’s largest catalogue of virtual reality content. But also because games will sit neatly alongside shows and music in YouTube’s entertainment mix.People watch games videos in their hundreds of millions on YouTube now, and they’ll be playing games in similar numbers there by 2025: a huge casual gaming platform following a lineage that includes Facebook and the app stores of Apple and Google.Related:YouTube is 10 years old: the evolution of online videoYou’ll watch the Super Bowl, not just its adsEvery time the English Premier League auctions off its television rights, there are rumours that YouTube will be joining the likes of Sky and BT in the bidding. Every time – so far – those rumours haven’t led anywhere. By 2025, though, live sports will be a key part of YouTube’s video offering.Not justfootballfootball, but American football, and basketball, and cricket, and any other sport you can name with a following – from mass to niche. And not necessarily because YouTube has outbid traditional broadcasters for the rights, even if that’s the likeliest short-term reason.As the barriers between traditional broadcasting and online video topple, YouTube will emerge as a partner for sports leagues to retain their rights and go direct to fans. Itsrelationships with US leagues the NFL and NBAfor highlights are a tiny sliver of what’s possible.By 2025, every match in every league could be available on-demand, globally, on YouTube through those leagues’ own channels – at least for those that have done deals with the company.A personalised EPG that pushes shows to youYouTube will remain a mammoth catalogue of video to watch, but by 2025 it’s going to be much,muchsmarter at understanding your tastes, drawing on everything that its parent company knows about you as well as your YouTube history.Yes, you’ll be able to search for something to watch, but the default mode for YouTube will be a lean-back channel of content customised on the fly for the people watching right now: it’ll know that through a combination of cameras and microphones on the device being watched, and data from the nearest Nest smart-home hub, obviously.A couple of episodes of the latest Scandinavian crime drama; a couple of music videos by new artists YouTube knows you’ll like; a half-hour sketch show automatically cut together from your favourite YouTubers; a personalised news bulletin; and all the while micro-targeted ads.YouTube will orchestrate the viewing not just on the main screen(s) in the home, but on each family member’s personal screens too: the curator of every evening’s multi-screen viewing.Accurate ratings ... and sentiment analysisBy 2025, the memory of a TV ratings system based on a limited sample of viewers will seem comically archaic: anyone making video will have real-time data on how many people have watched, but also what they thought of it.In 2015, we’re being warned by some smart TVs thatany private conversation could be recorded and uploaded to a server. By 2025, this will be the main feedback loop for digital entertainment: vast servers humming away to process our uttered views on shows, ads, characters and creators.Shouting at the telly will finally have the potential to influence the people making whatever you’re watching on it. Although your conversations about family, politics, culture and whatever your cat dragged in last night will also be just more grist to YouTube’s recommendations mill.Googlebox-style co-viewing for allThe Hangouts feature of today’s Google+ is the template for the future of social television co-viewing, where everyone is a star in their own continuously-running episode ofGogglebox.We’ll watch shows, sports and other live events remotely with our friends and family: an audience of muted video thumbnails laughing and crying along with us, and chatting about them afterwards.How will producers and brands guarantee these kinds of watercooler moments? By paying for them, of course. From music video premieres to new dramas or party political broadcasts, there’ll be a rate card for bringing people together to watch. With lots of zeroes on it.Today’s YouTubers will be tomorrow’s mogulsIn 2014,YouTube’s biggest star PewDiePie generated 4.1bn viewsfrom his channel. Where will he be in 2025? Quite likely running one of the world’s biggest entertainment networks, if he fancies the task. Today’s fresh-faced YouTubers will be tomorrow’s superbroadcasting moguls.PewDiePie – Felix Kjellberg – has alreadyhinted that he thinks he could do a better job at running a multi-channel network(MCN) than current companies in that area: “So far, all the networks have been managed in such an incredibly poor way, it’s embarrassing really,” he said in October 2014.Related:YouTube vloggers are popular, but new study questions their influenceIn 2015, a lot of television industry execs think PewDiePie and his fellow online stars will jump at the chance to become “proper” TV stars, but they’re more likely to continue focusing on YouTube and become its equivalent of those TV industry execs: bossing thriving networks of their own.Rivals: Facebook, Netflix, HBO ... and Snapchat?In 2015, Facebook is shaping up as the most realistic-looking threat to YouTube’s dominance of online video.Facebook users already watch 3bn videos every dayon the social network, and it’s been striking its own deals for professional content while reportedly courting YouTube’s stars to start uploading videos directly to its service.Fast forward 10 years, though, and this isn’t an “online video” market: it’s just video (and music, and games, and virtual reality ...). A market where YouTube’s rivals are Facebook, Apple, Google and Amazon, but also Netflix, HBO, and perhaps even Snapchat if its youthful audience grows up keeping their habit.Today’s startups, such asVessel,also havetheir own ambitions to become the online age’s equivalent of ESPN, MTV, CNN and Discovery– the new brands that sprang up from the era of cable television. The challenge for traditional TV firms is how they fit in to this landscape of duelling technology companies trying to dislodge YouTube’s crown.Reasons for celebration or concern?These predictions aren’t all made in a celebratory fashion. Some of these developments could be exciting, but others horrifying – or at least distinctly troubling for various reasons.Do we want to hand our entertainment choices over to algorithms whose workings are entirely mysterious to us? What happens to serendipity: discovering things by accident that we didn’t know we’d love – or, for that matter, things that challenge our beliefs?Is the trade-off between privacy and personalisation worth the risks? Do we trust YouTube and Google to respect the creators of the shows, music and games that we enjoy?And perhaps most pressingly, will all of these questions be rendered moot by the emergence of something else – likely dreamed up by someone who’s a teenager now – that makes YouTube a historical footnote by 2025 rather than the master of our entertainment?
The world’s first drone circus is to be held in the Netherlands, where aerial robots equipped with lasers and projectors will spin in dizzying dances across the Amsterdam Arena.TheAIR 2015show is scheduled to take place this year with hundreds of drones lined up to fill the venue. The event is being developed in conjunction with the Royal Netherlands Air Force, although a date has not yet been set.“In this high energy and explosive show, drones will take centre stage to bring a collaboration and fusion of music, video, projections and special effects. AIR allows you to experience a variety of ballet and battles, races and lasers, circus, illusions and most of all magic from hundreds of drones,” said the event’s promoter Fjuze in a statement on the site announcing the AIR2015 show.The AIR 2015 announcement videoFjuze is not the first to the idea of using drones as a display team. Disney is working onreplacing its more traditional means of live entertainment such as giant puppets and fireworkswith drone displays, including a mesh of drones covered in lights simulating an aerial display.The explosion of commercially available drones has caused issues with flight restrictions primarily in place for larger aircraft. In the UK, drones cannot be flown within 50m of a building, person or vehicle or within 150m of a built up area, including sporting events. They must also be kept within the line-of-sight of the person operating the drone, which is generally measured as 500m horizontally or 122m vertically.Related:Amazon dismayed by proposed FAA rules on commercial use of dronesLeaked documents from the US Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) show that the regulator is set to allow commercial drone use without a licence, but only within line-of-sight of an operator.The drones used for AIR 2015 will be flown inside the arena, skirting any outdoor flight restrictions.
It was one of the most dramatic moments of the World Cup, leaving many fans baffled. In the 120th minute of the quarter final against Costa Rica, Holland goalkeeper Jasper Cilissen was substituted for third-choice keeper Tim Krul. He went onto save two penalties, seeing Holland through to the semi-final.Many applauded the courage and the mind games of the Dutch manager Louis van Gaal. But on closer inspection what the world was watching was one of the most high-profile examples of how technology and psychology are now deeply connected in modern sport. Some would argue that the emergence of technology in sport threatens to make it more mechanical, but the drama of the quarter-final suggests the opposite is true. It also highlights that knowledge of your opponent’s use of technology can be as powerful as having your own.The Krul effectAfter the win, van Gaal explained that Krul was simply a better penalty stopper. In fact, the data shows he had only saved two of the previous 20 penalties he’d faced before that night; hardly the record of a specialist. The second choice goalkeeper in the Dutch squad, Michael Vorm, had a better record than Krul, having saved three of 11 penalties prior to the World Cup.So why did van Gaal defy the apparent logic behind the numbers? He went on to reveal that Krul had studied past footage of all Costa Rica’s penalty takers before the game, a standard form of preparation and not something that Cillessen (or Vorm) would have found difficult to do. Krul concurred that his own video preparation was key to victory. And yet research shows that studying penalty takers is statistically insignificant to outcomes.Studying goalkeepers is far more useful, according to astudy by University College Londonwhich suggests that most keepers conclude, after a few shots have gone in one direction, that the next player will change direction (despite each kick presenting the same odds for direction choice). By observing a goalkeeper, you can build up a picture over time that might reveal if they tend to guess early or wait. You can pin point particular weaknesses or habits they have. Indeed, when explaining the penalty shootout win against Greece in their previous match, the Costa Rican manager Jose Pinto revealed: “We had studied the opposition (goalkeeper) and that’s why we scored 100%.”Video capture and editing is an established and readily available technology. Taking what Pinto had said to the media in the wake of victory against Greece, van Gaal, like any manager today, knew that the Costa Ricans would have studied Cillessen and would consequently have been aware of his weaknesses. He also knew it was unlikely that they had studied the Dutch third choice goalkeeper Krul, which made them unaware of his apparent strengths or weaknesses.It was van Gaal’s understanding of his opponent’s technology-enabled preparations that provided the practical and psychological potency of his last minute substitution. “Their manager’s face when he saw me was priceless. It definitely had an impact” said Krul about his substitution. Chance had a big role to play, but it was the great reactions of Krul combined with van Gaal’s disruption of the Costa Rican team’s preparations and composure in the moment that proved telling.Ahead of the gameRather than making sport more predictable, the widespread adoption of technology creates a new opportunity for psychological gaming and drama. Player tracking systems for football, rugby, basketball, NFL and other professional sports have led to teams better understanding their own strengths and weaknesses through data. But crucially, if teams know that their opponents have such technology, they can predict their likely match tactics and respond accordingly. The tactical permutations will grow exponentially, as will the Machiavellian game changing plays and the high drama we love about sport.Professor Jem Bendell of theInstitute for Leadership and Sustainabilityat the University of Cumbria Business School explains: “Whether in sport, war or market competition, knowing the assumptions and routines of an opponent can be as important as your own capabilities. Adopting new technologies can challenge our assumptions and change routines, but can also create new ones, even revealing vulnerabilities for a clever opponent. Therefore, understanding your opponents’ technologies can be as important as having them yourself.”The practical implication for professional sport teams is that besides seeking to exploit the latest technologies for internal use, it will become paramount to constantly monitor what your opponents are doing. Most clubs aren’t there yet, and it’s clear that future assessments of new tech usage will need to be far more systematic, encompassing and outward looking if they are to lead to new opportunities to follow in van Gaal’s footsteps and out-think your opponent.The evolution of technology in sport will not make sports more mechanical, but instead add new elements, enriching tactics, increasing tension and bringing drama to the fore.Wolfram Klug is a sport business technologist, former business &amp; technology director at international basketball federation FIBA, and CEO of the sport organisation consultantsDigital SportTheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
Despite being a phenomenon in Japan,Monster Hunterhas gone largely unnoticed in Britain. And it’s not hard to see why: this is an RPG that requires significant time investment. Gamers must craft weapons and hunt monsters that gradually increase in size and challenge. It’s a slow, gruelling game with reams of text and a cast of infuriating characters.Yet persevere andMonster Hunter’s depth and charm will show. Crafting and taking down bigger beasts can become an obsession that lasts hundreds of hours. Meanwhile, this new iteration, also a launch title for the revamped 3DS, improves things with inventive weapons and monsters, vibrant and colourful environments, plus an essential and more accessible tutorial. Furthermore, the game’s co-op mode – by far the best thing about the franchise – has been improved significantly with the addition of online play. Clearly then, not for everyone, but for fans of deep RPGs,Monster Hunter 4is an excellent adventure.
The Legend of Zelda: Majora’s Maskis quite simply a masterpiece. Originally released for the N64 in 2000, it is a twisted and unique adventure about a menacing moon set to crush the land of Termina three days from the game’s opening. As in the original, this remake, timed to coincide withthe new 3DS, sees the hero, Link, able to travel in time and so when the three days are up, he warps back and begins again. The game’s four main dungeons remain completed, but the generous helping of side-quests don’t, and Link will become intimately involved with Termina’s inhabitants as he changes their fates, reunites lost loves and tries to prevent the apocalypse over and over again. There’s plenty of variety in the side-quests, too, as Link must transform into different creatures in order to overcome obstacles. These creatures include a leaping shrubbery (the Deku Scrub), an amphibious rock star (Zora) and a member of a race of rock people (the Gorons). Link can metamorphose into these characters by simply donning the right masks, and each transformation allows him to obtain special abilities, including the capacity to glide short distances, swim underwater or roll around the landscape at high speed.These multiple characters, plus the fact the titular Princess Zelda only makes a fleeting appearance in a flashback, makes for a stimulating and unexpectedZeldaadventure.It’s a dark and melancholic title, too, not just in its storyline but in how it looks. Almost all the character and scenery models have been taken directly fromMajora’s Mask’s predecessor (The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time), but the developers have included some surreal effects and extra colour – primarily dark blues and purples – which gives the world of Termina a very real sense of strangeness.Then there’s the music, which increases in tempo as that moon – with its malicious grin and crazed stare – gets closer to destroying the world. And as those final moments draw near, the game’s wonderful soundtrack conjures a feeling of dread, with regular earthquakes shaking the screen and sending the town folk fleeing to the hills.Majora’s Maskreally isn’t the typical fairy-tale adventure game. Thoroughly deserving another outing, the remake is visually impressive, with added gameplay tweaks and new fishing games. Those tweaks include improving the boss fights (somewhat lacklustre in the original), moving some of the items and re-landscaping a handful of confusing areas. But there have been some more substantial changes, too.The bottom screen now features a more detailed notebook, which is invaluable for managing the game’s various side-quests. Meanwhile, the touch screen makes selecting items significantly easier than in the N64 original.Another significant addition is the ability to warp to specific hours during the three-day cycle. This makes for a much better game, repeating side-quests is no longer as tedious and players are not forced to mindlessly stare at the in-game clock, waiting for the right time to save that old woman from the mugger.Indeed, the save system has also been changed. Whereas in the originalMajora’s Maskgamers could only save permanently by warping back to the first day, now they can do it at any one of the various Owl Statues dotted around Termina. It’s an essential adjustment to compensate for the fact that this is now a portable title, and players need to be able to save and put down their console whenever they have to. However, it does take away some of the tension and risk from the game, because failure no longer means having to restart that three-day cycle over again.Nevertheless, this is unquestionably a better game than that bizarre, wonderful adventure Nintendo crafted in 2000. Back then,Majora’s Maskarrived at the end of the N64’s life and had the impossible task of living up to its predecessor, the widely lauded “greatest game ever”,Ocarina of Time. As a result, it did not get the recognition it deserved.But now it has that second chance.The Legend of Zelda: Majora’s Maskis a mysterious, haunting game that shows that even within a series as established and traditional as Zelda, there’s room for invention. It’s nothing short of being the definitive version of one of Nintendo’s greatest games.
Oh here we go again.
The 3DS is already a solid handheld, but Nintendo has nevertheless rejigged it. The result is the (rather awkwardly named) New Nintendo 3DS. With a faster processor and twice the memory of the existing model, there will be future games playable only on this new hardware. Added input – two extra shoulder buttons and a much-needed second thumb-stick – allows more nuanced controls, and the device is natively compatible with amiibo figures, which unlock features in select titles. The 3D effect, ostensibly the system’s selling point but rarely well-utilised, is dramatically improved. Motion tracking and a greater depth of field see the hardware finally living up to its original promise. It’s stunning to behold.Some shifting of inputs is slightly disorienting, with volume controls now along the top screen, and both game carts and the stylus now housed in the unit’s bottom edge. These soon become accustomed to though, and overall it’s an ergonomic, comfortable device. Swappable cases also allow some personal flair, but only for the standard size model, not the XL unit.The only changes for the worse are having the power button also on the bottom, leading to accidental turning on, and having to unscrew the backplate to insert a MicroSD storage card. It’s also disappointing that Nintendo didn’t improve screen resolutions – with 800x240 on the upper screen and 320x240 on the lower, any smartphone has a better display. Relative lo-res and fiddly backplates aside, this is a significant improvement on the existing 3DS and undeniably the best version to own.
Commercial drone operators will be banned from letting unmanned aircraft out of their sight, undernew US proposalsthat come as a major blow to companies like Amazon that were hoping to use the unmanned aircraft to make aerial home deliveries.Amazon said the proposed new Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) rules, which were outlined in a conference call with reporters on Sunday morning, would prevent it from operating such a service in the US and could force it to develop the technology overseas instead.“The FAA needs to begin and expeditiously complete the formal process to address the needs of our business, and ultimately our customers,” Paul Misener, Amazon vice-president of gobal public policy, said in a statement to the Guardian. “We are committed to realising our vision for Prime Air and are prepared to deploy where we have the regulatory support we need.”Related:Amazon threatens to take drone testing abroad as US delays approvalTesting of Amazon’s Prime Air technology has been taking place at an indoor facility in Washington state, but the company recently expanded its research and development team inCambridgein the UK and has threatened to switch investment tomore sympathetic regulatory environments.Asked about the threat from Amazon to move abroad, US officials insisted they were moving as fast as they could to respond to advances in automated safety systems and would consider whether to allow exemptions in future.“We know that technology is changing very rapidly,” US transport secretary Anthony Foxx told the Guardian. “We are not done yet and we are going to continue working to ensure we are moving as quickly as possible but also as safely as possible to ensure that we integrate these new technologies into the airspace.”Amazon fears that simply implementing the existing rule proposals may take too long, even though the administration has been examining the issue for at least two years.“The FAA’s proposed rules for small UAS [unmanned aircraft systems] could take one or two years to be adopted and, based on the proposal, even then those rules wouldn’t allow Prime Air to operate in the United States,” said Misener.The FAA insists its new rule would not necessarily prohibit automated flight technology so long as an operator who was in visual contact could intervene and was not responsible for more than one drone at a time. The rule also prohibits any item being dropped from a drone or carrying cargo for a third party.“We have tried to be flexible in writing these rules,” said FAA administrator Michael Huerta, in a statement. “We want to maintain today’s outstanding level of aviation safety without placing an undue regulatory burden on an emerging industry.”Industry groups said they were encouraged by some aspects of the proposed new rule changes, including scrapping previous requirements for a full pilot’s license, medical examination and air-worthiness certificate for smaller drones.But experts believe recent advances in technology, such as automatedcollision avoidance softwaretogether with more proven camera systems, should have been taken more seriously by the FAA.“First Person View technology is available now, and is critical to unleashing the power of automation in this space,” said theSmall UAV Coalitionin a statement. “Until small UAVs are able to go beyond the line of sight, we are not maximising the technology as other countries”Separately, the White House also issued new rules on Sunday for how government agencies are allowed to use any surveillance data gathered by drones, automated or otherwise, within the US.“As unmanned aircraft systems are integrated into the national airspace system, the federal government will take steps to ensure that the integration takes into account not only our economic competitiveness and public safety, but also the privacy, civil rights and civil liberties concerns these systems may raise,” said the White House.Lawyers, however, warned that the White House guidelines fell short of fully protecting privacy from government drone use.“The proposal allows the use of data gathered by domestic drones for any ‘authorised purpose’, which is not defined, leaving the door open to inappropriate drone use by federal agencies,” saidNeema Singh Guliani, legislative counsel with the American Civil Liberties Union’s Washington Legislative Office.“At a minimum, the administration should require that law enforcement first obtain a judge’s approval before being allowed to use this invasive technology and limit drone use to specific purposes.”
Price £22,460MPG 78.5Top speed 129mphNoir buffs, smudgy-eyed goths, TV executives, the stylishly insecure… Rejoice, this is the car for you. TheHonda Civic Black Editionis black – all over. From the specially mixed paint (Crystal Black Pearlescent) to its gunpowder alloys and piano-black bodywork, everything is a starless Stygian shade – even the fuel cap and badge. In fact, you feel odd if you don’t wear black when you drive it.But why has Honda thrown away the colour chart? Is it just to make life easy for those with a chronic inability to choose the exact hue they want? Yes, you with the 15 dabs of near-identical off-white on the wall! In this world of limitless choice – from breakfast cereal, to coffee to which thoracic surgeon you want cutting you open – the removal of a consumer’s right to make up their own mind is brilliantly, refreshingly, one-sided. And the more I think about it the more liberating I find it: “Black? Yes, I’ll have it in black.” Or maybe Honda is channelling the great Henry Ford, who famously offered his world-beating Model T in any colour you wanted – so long as it was black.The award-scooping, Swindon-built Civic is an eye-poppingly distinctive car. The Wiltshire town seems to have form in this department: Diana Dors and Julian Clary are all also from there. There are few other mid-market, mass-produced vehicles which manage to stand out from the herd as effortlessly as the Civic. That great sweep of rear lamps sandwiching a split back screen is as attractive a derriere as you’ll find anywhere, in Swindon and beyond.Inside, the design fun continues. It’s funky and forward looking. The dash features a huge digital speedo with a clever recessed info panel. It hasn’t changed much since the look was first introduced in 2011, yet it still feels modern and fresh. There’s very little leather – well, a tiny strip on the steering wheel – so everything is hard-wearing (black) cloth. My daughter was thrilled – she’s convinced it’s the smell of leather seats that makes her feel car sick.Looks aside, the Black Edition has a real ace up its sleeve in terms of its engine – one of the most remarkable power plants currently on the road. The super-frugal and super-smooth 1.6 i-DTEC diesel produces 118bhp, baby’s-breath emissions of CO2, just 94g/km, and a combined economy of a whopping 78.5mpg. And it’s only available as a manual (more liberating lack of consumer choice). I hammered down the M3 and back and was astounded to see that, even with my total disregard forhypermilingtechniques, it was still netting 65 miles to the gallon.Other good stuff: it’s comfortable, roomy and has a large boot (half as big again as the Ford’s Focus). It has a decent music system and Bluetooth comes as standard. Bad stuff: it has a fiddly trip computer, no built-in satnav, no cruise-control and no auto lights – options that are usually standard on a car of this price. But these are small niggles, and ones you’ll soon forget about. Unless, of course, you are melanophobic. In which case you’ll still be struggling with your fear of the colour black.Does your car have a passport?Under the hood: an RAC car passport could save you spending time on the hard shoulder.Photograph: Sami Sarkis/Getty ImagesAccording to a study of more than 2,300 motorists conducted by the RAC almost half of motorists (45%) who have ever bought a used car privately believe they were deceived in some way by the person who sold it to them – highlighting a worrying lack of trust in the used car buying process. Of the drivers who feel they have been misled, more than two thirds (67%) think they were sold a faulty car and more than a fifth (21%) think they paid too much for what they ended up driving away. Robert Diamond, managing director at RAC Data Services, said: “Buying a car privately can work out cheaper than going through a dealer and is therefore a popular choice in the UK. But clearly many drivers don’t have a lot of trust either in the person they’re buying from, or in the car they end up driving away with. Sadly, motorists are telling us that buying a car privately appears to resemble something akin to motoring roulette.” To help people buy more confidently, the RAC has launched the Car Passport, the most comprehensive car check available in the UK. Buyers can get quick, online access to a wide range of information about their next vehicle including a personalised valuation to verify the seller is charging a fair price; information on a car’s history, such as common reasons for that particular make, model and year of car to break down; and symptoms to look out for in a test drive. For more information about the RAC Car Passport, visitwww.rac.co.uk/carpassport. For more information about the RAC’s Vehicle Inspections, visitwww.rac.co.uk/buying-a-car/vehicle-inspections.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
We’ve all been there. You rush out of the house to catch the train to work, elbow your way into a seat and immediately reach for your smartphone. But it isn’t there. Cue sense of panic as you contemplate a day (an hour!) without being connected. But, in the future, as you look down in despair, you may suddenly realise that at the last minute you threw on your two-in-one ready-to-wear “smart” jacket with built-in phone and Twitter feed. Panic over!It might sound like the stuff of sci-fi, butclothes that double up as smartphones aren’t as far away as you might think. “In five to 10 years, all the little gadgets we have to carry around – like mobile phones, cameras or bracelets – will disappear and everything will be integrated into a garment,” said Francesca Rosella, creative director atCuteCircuit, a London-based wearable technology clothing company.From its studio in Shoreditch in east London, Rosella and her team have been fusing technology with clothing for a decade and have a reputation for coming up with some of the most innovative stuff. Hence CuteCircuit’s growing celebrity fan base, from Katy Perry to Nicole Scherzinger and Ellie Goulding.Britain – and London especially – has long been seen as a trendsetter in smart clothing. But Rosella said that only now is their brand detecting a significant shift in interest from the fashion industry. “It’s buzz, buzz, buzz. Now everybody wants a slice of the cake,” she said. CuteCircuit is in the process of agreeing collaboration with a “big brand” fashion name, though she wouldn’t say who.One big brand name that’s keen to talk about wearables is Ralph Lauren. Famous for its preppy nautical stripes and chinos, it is the first major luxury fashion house to think wearable. Its salvo, a sports shirt that monitors heartbeat, respiration and stress levels, is about to hit the shops on both sides of the Atlantic. After that, everything will be up for grabs, at least according to David Lauren, Ralph’s son and executive vice-president.“The technology has evolved to a point where it can now be synthesised with clothing. It wasn’t wearable six months ago in ways that it is today. The goal now is to merge it into all kinds of clothing. It will be mind-blowing five years from now,” he said.There will be outfits for our children that will tell us if they’re getting enough exercise, and jackets warning us if our blood pressure is too high. How about tops that can change their pattern and colour depending on how you’re feeling? This is the type of wearable technology that Lauren said his brand was experimenting with.But why now? Some say it’s because the fashion industry is getting edgy about the sheer volume of cash that consumers are throwing at trendy gadgets rather than trendy jumpers and they want a slice of the action. Research firm Euromonitor reckons that Britons spent £4.5bn on smartphones last year, compared with £4.3bn on designer labels. The scales have tipped and the fashion brands are losing out.“You’re starting to see a displacement of the money spent on fashion – clothes, accessories and shoes – to money spent on smartphones,” said Stéphane Marceau, co-founder of Canadian startupOMsignal, which developed the technology behind Ralph Lauren’s new sports top.His company, which employs 50 people, is throwing its resources into designing technology for clothes. He said it was only a matter of time before smart clothing took over as the main “wearable”. “A few years from now, you’ll go to the store and buy a shirt or an undergarment and you’ll just expect it to be a connected object,” he predicted.There are plenty in the fashion industry who agree with him, but this convergence of fashion and technology won’t be plain sailing. It is an insight into the potential tensions between fashion brands and tech firms that David Lauren seems keen to play down OMsignal’s role in his brand’s new shirt. “People are not going to be buying the shirt because of them [OMsignal]. They’ll buy it because it’s a Ralph Lauren quality shirt which happens to provide technology,” he said.Amy Winters’ Thunderstorm DressPhotograph: courtesy of  Amy WintersTheBritish designer Amy Winters, who makes clothes that change colour in response to sound, agreed that fashion and technology was a tricky marriage. “You need to collaborate from the start, otherwise it won’t work,” she said. Her latest outfits were shown atthe annual CES technology show in Las Vegaslast month, an event that attracted swarms of big name fashion brands (or their reps, at least). Everyone who was anyone in fashion was there, from Victoria’s Secret to Louis Vuitton. “They were snooping around, taking pictures, but they weren’t showing anything,” Winters said.As with any new fashion, technology or otherwise, getting the price right will be crucial. CuteCircuit’s clothes start at around £90 for a sports top that glows when you run, climbing into the thousands for miniskirts and dresses that can switch between patterns.Karinna Nobbs, a senior lecturer at the British School of Fashion, said that prices were too high and that some designs were still too clunky. She singled outTommy Hilfiger’s new jacket, complete with integrated solar panelsto charge your phone and tablet. But she still believed smart clothing was the next big trend to watch. “As prices come down and as the tech is made more invisible, then it will be more desirable for consumers,” she said.It is easy to scoff at the notion that your dress might one day also be your telephone, but a decade ago most people laughed at the idea of Apple moving into telephony. So is the logical conclusion that, as these two worlds collide, Apple will launch its own brand of smart hoodies, or iHoodies? Will we all be walking around in Google-powered trainers with built in satnav?As London fashion week kicks off this week, will it be the big tech companies taking notes from the wings? As they say, watch this space.
Max Caulfield is a teenage girl who has landed a scholarship to her dream school. Her social anxieties and habitual over-thinking are interrupted by the discovery that she can travel a few minutes back in time, a talent that helps her prevent a shooting and soon leads towards even more sinister mysteries. From Dontnod, makers of the flawed but promising Remember Me, Life Is Strange is a game about decision and consequence. As in real life, people remember what you’ve done or failed to do for them and modify their behaviour towards you as a result. However, unlike reality, a butterfly icon pops up to let you know you’ve done something with far-reaching implications, which you’re free to undo with a bit of judicious time travel. Like fellow offbeat French-made adventures Heavy Rain and Beyond: Two Souls, this goes out of its way to create an interactive story about believable people. But Life Is Strange is more successful, its slow-burning plot giving characters room to shine by not feeling the need to insert continual, ludicrous M Night Shyamalan-esque twists.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKThe Escapists, Xbox One &amp; PCThe Escapists doesn’t concern itself with how your character came by a custodial sentence, it only cares about how he absconds. Presented in retro 8-bit style and featuring chunky analogue sound effects, your job is to observe guards’ routines, collect useful things and build relationships with warders and other prisoners before breaking out. Each jail has its own schedule and choosing to ignore that programme can land you a beating from guards or a spell in solitary, but the rest of the time is yours to be spent doing favours for other prisoners, working out at the gym to increase your power and speed, or using computers to make you more intelligent. You will also be amassing knowledge and useful materials to help with your escape attempt, which could involve anything from moulding a key from melted plastic to secretly digging your way out with pieces of cutlery. Its minimal tutorial leaves you to make your own mistakes, a laudable intent that’s undermined by fiddly controls and the demand for perfect timing when you finally make your bid for freedom.Team17, £12.99-£19.99
Folklore exists as to why theSubaru WRX STIlooks the way it does. Long ago (2011), the Japanese marque unveiled the fourth-generationImprezaat a big motor show. Drums rolled and the satin coverlet was swept off. The car, while still high-performance, had been remodelled to look like one of those cars the minicab firm sends when they’re picking up from the shops and know you’re only going 1.2 miles. There was disappointment, laughter even. “Never again,” shouted the designer, shaking a fist at the heavens (in my imagination).And so the WRX was born, painted an outrageous blue and complete with a spoiler. When you look in the rear-view mirror, this gives the impression that you’re being chased by a low-flying fighter jet. But that only makes the drive more exciting.Everything that could have been done to beef up the engine has been done: it’s now a 2.5-litre monster, the famous Boxer design (which gives it a low centre of gravity, making it more stable) tinkered with to reduce the lag. Estimates vary on its 0-62mph acceleration (the official line is 5.2 seconds). It pumps out CO2like there’s literally no tomorrow.The revving is ridiculous. Coming off every traffic light, you sound as though you’re challenging the rest of the road to a duel, like a character inGrease. Then you have to make a sheepish face, to show you mean no harm. Then a follow-up face to clarify: it’s not my fault I made that ridiculous noise, it’s this ridiculous car. Then people make faces at you: “What do you want with me, gurning woman?” It’s like an anthropological exercise, returning to a time before language.The cabin looks cheaper than it ought to, but the main problem is, it isn’t very comfortable. The seats are hard, and I found myself shuffling about in search of an ideal posture that didn’t exist. But that didn’t dent the sense of adventure. It was a curious drive that always felt about 20mph faster than it was. “No, no, no!” I’d cry to myself. “This is a residential street, this is your street, stop driving at 40”, only to find I was doing 18mph. On country roads, it felt as though I was about to evaporate into the hedges at 52mph. Before this, I thought the poke of a car was, like cashmere, all about knowing it was there by the fact that you forgot it was there. Apparently not; considerable driving pleasure can be had from feeling as though you’re about to take off when you’re going as fast as a coach whose speed has been limited for its own safety.There would be so many things to justify to yourself if you wanted to own it: the emissions, the attention-seeking – I can’t see how you would. But if you’re someone whose own pleasure were its own justification, well, I can just see you with a spoiler.Subaru WRX STI: in numbersPriceFrom £28,995Top speed159mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption27.2mpgCO2 emissions242g/kmEco rating2/10Cool rating6/10Follow Zoe onTwitter.
Apple is reportedly hiring automotive engineers to work at a top-secret lab in Silicon Valley, fuelling rumours that the company may be designing a car.Dozens of Apple employees led by managers from its iPhone unit are researching automotive products, according to the Financial Times. It reports that the company has poached the head of Mercedes-Benz’s Silicon Valley research and development unit, while Sir Jonathan Ive, senior vice-president of design at Apple, has held regular meetings with automotive executives and engineers.Designing and building a car would mark a huge change of direction for the computer maker, which researches and discards plenty of projects but has so far mainly stuck to its core expertise in mobile and electronic devices.Apple, much like its closest rival Google, is trying to incorporate its software into cars. It may be hiring extra staff to shore up its CarPlay project, which lets drivers access contacts on their iPhones, make calls or listen to voicemails without taking their hands off the steering wheel. But the background and seniority of the executives it is recruiting have prompted speculation that Apple may be trying to move into car design.TheWall Street Journal reportsthat sources with knowledge of the company say it is working on an electric car. The newspaper quotes one person as saying a vehicle that looks like a minivan has been designed.Apple commentator Bryan Chaffin, of theMac Observer website, speculated earlier this month that Apple had entered a hiring war with electric car maker Tesla, recruiting staff with anexpertise in cars.“Three months ago, I would have said it was CarPlay,” the FT quoted a person who has worked closely with Apple for many years as saying. “Today, I think it’s a car.”It is unlikely that any resulting product would be released soon because the research lab was only set up late last year and Apple lacks a manufacturing facility.Google released the latestprototype of its driverless carlast May, after spending years developing the vehicle.
Xiaomi, the Chinese smartphone maker, will make its first step into western markets with a US launch this year.Five-year-old Xiaomi – dubbed “China’s Apple” by analysts – will launch its Mi Band fitness tracker, headphones and battery packs, but not its eagerly anticipated smartphones.Opening up its online accessories store to US consumers will mark Xiaomi’s first step into western markets outside China, after an unsuccessful effort to launch in Indiawhere it has faced issuesaround patent infringement.“We are an internet company. We are not in the business of only making handsets,” said Hugo Barra, vice-president of international operations for Xioami and a former Google Android executive.“The amount of effort required to bring [smartphones and tablets] to market is significant. So we’re accelerating our entry in a sense by bringing simpler products.”Barra cited language localisation and regulatory issues as well as manufacturing challenges as hurdles to overcome before Xiaomi’s smartphones could go on sale in the US and other key markets outside China.Related:Xiaomi: It's China's Apple, though you've probably never heard of itDespite not yet being available outside Asia, Xiaomi became the world’s third-biggest smartphone manufacturer in the third quarter of 2014. It also raised $1.1bn in venture capital, valuing the company at $45bn.Most recently Xiaomi launched a new new range of phablets that take aim at both Samsung and Apple, with chief executive Lei Jun citing Apple specifically in his keynote presentation.Jun is outspoken about his belief that Xiaomi has what it takes to be theworld’s largest smartphone manufacturer, but trouble with patents have kept it from expanding far beyond its home turf.Lin Bin, Xiaomi co-founder, told a press conference – the company’s first significant event for media in the US – that intellectual property was “not the most important matrix”. However, it was one factor that he and Jun use when planning country launch strategies.Jun recently boasted about the number of patents filed by Xiaomi around its smartphones, displaying patents awarded for the camera on its new Mi Note phabletduring its announcement presentation last month.Apple’s chief designer Jonathan Ive recently criticised Xiaomi’s alleged copying of its iPhone, saying: “It is theft and it is lazy. I don’t think it is OK at all.”Xiaomi is likely to face fierce patent litigation from Apple and others if it does start selling smartphones in the US and Europe.
Allow me to make a bold statement: YouTube, at 10 years old, is the most interesting place on the internet. It’s not about the platform or the brand, of course, but rather the sheer amount of content it hosts and its diversity.300 hours of video areuploaded to YouTube every minute. Not all of it is worth watching but enough of it is that you won’t live long enough to see it all.And there’s more to it than watching. Online video can engage people in many ways. Some of these are engineered, such as ‘liking’ or leaving a comment, and others entirely unexpected, like the YouTube-inspired servers for Minecraft. Plenty of offline occurrences spring from the uploading of a video, frommassive conventionstofamilial reunions.Whether you support a big-league sports team, have an insatiable curiosity forelevatorsor a seriouscandle habit, there’s a video – or an entire video community – for you.So, on the occasion of its 10th birthday, we’re exploring the evolution of this most fascinating and gargantuan of websites. Note: I’ve tried my hardest to find and verify original uploads but sometimes ... ¯\_(ツ)_/¯1. “Me at the zoo” (2005)YouTube’s first ever video was uploaded on 23 April 2005. (The site’s 14 February birthday marks the registering of its domain. Tenuous maybe, but it is Valentine’s Day so we have love in our hearts and we will let them off.)It’s perfectly inconsequential; site co-founder Jawed Kareem, blissfully unaware of what his bad elephant joke will come to represent.As life stories go, YouTube couldn’t have a humbler origin. But, given theincreasingly threatenedsanctity of an egalitarian internet, the pointlessness of this clip seems almost profound.Also, how retro is 2005?2. justin timberlake ft. janet jackson - rock your body (2006)From humble beginnings to the dawn of viral video. This Superbowl clipis citedas the founders’ original inspiration for an online video platform. As a search term, “Janet Jackson” went massively viral in 2004-05, but there was no where obvious for the clip to live.Should we be surprised that the catalyst for global paradigmatic change was a split-second of unplanned public nudity? No we shouldn’t. In hindsight, we have nipplegate to thank for what is variously described as the scourge and joy ofviral video.3. Noah takes a photo of himself every day for 6 years. (2006)This video is one of the first and most viewed of its kind. YouTube is now awash with them, suggesting that online video is perhaps humanity’s preferred way of relating to one another on a massive scale.Videos like this pay tribute to our ingenuity while at the same time highlighting our mortality and relative insignificance. This may sound like codswallop, but the speed with which such videos are replicated confirms that, as a species, we seriously dig them.4. HOW TO: Be A Bad Bitch | Tyler Oakley (2010)From the sublime to the ridiculous. If you’re an adult, you may be yet to encounter Tyler Oakley. But chances are you’ve glimpsed his face or your younger relatives are au fait and possibly ardent fans.This video represents the phenomenon of YouTube fame. But we aren’t talkingJustin Bieber,Psyor anyone who used the internet to launch conventional celebrity careers. Dedicated YouTubers like Tyler Oakley, were born, bred and thrive in online video. And it’s largely because their loyal fan-bases live online too.Echoing many native YouTube stars, Oakley told us he didn’t foresee any of it: “I never dreamed that YouTube could be a full-time career for me.”Indeed, this is not the lip-syncing of someone aiming for the big-time in a traditional sense. But it was the start of something else, as Oakley explains:After one listen I instantly fell in love with the song so for the entire ride [to LA from Las Vegas] to I kept playing it over and over so I could try to learn all the words. The second I walked into my apartment, I set up my camera ... I uploaded it to Facebook and got a huge response from all of my friends so I decided to upload it on YouTube as well. It went viral in a day.Oakley has since built a bona fide entertainment career, withoccasional mainstream gigscomplementing his YouTube channel, to which 6.5m subscribe.Controlling his own means of distribution leaves him free to advocate for LGBT rights alongside vlogging about his favourite 1D member. (Harry, in case you were wondering) And his reputation for both means he has a big enough online footprint to raiseserious money for good causes.5. Nyan Cat 10 hours (original) (2011)That all got a bit intense. So, here’s 10 hours of Nyan Cat, which is also what YouTube is for.The video description for this reads: ‘First and best edition of longest Nyan Cat video on Youtube’ which is almost certainly an oxymoronic statement.6. Four Horsemen - Feature Documentary - Official Version (2013)In 2010, YouTubelifted limitson the length of video users could upload. Since someone had already done a 10-hour Nyan Cat video, Ross Ashcroft used this facility to freely distribute his “an award winning independent feature documentary” about the global financial crisis.Criticism of the filmmakingaside, Four Horsemen demonstrates the full potential (some totalitarian regimes might say danger) of an open video platform. It’s view count also destroys the common misconception that we only have attention spans for1.5-minute, animated politics.7. Abdullah-X: Five Considerations for a Muslim on SyriaIt’s important to acknowledge the key role of YouTube in the breaking and analysing of news. The journalistElliot Higgins, aka Brown Moses, broke “some of the most important stories on the Syrian conflict” by, among other things, watching YouTube videos to monitor weapons trafficking.ABC News calledthe horrific 2009 death of Iranian protest bystander Neda Agha-Soltan “one of the most witnessed deaths in history” because of its uncensored presence on YouTube. More recently, Time magazinetermed the conflict in Syria“The YouTube War”.By 2014, however, online video had also become a place for serious debate and reaction to raw documentation, as demonstrated by one Islamic initiative to reach out to young, would-be jihadists.8. Comment Update! (2014)PewdiePie is the YouTuber you’ve probably heard of because he’s perfect news-fodder; astronomically successful, objectively irritating and completely baffling, at least to your average grown-up.He has over 34.5m subscribers to videos that mostly consist of him narratinghis own computer-game play, in an inimitably silly fashion beloved by teens. Those of a cynical persuasion might be tempted to find a link between his ad-friendly content and thewavesofhypehis channel attracts.Felix Kjellberg, however, generally comes across as grounded and almost repulsed by fame. Indicative of this, last year he reset one of the most fundamental YouTube conventions by switching off comments on his videos.Though initially opaque about his motives, he later explained he was tired of the spam and so wastaking his engaged fans elsewhereto chat about his videos.By taking the matter into his own hands, Kjellberg reminded YouTube where the real power lies on its platform; with independent creators not the brand.9. Abuse on YouTube (2014)Another growing pain for YouTube has been navigating its responsibility for offline activity linked its online content, particularly when it comes to young people and the creators they adore.The company hasa clear safety policybut has neverthelessendured controversylinked to multiple allegations of abuse made against some male YouTubers by mostly female viewers. Only one creator has everbeen charged.As with documenting conflict, the reaction to abuse controversies has been compelling in its own right. Proving that the site can be a platform for debate, many people made videos on the importance of consent and overall positivity of YouTube sub-cultures and communities, despite its potential for manipulation by a minority.10. The YouTube Interview with President Obama (2015)A decade may as well be an epoch in internet years. It certainly seems like it in the development of online video, which has gone from an elephant penis joke to an extended interview with the US president.Importantly, still centre-stage as interviewers are three unpolished, diverse and independent creators, one of whom offers the president green lipstick, while another is the joint head of a multi-platform community calledNerdfighteriawhich runs things like “The Project for Awesome”. If this seems worryingly trivial, we assure youit is not.The interview is hosted on the president’s White House channel. Not only does the most powerful man in the world acknowledge online video, he appears to ‘get’ its fundamental importance to reaching younger generations and wider demographics.If that isn’t an endorsement, we don’t know what is.
Sorry for the delay - it’s been a crazy morning... and afternoon.
Quarterly spending on mobile game Candy Crush Saga fell steadily over the course of 2014, but its players still spent $1.33bn (£865.2m) on in-app purchases for the sweet-swapping hit.Analysis by the Guardian of publisher King’s latest financial results, as well as previous filings, reveals that Candy Crush Saga’s “gross bookings” – the term used to cover spending by players – totalled $1.04bn in the second half of 2013.That means $2.37bn of Candy Crush spending over the 18-month period. King did not separate out Candy Crush and non-Candy Crush revenues before that point, but with the game having launched in 2012, it’s almost certainly past $3bn of lifetime spending.In terms of gross bookings, Candy Crush Saga peaked some time ago. Analysis of King’s financial filings, including presentations breaking out its non-Candy-Crush gross bookings, reveals a high point of $551m for that game alone in the third quarter of 2013.It’s been downhill ever since: $493m of player spending in the final quarter of 2013, then $429.5m, $360.5m, $277.4m and $263.8m in the four quarters of 2014. Even so, it remains one of the most lucrative mobile games in the world.Related:Why Candy Crush Saga likes to play on your sweet toothShould King be worried about the declining revenues for its biggest hit? The company has been working hard to make up for the slide with its other “Saga” games, to reduce its reliance on Candy Crush Saga.In the final quarter of 2013, the game accounted for 78% of King’s gross bookings, but a year later, it was just 45% – the first quarter in a long time that non-Candy Crush Saga spending made up the majority of spending on the company’s games.So, while Candy Crush Saga spending nearly halved – it was down by 46.5% – between the final quarters of 2013 and 2014, spending on other King games was up 136.5% to $324m in the same period.In the final quarter of 2014, King had 356 million monthly unique users – individuals playing one or more of its games – although only 8.3 million of them spent any money on them.So, while 97.7% of people playing King’s games are playing for free, the 2.3% that pay are spending an average of $23.42 a month within the games – the metric of “monthly gross average bookings per paying user” (or MGABPPU in a sector of the games industry that loves an acronym) in King’s financial results.
Dear Members of the Speckless Community,We’re not big believers in responding to our critics here at Absterge. We like to think that our products speak for themselves, and we know that you agree – that’s why you’ve helped turn us into the most successful kitchen appliance company in the history of the world.We know that there’s a vocal minority of sourpusses who insist on telling you how wrong you are to love your Speckless Disher, and we can’t see any reason to give them attention that we could be devoting to the millions of hardworking and creative flatware and cutlery companies whose foodables are available in our Kitchen Store.But with the EU and the Federal Trade Commission both taking an interest in our products, we understand that many of you have questions about our strategies, and we want to make sure that you get to hear both sides of the story.Besides, we’re proud of our accomplishments.The Kitchen Store and Speckless Disher are the best dishwashing experience in the worldBefore the Speckless Disher, there was no way to be sure that your dishes would come out of the dishwasher clean. Outside of the Speckless Community, people are accustomed to “pre-washing” their dishes before they put them into the dishwasher. This tremendously wasteful practice spills billions of gallons of precious water down the drain every year, and is a danger to our planet.Speckless means safeFood-borne illnesses are some of history’s greatest killers, and they’ve kept up with the times, mutating into virulent, antibiotic-resistant strains that are potentially fatal. We vet every foodable - bowl, plate, pan, pot, fork, knife and spoon - in the Kitchen Store to ensure that its geometry and surface properties are compatible with our best-of-breed jets, so that everything that touches your food is sterile. That’s a guarantee we’re able to make because we’re able to manage and control the whole dishwashing experience.Anyone can make Speckless foodablesThe Kitchen Store is the most successful platform for the discovery, rating and consumption of kitchenware that the world has ever seen. If you have a great idea for plate or spoon, all you need to do is sign up for our Foodable Developer Network, pay $100, sign our Developer License Agreement, and get creative! Anything is possible – so long as it fits within our guidelines, of course.“Hackers” break dishwashersWith so many choices of foodables in the Kitchen Store, there’s no need to modify your Disher to fit non-store items from outside our ecosystem. We understand that some community members have sentimental attachment to Grandma’s wedding china or the baby dish that Mum saved for your own kid to use (some of you have even made your own dishes without signing up for our Developer Network), but when you “chip,” “mod” or “bend” your Disher’s prongs to fit these noncompliant items, you make impossible for the Disher’s internal sensors to accurately gauge the washing performance. The technical term for a “modded” Disher is broken.No matter what you call it, stealing is stealingOf course, not all “modding” comes from such an innocent place. There are plenty of counterfeiters who want to offer you a great deal on “foodables” that “look just like the real thing” – they’re able to offer such a great deal because they don’t have to pay the hardworking foodable developers who created those designs. That’s why Congress made it a felony to “circumvent” the Disher’s detection systems, and why we continue to oppose an exemption to this rule at the FTC’s triennial hearings. Commissioner Gonzales may well ask “Is it proportionate to put potters in prison for loading the dishes they bought into the dishwashers they own?” But any potter who wants to make foodables for a Speckless Disher can sign up for our Developer Program – there’s just no good reason to sneak around like a thief.We have the right to protect our trade secrets – and your Disher’s integrityCommissioner Gonggrijp asks why people wishing to join the Developer Network have to agree to a 21,000 word license-agreement, which includes confidentiality and nondisparagement clauses prohibiting them from discussing their affairs with us. The answer is simple: to protect us, and to help us protect you. Our agreement spells out the terms of doing business in our marketplace, including the painstaking care we insist upon from our partners.It’s a matter of choiceNo one was ever forced to buy an Absterge product. From the day that Peter Stints founded Absterge in his fabled garage in Los Gatos to the day he died, he worked tirelessly to create a different kind of dishwashing experience: to bring a thoughtfulness and intentionality to a product that everyone else took for granted. We know that your family teased you for spending a little extra on one of our products back in the old days, and we share your pleasure in escorting them around one of the many Absterge stores around the world, so that they can see the growing family of revolutionary kitchen appliances that we continue to make.People who don’t want to go the Absterge way don’t have to. Potters can sell or give their pots to anyone in the world – but if they want to sell through our store, they’ll have to do it on our terms. We think that’s only reasonable.After all, if anyone could sell dishes for anyone’s dishwasher, what incentive would companies have to truly innovate - to think uniquely?Thank you for your continued support,Jim AntolCEO and Chief Bottle-WasherAbsterge, Inc
When things go wrong for modern game developers they go spectacularly wrong. This is an era of endless rolling news and mass social media judgement. There is no respite. Peter Molyneux knows this now – if he didn’t before. The veteran designer, famed for inventing the “god game” genre with his 1989 title, Populous, has spent the last three days under intense press scrutiny. His latest project, Godus, is in disarray, his reputation in tatters. Everyone wants a piece.“The only answer is for me to retreat,” he says, speaking via Skype from his office in Guildford. “I love my games and I love sharing them with people. It’s this amazing incredible thing I get to do with my life, creating ideas and sharing them with people. The problem is, it just hasn’t worked.”Awarded an OBE in 2004, Molyneux is one of the most prominent members of the UK games industry. In the 26 years following Populous, he oversaw classic strategy and adventure titles like Dungeon Keeper, Black &amp; White, and most recently the Fable series. But ever since leaving his seminal studio Bullfrog in 1997, he has become just as well-known for enthusiastically hyping his projects, only to deliver products that fail to live up to the impossibly grand expectations.The Godus that failedGodus is the latest, most ruinous example. The game, a spiritual successor to Populous, challenges players to grow and support a population of followers who can then interact with the worlds developed by other players. In December 2012, Molyneux’s small studio, 22 Cans, received over half a million pounds via the crowd-funding site Kickstarter to develop the game. Rewards were offered to backers and the release date was set within a seven to nine month window.The problem is, although a smartphone version has been released,the PC iteration of the game hasn’t. 18 months after its proposed release date, it is still in development. Furthermore, in avideo recently released to the internet, Molyneux announced that the development team would be shrinking, so that staff could be moved onto a new title, The Trail. He also announced that many backers would not receive the rewards they were promised for financially supporting the game, and that some of the Kickstarter pledges may not be achieved.So what went wrong? “I suppose the big mistake was estimating how long the game would take to make,” he says. “I very stupidly and naïvely didn’t build in enough contingency time into my predictions and I was 100% wrong. When you’re creating something that hasn’t existed before, it’s very, very hard to be precise about those things.”“My hope is that in six to nine months time, people start to finally see the game they really did pledge for. That will be two to three years into development but that’s kind of what it takes when you do an original game. I wish it didn’t. Up until mid January, every single moment of this company was dedicated to Godus.”His assurances have so far been met with fury. Angry backers have taken to the game’s forums, and to Twitter, to voice their frustrations. What’s clear is that Molyneux empathises with his critics, as he often does. “If I was pledging on this campaign I’d probably be saying the same thing as our backers,” he admits. “I’d be saying ‘I wanted a PC game, I wanted combat, I wanted a story. Why haven’t I got it? Why did you do the mobile version first?’ I wish I was more effective and efficient, and the next game we work on we’re going to make sure we keep behind closed doors for much longer. We’re going to make our mistakes and go down those blind alleys privately before presenting the game to the world”.Curiosity failed the kidBut there is another problem to deal with. In 2012, Molyneux released a smartphone game named Curiosity, a massively multiplayer experiment that asked players to chip away at a vast online cube: the person who clicked on the final piece was set to receive a “life changing” prize. The winner, eighteen-year-old Scot Bryan Henderson, was promised a 1% cut of any profits made from Godus, and the chance to become the game’s God of Gods for six months, to effectively control the virtual universe as he saw fit. On Wednesday, Henderson gavean interview to gaming site Eurogamer. He has not received his prize. What’s more, Molyneux’s team promptly forgot about him.“We had someone here who was looking after Bryan, he left and nobody took the reigns of keeping Bryan informed and in the loop,” says Molyneux. “That was terrible, it was atrocious and I can understand him feeling offended about that. We should have... I should have made sure that he was still in the loop.”So can the situation be fixed? Molyneux says yes, but it’s going to take time. “The problem we have is we can’t start his reign as God of Gods until we implement the technology that allows him to have influence over people’s worlds and crucially allows him to be challenged in competitive games of Godus and as people have pointed out we have to add combat to Godus still.”“It’s not that we backed away from the idea, I still love the idea and I still absolutely love the fact it was someone British that won it, I still love the fact that Bryan is young and it’s going to be a life changing experience for him. That said, it is inexcusable that someone from 22Cans didn’t stay in contact with him. It’s just incompetence to be honest with you.”Trail of promisesBut this is not an isolated incident and Molyneux knows it. He is an enthusiastic and passionate developer, a singularly unguarded voice in an industry where upper level managers are media trained into robotic banality. But gamers are tired of it, and now, by falling short on Kickstarter pledges and stretching the site’s terms and conditions to their limits, he has incensed investors to deal with too.When asked if it was fair to seek funding based on the promises made in a short pitch video, with no evidence of a product, Molyneux, who has so far given rambling and sometimes evasive responses, pauses for a considerable time. “I say these ideas so passionately, people think that these are hard and fast promises,” he finally responds. “I truly believe them when I say them, but as you know, sometimes they don’t come to pass. They don’t come to pass because they’re too technically difficult, they don’t come to pass because maybe they don’t fit and people see this as being a promise”.His responses start to come with stutters and pauses. “My answer to this is this simple,” he says. “I love working on games, it is my life. I am so honoured to be a part of the games industry, but I understand that people are sick of hearing my voice and hearing my promises. So I’m going to stop doing press and I’m going to stop talking about games completely. And actually I’m only giving you this interview now in answer to this terrible and awful, emotional time over the last three days. I think honestly the only answer to this is for me to completely stop talking to the press.”There is also something else going on, a very modern malaise; as a public figure in the games industry, Molyneux is visible and accessible. The social media storm has been furious, and with that, as we have seen over the past six months, comes something darker. “People get so frustrated with me, so much so that they’ve threatened me, they’ve threatened my family and it just cannot go on, it really can’t,” he says. “I think I’ll get this over and done with, I’ll answer some of the things backers are saying, but after that I feel the best thing I can do is just ….”He trails away; the line sounds dead again.Every encounter with Molyneux produces a strange mix of compassion and scepticism. He is disarmingly passionate, child-like in his enthusiasm, and seemingly naive about the effects of his many pronouncements, despite his 35 years in the industry. He willingly concedes that his approach to publicity has eroded faith in his ability to deliver products; he concedes that even his act of post-hype contrition has become staid and tiresome to many. He says, this time, he has learned to step back – even if it means withdrawing from what appears to be the part of game creation most important to him.Over and outGodus is a mess. Molyneux has handed control over to a fledgling designer Konrad Naszynski, who joined the team after being a passionate fan on the game’s forums. Some see this as passing the buck, setting someone else up for failure. There are hundreds of disappointed people who invested in this game, who want answers about its development and completion and who have received only promises and excuses for reduced team sizes. Molyneux has assured the Guardian, though, that people will be playing a finished version of Godus within nine months. He also says that nothing else will be revealed about the new project.Peter Molyneux has admitted regret and culpability; he was clearly in distress throughout the interview – an interview he told us would be his last. An hour before publication, however, we discovered that he had spoken to the gaming news site Rock, Paper, Shotgun the day before, and had given their interviewer the same impression – that he would no longer be speaking to the press (that interview isnow online). He has also spoken to at least one other site, seemingly on the same afternoon as our discussion. Another trail of broken assurances.“I think people are just sick of hearing from me,” he says in one disarmingly dark moment. “They’ve been sick of hearing from me for so many years now. You know, we’re done.”• This article was amended on 18 February 2015 to correct the date of Curiosity’s release.
Intro, the first song on the debut album of indie rockers The XX, is already fairly ubiquitous, appearing on adverts, trailers and low-budget montages in police procedurals.But according to Spotify, it also dominates another arena: the bedroom.The two minute rhythmic instrumental is apparently considered the perfect song to make love to. It’s the most likely song to appear on user-made “sex” playlists on Spotify – of which the site hosts nearly 2.5m. Yes, Spotify has 2.5m sex playlists.Men are slightly more likely to have created playlists with “sex” in the title than women (56% to 44%), and both sexes tending towards the on-trend Chet Faker, Zella Day and LP who all make an appearance in the top ten.That leaves Coldplay the odd one out:In contrast, “love” playlists are significantly more common (there’s 28m of them) and the music skews towards the mainstream. Miley Cyrus, Beyoncé and Justin Timberlake all place in the top ten:Unsurprisingly,there’s no Taylor Swift on either of them…
Piles of digitised material – from blogs, tweets, pictures and videos, to official documents such as court rulings and emails – may be lost forever because the programs needed to view them will become defunct, Google’s vice-president has warned.Humanity’s first steps into the digital world could be lost to future historians, Vint Cerf told the American Association for the Advancement of Science’s annual meeting in San Jose, California, warning that we faced a “forgotten generation, or even a forgotten century” through what he called “bit rot”, where old computer files become useless junk.Cerf called for the development of “digital vellum” to preserve old software and hardware so that out-of-date files could be recovered no matter how old they are.“When you think about the quantity of documentation from our daily lives that is captured in digital form, like our interactions by email, people’s tweets, and all of the world wide web, it’s clear that we stand to lose an awful lot of our history,” he said.“We don’t want our digital lives to fade away. If we want to preserve them, we need to make sure that the digital objects we create today can still be rendered far into the future,” he added.Related:What is 'bit rot' and is Vint Cerf right to be worried?The warning highlights an irony at the heart of modern technology, where music, photos, letters and other documents are digitised in the hope of ensuring their long-term survival. But while researchers are making progress in storing digital files for centuries, the programs and hardware needed to make sense of the files are continually falling out of use.“We are nonchalantly throwing all of our data into what could become an information black hole without realising it. We digitise things because we think we will preserve them, but what we don’t understand is that unless we take other steps, those digital versions may not be any better, and may even be worse, than the artefacts that we digitised,” Cerf told the Guardian. “If there are photos you really care about, print them out.”Ancient civilisations suffered no such problems, because histories written in cuneiform on baked clay tablets, or rolled papyrus scrolls, needed only eyes to read them. To study today’s culture, future scholars would be faced with PDFs, Word documents, and hundreds of other file types that can only be interpreted with dedicated software and sometimes hardware too.The problem is already here. In the 1980s, it was routine to save documents on floppy disks, upload Jet Set Willy from cassette to the ZX spectrum, slaughter aliens with a Quickfire II joystick, and have Atari games cartridges in the attic. Even if the disks and cassettes are in good condition, the equipment needed to run them is mostly found only in museums.The rise of gaming has its own place in the story of digital culture, but Cerf warns that important political and historical documents will also be lost to bit rot. In 2005, American historian Doris Kearns Goodwin wrote Team of Rivals: the Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln, describing how Lincoln hired those who ran against him for presidency. She went to libraries around the US, found the physical letters of the people involved, and reconstructed their conversations. “In today’s world those letters would be emails and the chances of finding them will be vanishingly small 100 years from now,” said Cerf.Related:The digital black hole: will it delete your memories?He concedes that historians will take steps to preserve material considered important by today’s standards, but argues that the significance of documents and correspondence is often not fully appreciated until hundreds of years later. Historians have learned how the greatest mathematician of antiquity considered the concept of infinity and anticipated calculus in 3BC after the Archimedes palimpsest was found hidden under the words of a Byzantine prayer book from the 13thcentury. “We’ve been surprised by what we’ve learned from objects that have been preserved purely by happenstance that give us insights into an earlier civilisation,” he said.Researchers at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh have made headway towards a solution to bit rot, or at least a partial one. There, Mahadev Satyanarayanan takes digital snapshots of computer hard drives while they run different software programs. These can then be uploaded to a computer that mimics the one the software ran on. The result is a computer that can read otherwise defunct files. Under a project called Olive, the researchers have archived Mystery House, the original 1982 graphic adventure game for the Apple II, an early version of WordPerfect, and Doom, the original 1993 first person shooter game.Inventing new technology is only half the battle, though. More difficult still could be navigating the legal permissions to copy and store software before it dies. When IT companies go out of business, or stop supporting their products, they may sell the rights on, making it a nightmarish task to get approval.“To do this properly, the rights of preservation might need to be incorporated into our thinking about things like copyright and patents and licensing. We’re talking about preserving them for hundreds to thousands of years,” said Cerf.
San Francisco-based Fitbit has released seven fitness trackers since the company launched in 2007, but the Charge HR is the first to include a heart-rate monitor that claims to help users track their cardiovascular health.After the failure of its Force wristband – which was recalled after it caused rashes on users’ wrists – the company needs a home run to maintain its top spot in fitness tracking.Chunky rubberThe rubber band is chunky compared to slimmer fitness trackers without heart rate monitors.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Charge HR is exactly the same as the Charge – a chunky rubber band about the width of a thumb – but with a traditional watch buckle and an optical heart-rate sensor.The band is understated, with a small black plastic section forming the screen for displaying the time, heart rate, steps, distance covered and floors climbed.The band is more than 1cm thick at its largest point and with the friction of the rubber material it can be difficult to get it under or out of a shirt cuff.Rash-freeFitbit has had issues with its fitness bands creating rashes on users’ wrists but having worn the Charge HR for a couple of weeks I haven’t noticed any skin irritation beyond what is normal for a plastic watch worn relatively tightly on the wrist.Charge HR should be worn just lose enough to move slightly on the arm, but be held at least two finger widths up the forearm from the wrist bone.The band is reasonably comfortable to wear for short periods of time, but wearing it that far up the arm takes some getting use to. It’s also a bit sweaty and hurt after a bit, meaning there were days when I had to take it off to give my skin a rest.Heart beatThe optical heart rate monitor is on the back of the band.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Fitbit’s general activity tracking features are sound. It uses an accelerometer to measure activity, steps, and distance covered, an altimeter to monitor stair climbs while the heart-rate sensor constantly records beats per minute.For telling general activity it is great. The app is easy to use and the small screen on the band means it’s easy to check your stats as you go. Heart rate, however, is simply not used in any useful way.In theory heart rate is a better indicator of activity and can be combined with other sensors for a much fuller picture of a person’s health. Fitbit uses the heart-rate monitor to chart the heart’s activity through the day, concentrating on resting heart-rate and “exercise zones”.For me, when my heart rate is between 95 and 133 beats per minute I’m apparently in the “fat burn” zone. Over 133 I’m in “cardio” and in “peak” when it hits 162 or above. Considering at full sprint I only managed to record a maximum of 155 beats per minute, I think either the sensor is flawed or Fitbit’s heart rate bands are a bit optimistic.Lack of meaningful dataSleep data is poor compared to most other fitness trackers.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianFitbit doesn’t provide meaningful, useful data from measuring heart rate. It is difficult to use the readings to improve training as there’s no guidance beyond demarkation of the zones – how do you train solely in the cardio zone and how is that different from burning fat?Likewise, for resting heart rate Fitbit doesn’t tell you whether it is good or bad, how to improve it or even if you should. The band told me my resting heart beat was 64 beats per minute almost every day, but that information is just not useful on its own.The biggest let down, however, is the poor sleep monitoring. The Charge HR only measures total sleep time and indicates when you were restless or awake. It is almost impossible to determine the quality of sleep from the minimal data the Charge HR shows.Some fitness trackers determine sleep stages through movement, for which the science is dubious, but there are a new breed of fitness trackers that use heart rate to determine sleep stage. The Basis Peak, for instance, can infer whether the wearer is in deep, light or REM sleep, providing meaningful data on sleep quality.The Charge HR should be able to do something similar, but doesn’t, which is disappointing.Fitbit offers a “premium” service for greater data analysis, producing weekly reports on fitness and health stats, but most other fitness trackers provide similar analysis for free.Four days per chargeThe Charge HR lasted four days in between charges.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianFitbit claims the Charge HR lasts “5+ days” per charge. I found it lasted four days maximum with heart-rate monitoring on “auto” before needing to recharge. For comparison, the Basis Peak also lasted around four and half days in my testing, while other fitness trackers without heart-rate monitoring last between two weeks and six months per charge or battery.Charging takes approximately two hours and requires a bespoke USB charging cable.Call notificationsThe Charge HR can also provide call and text notifications from a smartphone, vibrating and displaying the caller ID across the small screen.The Fitbit app is available on Android, iOS and Windows Phone, and wirelessly syncs with the Charge HR over Bluetooth. Syncing via the Android app could be intermittent, requiring rebooting of the phone running Android 4.4.4 or Lollipop.A USB Bluetooth dongle also comes in the box allowing the band to sync with a PC or Mac too.PriceThe Charge HR costs £120 and comes in black, purple, blue and orange.VerdictThe Fitbit Charge HR is a missed opportunity. As a simple activity tracker it is chunky and doesn’t last very long, but tracks steps and floor climbs just fine. The heart-rate tracking has potential, but doesn’t provide meaningful analysis for the user – it just feels a bit tacked on.The Charge HR is a missed opportunity for now, which Fitbit can hopefully improve in the future.Pros:light, water resistant, easy to read screen, altimeter, constant heart rate monitorCons:four-day battery life, chunky, no meaningful analysis of heart rate data
Google is facing renewed questions about its handling of subscribers’ private information following the revelation that it waited six months after the lifting of a gagging order to alert WikiLeaks that emails and other data belonging to its employees had been passed to the FBI.It was disclosedlast month that Google had cooperated with federal agents after the search giant was served with secret warrants demanding that it hand over all emails and IP addresses relating to three WikiLeaks staffers. The warrants named the British citizenSarah Harrison; senior WikiLeaks editorJoseph Farrelland the spokesperson for the organisation,Kristinn Hrafnsson.The three were informed by Google on 23 December that their personal data had been disclosed to the US government. Google said that it had handed over “responsive documents” to detectives, though it did not specify the nature of the data it had divulged or how much.The initial warrants were issued in March 2012, and Google said the three-year pause before WikiLeaks was notified was explained by a gagging order imposed by a federal judge that prohibited the tech company from discussing the matter with anybody, including the targeted individuals. But new information obtained by theinvestigative reporter Alexa O’Brienshows that the warrants were in fact unsealed by the US district court in Alexandria, Virginia, on 15 May last year – six months before WikiLeaks was approached.WikiLeaks has long suspected that Google disclosed the existence of the warrants in the week of Christmas in order to bury uncomfortable material in a slow news cycle.In a statement, a Google spokesperson said the company’s policy was to “tell people about government requests for their data, except in limited cases, like when we are gagged by a court order, which sadly happens quite frequently”. The spokesperson said that they had challenged many orders relating to WikiLeaks that in turn had led to disclosures to the individuals concerned.“We’ve also pushed to unseal all the documents related to the investigation. We continue to argue for surveillance reform which would enable us to be more transparent.”Michael Ratner, WikiLeaks’ US-based lawyer, said that Harrison, Hrafnsson and Farrell should have been given notice of the warrants soon after they were unsealed last May. “The question I have as their attorney is: what caused this six-month delay in notifying our clients of these search warrants?”A clue to why the warrants were issued in the first place is given by the fact that they came from a court in the eastern district of Virginia – the same jurisdiction in which a grand jury was convened as part of a criminal investigation into WikiLeaks. The investigation, which is believed to be ongoing, related to the leaking of avast quantityof secret US government documents by the Army soldier Chelsea Manning.This weekit was announcedthat Manning, who is serving a 35-year sentence for the leak in Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, will write an opinion column for the Guardian.
Apple is finally enabling two-step authentication to help protect users of its iMessages and FaceTime on iPhone, iPad and Mac computers.Related:How Google, Facebook and Hotmail aim to stop holiday hackingThe security feature adds an extra layer of protection against hackers trying to access users’ accounts. After logging in with their usual name and password, two-factor asks account holders to use a second security code to verify their messaging and video chat accounts.The login protection was added to Apple’s iTunes and iCloudaccounts in March 2013, meaning Apple users who have previously logged into a Mac, iPhone or iPad with their Apple ID were already protected by the extra security.Related:Twitter introduces 'two-factor authentication' to stop password hackingNow the same service has been activated for two more of Apple’s services, meaning that if users log out of their FaceTime or iMessage accounts and attempt to log in again, or log in on another machine, they will require a security code to confirm their username and password.“It’s really great to see Apple extending its two-step authentication to cover more services, particularly person-to-person communication services such as these, which have been so widely abused in the past (Facebook, Skype etc),” said Rik Ferguson, vice president of security research at Trend Micro.Two-step authentication means that even if an attacker has the username and password for the account they cannot access it without the extra code. While the extra security is welcome Ferguson said more can be done to secure user accounts.“Two-step authentication, such as a message to a mobile device, is still not the same as fully-fledged two-factor authentication. Multi-factor authentication typically relies on something that you know (a password) in addition to either something you have (eg. a swipe card), or something that you are (a fingerprint),” said Ferguson.Banks have been using card readers or numeric key fobs with security codes for years. But for internet sites and services, including Facebook, Twitter and Google, the second step is either a code-generating smartphone app or a text message with a code send to the phone number registered to the account.“Two-step authentication is simply two sets of something that you know,” said Ferguson. “The ability to enter to enter the SMS-based password doesn’t depend on your ownership of the smartphone, only your access to the text message. If attackers can divert the calls or messages of that device, for example by calling the mobile service provider, this two-step authentication can and has already been subverted.”Related:What to do if your email gets hacked - and how to prevent itApple’s two-step implementation uses codes sent via text message to a registered phone or the company’s Find My iPhone app. More than one phone number can also be associated to the account just in case one of them is lost or stolen.A recovery key that is intended to be kept safe for emergencies can also be used to log into the account in place of a security code.
A threatening sign has been hung near the home of Uber’s top executive in Italy, who is already under some police protection, amid speculation that the government is seeking to relax competition laws for taxis.Benedetta Arese Lucini, who has served as general manager for Uber Italy for two years, said the sign was evidence of a cultural bias against female entrepreneurs in Italy.The sign, which was hung on an electrical line, revealed the executive’s home address and insinuated that she was a prostitute who gave her services for free to Milan’s top transportation official.“This is a hard thing to say, to be honest,” Arese Lucini said. “It’s the tip of the iceberg really of the harsh behaviour [I’ve witnessed] and this is not really about Uber, but how a woman’s image gets degraded because she is trying to bring about change.”Uber operates in five Italian cities – Milan, Turin, Padua, Genoa and Rome – and has faced particularly fierce resistance in Milan, where the firm said its drivers have had threatening encounters and their vehicles damaged. The powerful taxi unions are vehemently opposed to the group. In protests last year, posters were plastered on taxi stands in Milan with photographs of Arese Lucini’s face and the words “I love to steal”. She also had eggs thrown at her during a conference.“Let’s say that I have tried my best to live my life as normally as possible. I don’t appreciate that my home address was exposed. This was the time I felt the most unsafe,” she said.The sign was hung following a media report that suggested government ministers would move ahead on a proposal to liberalise the taxi market. The legislation would then have to be passed by parliament.The incident caught the attention of Beppe Severgnini, a columnist for the Corriere della Sera newspaper, who said the attack against the Uber executive was a emblematic of a problem in Italy against women. “If Benedetta had been an American manager, a Ben or a Stan with a hipster moustache, the tone would have been different,” he wrote. “It’s up to [the taxi drivers in Milan] to stop this.”The Milan incident occurred weeks after Uber’s chief executive, Travis Kalanick, said European expansion was one of the company’s top priorities this year. Uber has successfully lobbied for legislative and regulatory changes in jurisdictions in the US and elsewhere and has promised to mimic those efforts in European cities. The company is facing legal challenges in Germany, Spain and France.
When Twitter user @jeffrybooks tweeted saying “I seriously want to kill people” at a fashion and cosmetics convention happening at Amsterdam, the Dutch police took the threat seriously.Jeffry van der Goot, a 28-year-old web developer who created the account, received a visit from the police in short order. The only problem was that Van der Goot – who is non-binary and goes by “they” – hadn’t written the tweet. Instead, Van der Goot had handed the Twitter account over to “jeff_ebooks”, a bot they created which could automatically send tweets and hold conversations as an eerie simulacrum of themselves. It was jeff_ebooks who had sent the threat, and it was its creator who was being held liable.Van der Goot told the Guardian that it makes no sense that they would be hauled in for questioning over a fairly mild claim made by an automatic Twitter account.“I told [the police] that I can technically see that it would be my responsibility since I started the bot and it is basically tweeting under my ‘name’,” they said.“However, it is a random generator, so yes it is possible that something bad can come out of it, but to treat it as if I made that threat does not make sense to me. I feel very conflicted about it, I can see their point but it does not feel right to me that the random output of a program can be considered something I said.”The bot is what’s known as a markov chain generator, which uses a simple algorithm to create vaguely coherent sentences from a corpus of text. In this case, it uses a collection Van der Goot’s tweets as the basis for its own. “What it does is it takes fragments from the entire archive and creates new coherent sentences from the formerly unrelated sentence fragments,” they explain.To make matters even more confusing, the bot was engaged in a conversation with another bot, each having been programmed to reply to messages from strangers. “So they were just spamming random stuff at each other. I tried to clarify, but people seem to be under the misconception that the death threat was aimed AT the other bot, which is not the case.”At the police’s request, jeff_ebooks has been lain to rest, leaving Jeffry shaken by the whole thing. “Being interviewed by detectives is incredibly stressful, terrifying and intimidating,”they said.Wxcafe, the creator of the framework jeff_ebooks was based on, also expressed alarm,tweeting that they were“very sorry this happened”.Obviously they&#39;re automated and what they say is just based on the algorithm and the corpus, but like. Police involvment is... scary&mdash; Short Hair as a Serv (@Wxcafe)February 11, 2015Of course since I don&#39;t have any legal knowledge I don&#39;t know who is/should be held responsible (if anyone) but like. kinda scared right now&mdash; Short Hair as a Serv (@Wxcafe)February 11, 2015So yeah, hope it never happens again.&mdash; Short Hair as a Serv (@Wxcafe)February 11, 2015But one positive highlighted by Van der Goot’s experience is that, in the Netherlands, police do at least take threats made on social media seriously – even when not made by real people.
Facebook has teamed up with a group of other internet firms to launchThreatExchange, a way to share information on cyber-attacks and other online security threats.Facebook’s partners in the project include Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and its parent company Yahoo, Dropbox and Bitly.According to the social network, the roots of the project lie in a “malware-based spam attack” targeting several of the companies just over a year ago.“We quickly learned that sharing with one another was key to beating the botnet because parts of it were hosted on our respective services and none of us had the complete picture,”explained Facebook’s Mark Hammell in a blog post.“During our discussions, it became clear that what we needed was a better model for threat sharing. Expanding on those conversations, Facebook offered to build what has now become ThreatExchange, an API-based platform for security threat information.”ThreatExchange is based on Facebook’s existing infrastructure, with its partners able to access its information on new threats, and selectively share their own data with all or some of the companies involved.Related:It's been a great year! Thanks to these Facebook scams...“Threat data is typically freely available information like domain names and malware samples, but for situations where a company might only want to share certain indicators with companies known to be experiencing the same issues, built-in controls make limited sharing easy and help avoid errors by using a pre-defined set of data fields,” wrote Hammell.While some of the companies involved in ThreatExchange are keen rivals, the benefits of sharing information about the botnets and malware targeting their networks clearly trump any competitive concerns.Facebook clearly hopes more companies will take advantage of the platform beyond its initial crop of partners. “Our goal is that organisations anywhere will be able to use ThreatExchange to share threat information more easily, learn from each other’s discoveries, and make their own systems safer.”
We have a new contender for most improbable Apple rumour. Long-time Apple commentator, Bryan Chaffin, of the Mac Observer,says he is “certain” the company is working on a car.Chaffin’s sources say that, even as Elon Musk’s electronic car firm Tesla Motors is stealing away record numbers of employees from Apple, the house the Steves built is hiring Tesla employees right back – and specifically, “the kind of people from Tesla with expertise that is most suited to cars”.But could Apple really do it? The company is certainly in the business of making desirable hardware sold at comfortable margins, but that might not translate.After all, going by Apple’s track record, there are likely to be some speed bumps in the way.1. The first model will crash, a lotEveryone knows the advice with Apple products: skip the first generation. The iPod, iPhone, and iPad were all slightly lacklustre, and the first release of the software is generally crash-prone. Fine in an MP3 player; not so good on a highway.2. The antenna won’t pick up radio (but it’s all your fault)Are you sure you aren’t just holding the steering wheel wrong? But don’t worry, it’ll soon turn out that other car companies have exactly the same problem, it’s just no one reads their manuals.3. Bono will be on the stereo, whether you like him or notYou don’t understand, it’s a gift from Tim Cook. A gift which will have you frantically searching through user forums trying to work out how to regift it, and permanently afraid of shuffling songs lest U2’s gentle croons assault you again.4. It’ll cost twice as much as a Google car that’s also a bit biggerMeanwhile, people who actually prefer a more compact car will be left high and dry by the ongoing wars to sell the biggest car possible, as Silicon Valley forgets yet again that not everyone is like them.5. There will be a social network to let you share your favourite drivesIt’ll be called “Vroom”. No-one will use it, it will fail almost instantly, and if you mention its name a few years later, even Apple will feign ignorance.6. The built-in GPS will be Apple MapsGood luck!7. After three years software updates will make it slow to a crawlDon’t say “planned obsolescence” though. And really you should be thankful – other cars don’t upgrade their operating system at all.8. It’ll bend badly if you drive it wearing skinny hipster jeansIn, like, three cases ever. But the media will be all over them.9. You’ll be able to buy a solid gold versionAt least until the first drivers realise that such a car would struggle to overcome its own inertia, and be unable to support its own weight, trapping the occupant inside an expensive, shiny coffin.10. And of course … the battery will run out by 4pm every dayBut it’s fine, because you’ll be able to plug it into your in-car charger … um …Please do add your own in the comments
Facebook is letting users in the US designate a “legacy contact” that can take control of an account after their death.The new setting within Facebook’s security options allows a trusted family member or friend to make one last post on the behalf of the deceased. It also lets them manage friend requests, update the cover and profile photos and archive content.Legacy contacts will also be able to download an archive of the deceased’s posts and photos, but not private messages, and they will not be able to alter posts already published on Facebook.The move comes in response to the thousands of requests the social network gets when its users pass away leaving their account dormant – who then has control and who can shut it down?Related:What happens to your Facebook account when you die?Under the previous system, which is still in place in the UK, the account is either frozen, effectively turning it into an online memorial, or deleted in its entirety. The new control features will be rolled out to the US today, with other regions including the UK following at a later date.A Facebook account memorialised with legacy controlPhotograph: FacebookFacebook has placed tight restrictions on the after-death control of accounts. Users can only select one legacy contact, meaning that if a user selects their partner and they both die in a car crash or similar, the legacy contact system falls down.If users do not name a legacy contact, but do name a “digital heir” within their will, Facebook will designate that person as a legacy contact.The new option for posthumous care of a Facebook account highlights an important issue of what happens to your digital possessions and persona when you die.With people wracking up extensive digital legacies as they move through a progressively online world, it is something most people in the western world will have to deal with at least once in their lives.
Music streams on services like Spotify are about to start counting towards the UK’s official albums chart, but could streaming ultimately change the way albums are packaged and paid for by fans?A new report by music industry consultancy firm Midia Research hopes so. It pitches a future of “interactive artist subscriptions” where albums look more like apps, and where fans pay artists a small amount every month for access to their music – with streaming services acting as the middlemen.The company’sNext Generation Music Products reportclaims that this could be the key to winning over artists – fromThom YorketoTaylor Swift– who have publicly expressed their concerns about streaming’s impact on musicians.“A new generation of music products are needed, built around interactivity, multimedia and artist subscriptions. Products that will be radically different from their predecessors, and that will, crucially, be artist-specific, not store or service specific,” suggests the report.Related:Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube, Spotify… and musicians?Its theory is that the keenest music fans would happily pay their favourite artists more money through a mixture of subscriptions for an app-like experience blending music, videos, photos and other interactivity, and crowdfunding.Midia thinks that albums – or rather “360° music products” – could become something that fans subscribe to over a period of 12-24 months, with new music and content being pushed to these apps over the course of that time.They’d also provide a way for fans to buy merchandise and tickets, as well as in some cases to pledge money to help artists record their next album – and get early access to it as a reward.Social features will also be important. “360° products will enable users to connect with other fans within the app, chat with artists and to import their Twitter and Facebook friends to automatically extend their social graph into their music experiences,” claims Midia.“Artists will need to learn to invest time in participating with their fans in 360° products, from inviting feedback on demos they have seeded through to actually chatting in the forums.”Some of this is happening already: musicians are experimenting with apps, even if the most high-profile examples haven’t quite hit the mark.Bjork’s Biophilia app was critically acclaimed but its commercial success is unknown, while Lady Gaga’s ARTPOP app was a fun, novelty GIF-creator rather than the revolution in music delivery that was originally promised. Most artist apps have been more functional affairs.Midia thinks streaming services could play an important role:One solution is artist subscriptions within streaming services, with users paying a small monthly fee – say $/€1 – for a month’s worth of artist content.With the cost added directly to a monthly music subscription, users would get access to a curated channel of artist content including all the features of 360° music products. Artist subscriptions should, just like standalone apps, be immersive, programmed and interactive experiences, telling the artist’s story to new fans and enriching it for existing fans.Artist subscriptions should also give users flexibility, allowing them to continually swap and change artists. Most fans will have a few artists they want to keep connected to, but will also want to have the ability to deep dive into a new selection of artists every month or two.Some artists may feel uneasy at the idea of albums being replaced by app-like “products”, while a practical barrier is that streaming services like Spotify are not currently set up to offer individual micro-subscriptions like those proposed in Midia’s report.Related:The future of music sales is here. So how CAN the artists make it pay?Apple, on the other hand, already has an app platform – complete with a thriving in-app purchases economy – and is working on a relaunch of its Beats Music streaming service later this year. Most speculation about that has focused on its likely price and whether Apple will push the new service to every iOS device.Adding features like crowdfunding or individual artist subscriptions, not to mention the app-like blend of music, video, games and social feeds pitched in Midia’s report, could be the curveball that Apple needs to wrongfoot the streaming opposition.(Previous reports aboutU2 and Apple working on another project together– “It’s not a new format, but rather a new way to package and present an album” – may be relevant here.)At the same time, the ideas mooted in Midia’s report might be exactly what Spotify and its rivals need to get one up on Apple in the streaming world, while winning over more of its doubters among musicians.
Cats and copyright infringement: two of the internet’s most popular pursuits ... together at last! Except in this case, the copyright infringement has turned out to be a red herring.The cause was an hour-long, audio-only YouTube video of a cat purring, uploaded in March 2014 by a user named Digihaven. With less than 3,000 views, it was very much in the long (furry) tail of Google’s online video service.In 2015, though, it’s suddenly at the centre of a copyright row, after being flagged by YouTube’s Content ID system as possibly using a song called Focus, with its rights administered by music publisher EMI and collecting society PRS for Music.By “claiming” the video, those rights holders disabled Digihaven’s ability to make money from it through advertising, according toTorrentFreak.Related:What’s new, pussycat? The growing economy of internet cat videosEven though the revenues wouldn’t even have paid for a forkful of cat food, their response has been firstly to dispute the claim, and secondly to plaster an over-dramatic “LARGE RECORD COMPANIES WANT TO TAKE THIS VIDEO DOWN! DON’T LET THEM!” message on top of the clip.That’s not strictly true – EMI and PRS aren’t record companies, and they didn’t take the video down – and the additional message encouraging viewers to “CLICK HERE: SUBSCRIBE TO SAVE THE CATS OF YOUTUBE!” hints at a mischievous hope of turning online outrage into an audience for future videos.There are some serious issues bubbling away in the background here, though. How did the audio-fingerprinting software used by YouTube for Content ID mistake a cat purr for a musical composition, for a start.But there’s also a long-running debate about how the Content ID system works when false copyright claims are filed, with suggestions that music rights holders can be too trigger-happy with their claims on occasion, and questions over whether Content ID does enough to combat bogus claims.In truth, YouTube has improved on that score over the years,shaking up its appeals processto tilt it a bit more towards creators in 2012, for example. That’s the process that applied in Digihaven’s case, as they challenged the copyright claim, with EMI having already withdrawn it.“When it’s brought to our attention that a video or channel has been claimed mistakenly, we work with the claimant to fix it,” a YouTube spokesperson told the Guardian, confirming that the issue had been corrected.Digihaven’s cat is free to crack on with their career as a YouTuber. Although if they want to make it big, theymight need an instrument.
I have a Huawei Y300, and the battery life is down to about 24 hours even with minimal use, so I’m thinking about changing it. I don’t want a phone contract, so I need something I can buy outright for around £250 or less. Other than that, I have two ideas of what I want, and I’m having difficulty choosing between them.First, after readingMock my Nokia all you like – I’m happier since ditching my smartphone, I was thinking about not getting a smart phone, but all the non-smart phones I’ve seen look cheap and nasty.Second, I was thinking of a smartphone because GPS and a camera can be useful sometimes. Battery life and robustness are probably the two most important features to me, as I don’t like changing my phone that often.I’m currently an Android user, but would change to Windows Phone. Probably not iOS, as I think Apple stuff is generally overpriced.RobertThe simplest, quickest and cheapest solution to your problem is to buy a new battery for your Huawei Ascend Y300. That would set you back around £7-£10 (I have not shopped around). Even though you will probably want to change your phone in the long run, a new battery should remove some of the pressure.There are good reasons for waiting. Firstly, most Android phones are shipping with version 4.4 (KitKat), but Google has released version 5.0 (Lollipop), and Samsung is rolling out v5.0.1 to some Galaxy smartphones. Secondly, Windows Phones are now available running the Denim version of the operating system – which includes the Cortana personal assistant – but Windows 10 is on the way. Even if you don’t want Lollipop or Denim or Windows 10 now, I’d recommend buying a smartphone that can handle them.Also, new smartphones are always on the way. More will be unveiled at the annualMobile World Congressin Barcelona on March 2-5, which is the smartphone event of the year.Related:Best budget smartphones for under £150I understand the temptation to revert to a “feature phone”. Cheap Nokias can be better than smartphones for making voice calls. However, I think their time is passing, because of the increasing use of Skype, WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, Snapchat and other free-to-use apps instead of SMS short messaging. GPS navigation and step counting/sleep monitoring are also important to some users.But this isn’t really a technology problem. It’s perfectly possible to own a smartphone without wasting half your life on social networking updates or games like Candy Crush. It just takes a little willpower.Android optionsMy current recommendation to people who don’t have a clue which smartphone to buy is to get a Motorola Moto G with a microSD card slot. By name-brand smartphone standards, it offers a high specification for a low price (around £130 to £135). You’re used to a 4in screen, so the step up to theMoto G 4G’s 4.5in screen should be easy, though there’s also anewer modelwith a 5in screen, if you fancy that. Either would be a significant improvement on your (admittedly much cheaper) Huawei Y300. For details, see thecomparison tableat Phone Area.The main drawback with the Moto G is that you can’t easily replace the battery. However, there are still a few smartphones with this feature.Firstly, consider theHuawei Ascend Y530. This, rather than the Y330, is the natural upgrade to your current smartphone. It has a bigger screen – 4.5in instead of 4in – albeit with the same 480 x 800-pixel resolution. It also has a faster processor, a better camera with focusing and LED flash, and better battery life. It’s not bad value for just under £100, but the Moto G is better, and has much more storage (8GB or 16GB instead of 4GB). The advantages are that you’re already familiar with Huawei, and that the battery is replaceable.Secondly, consider the 2013-vintageSony Xperia Z1, which has a 5in screen. Its advantages over the Moto G include its solid waterproof and dustproof construction, a Full HD (1920 x 1080) screen, faster Qualcomm Krait processor, twice the memory (2GB) and storage (16GB), a 21 megapixel camera, (see more detailshere).The Sony Xperia Z1 is roughly twice the price of the Moto G, but it used to be £600, and you can probably get one for around your budget. It’s still a premium phone, and its metal and glass construction should meet your need for robustness. Also, judging by thisvideo teardown, you should be able to replace the battery yourself.TheSony Xperia M2 4Gis a cheaper, mid-range alternative at about £155. However, incomparison, it has a much lower screen resolution (540 x 960 pixels), a non-removable battery, and isn’t as robust.What about Windows Phone?I’m another long-time Android smartphone user who is thinking about switching to the latest Windows Phone 8 (Denim) or possibly Windows 10. This is partly due to my growing dislike for Google’s comprehensive tracking, and partly due to the development of the Windows ecosystem, which is driving towards “universal” apps that run on Windows Phones, tablets, laptops, all-in-ones, and the Xbox One.Another factor is that I have recently bought a£100 Windows 8 tablet, and found I use it more than my older Android tablet. This is partly because it browses faster, my use of Microsoft Office, the familiarity of Windows 8, and the useful synchronisation with the OneDrive cloud service. In other words, the value of the Windows ecosystem is starting to trump the relative shortage of Windows Phone apps.Of course, if you don’t use Office or OneDrive, you may well have a different view. But still, I think Microsoft is now providing better cross-platform support across Windows, Android and Apple than Google or Apple.If you fancy trying a Windows Phone smartphone, have a look at theLumia 735, which you can get for about £180 in orange. Forcomparison, this has a 4.7in screen with a resolution of 1280 x 720 pixels, and a 5-megapixel front-facing camera for the selfie crowd.Unlike the lower-numbered Lumias, the 735 has 1GB of memory, which I expect will be the minimum for the full-spec Windows 10 for phones. (Having used a 1GB Windows tablet, I’d much prefer 2GB, but theLumia 930costs a lot more.) It looks as though the 512MB Lumias will only get a subset of Windows 10.No doubt readers will have other suggestions for sub-£250 non-iOS smartphones. There are hundreds to choose from.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
United Airlines has cancelled the reservations of thousands of customers who took advantage of a pricing glitch to save thousands of pounds on first class tickets.The glitch,first spotted by money saving site DansDeals, caused first and business class tickets sold through the airline’s Danish website to be drastically mispriced. For instance, a round trip from Heathrow to New York for two, which costs £6118.92 on the British site, was sold for just 974 Danish Krone, less than £100.It took United a couple of hours to respond to the glitch, firstly by removing the ability to access the Danish website and then by fixing the pricing mishap. But that was enough time for “several thousand” people to take advantage of the implausibly good deal, according to the company, which cancelled the bookings overnight.In a statement, United said: “United is voiding the bookings of several thousand individuals who were attempting to take advantage of an error a third-party software provider made when it applied an incorrect currency exchange rate, despite United having properly filed its fares.“Most of these bookings were for travel originating in the United Kingdom, and the level of bookings made with Danish Krone as the local currency was significantly higher than normal during the limited period that customers made these bookings.”Given the price of first class tickets, even if the number of customers taking advantage of the glitch was at the low end of the “several thousand” number, the company’s potential losses were still easily in the tens of millions of dollars.In an email to affected customers, United took a slightly more conciliatory tone, but still confirmed the cancellations: “You purchased a ticket through the Danish version of united.com during the time when the prices were incorrect. As a result, we are not able to honor your ticket at the price that you paid. We have voided your reservation and will not process your payment.”In a previous pricing glitch, United decided to honour tickets accidentally sold for free. In September 2013, the airline listed tickets with a price of $0, and was forced to shut its booking system entirely to stop haemorrhaging tickets. While those tickets remained valid, the company did not reveal how many it had actually given away.
Imagine looking into the eyes of a video game character and knowing that they have lied to you, or that they’re scared, or that they love you.Right now, even with the astonishing power of current multi-core processors and graphics chipsets, the people we encounter in visually beautiful games like Far Cry 4, Assassin’s Creed: Unity and Tomb Raider lack something in their faces, some spark of humanity. The phenomenon has a well-known name, the Uncanny Valley, coined by robotics professor Masahiro Mori. His hypothesis, first put forward in 1970, was that as human reproductions get closer to authenticity, the tiny inaccuracies become increasingly disturbing. Video game characters look so real, but not real enough, and we recoil from them.Video game worlds are similarly abstracted. The city of Los Santos in Grand Theft Auto V; the bustling Paris of Assassin’s Creed: Unity ... all the surface details are there, but these are just virtual film sets. Most of the doors are locked, and if you point GTA’s most powerful rocket launcher at any building, the explosive impact will do no damage at all. The computational cost of simulating collapsing masonry is huge.The problems of realityThese are the challenges facing the makers of video game graphics cards, the chunks of complex hardware that slot into your computer or console, and that work alongside the central processing unit to produce those breathtaking visuals. “Game developers are increasingly interested in highly simulated and dynamic worlds that allow players to create, destroy, and interact with the environment in interesting ways,” says Tony Tamasi, senior vice president of content and technology at graphics hardware specialist Nvidia. “By having more dynamic experiences, or simulation driven design, the worlds become more alive and involving, without necessarily having to be carefully – and expensively – modelled, animated and scripted.”Instead of constructing environments as glorified 3D film-sets, game developers are now building them as groups of simulated physical objects that react to player actions. There have been moves in this direction for several years: titles like Red Faction, Far Cry, Crysis and Breach have all featured destructible scenery, but it’s been very controlled, and isolated to specific areas. Even Battlefield 4’s visually impressive Levolution system, which creates authentic moments of massive scenic destruction, operates only with certain buildings. However, it seems forthcoming titles like Microsoft’s reboot of open-world action adventure Crackdown, and multiplayer strategy shooter Rainbow Six Siege will both feature large scale destruction which completely alters the environment for players.This has been allowed by advances in real-time physics calculations made by both graphics card manufacturers and the coders behind advanced 3D games engines like Cryengine and Unreal Engine 4. We’re heading into a new era of physically-based rendering, where the properties of individual textiles and materials are simulated to produce natural, reactive environments. “We’ve had to develop GPU friendly, highly parallel physical simulation algorithms, which in many cases has required us to rethink algorithms at a fundamental level,” says Tamasi. “We’re at the point where these things can produce truly involving experiences. The Batman and Borderlands franchises have really taken this capability to heart.”Switching on the lightsAnother key part of this move toward naturalistic simulated environments is lighting. For many years, light and shadow sources were “baked” into video game scenes, meaning they were drawn onto the landscape by artists. Now, games feature realistic physical light sources that simulate the interaction between light rays and objects. Characters cast shadows as they pass under street lamps; flames glint off metal swords. The holy grail is “global illumination”, essentially a system that accurately simulates how light reflects and refracts between different surfaces creating an array of indirect lighting sources. This is common in animated movies, but they can render every scene in advance, using whole farms of powerful computers; games have to render every moment in real-time on a single PC or console.“We’ve made amazing advances in real time rendering capability over the years,” says Tamasi. “Shadows have gone from simple blobs, to hard-edge cast shadows, to soft edged shadow maps, to a form of global illumination called ambient occlusion. Many films with extensive computer graphics work use advanced forms of rendering called path tracing. These simulate the actual light propagation, shooting billions of rays into the scene, bouncing them around, and physically simulating that light’s interaction with a surface. These techniques can produce great results, but are incredibly computationally expensive. They can be done on GPUs though; Nvidia has Iray, a physically correct, photo-realistic rendering solution and OptiX, a ray tracing engine elevating you to a new level of interactive realism.”We’ll see the fruits of these advances throughout 2015. The likes of Witcher 3, Bloodborne and Project Cars all feature complex real-time lighting and shadow effects, and promise to innovate on elements such as dynamic weather, day/night cycles and subtle particle effects. “Imagine truly simulation-based volumetric dust clouds, kicked up by a landing chopper, with player characters moving through those swirls of dust, interacting with them,” says Tamasi. “Or characters blowing holes in the walls of a castle, allowing the sunlight to stream in from outside, bouncing from the floor, to the walls, to the drapes.”The human questionBut there is still that big question hovering over the inhabitants of those environments. While the faces of Joel and Ellie in the Last of Us, and Kevin Spacey in Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, have moments of genuine humanity, there is still a haunting dislocation. A gap.Nvidia sees it. “Skin is a computationally hard problem,” says Phil Scott, Nvidia’s lead technical evangelist in Europe. “Skin will accept light from the environment and then the light scatters around within the first few millimetres of flesh. Then it reemerges, coloured by what it has encountered. If I was to hold my hand up to the light, you’ll see a red glow around the edges: in games, we’re really getting into those important subtleties now.”Hair too, has always been a problem – rendering thousands of shafts to create something that doesn’t look like a plastic-moulded wig has tried many teams. AMD, another graphics card manufacturer and Nvidia’s main rival in the space, has developed its TressFX technology to help solve the problem – it produced Lara Croft’s convincingly bouncy pony tail in the Tomb Raider game.It seems like peripheral stuff, but it isn’t. “If video games are to tell more emotional stories then this is important,” says Scott. “Better skin makes characters more believable; and the eyes are the gateway to the soul. As humans we look at each other in the eyes, we communicate through the eyes; so even though they take a tiny portion of the screen space, developers need to spend a lot of rendering effort on making them realistic.”Jon Jansen, Nvidia’s developer technology lead for Europe picks up the theme. “Eyes are so complex because of the way they interact with light,” he says. “There are a lot of internal reflections, because it’s a lens system. Look at the way that the automotive industry tries to render headlights in their simulations - that’s a real test for ray-tracing because you have so many internal reflections. There’s something of that going on with eyes.“There’s also the issue of sub-surface scattering of light within the cornea, because it is not a perfectly opaque surface. There are all these subtle, physical phenomena going on in the eye, and if you devote time to getting that right, you’re rewarded – you can get stunning results.”Emotions as game designOf course, destructible worlds with realistic physical properties, and beautiful human characters with doleful eyes, won’t make bad games good or boring stories exciting, but they may allow developers to explore more subtle narratives. Rockstar’s 2011 crime drama LA Noire, which made extensive use of facial motion capture, asked players to work out if suspects were lying during interrogation by reading their expressions and body language. The emotional fidelity wasn’t quite there, but it could be in a few years time. Late last year, Supermassive Games released a demo of its upcoming Until Dawn title, showing its impressive use of contextual facial animation:Maybe we will one day look into the physically rendered eyes of game characters, and understand, from the way light is glinting off their corneas, that they are upset or desperate. Maybe emotional intelligence will one day be as important a game skill as hand-eye coordination.But will we ever be at the stage where we mistake game environments, and game characters, for the real thing? Tim Sweeney, co-founder of Epic Games, said last year, thatwe can expect it in ten years. Is he right? “We’re a long way from photorealism in real-time rendering,” says Tamasi. “We’re just getting to the point in movies where limited amounts of human CGI passes [as photo-realistic] for most audiences. Those are movies with effectively infinite render times per frame, and artists carefully scanning, crafting and animating a single performance.“Real-time graphics is probably a decade or more behind film in terms of what can be conveyed visually, and film isn’t ‘done’ yet either. I’d say we’ve got decades more innovation to come.”
Apple has approved the release of mobile gameLittle Dictatoron its App Store, weeks after initially rejecting the app due to its content spoofing North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.The game, developed by Built Games, is a Flappy Bird-inspired action title, with a cartoon Kim riding a missile through “the dangerous world outside the Fatherland”.The free-to-play game includes power-ups like Father’s Golf Clubs, Chicago Basketballs and GOP Hackers, making its money from selling virtual currency to buy them from its in-app store.Earlier in February, its developer said that the iOS version of the game had been rejected by Apple for flouting its App Store guideline on apps that are “defamatory, offensive, mean-spirited, or likely to place the targeted individual or group in harm’s way”.At the time, Built Games’ Mike Paganotold Pocket Gamerthat he was hopeful of changing Apple’s mind.“Our initial submission was rejected, an appeal has went in, and we are working with Apple to resolve,” he said. “I believe the chances are very good for this game to see the light of day on the App Store.”He’s been proven right, with the iOS version now available alongsidethe existing Android edition of the game. Built Games’ argument that the game was a fun spoof rather than mean-spirited appears to have won out.“In the infinitely unlikely event that the missile explodes before it reaches the evil west, more missiles will be supplied to try again and again… and again and again! Not to worry, Kim Jong-un possesses the hearts of his father and grandfather giving him ultimate endurance and strength to withstand any small mishaps along the way… very few of course!”Little Dictator is far from the first game to spoof North Korea and its leader, nor is it the first to ring alarm bells within Apple’s App Store approvals system.Related:Should Apple be censoring games differently to music and books?In 2013,Apple rejected a game called Joyful Executions, which put players in charge of a firing squad in North Korea, pitched as “a parody game on North Korean propaganda for children and a satire on our willingness to accept morally questionable acts through gamification”.More recently, a game called Glorious Leader! that would have seen players waging war on the US as Kim Jong-unhad its Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign cancelled, with its developer citing a politically-inspired hacking attack as well as financial mistakes as the cause.Apple’s decision to approve Little Dictator comes after widespread debate in the west about entertainment satirising North Korea, spurred by Sony Pictures’ decision to cancel, thenreinstate distribution of film comedy The Interviewafter the studio was hit by a high-profile cyber-attack.Apple was alsocriticised in December after initially rejecting Papers, Please– a critically acclaimed PC game set in a fictitious eastern European dictatorship. In that case, cartoon nudity rather than politics was the sticking point, but after protests, Apple rescinded its decision and approved the game in its original form.
The Parrot Bebop is a camera drone with a real focus on recording video and some seriously impressive image stabilisation. It is Parrot’s third generation full-sized flying quatrocopter and is aiming to fly into a sweet spot in the market.The device is a half-way house between a drone designed for carrying a large camera, such as those often used in TV shows like Top Gear and the toy drones intended to entertain. A “prosumer drone”, it lands at the fun end of the scale, very much for those looking to make home movies rather than television documentaries, but that’s no bad thing.Related:Parrot Minidrone Rolling Spider review: an indoor drone for big kidsLightweight but strongThe rubber bumpers between the magnesium frame and the camera and battery body help to dampen vibrations.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new drone from Parrot, the French Bluetooth specialist, looks like almost any other quadrocopter. It has four exposed propellers on four extended arms that surround a tube-like body. The arms attach to an under plate, which supports a polystyrene body containing the camera and a tray for the battery on rubber buffers that help neutralise vibration.For indoor flight there are two 10g clip-on polystyrene shells that are designed to protect the drone from walls - and the walls from the drone.They attach easily but a couple of crashes left marks on the wall and chunks cut out of the shells by the blades. The drone kept working just fine, though, even with a near full speed head-on collision with the wall.The Bebop also comes with a full spare set of propellers that are very easy to swap for broken ones, should the worst happen.The protective shells are easily added or removed from each side with two clips.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsSize:330 x 380 x 36mm with the shells attachedWeight:410g with the shells attachedFlight time:11 minutesCamera:14-megapixel 180-degree fisheye lens, 3-axis digital stabilisationVideo:1080p at 30 frames per secondStorage:8GBConnectivity:Wi-Fi (2.4 and 5GHz) 250m range, microUSB, GPS/GlonassSmartphone controlsA Windows Phone, Android, iPad or iPhone can be used to control the drone over Wi-Fi with a live video feed from the camera in the nose.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Bebop is available with a “Skycontroller” – two joysticks strapped to a frame for a tablet – but most are likely to buy the drone on its own and control it using Parrot’s free Freeflight 3 app on a smartphone or tablet.The app works on iPhones, iPads, Androids or Windows Phones and connects to the drone using Wi-Fi to display a live feed from the camera. The drone broadcasts its own network, and once connected works at a range of up to 250m from the tablet or up to 2km from the Skycontroller.There are three ways of directly controlling the Bebop using the app: tilt, virtual joysticks or tilt with independent camera control. The tilt control is fun as a toy, but difficult to use for any tight control. The virtual joysticks work well enough to fly it through an office without too much trouble – precision control is difficult on a touchscreen, however.Users can also plot a route on a map for the drone to fly itself using the built-in GPS chip outdoors.The drone is manoeuvrable enough in virtual joystick mode to fly through reasonably tight gaps with a bit of practice.Related:Parrot Minidrones Jumping Sumo review: rolling, jumping robotStable flightIn flight the Bebop is stable and resists both knocks and the wind buffeting it, returning to its original position almost aggressively. It can fly up to 150m from the ground at up to 2.5m/s at a maximum of 2,500m above sea level.The drone was disrupted by circulating air currents and annoyingly spinning to the left requiring manual readjustment.Despite maintaining a stable vertical position, however, it failed to deal with the internal circulation of air in our tests. It would spin uncontrollably when flying over simple low airflow vents or desks and drift from side to side when attempting to fly over a stairwell.The airflow around the stairs caused the drone to bob side to side and move around without user intervention, although it recovered from clipping a handrail and avoided a 7m drop.Two batteries are included in the box with the Bebop, along with a separate charger. It will fly for about 10 to 12 minutes per battery. It is also quite loud and the downdraft is enough to blow papers and anything not weighed down all over the place while flying. You can forget sneaking up on anyone.Smooth videoThe stabilisation and floating camera create video that mimics the movements of first-person shooter games.The drone has a 14-megapixel camera in the nose with a fisheye lens and a 180-degree field of view. It records 1080p video at 30 frames per second, uses digital stabilisation and can adjust the angle of the camera independently from the motion of the drone. The image captured is flat, despite the fisheye lens that normally distorts the picture.The video is ultra-smooth, resembling the kind of motion seen in first-person video games. Even when banking hard with the drone the video is completely flat. The quality of the video is decent, akin to a mid-range action cam, but suffers from graining in poor lighting conditions such as those inside an office.The lawFlying the drone outside makes it subject to the CAA’s flight restrictions.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWhat you do with a drone in your own home is pretty much your business, but the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) has certain rules about what you can and cannot do with remotely controlled flying objects including drones.The current legislation means that it is illegal to fly a drone within 50m of a building or a person and 150m of a built-up area. In addition, the maximum flight height is 400m and the drone has to remain in line of sight and within 500m of the pilot.For commercial purposes, pilots must complete a training course and apply for a permit to fly the drone from the CAA.Related:Parrot Zik 2.0 review: wireless headphones designed by Philippe StarckPriceThe Parrot Bebop drone is available in red, blue and yellow and costs £430 or £770 with the Skycontroller. Two batteries are included, with extra batteries £50 a pop. Spare parts for all of the components of the Bebop are available individually from Parrot.VerdictThe bottom magnesium frame works as a heat sink for the drone and so gets really quite uncomfortably hot.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Parrot Bebop is a fantastic toy that allows users to go beyond just flying it around and crashing into things and make interesting videos and take photos from a completely new perspective.The flight time of about 10 minutes is long enough to do something meaningful and the 8GB storage is enough to record most of a flight.Despite being super smooth, the video is not of professional quality, but is perfectly good enough for most consumers. The biggest issue are the restrictions on where you can fly a drone. It is still fun to fly around indoors, but the lack of precision control with a touchscreen leads to more crashes than you would like for a £400 machine.Pros:super smooth video, easy to set up, robust enough to survive a crash, fun to fly, two batteries in the box, GPSCons:graining in low-light conditions, difficult to control precisely, legislation on drone use restrictive, expensive for a toyFlying indoors within a controlled space works well for the most part. The drone can perform much better outside, but the laws are restrictive.
The US government is on a path to have “virtually unlimited power” to regulate every aspect of the internet, the chairman of the powerful Senate commerce committee said Wednesday.Republican senator John Thune slammed the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) plans to introduce sweeping new powers to regulate the broadband industry, saying they would stifle innovation and create a “Mother may I” system for regulating the internet.The FCC plans a 26 February vote on its proposals, which have receivedmore than 4m comments, making internet regulation the hottest topic of debate in the regulator’s history.Thune, who is working on regulation that would trump the FCC’s proposals, told an audience in Washington on Wednesday that he has “long been skeptical that the internet needs more regulation to preserve its openness”.Thune said the FCC proposals were being pushed by an “increasingly imperious president” and that Congress needed to step in.Speaking at the #RebootCongress conference, organised by libertarian technology group Lincoln Labs, Thune said the FCC proposals would give the regulator a “virtually unlimited ability to regulate each and every aspect of the internet system”. For example, he said the regulator would have the power to dictate to companies like Netflix what kinds of services it offered.Last November, Barack Obama called on the FCC to regulate broadband with the “strongest possible rules” to protect net neutrality – the principle that all traffic on the internet should be treated equally and that internet service providers cannot tilt a level playing field by blocking, slowing or giving preferential treatment to certain services.FCC chairman Tom Wheeler is proposing that broadband should be regulated under Title II of the Communications Act, which rules would also give the regulator oversight of mobile broadband. The regulator was forced to rewrite its rules after Verizon won a court case challenging its ability to regulate the industry last January.Thune said it was “a terrible idea to reverse decade of internet policy to protect net neutrality” using rules designed for the telephone era. “Opening Pandora’s box like this is even worse when Congress stands ready to give the FCC the proper tools it needs. Especially when it can do so in a bipartisan manner.”Thune said that after the vote, which is expected to pass, he would begin a series of hearing with stakeholders including net neutrality activists, cable companies and tech firms to draw up legislation that would effectively defang the FCC.
Fitness bands can significantly misreport the number of steps taken by a user, whereas smartphones are considerably more accurate, according to new research.The study, led by Dr Mitesh Patel of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, tested the accuracy of steps recorded by smartphones and wearable devices. Fourteen volunteers walked on a treadmill at a pace of three miles an hour for 500 steps and again for 1,500 steps, repeating each distance twice.Participants wore the Digi-Walker SW-200 pedometer; two accelerometers: the Fitbit One and Fitbit Zip; and three popular fitness wristbands – the Nike FuelBand, Jawbone UP24, and Fitbit Flex.In one pocket, they had an iPhone 5s running the Fitbit, Health Mate, and Moves apps; and a Galaxy S4 smartphone running Moves in the other.Less accurateResearchers counted steps visually and then compared their figures with the numbers produced by the smartphone apps and wearable devices.The pedometers and accelerometers were the most accurate devices, miscounting by just 1% or less.According to the study, published in theJournal of the American Medical Association, the smartphones recorded a range of 6.7% fewer steps to 6.2% more, with iPhone apps slightly over-estimating and the Galaxy app doing the opposite.However, the fitness wristbands were often far less accurate, under-counting the number of steps by 1.5% to as much as 22.7%, with the FuelBand having the greatest under-estimation.Most gadgets use the number of steps taken to determine the number of calories consumed and make other calculations.The Fitbit One accelerometer.Photograph: FitbitDespite the variations, Patel said the findings should reassure those who want to use smartphone apps or wearables to track their activities.The study also suggests that smartphone owners may not need to buy a separate fitness band to get an accurate measure of their activity levels. For those without a smartphone, a simple, cheap pedometer might be just as effective.10,000 steps a dayDavid Geier, an orthopedic surgeon and sports medicine specialist who was not involved in the study, said gaining a realistic understanding of movement levels was very helpful for motivation.“Tracking on its own won’t make you lose weight or get healthier, but it can certainly help you get closer to at least the recommended 10,000 steps a day, which very few people currently achieve,” he said.Related:Could 2015 be the year wearable tech becomes sexy?Smartphones and fitness bands also allowed users to compare results with friends on social media, said Heather Milton, senior exercise physiologist at New York University.“Whether it is support for some or the competition for others, this is a huge element of improving activity and health,” she said.Using any device helps users to change their behaviour, Milton added: “It is for this reason that people opt to walk rather than ride an elevator or escalator, or get up and walk every few hours at work.”
Sitting is the new cancer? As marketing soundbites for a new gadget go, it’s one of the strangest in recent memory.Yet that’sthe phrase used by Apple chief executive Tim Cook– admittedly with a neatly-distancing “a lot of doctors think” preface – when banging the drum for his company’s upcoming smartwatch.Cook was referring to a feature in the Apple Watch that reminds its wearer to stand up more often. “Ten minutes before the hour, it will remind you to move,” said Cook. “We have a lot of people using the Apple Watch at Apple, and 10 minutes before the hour, suddenly they all get up and move. It took a little to get used to, but it’s great.”Related:Is sitting down bad for my health?Is sitting really the new cancer, though? On one level, obviously not. Cancer is still the same cancer that it has always been, and many people with personal experience of it will bridle at language describing it like an out-of-date fashion trend.Bear in mind, though, that Cook is one of those people: he watched his colleague and friend Steve Jobs battle with and ultimately succumb to pancreatic cancer in 2011. He won’t have used the word lightly, so what was he getting at?One problem with the phrase “sitting is the new cancer” is that it compares an action (sitting) to a disease (cancer). Cook’s point might be better understood by comparing like for like: “sitting is the new smoking” or “heart disease is the new cancer” for example – although the latter could still cause offence.The issue, in both cases, is the health risks of an over-sedentary lifestyle. There are certainly a lot of doctors thinking (and writing) about that. For example,a 2012 study of the links between sedentary behaviour and various health problems, which has been regularly quoted since.Based on research involving almost 800,000 people, it suggested that people who spent the most time sitting or lying down while awake had a 112% increase in the risk of diabetes; a 147% increase in “cardiovascular events” – including heart attacks – and a 90% increase in death due to those events.The previous year,research published by the American College of Cardiologyfocusing on “screen-based entertainment time” (i.e. loafing about on the sofa) suggested “raised mortality and CVD (cardiovascular disease) risk regardless of physical activity participation”.In January 2015, anew review of 47 studiesbacked up that conclusion, citing increased risk of heart disease, cancer and Type 2 diabetes as being linked to sitting down too much – again, regardless of other physical activity.Finally, the World Health Organization claims thatphysical inactivity is “the fourth leading risk factor for global mortality”– behind high blood pressure, tobacco use and high blood glucose, since you ask – causing an estimated 3.2m deaths a year. The WHO also claims that even in 2008,around 31% of adults weren’t active enough.So, “sitting is the new cancer”? “Over-sedentary lifestyles are contributing to lots of deaths” would be a less controversial way of putting it, even if it makes for a slightly less punchy headline.Related:Time will tell: only 1% of Britons own a smartwatchOf course, you don’t need a $349 smartwatch to tackle this problem. If you have a desk-based job, remember to get up once an hour for a stretch and a stroll, or set an alarm on your smartphone (or – gasp! – your non-smart watch) to remind you.Drink so much water you have to go to the loo regularly.Go for an hourly fag break. Consider buying (or asking your boss for) a stand-up desk to spend the day on your feet. And so on.The first marketing challenge of a new gadget is to convince us that it’s solving a problem. Thus far, some of the problems being “solved” by smartwatches – from phone-less phoning to our deep, animalistic need for yet another device to beep when someone likes our Instagrammed sandwich – have been fatuous.Too much sitting down will kill us? That’s arealproblem. Tim Cook might have phrased it differently, and there are plenty of alternatives to Apple Watch as the solution, but it shouldn’t surprise anyone that he’s identified personal inactivity as a selling point for his company’s next big product.
Samsung has confirmed that its smart TVs are erroneously inserting pop-up video adverts into television and movies played through third-party apps.The admission comes in a week that Samsung wasforced to change its smart TV privacy policy, which indicated the TV could be recording conversations and sending them to third parties,provoking “Orwellian” complaints from critics.Samsung said that it was “currently conducting a full and thorough investigation into the cause as our top priority”.Several Samsung smart TV owners took to Reddit to complain that a silent video advert for Pepsi kept appearing in Plex, an app for streaming video from a computer among other sources.Related:Samsung's Smart TV is the least of our worries when it comes to snooping“I watch most of my TV shows on a Samsung Smart TV and it has been fantastic for the past year. Recently it has been stopping half way through a show or a movie and has played a pepsi ad that is muted,” said user beans90on Redditexplaining that the adverts do not interrupt viewing on any other platforms, including PC, PlayStation 4 and tablet computers running Plex.A Plex spokespersontold GigaOmthat the company was not behind the pop up ads.Separately, users of Australia’s Foxtel streaming TV service reported a similar issue after having updated the Samsung SmartHub, which allows users to download apps.“After about 15 minutes of watching live TV, the screen goes blank, and then a 16:9 sized Pepsi advert (taking up about half the screen) pops up and stops Foxtel playing,” said a users known as darlinghurst on the Foxtel company forums. “It’s as if there is a popup ad on the TV.”Other users took to the forums to complain of the same advert interruptions using Samsung smart TVs leading a Foxtel support representative known asBeta_Boy to state: “This absolutely should not be happening and is being escalated immediately.”A Samsung spokesperson told the Guardian: “We are aware of a situation that has caused some Smart TV users in Australia to experience programme interruption in the form of an advertisement.”“This seems to be caused by an error, and we are currently conducting a full and thorough investigation into the cause as our top priority. This situation has so far been reported only in Australia. We would like to apologise for any inconvenience experienced by our customers.”In 2014 it was revealed that Samsung haspartnered with Yahooto create adverts and other “interactive experiences”. These experiences were said to be “opt-in”.It appears that an update to the Samsung software powering the smart TVs has enabled the pop-up ads by default.The Yahoo-powered service can be disabled by declining the Yahoo privacy policy within the Samsung Smart Hub terms and policy section.Samsung is not the only company looking to monetise smart TV platforms with adverts. Panasonic smart TVs display banner ads in some situations and streaming box manufacturer Roku has pursued revenue share agreements with streaming services using its platform.Advertising companies including Yahoo and appTV offer solutions for advertisers to place promotions on smart TVs, while smart TVs that log user activity offer the potential fortargeted advertisingsimilar to the services internet advertising companies such as Google offer.
Goblin Panda, Flying Kitten and CyberBerkut may sound like the lineup of a particularly esoteric music festival, but according to online security firm CrowdStrike, they were three of the most prominent cyber threats in 2014.The company’s annualGlobal Threat Intel Reportidentifies activity from 39 different groups in the last year, dividing them into four categories: criminals, hacktivists, state-sponsored groups and nationalist adversaries.The names may raise a smile, but their activities are entirely serious, targeting companies and individuals with a range of threats, from malware to hacking foreign websites for propaganda purposes.“Western businesses and enterprises need to know that there are serious bad guys in North Korea, China, Iran, Russia and other countries working tirelessly on ways to get around our defenses to steal intellectual property, disrupt business and even destroy,”said CrowdStrike’s vice president of intelligence Adam Meyersas the report was published.Goblin Panda made Vietnam the most-targeted country according to CrowdStrike’s research, with the group’s activities – fuelled by “tensions in the South China Sea” – including spear phishing attacks attempting to install malware on victims’ computers, often using decoy documents.“The content of these decoys often came from documents produced by Vietnam’s government, which indicates that the adversary possibly infiltrated the government’s network and was using stolen documents in its operations,” claims the report.Flying Kitten is a group thought to be based in Iran, with CrowdStrike identifying its campaign to target a defence company in the US in early 2014 with fake websites trying to get people to give away their credentials, then download malware.“Shortly after this activity was identified, other campaigns against additional targets in the defence and aerospace sectors were observed,” explains the report, which notes that Flying Kitten also targeted Iranian dissidents elsewhere in the world.CrowdStrike also tracked the activities of a separate group, Charming Kitten, which spent 2014 using fake profiles on social networking sites to ensnare its targets in the US government, as well as the defence industry.Related:How you could become a victim of cybercrime in 2015“Credential collection occurred through spoofed websites meant to appear as if they were legitimate sites such as YouTube. When victims clicked on the log in link, they were redirected to a different website that prompted them to enter credentials for harvesting by the adversary.”The report also highlights activity by CyberBerkut, a “self-proclaimed nationalistic hacking group” that attacked the interim government in Ukraine in 2014, while also distributing pro-Russian propaganda online and encouraging distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks on Ukrainian websites.“These attacks were likely directed by Russian state services, with the CyberBerkut hacktivists providing a layer of plausible deniability,” claims CrowdStrike. “Several of the DDoS attacks against Ukraine’s Central Election Commission (CEC) coincided with Russian state media broadcasts, further suggesting coordination at the state level.”The report also highlights the activities of groups including pro-Syrian Deadeye Jackal and western, game-oriented DerpTrolling and LizardSquad – as well as noting that specific events including the World Cup and the loss of two Malaysia Airlines flights also spurred flurries of cybercriminal activity.
