The venerable Mario Party series had more sequels than Police Academy but now the Italian plumber and his pals have been sent back to the Mushroom Kingdom. No more minigame madness for them. The stars of Wii Party are you and your friends – and that Mii you designed to look like Michael Jackson.Visually, it works. Playing as yourself adds a fun dimension to the game, and as ever with the Wii titles there are nice touches that remind you someone is paying attention to detail. Your Miis wear natty outfits appropriate for each setting, do little dances, stomp the ground with frustration if they lose. One of the games even features fireworks in the shape of your face.The main gameplay consists of the Party Games, which can be played by up to four players (there is no advice what to do if more than three people turn up to your party). Helpfully, each game comes with an estimation of how long it's likely to take, from the 15 minutes of Bingo to the hour-long Globe Trot.Board Game Island – a fun but simple race-to-the-finish-line affair – would be much improved if players were able to introduce a tactical element by choosing to whom the various punishments befall. Instead, it's all done by rolling dice and the difference between winning and losing seems fairly arbitrary. Globe Trot is worse in this regard – you're placed on a map that resembles Risk and are required to reach various holiday destinations. All seems dependent on what cards come up.You do, of course, have some fun along the way in the form of the minigames, of which there are 80 in total. These range from simple single-button pumpers, gameplay unchanged since the joystick-waggling days of Track &amp; Field, to more sophisticated games that utilise the Wii remote's motion controller.Unfortunately, these are pretty hit and miss. The cartoon violent ones are the most fun – the Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Robots-esque game where you punch each other into the sea, the merry blasting Asteroids-style space games, or the one where you have to run away from your zombified mates – but others ("take a picture of a puppy") barely qualify as games at all. And there are certain glitches that sully the motion-controlled games; the one requiring a golf swing had particularly middling responsiveness.The other modes fare better. Pair Games are a lot of fun – Friend Connection asks questions and makes you play a collaborative game to deem your compatibility. I played with one friend only to discover we had none. The House Party options turn the controller into an interactive baton for games such as Word Bomb (basically Mallett's Mallet with more explosions) and Hide &amp; Hunt, which is just hide and seek with Wii remotes. If you have a short friend, I suggest high shelves as a hiding place.Despite my complaints, when I played Wii Party with friends we went from mocking its simplicity to laughing at each other and shouting abuse at the screen within minutes. It's a game to lose to your eight-year-old nephew at Christmas, or to give to that special person in your life who likes to invite people round for multiplayer gaming, cocktails, and silliness. It lacks the surreal genius of Gamecube's WarioWare, but it has more than enough charm to divert you from Trivial Pursuit until it's time for Doctor Who.Reviewed on a Nintendo Wii
BlackBerry users today appeared to have been granted by a reprieve by the United Arab Emirates which had threatened to cut off services to the handsets from Monday.A statement carried by the state news agency WAM, reported by AP, said that all services would continue to operate after Monday,despite the threat of the ban which was announced in the summer.The local Telecommunications Regulatory Authority said: "All BlackBerry services in the UAE will continue to operate as normal and no suspension of service will occur."There are roughly half a million handset users in the emirate which has been in negotiations with Research In Motion (RIM) for three years about trying to bring its services into compliance with local rules. Encryption technology used by BlackBerry devices makes it difficult to monitor them, and BlackBerry also exports its date offshore, making monitoring even more tricky.The TRA said the decision had been taken as a result of "the positive engagement and collaboration of RIM in reaching this regulatory compliant outcome".It was not immediately clear what concessions had been made by RIM.As the ban was announced, Mohammed al-Ghanim, director general of the TRA, had said: "We are not asking for RIM to do anything that is not apparently being done in developed nations or so-called open countries around the world."As BlackBerry mobile phones access the internet and email through RIM's own network of secure Network Operations Centres around the world using specialist encryption, it is regarded as more secure than other services. But some governments have been concerned that they are not able to access the data for the purposes of national security.
A few years ago, a major Hollywood movie about a geeky twenty-something who creates a successful website would have been unthinkable. But then along came Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook and 500 million users, and now coders are cool – at leastbillionairecoders. The Social Network, a movie about the early years of this gigantic internet phenomenon, grossed $23m in its first week on US screens – an excellent figure for an adult drama with barely any explosions, CG effects or super heroes.So, now that cinema-goers are interested in the machinations and fall-outs of major consumer tech organisations, which real-life video game stories would make intriguing material? Would you like to see a movie about the early days of Blizzard, BioWare or Bungie? How about a gritty biography of Peter Molyneux, Jeff Minter or Clifford Bleszinski? And who would play the key roles?To get you started, here are five of my own possible pitches...The collapse of Imagine SoftwareThe creator of successful 8bit titles like Alchemist and Pedro was a major force in the early UK software industry. But in 1984, the company's hubris and self-indulgence led to mounting debts and finally a spectacularly messy demise, in which co-owner Bruce Everiss fell into a bitter war of words with fellow directors lan Hetherington and Dave Lawson. Some of the carnage, including the staff being locked out of the office by bailiffs, was captured by a BBC film crew makinga documentary named Commercial Breaksabout the games market. It was one of the first high profile video game industry disaster stories.The Rise of IdIntriguingly chronicled in David Kushner's book Masters of Doom, the world is truly ready for the Id movie. We'd meet young nerds John Carmac and John Romero as they coded the likes of Commander Keen and Wolfenstein in a garage, then indulge in their fracturing relationship as they transform into gaming gods, commanding the multi-million dollar Id empire. I'd have Jon Heder as Carmack and for some reason I'm thinking Seann William Scott in a wig for Romero.The Peter Moore StoryThe EA Sports president started out as a travelling trainer salesman before joining the games business and eventually taken the helm at Sega of America. Here, he cancelled Dreamcast, swore at Sonic creator Yuji Naka and stormed out of the company, eventually joining Microsoft to help launch Xbox. Easily, one of the most colourful upper echelon managers in the industry. If you used a bit of creative license and put George Clooney in the title role, you'd have a blockbuster on your hands.The Tetris EnigmaThe mind-twirling tale of the world's most complex licensing land grab. Russian academic Alexey Pajitnov invents the game, a software company named Andromeda tries to license it, prematurely sells the rights to Spectrum HoloByte, then Atari and Nintendo get involved scrapping over the home console spoils. It all sounds too complex for a Hollywood flick, right? Wrong – stick Tom Hanks in the Pajitnov role and you have the heart-warming story of an everyman genius abused by the system and eventually prevailing. It's got Oscar written all over it.FarmVille: The Motion PictureHow on earth did a game that effectively asks you to click on things for hours on end then share vegetables with your friends, get to be one of the world's most popular time-wasters? Zynga founder Mark Pincus provides the closest gaming equivalent to Zuckerberg (heck, he even founded his own social network, the rather less spectacular Tribe.net), and the FaceBook connection makes it a neat side-story to David Fincher's movie. If you could somehow promise fans of the game an exclusive new golden cabbage if they went along to see the film, you'd have 'em queuing round the block.Okay, now it'syourturn...
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Russia in winter. Like this for Google TV? Photo byakk_ruson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEU Agency analysis of 'Stuxnet' malware &gt;&gt; ENISA"The fact that perpetrators activated such an attack tool, can be considered as the "first strike", i.e. one of the first organized, well prepared attack against major industrial resources. This has tremendous effect on how to protect national Critical Information Infrastructure Protection in the future."Entelligence: A tale of two TVs &gt;&gt; EngadgetMichael Gartenberg on AppleTV v GoogleTV: "Google wants input one on your TV. Apple wants input two. The difference? Input one is where your cable box goes. Input two was where your VCR or DVD player used to live. It's a port that's up for grabs."There's nothing wrong with Google's approach, except it's hard. Really hard. It's like trying to take the Russian front hard. In winter. No one's succeeded in the past nor are they likely to in the future -- and certainly not with any weapon that requires an IR blaster. The cable companies have a very firm lock on the cable box. They don't want to open it. They don't want to share it. They want to keep it to themselves. The last thing they're going to do is allow themselves to be commoditized by Google or anyone else. While I think Google TV will have some appeal with enthusiasts, it's too ambitious too soon and it's going to need some iterations quickly."State of the Art - TV's Future Is (Almost) Here &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue on the AppleTV: "All the usual stupid restrictions apply. You have to finish watching within 24 hours of starting. You have to start within 30 days. Not all movies are available, and once they have appeared, they may disappear again for six to nine months during the "HBO window," as the industry calls it."All of this makes you wonder if anyone involved with Apple TV has children. Children watch movies over and over — what are you going to do, rent the same one twice a week? (You can still buy movies from Apple, but there's a catch — read on.)And second, early bedtime often means that you need to finish a movie tomorrow night, which the 24-hour window makes impossible. Would it really dent the studios' bottom line if they gave you two days to watch a movie?"But he thinks $1 per TV show is "a brilliant idea". Be glad you have the BBC.Apple Making Verizon-Ready iPhone by Year End &gt;&gt; WSJ.comNotable that this story - that Apple's iPhone will from next year be sold on two of the US's major mobile networks, not just one - has undergone a revision, from "Apple making CDMA iPhone that Verizon could sell" to "a version of its iPhone that Verizon will sell". At the least, that will accelerate iPhone sales - but as Apple will have plenty of new competition (from Windows Phone 7 phones, among others), it will need it.An Interview with Crayon Physicist Petri Purho &gt;&gt; The A.V. Club"Purho's latest game is 4 Minutes And 33 Seconds Of Uniqueness, created for this year's Nordic Game Jam. When the game launches, it pings the Internet to see if anyone else is playing. Then a progress bar starts to run. If anybody else starts playing the game, your copy automatically quits. In order to "win," you have to be the only person playing the game for four minutes, 33 seconds." Brilliant.Apple Fan John Gruber: Windows Phone 7 "Really Nice" And Better Than Android &gt;&gt; Business InsiderYet to hear someone who has had a hands-on and not liked it. Interesting.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The now 20-strong team at Songkick has been putting all its efforts into setting up partnerships schemes of late, and the most recent, with  Yahoo, puts the startup's live music listings at the hands of Yahoo's search audience.Songkick's listings on Yahoo's new search resultsAnnounced alongsideYahoo's revamped 'accordion' search service- and for users in the US only, for now - Songkick's gig listing and ticket buying tools now appear in a promoted box at the top of search results when users search for music artists. The new search page also shows an events tab that shows local events based on the user's location.Yahoo has also worked withMovieTickets,Twitterand others for functionality on other search results, such as film listings and cinema tickets on searches for films. "It's a different approach to task-driven search," Songkick's chief executive Ian Hogarth. "So if somebody wants to find out when Lady Gaga is touring rather than browsing through the organic search results [Yahoo] is geo-locating the results that are closest to them. It's really focusing on task completion."Hogarth said songkick.com is growing fast, now up to 2m unique monthly users and with 20% growth. "We have an API to all our data which is now the most comprehensive database on concerts and we're integrating that wherever music fans are looking for tour information," said Hogarth. So far, that has includedYouTube, Vevo,HypeMachine, theBBC,Mobile RoadieandZane Lowe's own website. More partnerships are on the way, and Songkick has also made sure it is very visible at events likeMusic Hack Day, getting developer feedback on its API.Songkick, whichlaunched in March 2008, has had one round of funding to date, a Series A round from Index, and Hogarth says the team is not looking for more funding for now. Revenue comes through affiliate ticket sales, though when additional revenues streams are introduced next year Hogarth said the site should start breaking even. "We're just concentrating on growing really fast and making sure we do everything we can to making sure Songkick is established as the definitive home of concerts online."
Google's UK PR chief Peter Barron is moving to a new role focusing on the firm's external relations, media industry partnerships and work with privacy groups. From January, Barron becomes director of external relations for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.Barron will be replaced as head of communications and public affairs for north and central Europe regions by former Times technology correspondent Mike Harvey, who has started work at Google's headquarters in Mountain View, California, this week.Claudine Beaumont, the former Daily Telegraph technology editor, is also understood to be joining Google – though the company declined to comment.Barron, the former Newsnight editor,left the BBC to join Google in September 2008.He wasreportedly shortlisted for the BBC Radio 4 controller jobearlier this year after Mark Damazer announced he was to step down, althoughthe job was eventually awarded to Gwyneth Williams.•To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.•If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Virus-infected computers should be blocked from the internet and kept in quarantine until they are given a "health certificate", a top Microsoft security researcher suggested on Thursday.Under the proposed security regime, put forward by the technology giant's trustworthy computing team, an individual's internet connection would be "throttled" to prevent the virus spreading to other computers. But security experts today warned that cutting people off from the internet could be a drastic step too far – and that the question of who would issue and verify the "health certificate" was troubling.Millions of computers around the world running versions of Microsoft's Windows operating system are infected by viruses without their user's knowledge and used to generate billions of spam emails and attacks against websites, such as that used against a British law company earlier this month.The infected computers are often marshalled by virus writers into "botnets" which are hired out for criminal use. Microsoft, internet service providers, banks and web companies have fought long but so far unsuccessful battles against botnets. Earlier this year Microsofttook its fight to the US courtsafter a group of infected computers sent more than 650m spam emails to its Hotmail accounts. The spread of computer viruses has, however, continued unabated.The new proposal, Microsoft claimed, is built on the lessons of public health. Scott Charney, corporate vice president of Microsoft's trustworthy computing team,wrote on the company's blog: "Just as when an individual who is not vaccinated puts others' health at risk, computers that are not protected or have been compromised with a bot put others at risk and pose a greater threat to society."But Ram Herkanaidu, a global researcher at computer security firm Kaspersky Lab, told the Guardian that cutting people off from the internet was a wrongheaded solution. He said: "This would be a bad idea in practice. Just say your machine was infected – if you could not access the internet, how would you be able to update your anti-virus and also apply any software patches required? Technically, though, an ISP could give limited access to a safe area so that they could get the relevant updates but this would be done by individual ISPs themselves."Charney countered that "In the physical world, international, national, and local health organisations identify, track and control the spread of disease which can include, where necessary, quarantining people to avoid the infection of others. Simply put, we need to improve and maintain the health of consumer devices connected to the internet in order to avoid greater societal risk."Many of the infected computers are in the far east in countries such as South Korea and China, where pirated versions of Windows are common, though the US still accounts for a substantial number of machines in botnets.US and European ISPs have periodically considered blocking virus-infected machines from internet access and diverting users to cleanup pages. But they have shied away from it on the basis that it would be costly, while bringing them little direct benefit, as most infected machines would be on other networks.Presentinghis suggestionto the International Security Solutions Europe conference in Berlin, Germany, Charney said computers should be required to have a clean "health certificate" before being allowed to connect to the internet. If a fix is available, the computer would be prompted to download a solution or to update its anti-virus settings."If the problem is more serious – say, the machine is spewing out malicious packets [of data], or if the user refuses to produce a health certificate in the first instance, other remedies such as throttling the bandwidth of the potentially infected device, might be appropriate," Charney said, adding that the spread of computer viruses had continued unrelenting despite the best efforts of software companies.He conceded that abolishing an individual's internet connection "could well have damaging consequences", proposing that machines have an emergency function whereby users could perform certain activities – much like mobile phones and the emergency services safeguard.Herkanaidu said that there were flaws in the approach. "Stopping an infected machine from accessing the internet so that it cannot be used in for malicious purposes like sending out spam on the face of it seems sensible," he said. "However, it does raise a lot of important questions like: who would issue the proposed health certificates? What would be the criteria? How often should it be updated? But, more importantly, would it work? At Kaspersky we see over 30,000 new pieces of malware everyday – it's difficult to see how we could have a general scheme that would be able to cope with this."Alan Bentley, a senior vice president at business computer security firm Lumension, welcomed the idea in principle, but had reservations on how it would work in practice for corporations using Microsoft machines and software. "Suggesting that infected PCs should be quarantined until a clean-up job is complete is an interesting proposal," Bentley told the Guardian. "However, the health check seems to be simply repeating a process which most people try to adhere to now."Most consumers and businesses run anti-virus [software]. But a lot of them don't even know their computers are infected. So the important question to ask here is: who would be responsible for turning off their internet and how would that be legal? This is a great philosophical idea, but totally impractical when using anti-virus software."
In a better world, Homefront would be a Dad's Army themed shooter, putting you in control of Captain Mainwaring and Jonesy as they take on Nazi marauders armed only with a British stiff upper lip and a sidecar-mounted railgun.Sadly, developer Kaos overlooked such rich source material to instead offer a generic, yet potentially promising FPS set in a near-future world where the US has been invaded by a North Korea-led Asian alliance.It's a bold, and some would say foolish move to enter a market already saturated by triple-A heavyweights, but building on the relative success of their previous title, Frontlines, Homefront looks to offer something a bit different from the Halos and CODs of this world by focusing more on multiplayer action of a larger scale – something I got to try out during a look at some early code of the game last month.In terms of the basic gameplay, it's pretty unremarkable stuff. Squint slightly and you could be playing any old Xbox 360 army shooter. But it's some of the new ideas Kaos have brought to the table which could make Homefront a contender.Battle Points, the games reward system, offers a refreshing alternative to killstreaks or levelling-up based kit unlocks. Do something good in the game (like capture a checkpoint, or blow someone up) and the game will reward you with points. These can then be saved, or spent immediately on a number of perks – most of which involve respawning as vehicles.This quickly encourages a spend/save philosophy – is it worth buying a tank for the next two minutes if I could wait a bit longer and get a helicopter? - that offers a new tactical spin on even your most worn-out multiplayer formulas. It also means new gamers, with a bit of patience, can get their hands on some pretty tasty gear – music to the ears for those of us who can count on one hands the times they've managed to summon an AC130.The vehicles themselves, though not new to the FPS world by any means, are pretty fun – though I found the controls very poor for some. The drones were the stars of the show, allowing you to zip around the playing field firing rockets, although I fear the novelty of this would soon wear off.With up to 32 players able to scrap it out at the same time, you can create some pretty intense skirmishes with helicopters, tanks, jeeps and drones all colliding at once - and with no noticeable lag in the code we were playing.The setting, though hardly groundbreaking, at least has a reassuring sense of legitimacy about it. Hollywood screenwriterJohn Miliuswas drafted in to create a scenario a cut above your standard action game plot – and you could feel the added polish simply from the intro sequence.Unfortunately for John (and Kaos) the hypothetical events leading up to Homefront's third world war – based on Kim Jong-il's succession -may already have taken placeby the game's release .Obviously the considered approach to storylining will impact more on the single-player campaign, but its important too that the multiplayer arena at least makes sense. The armoury at your disposal is all based either on existing weapons and vehicles or ones currently in development – 2027 isn't that far away after all.Still there's little here that hasn't been seen already in MAG or Battlefield 1943. Homefront's single-player campaign set some tongues wagging at E3, but at the moment my simple advice to the more established FPS franchises out there would be: "Don't panic!"Homefront will be released early 2011 for Xbox 360, PC and PS3
BT will be required to allow competing broadband providers fuller access to its infrastructure, in a move aiming to speed up the rollout of superfast broadband services across the UK.As a result of Ofcom's new regulatory regime, published today, competing internet service providers such as TalkTalk and BSkyB will now be able to use BT infrastructure – including underground ducts and telegraph poles as well as its fibre-optic network – to channel high-speed broadband to customers.BT and cable company Virgin Media are the only providers with the infrastructure to offer superfast broadband – defined as 25 megabits per second (Mbps) or more – at present. However, TalkTalktoday saidit would be the first wholesale customer to use BT's network and Ofcom hopes others will follow suit.The announcement was welcomed by BT, which added that it had been providing rivals with access to its fibre-optic network for months.The Ofcom chief executive, Ed Richards, said the development is a "very very important milestone" in the UK's rollout of high-speed broadband, with the proportion of the country where it is available lagging just behind Portugal but comparing favourably with Germany.BTplans to reach two thirds of the UK withhigh-speed broadband based on fibre-optic cable by 2015; it will be available to 4m homes and businesses by the end of 2010. BT has said it will carry out a nationwide survey to establish the demand for high-speed broadband throughout the country.Stuart McIntosh, a partner in Ofcom's competition group, said that although duct and pole access was something the broadband industry had been talking about for years, today's announcement represents a "milestone" in high-speed provision for "the final third" of the UK where fibre-optic cable has yet to reach. On average, broadband speeds in urban areas are 5.8Mbps, compared to 2.7Mbps in rural regions."In a few years' time when we look back at this period, we will see this as the point at which the UK began to migrate from current-generation broadband to much higher-speed broadband," McIntosh added. "A few years ago the UK was very much a laggard in the provision and takeup of broadband and over past five or six years this has gone up by a factor and prices have halved. What was rare and a bit of a luxury in the early part of the last decade has, for many people, become essential and more affordable."Ofcom said: "The decisions are consistent with the government's potential role in encouraging superfast broadband rollout. For example, duct and pole access could extend the reach of services to more remote areas, potentially in combination with public funding at a UK or EU level."Richards added that public-private partnerships were coming into fruition in localities such as Cornwall. "Companies themselves are really beginning to move on this. We're certainly not OK with an outcome that involves consumers getting less choice and higher prices. This is something we've got a very careful eye on and the kind of problem that is potentially a real problem," he added."But, equally, we don't want to get in a position where we say that there should be no initiatives, no public-private partnerships, because we know that those kinds of collaborations will help deployment. We will try and balance the benefits of those kinds of initiatives alongside seeking to work with those organisations to make sure they support a competitive model."In contrast to the standard copper cables used to provide current-generation broadband, fibre-optic networks carry signals using light and are not affected by distance. BT, the UK's largest broadband provider, has committed to investing £2.5bn in developing next-generation broadband networks over the next five years. It will be able to set its own prices for access by competing services, Ofcom said, though they will be subject to anti-competition rules.BT said: "This statement is reassuring in that Ofcom agrees that we have been providing suitable unbundled access to our fibre for some months now, that our product provides others with substantial control and that it will be the most likely way that  fibre will be delivered in the future. That recognition, combined with us having pricing freedom for that product, provides much of the regulatory clarity and certainty that we have been seeking."While Ofcom have been conducting this consultation, BT has been hard at work with our fibre roll out. More than two million premises now have access to fibre broadband and we are on track to pass four million premises by the end of this year. This is one of the fastest and most ambitious deployment plans in the world and so we are pleased that Ofcom is providing us with this level of regulatory clarity and certainty."However, Ofcom's new regulations gave no reference to "wayleave", whereby BT is granted special permission by rural groups such as the National Farmers' Union and Countryside Landowners' Association to string cable on poles or in ducts, as part of its universal service obligation. As providers other than BT would have to establish deals from scratch, more likely at a prohibitively more expensive rate, it would likely prove a disincentive for new players to lay their own fibre.Similarly, BT benefits fromdiscounted tax rateson the rollout of fibre-optic cable from the Valuation Office Agency (VOA), giving the telecoms company a financial advantage over rivals to lay new cable.BT is currently charged about £15 a kilometre for its fibre, compared to more than £2,000 a km for non-BT companies laying cable outside of London. A number of court cases are currently in progress challenging this approach, and Ofcom said it would not comment on the VOA's valuation scale.TalkTalk said Ofcom's plans are "broadly in line with the consultation conducted in March", adding that there are "a few notable improvements that will help ensure that UK consumers will continue to enjoy a choice of innovative and competitive ISPs"."The wholesale product that BT and Openreach must offer must be designed to allow ISPs such as TalkTalk more flexibility to develop their own products. In particular, the product should be uncontended, unmanaged and not artificially capped, provided on a wires-only basis and must be unbundled so that ISPs can provide the installation themselves rather than having to use an Openreach engineer," TalkTalk said."We are also pleased that Ofcom have introduced a framework to prevent anti-competitive pricing by BT, particularly the so called margin squeeze where they squeeze the price between the wholesale and retail products. While we welcome Ofcom's decisions we still think that there is room to improve this further."
When misty-eyed fans of Sega's defunct Dreamcast console sit about and languidly recall the machine's finest games, one title will always come up – Shenmue, the story of Ryo Hazuki and his quest to avenge the murder of his father by Chinese gangsters. Yu Suzuki's groundbreaking (and hugely expensive) open-world adventure re-invented the whole notion of the role-playing game, making design decisions just as radical as those that defined this year's controversial hit, Heavy Rain. A sequel followed, but the planned trilogy was thwarted when the Dreamcast died. Game over...But now Sega Japan has announced a new title, Shenmue Town, and it's out this year. The only thing is, it's a mobile game. Oh and it's currently only planned for Japan where it is set to run on Yahoo'sMobageTownmobile social network.According to Kotaku, the game is being referred to by Sega as the 'third' Shenmue game, but players shouldn't expect a continuation of the main Shenmue storyline, which ended on a major cliffhanger.But it's not all heartbreakingly disappointing news. Japanese publishers have often used mobile releases to test the water for full console re-launches: Capcom kept Street Fighter and Mega Man going on handsets for years before re-igniting the brands on Xbox Live Arcade and PSN, as did Konami with Castlevania. And of course, Sega has begun to port Dreamcast titles over to XBLA and PSN, starting with Crazy Taxi and Sonic Adventure. Shenmue would be a much more ambitious endeavour – the original game came on three discs, due partly to the huge amount of cut-scene content (which was later compiled into amovie release). But there's always the possibility of an episodic release, right Sega? Sega?
Facebook hasintroduced a new feature, calledFacebook Groups.If you're sensible, you will have reserved Facebook for 'true' friends and family and added your work contacts to LinkedIn, which is a far better way (without the incriminating Glastonbury photos) to maintain some kind of professional online relationship with your colleagues. Unfortunately, most of us started using Facebook in a far more ad-hoc way that didn't really allow for that kind of organisation. The new Facebook Groups should help, a little, with that.I tried in vain to use Facebook Lists to manage different groups of contacts - work, friends, family and so on - but functionality was limited and once you'd grouped people, those groups didn't seem connected to enough of the site's other features to be really useful.Tenby Bowling Club - a perfect candidate for Facebook Groups. Photo bylhourahaneon Flickr.Some rights reserved.Facebook Groups is an more effective way of managing different groups of contacts. It means you could put all your family members in one group to invite them to a birthday, for example, or send a message about an anniversary. Facebook Lists should have allowed you to select different lists to invite to an event you'd created, for example, but never did. Facebook Groups creates that link between your contacts and your events. It's also a better way of managing colleagues if you are connected on Facebook; where we used to create a network (again, with limited functionality beyond how it affects your privacy setting) a group works much better.In short: a very good addition, if a little overdue.Privacy for Facebook Groups can be turned up to 11 and is set to private by default, so more like sending a Facebook email to to your contacts. Though they can be made public, it makes more sense for 'open' projects - particularly brands and organisations - to use Facebook pages which has more suitable features.Sceptics will note that creating groups of interest and defining your relationships with your contacts even more closely gives Facebook yet more information with which to target their advertising (a group that meets for tennis every weekend? Send them a Wilson ad!) but as ever, the exchange is a free service in exchange for putting up with ads. I'm of the mind that targeted advertising, rather than untargeted junk, is a good thing.Note that there's also a group chat function, but that Facebook has also snuck in averyinteresting document sharing feature. While modest at the moment, that signals a seed for a larger document sharing tool that could rival Google Docs. And that really does mean war.
On the set of Star Wars, a long, long time ago, an exasperated Harrison Ford is alleged to have yelled, "you can type this shit, George, but you sure as hell can't say it". He was referring to the tortured sci-fi exactness of lines like, "It'll take a few moments to get the coordinates from the navi-computer," but it's the whole arcane language and terminology of the Star Wars universe that must befuddle some actors. Through all his years of repertory theatre, through the Ealing comedies and that magisterial work with David Lean, Alec Guiness would never have had to say anything like, "And these blast points, too accurate for Sandpeople. Only Imperial stormtroopers are so precise."So what does it take to act in a Star Wars production – especially a video game? Last week, Gamesblog was lucky enough to visit LucasArts in San Francisco and got some time with actor Sam Witwer, the voice, faceandbody of Force Unleashed hero, Starkiller. In an engaging and interesting chat with David Collins (sound supervisor, voice director and voice of Proxy) and Darragh O'Farrell (director of audio), he talks about some of the challenges and rewards of game acting – and the way in which Hollywood is now looking toward games for its talent and ideas...So did you use full performance capture in Force Unleashed 2?Darragh:No, for TFU 2, we were in a voice-over studio in LA, but we had HD cams on all the performers. Sam had at least two, sometimes three. It was a cast recording so all the actors – Sam, Nathalie Cox (Juno), Cully Fredricksen (Kota) – everyone was there, playing off each other. Generally, line counts and logistics don't allow for that, but with this game we felt it was important. And unlike in TFU1, we allowed the performers to step on each other's lines. In reality, when we talk, we tend to overlap each other – in a game it gives a much more natural and realistic performance.And so, Sam, this felt more like a TV or film job?Sam:We had conversations about the difference between shooting a TV show and shooting for a video game. The first game was tiring but this one was absolutely exhausting, and I said to David, was I just a tougher guy back then?David:Well, no. In the first one, we had a camera set up and all the other actors were behind it feeding lines, we recorded one actor at a time. But here, you'd just be yelling for four hours straight. In a TV show, you give it your all then you take a break and go back to your trailer, because they've got to do another set up. And an hour later, you're ready to do the next scene. But with a video game you just don't have that – it's four continuous hours of screaming.Sam:Not to mention that the character is going through a hell of a lot more in this game. There's an emotional distress to being in that place for hours at a time.David:In the first game you're a Jedi hunter, now you're a fugitive.Sam:And even though Starkiller was off balance with Vader and with Juno in TFU1, when he was on the mission, he was ON that mission. This time, there's no mission.David:You and Cully Fredricksen had it the worst. Those two had to do a lot of intense screaming. There was a scene that we shot that took about 24 takes – we called it The Widowmaker. Darragh's script was just filled with pencil markings!Darragh:That stuff is exhausting. You may get the performance, but then the engineers will say, 'we were overblown on that one line'. It's like, 'Arrrgh! Okay, roll – let's do another one.'Sam:Plus, I had several HD cameras on me for the voice-over sessions. And in those situations, the actors need to stay put. I didn't stay put.Darragh:No. Sam's a challenge.Sam:Well, you put a camera on me and I'm going to be moving around!David:But there's no boom following you!Darragh:Sam's such a dynamic actor though. It's challenging to record, but the end results are always better with an actor like him, who's always giving it 110 percent.David:I don't think we've ever had an actor who gives that much energy and passion in front of the microphone. I remember during shooting, there's a scene where Starkiller's all worked up, going through all these crazy emotions and Sam just went for it, I mean his face was red, just screaming out these lines in anger and frustration. It was chilling to watch. It was terrifying. But that's what Force Unleashed 2 needed. And as a Star Wars fan Sam knew that.Sam:I have to thank you actually, David, because at one point in the first game, Haden [Blackman, the co-creator of Force Unleashed] felt that some of the screams that Starkiller yelled should be taken out, but I think it was you who said, 'but they're really cool Harrison Ford screams!' So he changed his mind…David:There's an art to screaming and you modulate it really well.Sam:Thank you. But Harrison Ford does it better than anyone.Are actors able to shape the performance and the content more in video games nowadays?Darragh:Definitely. In both TFU 1 and 2, we did table reads and all the actors were there before shooting. It gave the writers the chance to go in, take notes and ponder the scene. Sometimes something will happen naturally and organically between actors that's not on the page, and we'd say, 'oh, that's just better, let's write that in.' And when you're in shooting, it's exactly the same thing. When you've got so many creative people in a room together, you just go with the flow.Sam:I think we've been more confident with this in Force Unleashed 2. At times in the cut scenes, we have these long performance beats where the camera might hang on a character for six seconds of screen time while they're thinking. We would never have had the courage to do that on the first game because, if it doesn't work, you have six seconds ofnothing, just a character model looking slack-jawed. So this time we took more risks with acting beats, and it's been fun to see that develop.David:Even with plot points, there was a time when we were in the table read and things started to emerge in Starkiller and Kota's conversation, specifically about Kamino and how to tie a couple of scenes together, and the scriptwriter was there, and it was re-written on the fly and became an integral part of the scene.Sam:And Haden was more confident, because he now had a Writer's Guild award under his belt. On the first game he was very tight about things, and that's very common for people who are new to writing and seeing someone perform their work. When writers first have that experience, they get very uncomfortable, because they've seen it some way in their head, and then when they watch someone performing it differently, they assume it's wrong. But no, it's an interpretation of what you wrote and in fact, it might be exactly right. If the story's coming across, it doesn't have to be exactly what you see in your head. Young writers are not used to that. But Haden surrendered to the creative process – the collaboration.Sam, because Starkiller is such a close physical likeness to you, you've become one of the first video game actors to be recognised in the street. Do you think this will become more common in this industry?Sam:Yeah, if Force Unleashed had just been a voice-over gig, I wouldn't be recognised. But you look at Starkiller and he's me, he even walks like me – I showed the animators how I thought he should walk and they took that onboard. They've video referenced the hell out of me, they've mo-capped the hell out of me, they have all this information, so this character has emerged, and it's about as much me as anything I've ever done.For LucasArts, this game has always been about character, and I've been dragged along on that process. And I have had people approach me on the street and go, 'Starkiller!' Right now, I'm shooting Being Human in Montreal, and when I was first cast, I saw several write-ups that referred to me as, Sam Whitworth, brackets, Force Unleashed. I've been in Dexter, Battlestar, Smallville, but Force Unleashed was always on that list of stuff that I've done – I could never have guessed that would happen, that it's actually helped my career.In fact, when I sat down for a meeting with the Smallville producers, they wanted to know all about Force Unleashed. It's because video games are evolving, they are growing up with the generation that invented them. And Hollywood is taking notice of that, it's important. LucasArts decided to do this crazy thing where they'd get actors who not only have the right voice but the right look, and they wanted to use everything about that actor. And as a Star Wars fan, that's been great.David:And people recognise you just as much for Force Unleashed as for your TV roles?Sam:Just as much.David:That's crazy to hear as a developer. I mean, it all came about when we moved in to the office with Industrial Light and Magic – they have this wonderful technology for likeness capture and motion capture. When Darragh was tasked with casting Force Unleashed, Sam's name came up and we had this concept art created by a really talented artist here named Amy Beth Christenson, and Starkiller just looked a lot like Sam.Sam:I have that art on the wall in my apartment!David:You were on Dexter and Battlestar at the time, and so we said, 'let's get him in'. And when you submitted a demo – everyone was just blown away.Darragh:We watched this crazy scene you were in on CSI and you were just this tortured guy, and we thought, 'oh my god, that's it'.Sam:These two really put me through my paces. In a normal audition you act for maybe ten minutes and if you're they're for longer, you're just talking. But this was acting for 45 minutes. I made the mistake of saying, 'hey, so he's a Sith apprentice – as a Star Wars fans I could think of 50 ways this might go…' and they said, 'okay, show us all of them'.David:It was a discovery process for us as well. As a game company, seeing what Sam would bring to the script was almost an epiphany.Darragh:I've been at Lucas for 15 years, I started with games like Grim Fandango, X-Wing Alliance, Jedi knight… what's interesting is, during those early years, it was all primarily what we'd class as voice-over talent, people who could manipulate their voice, do lots of characters. But when we came to this game, it changed our approach. With the likeness capture, we thought, rather than going for voice-over actors, we had to look for on-camera actors – that's what we did across the board. It's been hugely beneficial for us. As gaming is evolving, you're going to see games create their own stars. We're not necessarily looking for the next George Clooney, but…Are there still some prejudices against acting in video games?Sam:For me, it's been nothing but beneficial – I mean, not only is it a lead character, it's aStar Warscharacter – that brings with it a lot of goodwill and enthusiasm.Darragh:Initially, back in the day, there was a lot of resistance from big name actors because they couldn't control the final quality. But Sam has been hugely involved throughout the whole process. He'd be picking up the phone to Haden and saying, 'hey, can we tweak this, can we change that?'Sam:I got into a whole email chain with Haden and Darragh about a continuity issue! I have a habit of sticking my nose in where perhaps it doesn't belong. Any job I have, I'm constantly getting involved in stuff I shouldn't be! But somewhere along the line it'll usually benefit me. And here, I'm just wandering the halls – I'll say 'hey, I saw this animation, I think it should go like this!' It's ridiculous.Is Force Unleashedallabout pain and torment?Sam:No there are some funny lines in there, some good Star Wars-type back and forth dialogue. At some point the line, 'I think we're running out of bottomless pit' comes out of someone's mouth…Darragh:It was the benefit of having performers who knew each other – moments just come out in the studio. And then I'm on the other side of the glass, and I'd say to Haden, 'okay let's keep that, it's funny'.David:But there are times when it doesn't work. We'll say we've got this hilarious sequence, and Darragh's like, 'no, it's not funny'. I'd say, okay, let's try it again!Darragh:It's like herding cats…Sam:But Star Wars itself is so over-the-top. When ever we were doing a performance, we followed the George Lucas rule – when he was filming the original Star Wars, the acting direction he gave was, 'faster, more intense'. The actors would complain about that, but when you watch the movie, it's the perfect direction. It's all 1940s clipped dialogue. And Darragh actually gave that direction on the first game. We'd do a scene and it didn't feel particularly Star Wars, so Darragh would say 'faster, more intense!' and it worked. Bigger performances work better in Star Wars.And Force Unleashed 2 is even more OTT. I'm very happy that Starkiller, gets to say, 'I have a bad feeling about this.' In the movies it's always said a while before anything bad actually happens. In our version, Starkiller says it during the worst possible moment in the game – he just states the obvious, and it works really well.Are you pushing to do any live action work for LucasFilm? There have been rumours of a TV series...Am I in a live action show? No! [Long pause] Not yet… LucasFilm has been extraordinarily generous to me, they like to have me involved, but I don't know what their plans are. I'm constantly introducing myself to people here and having conversations with people I shouldn't have, but it tends to work out.Darragh:Well, he's a good-looking kid!Sam:Who says some stupid things sometimes!Star Wars: the Force Unleashed II is out on October 29 on DS, PS3, Wii and Xbox 360
Facebook has launched "groups" – its attempt to mirror the way that people interact in the real world, where we interact with small groups of people such as family, work colleagues and wider friends, rather than everyone at once.Members of groups will be able to swap updates rather than broadcasting them to all of their "friends" on the 500m-strong social network.Announcing Facebook Groups, chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said that groups are "a fundamental building block" and solving how best to implement them is "the biggest problem in social networking". He said that after considering the best way to do it, Facebook had decided that the best implementation would be social – letting users create their own groups, which would be "as simple as inviting your best friends over for dinner".Of the feature, he said: "We think this is going to be a pretty fundamental shift for how people use Facebook ... The amount of sharing will go up massively and will be completely additive."The feature will be familiar to anyone who has used Yahoo's "Groups" system, which lets people find interests and join up for web discussions.The new Facebook Groups feature lets users create groups which are managed by all their members, to hold group chats, edit a wiki, and send emails to the members of the group.By default, groups will be private – known only to those who are invited – but it will also be possible to create public and "secret" groups.Zuckerberg said that the purpose of groups was to make sure users would be informing people who are interested in a particular topic.Inablogpost on the introduction atFacebook, Zuckerberg said: "We've long heard that people would find Facebook more useful if it were easier to connect with smaller groups of their friends instead of always sharing with everyone they know. For some it's their immediate family and for others it's their fantasy football league, but the common concern is always some variant of, 'I'd share this thing, but I don't want to bother 250 people. Or my grandmother. Or my boss.'"Previously, he admits, "Facebook has made it easy to share with all of your friends or with everyone, but there hasn't been a simple way to create and maintain a space for sharing with the small communities of people in your life, like your roommates, classmates, co-workers and family.""We approached this problem as primarily a social one. Rather than asking all of you to classify how you know all of your friends, or programming machines to guess which sets of people are likely cohorts, we're offering something that's as simple as inviting your best friends over for dinner. And we think it will change the way you use Facebook and the web."The reaction from privacy advocates was mixed: some welcomed the fact that it would give users more control of their information, while others thought that it would yield more information to Facebook, which it could then sell to marketers. Facebook is insistent that it never reveals personal information about individuals to marketers, but only sells aggregated, anonymised information; marketers select the characteristics of people they want to reach with ads – such as 55-year-old beer drinkers living in a city – and Facebook then finds people who match that profile and serves the ads.Facebook is the world's largest social network, with more than 500m users around the world. Although it is a private company that has not released any financial details, it is believed to be profitable day to day, with revenues approaching $2bn annually.Facebook wants Groups to become useful so that everyone will take part in one. Zuckerberg compared the approach to photos, where a minority of Facebook users upload photos, but 95% of users have been tagged in at least one.With Groups, one person's interaction with the product affects everyone else's experience of it, and the design is personalised to become a space for that particular group of people, said the Facebook director of product, Chris Cox.Asked whether activity on Groups would take away from the interactions that happen today on users' profile pages, Zuckerberg contended that group participation would open up new communication and collaboration that didn't happen on Facebook before.An earlier tool called "Friend lists", launched in 2008, only ever reached 5% of users despite being promoted strongly within the site. Zuckerberg said that those have no "virality or social dynamics", but that Groups should.Zuckerberg said the company also experimented with algorithmic solutions to understand which friends and information users care about the most, but that those could go badly wrong if, for example, it decided that a tradesman who you had emailed daily over a work project must therefore be a close friend. The conclusion, he said, was that algorithms were OK for news feeds and lists of friends for chat, but not groups of friends.Facebook hasposted a video of how Groups works.
I have a slow-running Dell that's about five years old. It has been protected by Norton Symantec throughout its life and, after a recent full system scan, Norton declares it to be in good health with all threats under control. On the other hand, I am told that slow running is what happens when a PC is full of viruses, and I should consider reinstalling Windows. Which of these is right? And if my PC is clogged up, what is the point of Norton Symantec? It would be nice to be able to make an accurate diagnosis.J KingA PC running Microsoft Windows XP should continue to run at the speed it did when you bought it. They never (or very rarely) do in real life, for a number of reasons. The most obvious is that both the operating system and the applications change as security holes are patched and new features are added. Today's updated XP SP3 needs more resources than the original version, launched in 2001. To run Windows XP SP3, a browser and one main program nowadays you should have at least 1GB of memory and at least 1GB of free hard drive space.Also, new PCs "feel" fast because they usually are much faster than whatever you had before. As the months go by, the new speed feels normal and you start to notice delays when things are not as fast as you'd like. Unless you are the sort of person who actually benchmarks new PCs, then you won't really know how much it has slowed down, if at all. (Windows 7 and Vista have reliability and performance monitors that help.)It is certainly true that malware can make a PC run slowly, and you should double-check Norton's opinion by running an alternative as a one-off test. I'd suggestMalwarebytes' Anti-Malware: see my recent post onRemoving spyware from Windowsfor further help. But your PC may also have slowed down because it's running lots of background programs installed by apparently reputable companies such as Adobe, Apple, Google and many others, including Microsoft. Anti-virus software generally cannot protect you from software that you install deliberately.At this point, you can try to solve the problem either by debugging your current Windows PC or by reinstalling the Windows XP operating system. (You can alsonotsolve the problem by taking a different route, such as buying a new PC or installing Linux. These will replace your current problems with a different set of problems. However, I'm a stickler for answering the question you actually asked.)Both debugging your current PC and reinstalling Windows XP will take time and effort. Usually, debugging is quicker, while reinstallation produces better results. (The reinstallation is quick: downloading Windows updates, reinstalling all your applications and restoring your data can take a long time.) I'd suggest you follow this clean-up routine and see if it speeds up your PC, because at least you will have some tools to help you monitor and control your PC.1. Check that you have all the latest Windows updates then back up your whole PC, or at least any data that you have not already backed up. Create a Restore Point so you can go back to it.2. Go to Add/Remove programs and uninstall any software you no longer use. Ideally, uninstall all copies of Java and then install the latest version.3. Download and runCCleaner(free) to delete temporary files and clean up your PC, including the Windows Registry.4. Run Malwarebytes' Anti-Malware, as mentioned above. (You can also run it in Safe Mode.)5. Restart your PC andcheck your hard drive for errors. The quickest way is to click Start and typechkdsk /rin the Run box.6. Download and installAnVir Task Manager Free. This will enable you to go through your PC's startup programs and services and block any that you no longer want to load. It will also stop programs from inserting things into your startup routine without your permission. You may need to identify some startup programs usingPacs-PortalorBleeping Computer. See theServices Guide for Windows XPat The Elder Geek for other information. Hover your mouse over Task Manager Free's SysTray icons to see if you are short of memory or if something is using a lot of resources.7. Download and run Sysinternals'Process Explorer 12.04. This is like Windows Task Manager but much more powerful. Look through all the applications and processes that are running on your PC and see if any are consuming unusual amounts of the CPU and other resources. If one application is stealing 90-100% of the processor, everything else will run very slowly. Note that svchost is not in itself a problem: it simply hosts other services that are run from dll files (dynamic-link libraries).8. Based on your findings from 6 and 7, you may want to turn off some Windows services (set them to run on demand), and update or change some applications. Historically, Norton has been seen as a bit of a resource hog, but I'm told that Norton Internet Security 2010 has been much improved. You could consider replacing Norton with the free Microsoft Security Essentials to see if it makes a difference. Google's Chrome is a more lightweight and more secure browser than Firefox or IE. Apple's iTunes for Windows is bloated and slow, and lumbers you with QuickTime, Bonjour, and attempts to install the Safari browser. Check the websiteAlternativeTofor ideas and comments on various options. (It also covers Linux, Mac, iOS, Android and other operating systems.) If you can't find a better alternative, uninstall then reinstall the program that's creating a problem.9. Defragment your hard drive. Windows has a built-in defragger, butAuslogics Disk Defrag 3.1.8is an excellent alternative.10. (Optional) Old PCs can accumulate vast amounts of dust, carpet fibres and other detritus that can clog fans and so on. Turn off your PC and unplug it from the mains, take the lid off, then gently blow the dust out. Make sure that the fans spin freely, and that all the cables are pushed firmly home. Static electricity kills chips, so you should wear an ESD (electrostatic discharge) strap. If not, make sure you ground yourself to make sure you are not carrying a static charge. Either way, keep your fingers well away from the motherboard.Your aged Dell should now be running better. If not, you may have to resort to a memory upgrade, or reinstall Windows XP. For reference, I have a five-year-old Dell desktop bought at Easter 2005 (see my column fromApril 14). It still runs Windows XP SP3 perfectly well, though 1GB is very tight on memory. (A 4GB upgrade cost me about £40.) The idea that Windows needs to be reinstalled every two years or so is no longer true, if a PC is well looked after, though I used to do reinstalls with DOS-based versions from Windows 95 to ME.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Mortar batteries in front of Picquet house Light Division (LOC), c1905. Photo byThe Library of Congresson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe iPad's Killer App &gt;&gt; John NaughtonIt isn't an app.How Steve Ballmer told me what to do with my iPad &gt;&gt; Mark WilsonTalking to clients in London, Steve Ballmer hinted that Media Center might be in Windows-based tablets' future: "what you'll see over the course of the next year is us doing more and more work with our hardware partners creating hardware-software optimisations with Windows 7 and with Windows 7 Media Center [...] Media Center is big and, when people say 'hey, we could optimise more for clients' I think what they generally mean is 'Big Buttons'.  Big Buttons that's, I think, a codeword for Big Buttons and Media Center is Big Buttons not Little Buttons. I'm not trying to trivialise that – it's a real issue."Read the whole piece to find out what he said about Wilson's iPad - and why he was wrong.Is Facebook subject to breach notification laws for revealing phone numbers? &gt;&gt; Liminal statesAn interesting question: is it enough if you've said it's OK for Facebook to slurp up your mobile phone address book, which it then puts in various places on Facebook, to get around Germany privacy laws?Facebook Gives Users A Few More Controls &gt;&gt; paidContent"Notably, the company said it was releasing a new Groups product, which will let users set up a new private page, where they will be able to share information—like updates and photos—with select friends. Users will also be able to group chat and also use the list of fellow group members as an e-mail list."During his remarks, CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the new Groups product solves a "fundamental" problem with the social network where users don't want to post an update because it will be shared with everybody and not just with family members or a few friends."Can You Hear Me Now? The Truth about Cell Phones and Cancer &gt;&gt; Scientific AmericanBasically, if you understand Einstein's explanation of the photoelectric effect, you already know why mobile phones can't cause cancer.Infographic: Who's Suing Whom In The Telecoms Trade? &gt;&gt; Information Is BeautifulICO urges clarity on definition of personal data &gt;&gt; Pinsent Masons LLP"A definition at the heart of the UK's Data Protection Act (DPA) is unclear, creating legal confusion that undermines the whole law, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has said. The ICO enforces the DPA, advising businesses on how to stay in line with the privacy-protecting law and investigating complaints about organisations accused of breaking it. But the ICO has told a Government consultation that the definition of 'personal data' on which the whole law rests is inadequate."The .ly domain space to be considered unsafe &gt;&gt; Ben Metcalfe Blog"The domain was seized by the Libyan domain registry for reasons which seemed to be kept obscure until we escalated the issue. We eventually discovered that the domain has been seized because the content of our website, in their opinion, fell outside of Libyan Islamic/Sharia Law."Hmmmmm.'Claimed my free iPhone' scam swamps Facebook &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blog"Interestingly, this latest batch of messages are say they were posted 'via Email'. That's the facility Facebook supplies to post status updates to your Facebook page remotely, just bysending an email to a unique address(every Facebook account has a specific email address for this purpose). Is it possible that the facility has been compromised, and scammers have found a way to update folks' statuses just by sending an email message directly to their walls?"From January: 10 reasons the iPad could fail catastrophically &gt;&gt; GamesRadarAmong reasons including "it'll be too expensive" (this was pre-Dell Streak, pre-Galaxy Tab" was the wonderful "Although we haven't yet had an actual hands-on with the iPad, we mocked up our own ghetto cardboard facsimile – based on the device's exact dimensions – to get a feel for its shape (if not its heft). And while it might actually be more comfortable than the iPhone for playing games that superimpose onscreen controls, playing games that require full use of the touchscreen – particularly fast use – is going to be slow torture." Your cardboard mockup showed that? Still, it was cheap.Xmarks is Dead. Long Live Xmarks? &gt;&gt; Xmarks blog"But first, the punch line: we're revisiting the idea of Xmarks as a premium service. We've set up a Pledgebank page where you can sign up if you're willing to pay at least $10 a year for Xmarks. No credit card is required, but please only pledge if you are genuinely willing and able to pay:www.pledgebank.com/XmarksPremium"This is not a scientific experiment to predict what % of our base will pay, but it's a data point that will definitely help."Who's suing who in mobile: Guardian infographic reworked &gt;&gt; Design Language NewsReworking of Guardian Tech's diagram of who's suing who in mobile. Clarification: HTC wasn't sued by Microsoft, it licensed patents. That aside, lovely.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
In a Star Wars universe fraught with complex mentor/pupil relationships, it's fitting that Force Unleashed is such a tough master to follow. Though critics gave the 2008 Jedi action romp a decidedly mixed reception, it was the fastest selling Star Wars game in history, shifting seven million copies worldwide. So what, LucasArts must have asked itself, do you do for the sequel? Stick with a formula that earned massive commercial success, or listen to the reviewers and veteran Star Wars game players and rebuild? From the looks of Force Unleashed II, you do a bit of both.Set soon after its predecessor and just a few years before A New Hope, this is a more melancholy take on the story of Starkiller, the Sith apprentice who turned against Darth Vader and[spoiler, if you haven't played the first one]seemingly sacrificed his life to ignite the rebellion[spoiler ends]. The development team has taken in criticisms of the first title, listened to fans and, encouraged by a Writers Guild award for the Force Unleashed story, developed the darkness of the narrative considerably. As executive producer Julio Torres explains, "We want to figure out how to tell an incredible core story, where we bring in some icons you're all familiar with, as well as introduce new characters who have their own development and who matter. We want a story that's new and refreshing but still anchored in Star Wars lore."Force Unleashed 2 begins on the stormy planet of Kamino, where Vader has been using an accelerated cloning process to generate a new version of Starkiller, once his favourite Jedi-hunting machine. Meanwhile, rebellion leader General Rahm Kota has been captured by imperial forces and is being forced to fight for his life in a gladiatorial arena on the rich leisure planet of Cato Neimoidia. Vader's plan is for Starkiller to murder the general, simultaneously ridding the empire of a major rebel leader and destroying Starkiller's legendary status as the godfather of the galactic uprising.But things don't quite pan out for the Sith sociopath. The latest Starkiller clone (there has been a series of Alien 4-style genetic mess ups) is having flashbacks to his old life, to Kota and especially to Juno Eclipse, the pilot of the Rogue Shadow with whom the 'original' Starkiller was enjoying a burgeoning romance. Before Vader can destroy the empire's latest flawed creation, the clone escapes his cell in the penthouse suite of a looming tower, smashing through the window and plummeting to the streets below.Here, we're introduced to 'free fall' one of several new gameplay elements added to mix up the pacing a little. As the character falls, you can control his descent, either destroying obstacles with Force powers or dodging them. It's certainly a breathless and incendiary way to start a single-player campaign, but it's also rather confusing and disorientating. The mass of visual stimuli, from jutting masonry, to explosions and strobing weather effects, all conspire with a limited control system to make you feel less like a powerful Jedi and more like a confused and terrified passenger on a malfunctioning lift.On the ground however, things feel much more familiar. The aim in this opening sequence is to navigate Kamino's lengthy metallic walkways, taking out stormtroopers and getting to grips with all those fun Jedi abilities. LucasArts' task with this sequel was to tighten up the lightsaber combat, improve camera angles and add more precise targeting to the Force powers. All of these seem to have been successful, to various degrees.The melee animation is slick and convincing, with multiple presses of the X button sending Starkiller swooping through groups of enemies, twirling his twin sabers like glowing samurai blades. You can also throw the sabers, providing a cool ranged weapon that'll pick out more distant foes with gratifying speed. It all looks lovely, and as promised, there's now a certain amount of dismemberment, with limbs, body armour and heads scattering in the wake of your onslaught. However, this is no God of War and you don't see great geysers of blood splattering across the screen with Eli Roth-esque abandon.As with any one-button melee system, it does feel a little pre-canned and slightly uninvolving after a few balletic encounters. However, the game's pleasant accessibility was always going to come at a price and, of course, deeper tactical back-up is present in the shape of the Force powers.True to its word, LucasArts has ramped up the power of the classic Force arsenal. Force Push ejects storm troopers far into the air before smashing into the scenery or skimming helplessly along the ground. Sending out a few blasts can clear a whole squadron in seconds and it's immensely satisfying stuff, backing up what the team is constantly saying about wanting to communicate the power of the Force beyond what we saw in the films. As Torres explains, "We want to re-envision Star Wars from the force perspective, taking what you saw Luke do and Obi Wan do and bringing that to a place that's so crazy it works as a video game. We want to keep Star Wars fresh. It's risky, but it's worth a try…"Force Grip is now much more manageable, allowing you to grab objects with pinpoint accuracy, control exactly where you want them to go with the analogue stick, then send them hurtling into the distance. There were several occasions I was able to pick up a series of the large metallic boxes scattered about the level and hurl them at stormtroopers lurking hundreds of yards away behind significant cover – taking them all out with a pulverising clatter.Using Grip to pick up enemies also shows off the game's new procedural physics engine. "For the troopers, we're not using animation, we're using biomechanical AI," says Torres. "It's much more lifelike – troopers will actually try to hang on to things. It can really play out in some fun ways." Indeed, it's extremely entertaining to see Force gripped troopers flailing about, desperately trying to get a hold on something, rather than hanging limply like standard ragdoll models. The best moments are when two Force gripped soldiers inadvertently cling on to each other, pirouetting into the sky like crazed acrobats.Even more amusing is the new Force Mind Trick, which you can direct at specific enemies, putting them under your control. If there are other troopers around, the mind trick victim will yell stuff like "there's a spy in our midst" and start shooting at his comrades. If he's alone and close to any sort of ledge, there'll be a shout of "I can't take it anymore" and he'll jump over. All the Force Powers can be ramped up throughout the game, and the most powerful version of Mind Trick will turn soldiers into suicide bombers that run into crowds and self-combust.The other newcomer is Force Fury. When your Force meter tops out, this can be triggered to charge up each of your other powers to a devastatingly awesome level, providing a sort of Jedi smart bomb with which to blitz the screen. They're intended for boss encounters, naturally, and they're accompanied by a typically breathtaking light show.Enemies look to be more interesting this time round. LucasArts has made a big deal of cutting down on variety since the original Force Unleashed, instead ramping up the intelligence. The melee-based riot troopers dance about you with their metallic pikes, causing considerable damage via quick, ferocious attacks. Elsewhere, the airborne jump troopers now swoop and soar in unpredictable patterns, occasionally darting behind cover. These are best tackled with Force Lightning, which cripples their jet-packs, sending them ricocheting helplessly around the environment followed by billowing clouds of black smoke.We also got to tackle a couple of chunky Carbonite troopers, hulking robots with huge riot shields and a gun that sprays out freezing chemicals. These are sort of like mini-boss battles; you need to grab and chuck away the shield with Force Grip, then pull off a button sequence to instigate a finishing move sequence, which has Starkiller launching in, turning the Carbonite gun on its owner, then shattering the trooper into a million icy shards. The instigation of quick time events will have some players groaning, and it's hardly innovative stuff, but it's an acceptable way of adding some visually dramatic flourish to defeating larger enemies.Alongside the combat there is some scenic interaction and puzzle solving. Early on I had to use Force Grip to operate a lift platform, but later, there's a nice sequence where you get to Grip passing Tie-fighters and lob them into a tower, causing it to fall and form a bridge across a previously impassable chasm. This is fine, but I wonder how much freedom of choice the player gets – I'd like to see levels where we're able to use and manipulates physical objects to create ourownroutes through the stages – but so far, the environmental puzzles have all been dictated set-pieces. Throughout the game you'll also find holocroms, which provide various benefits including new crystals for your saber, allowing you to customise your weapon with a range of special abilities.[POSSIBLE SPOILERS BEGIN]From the early stages on Kamino, the story progresses to take in smorgasbord of familiar planets and characters. Starkiller steals Vader's craft and heads to Cato Neimoidia, previously glimpsed in Episode III. After fighting through a series of glitzy casinos (you can actually play on the slot machines – is there a Force Luck power?), and meeting some new sniper stormtroopers sporting laser-sighted blasters, Starkiller finally teams up with Kato. As the two get reacquainted amid the blood and sand, a huge gate opens and a rancor lumbers into the ring – the rebel heroes shrug almost complacently and prepare to fight, but then an enormous hand emerges from the darkness, grabs the beast from Return of the Jedi and crushes it like an insect. Cue the enormous Gorog, a skyscraping combination of tyrannosaurus rex and the twisted behemoth from Cloverfield.This, it quickly transpires, will be the first in a series of mammoth, multi-stage boss battles, requiring plenty of scenic interaction rather than mere button-bashing combat. "The Gorog is a thousand times larger than you," says Torres. "So to defeat this beast, you've got to figure out how to destroy the arena." Starkiller climbs up on to some ramparts surrounding the fight pit, and with the Gorog raining down blows with its massive fists, the player needs to work out how to get the monster to fall into the bottomless pit beneath the arena flooring.At the climax of the battle, Starkiller and Kato are saved from doom by the Rogue Shadow, the pair's craft from the original game. Starkiller expects to find Juno at the helm, but instead the ship is on autopilot. From here, the characters must follow a trail of clues to Eclipse's whereabouts. When Kato briefly mentions Dagobah, it triggers a faint memory and Starkiller heads off for an obtuse encounter with Yoda that nicely mimics Luke's arrival on the planet in Empire Strikes Back. Beckoned by Yoda in to the cave of evil, Starkiller experiences a vision of other cloned selves crawling at him from the tree roots. Together with Kota's insistence that no-one has ever successfully cloned a Jedi, it's all meant to place doubt in our minds about the nature of this 'new' Starkiller. Is he a clone? Isn't he? And if he isn't, what exactlydidhappen at the end of Force Unleashed?While in the cave, our hero also sees a brief flash of a distant nebula, and of Juno commanding a giant starship, which comes under attack. Recognising the area, he gets back aboard the Rogue Shadow, plots a course and zooms out, finally rendezvousing with the rebel fleet and Juno's craft, the Salvation. But just as he arrives, and as foretold in the cave, the craft is hijacked, and amid the explosions and gunfire, Boba Fett strides in. The mercenary has been hired by Vader to kidnap Juno – a succulent piece of bait for his errant apprentice. Fett has been supplied with a squadron of stormtroopers but also two monstrous genetically modified assassins – or terror troopers – which LucasArts is currently remaining tight-lipped about. "Vader is a tinkerer," explains Torres, "he loves to mess with machines and gene pools, and he's created some creatures that will support his intensions – and he gives these to Boba. So you'll have some incredible encounters with these biomechanical guys."Force Unleashed II has continually been referred to by LucasArts as 'our Empire Strikes Back', and this plot line would seem to back that up. Like Empire, the game is about one character's search for answers and for an identity that remains illusive. And like Empire, it finds pivotal roles for Yoda and Boba Fett. There's also a similar dichotomy: Luke was torn between his quest to learn the Force and his desire to help the rebellion; Starkiller must combine his redemptive hunt for Juno with the need to kick start the rebel cause.[POSSIBLE SPOILERS END HERE]The cinematic sequences have so far been typically powerful, with a moody opening confrontation between Vader and Starkiller and some well-choreographed combat. Accompanied by a mighty score that combines classic John Williams motifs with new pieces by Force Unleashed composer Mark Griskey, it's spine-tingling stuff.The question is, can the gameplay can match the drama of the story, and the majesty of the wonderfully crafted environments? Thing is, the combat-driven action adventure genre has moved on since the original Force Unleashed, with titles like Batman: Arkham Asylum adding rich puzzle dynamics and more open environments, while Bayonetta and God of War III have ladled on oodles of gloating visual charisma. Force Unleashed II, though it is set to offer multiple endings, is an unashamedly linear and inescapably traditional brawler.From what we've sampled, though, it's filled with enthralling moments, and no one can question the craftsmanship that's gone into the project. This is a labour of love for a dev team that must surely have hit 200 people at key points in the cycle. It also looks possible that this is not the end – despite rumours that a third title had been canned (hence,says Kotaku, the departure of Force Unleashed creator Haden Blackman). When asked about the possibility of a trilogy, Torres told us: "There isn't anything announced, and we have no solid direction, but TFU has done really well for us, so of course it's on the burner. We've had discussions about how to move it forward. It has a lot of potential for the future, we're just not ready to talk about any specifics…"Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II is out on October 29 on DS, PC, PS3, Wii and Xbox 360.
Just in time for the start of the Christmas shopping season, a copy of a new book1001 Video Games You Must Play Before You Diehas dropped on to my desk. The title – leading to questions such as "How many more must-play games will have been produced by the time I've got through these 1001?" – turns out to be a ploy by the publisher Octopus, which has already produced lists of 1001 beers I have to try before I die, and 1001 mandatory golf holes.The book is good fun, as all such lists are, for the delight at finding a slightly obscure favourite – Grow is in there! And Skool Daze! It's equally fun to get annoyed at the "obvious" omissions – no text adventures or interactive fiction since the undeniably excellent Trinity in 1985 – no All Roads, no The Act of Misdirection? Disgraceful.But the 960-page tome raises the question: is there a videogames canon? Games that you really ought to have a go at if you're interested in games, and especially in creating new ones? In 2007, a proposal was made to begin a videogames canon at the Library of Congress. Its list included the first space-battle gameSpacewar!, SimCity and Tetris. They're seminal gaming moments, but hardly the ones I'd point a newcomer to the gaming world to.So, with the risks that come with these lists, my top three games for newcomers would be:Flow, an entrancing evolution game;Samorost, a surreal point-and-click adventure; andKingdom of Loathing, the gentlest, funniest introduction to multiplayer online role-playing games. It's subjective, of course, but what are yours?
Call of Duty subscription based MMO? Codemasters? Game retail? Game consultant Nicholas Lovellthinks they are "doomed". He doesn't hold out much hope for 38 Studios and Trion either. In a typically forthright – and readable - post - Lovell lists 10 games businesses he thinks are doomed.According to Lovell Call of Duty could never make it as subscription game.World of Warcraft offers a myriad of play styles – from crafting to guild membership, from exploring to raids. The flexibility of a first person shooter is, frankly, much lower.UK publisher Codemasters too is apparently under threat:I believe that this current industry transition – from boxed products to services – will make it impossible for a boxed product publisher without a strong portfolio of AAA games to survive. I don't believe that Codemasters has that portfolio, and it will struggle to adapt fast enough.Lovell's full list of ten doomed games businesses also includes Eve Online publisher CCP's attempt to break into console gaming with FPSDust 514.Dust 514 is a first-person shooter. On a console. With a never-done before connection between a console world and a PC MMO. It's wildly ambitious but also, in my view, totally pointless. The integration between the console game and the PC-based MMO will be as unnecessary and expensive as the film maker in The Movies or the customisation features of APB. It will be hugely difficult to implement, actually subtract from the gameplay experience and cause CCP endless headaches. I was terrified when I saw the presentation of the game at a conference earlier this year. Every fibre of my being screams that CCP is over-reaching wildly.Other "doomed" gaming business on his list include OnLive and Trion.Anyway what do you think of thefull article? Is Lovell right tospotlight these ten companies? And if not who should he remove? Maybemore interestingly who has he missed out?
A social networking site set up by a former London student is being sued by high street retailer Gap which claims the site's "Gapnote" name infringes its trademark.Gapnote, which is still yet to launch in beta mode though the domain name has been registered for two years, allows users to document their past, connect online with friends in the present, and create communication to be delivered in the future.But lawyers acting for Gap are seeking undisclosed damages from Gapnote, as well as the immediate dropping of the "Gap" mark in its name, saying that Gapnote is using its trademark "with the intent to deceive consumers and generate interest in its own social media and networking website".In July, Gap wrote to Gapnote demanding that it permanently cease to use the mark "Gap" and hand over its Gapnote.com domain name to the fashion retailer. Lawyers acting on behalf of Gap claim that "the similarity between the two marks is substantial since the term 'Gapnote' incorporates the 'Gap' mark in its entirety in an almost identical font. Even if the font were changed, the marks are nonetheless nearly identical, as your client's mark is GAP plus the descriptive term 'note,' which does not serve to meaningfully distinguish the two marks."Gap also claims that "the proximity of the goods and services marketed under the two marks is extremely close, and their marketing channels are identical."However, Gapnote disagrees that the two companies operate similarly, telling the Guardian: "We have no intentions in becoming an apparel store now or any time in the future."Greg Murphy, chief executive of Gapnote, said: "We're not going to go into beta until this Gap case is resolved. We can't afford to go to court with them, but I don't want to let them get away with this."We respect Gap's trademarks, but disagree with Gap's contention that it has the exclusive right to use the word 'Gap' – regardless of how it is used or combined – on the internet with any conceivable business. Our name Gapnote forms a huge, enormous part of our identity, our purpose and who we were born to be. Gap has demanded that we give up our name, discontinue, disable and transfer Gapnote.com over to them."Gapnote has no intention to use its Gapnote trademark in connection with clothing or other goods. We believe in fairness, freedom and respect for all and not killing a start-up's dreams.We will do all we can to defend our right to use the name Gapnote."Gap had not responded to requests for comment at time of publication.San Francisco-based legal advocacy group, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, has warned that early-stage companies such as Gapnote could unwittingly end up on the wrong side of copyright action from multinational companies if precautionary measures, such as consulting with lawyers specialising in intellectual property rights, aren't taken early on.Clare Robinson, a partner at UK-based legal firm Osborne Clarke, said: "This is a US case on trademark infringement. There are often cases of this type between companies in separate industries but in the UK success would largely depend upon establishing that there is a likelihood of confusion."Due to recent European Court decisions, this type of case would not be guaranteed to succeed for Gap in Europe. However, litigation is expensive and is therefore particularly risky for young companies like Gapnote. Startups need great legal advice from the outset to avoid getting themselves into this kind of situation. A small sum spent at the outset choosing the right name and protecting it can save a fortune later on."
Join Aleks Krotoski, Jemjma Kiss and Charles Arthur for a start-up special on Tech Weekly this week. Simon Carmichael, head of private placements and venture sellsides and director at Torch Partners, takes your questions, whether you're looking for angel, first-round or later investment. But rather than just taking his word for it, we're also speaking with Sam Barnett from struq.com, who self-funded through the lean years of 2008-10, establishing a successful behavioural retargetting advertising company. He offers his advice and a word on how to avoid the pitfalls of digital hubris.The team also get to grips with Angelgate, the business story rocking Silicon Valley. Internet entrepreneur Jason Calacanis weighs in during an interview with Jemima, and throws a few well-placed barbs at his old business partner, Michael Arrington of TechCrunch.We'll find out why the mobile industry is suing itself, and what BT has that the other fibre-optic broadband providers want.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Oh, that? Sony's remote control for Google TV. Handy, isn't it?Pardon? Yes, now that you point it out, it's true to say that all that's missing is the aerial sticking out of the top, and it really would look like a remote control. For a jumbo jet.Well, don't say that you weren't warned. Google TV was shown off withhuge amounts of razzmatazz but worryingly little detailabout how you'd actually operate it.At the time we noted thatGoogle's approach does have potential. It has the backing of Sony, which will use Google's software in a new line of TV sets that will appear before Christmas, and users who don't want to buy a new TV will be able to get a Logitech set-top box instead. Also, it will have a head start in apps because it will run Android apps from Google's store and third-party marketplaces.The problem with trying to do the internet from your television has always been the same one: TV sets have extremely low interaction needs. You have channels and you have sound. And a power button. OK, and often an input selection. If you start adjusting the colour balance and contrast, you are unusual, and you'll do it on average once in the lifetime of the set.Computers, and the internet, require a lot of interaction. URLs don't type themselves. Many sites, including YouTube, will ask for a username and password, and those are a real pain to enter on any sort of non-QWERTY device. And how do you control a mouse on a screen that's ten feet away?This seems to be Sony's answer. We count 81 buttons, not including the circular ones at the top and the central buttons. That is a hell of a lot of buttons. Ergonomics? No, next door down.The URLs and interaction problem is why the documentation for Google TV admitted coyly that "all input devices for Google TV will have QWERTY keyboards" - as wepointed out last month- but also that that "users needs interactions that are fast and easy to do – at a distance, with one hand, in the dark."Engadget managed tograb this telling picture of the Sony effortwhen Google TV was featured on ABC's Nightline. Though Engadget is excited about it: "everything you'd need to rock the web and video all at once", it enthuses.Hmm, well, perhaps. By contrast, let's take a look at the the Sky+ remote, as it does everything - channels, volume, plus control of the hard drive recorder, and so must be the most complicated you can get:Sky+ remoteHmm, 36 buttons plus two rockers. There's the facility to do text entry (via SMS-style keys). More than that, it's got some real human factors design in it: it's a remote designed to be held and brandished at the TV.Conclusion? This must be a first iteration. Things must surely get better. And also: has Sonycompletelylost it?
If you have a friend on Facebook who has used the iPhone app version to access the site, then it's very possible that your private phone numbers - and those of lots of your and their friends - are on the site.The reason: Facebook's "Contact Sync" feature, which synchronises your friends' Facebook profile pictures with the contacts in your phone.Except that it doesn't do that on your phone. Oh no. Because that would be wrong, to pull the photos down from Facebook and put them on your phone. That would breach Facebook's terms of service.Update:A more recent version of the app shows that it does download "your friends' profile photos and other info from Facebook" to add to your iPhone address book.Instead, whatWhat Facebook's app does it that itimportsall the names and phone numbers you have on your (smart)phone, uploads them to Facebook's Phonebook app (got a Facebook account?Here's your Phonebook). (Update:Rhodri Marsdensaysthat you'll now get a big warning sign saying that the numbers are imported into Facebook. That's above.)Pause for a moment and go andlook at it. Did you know those numbers? Did you collect them? Despite the reassuring phrase there - "Facebook Phonebook displays contacts you have imported from your phone, as well as your Facebook friends" - it's absolutely not true. I know because there are numbers there which I don't have. OK, perhaps the people who own them added them; but that's not clear either. So how did they get there? Because it only takes one person to upload another person's number, and the implication is that it's going to be shared around everywhere.Update:that's the implication of "all contacts from your device... will be sent to Facebook and be subject to Facebook's Privacy Policy". Note, not just your friends - but everyone on your device.The implications are huge, and extremely worrying. All it takes is for someone's Facebook account to be hacked (perhaps via their phone being stolen) and lots of personal details are revealed. Or, asCraig noted in the comments, you get your phonebook record of "Steve Car" (which was for his garage mechanic) somehow linked to someone called "Steve Carlton" - who he doesn't know.Update:Facebook says, in a statement: "Facebook never shares personally identifiable information with third parties – advertisers are only given anonymised and aggregated data." It also adds: "Facebook is a free service and something that many people find adds value to their day-to-day lives. As with any service, users do need to invest some time in order to use it properly and we encourage people to use their privacy settings to do this and to access the Help Centre for support."Kurt von Moos, who firstwrote about this earlier this year(since when Facebook has revised its privacy statement, but not altered what goes on in this way) says that there are a number of reasons to be concerned. As he puts it:"1) Facebook doesn't warn users that they are uploading their phone's adress book to Facebook. In fact, because Facebook doesn't sync contact numbers or email addresses TO your phone, most users wrongly assume that Facebook Contact Sync only syncs user pictures. In reality though, they are pumping your address book, without your consent." [Since then the Facebook app has clearly been updated with a warning.]Facebook says you canremove your mobile contacts, but it's not clear that that will remove your mobile if someone else uploads it.von Moos continues:"2) Phone numbers are private and valuable. Most people who have entrusted you with their phone numbers assume you will keep them private and safe. If you were to ask your friends, family or co-workers if they are ok with you uploading their private phone numbers to be cross-referenced with other Facebook users, how many of them do you think would be ok with it?"He also points to even more egregious problems: (a) can you be sure how Facebook, or its advertisers or partners or whatever it becomes down the line, will use that data? (b) why is it that Facebook takes all your mobile numbers, rather than matching names of contacts with names of friends? (c) sometimes, it gets the matches wrong - and incorrect (or faked) data that people have given to Facebook as their "contact" details (such as hotels or businesses) gets linked as being a "friend", or the lack of an international dialling prefix messes up the match, and means again that someone who you don't know is identified as a "friend" or contact.von Moos concludes: "There are some contacts and phone numbers who's privacy I simply refuse to risk on the Web. Facebook has taken and continues to take liberties on behalf of their users. Their perception of privacy and their users perception of privacy is often very different. I don't think this is maliciousness on Facebook's part, but it does show me that Facebook is painfully out of touch with the needs and beliefs of their CORE users, who are still wary of the openness that a Web 2.0 lifestyle entails."It's not clear whether theofficial Facebook for Android appdoes the same. We'd be interested to hear from you if you've noticed this with the app.Update:people in the comments seem to be saying that it does.So - beware: Facebook quite probably has your details. More of them, in fact, than you might have thought.Tom Scott's "Evil" page: "this site randomly displays the private phone numbers of unsuspecting Facebook users."Update:Actually, it can supply those details all over the place, if you haven't locked down your privacy settings - as Tom Scott has demonstrated with his "EVIL" page. Here's a screenshot:The numbers are anonymised, but they're real; and they keep changing, just to show that there are loads of people out there who don't know how much they're giving away not just to Facebook, but to the web - via our good friend, Facebook'sgraph API. Let Scott explain:"How does it work? There are uncountable numbers of groups on Facebook called "lost my phone!!!!! need ur numbers!!!!!" or something like that. Most of them are marked as 'public', or 'visible to everyone'. A lot of folks don't understand what that means in Facebook's context — to Facebook, 'everyone' means everyone in the world, whether they're a Facebook member or not. That includes automated programs like Evil, as well as search engines."So "Evil uses the graph API to search for groups about lost phones. It picks them at random, extracts some of the phone numbers, and then shows them here. This site isn't doing anything that you couldn't already do manually."Of course, you could always just remove your number from Facebook. Then you can feel sure that at least one point of failure hasn't been used.
There are those cynics who reckon that the Move is a blatant rip-off of the Wii. To that we say, "Well, duh, of course it is." But, for those who've invested in the PS3 for its graphics and Blu-Ray capabilities and want the all-involving, cross-generational joys of the Wii, it's a bit of a godsend.Of course, the cynics will jump on Racket Sports as further proof that Sony is somehow being underhand in adapting such popular, ground-breaking technology for its own devices. Again we give you the playground noises ... while also being forced to acknowledge that there is something deeply cynical about this title.It's not that it's a pretty blatant rip-off of Wii Tennis. It's an OK game and, with the really rather impressive Move controller, it works pretty well as a basic game for all thefamily. It's more that, well, there may be five games here – tennis, squash, table tennis, badminton, er beach tennis – but there's so little variety between them, you wish they'd reduced the number of game options in favour of one or two done well.Or, indeed, allowed the use of an avatar or something akin to the Nintendo Mii. There's a reasonable character choice here with some basic customisation possible, but if there's a difference in terms of skill or attributes between the characters, I didn't notice it. It's the sort of thing that, even if you can't explain why, will give the impression of a game that's slightly half-baked.In terms of pick-up-and-playability, Racket Sports is pretty efficient. In terms of mastery though, this is a very peculiar experience. That's partly the delay between your swing and your character striking the ball, and partly down to the game's other mechanics, such as tilting the Move controller towards the ball to speed up your player, or holding T / trigger as you swing to make your shot stronger. These should add something to the game experience – or at least make you harder to beat – but, instead, add very little. The tilt-and-move aspect in particular is so forgiving that it's remarkably easy to returneveryshot. Levelling the playing field is all very well but not if it makes every rally a potentially endless affair. While the Wii allows you to score points by playing a decent shot, Racket Sports makes it more about the individual error.While the different games offer some variety, there's simply not enough to differentiate between them. The overhead smash in badminton is a nice touch but when table tennis, tennis and squash feel like the same game, I'd say something's gone more than a little awry. There's the start of something decent here, but it feels like someone, somewhere, has rushed this out just so there's another Move title on the shelves.
I don't think too many of you would disagree with me when I say Fallout 3 was, quite simply, one of the best games ever made. It provided a compelling blend of FPS and RPG action and a vast, fully explorable setting that saw many gamers spend 100 hours or more wandering its post-apocalyptic Wasteland. Immersive, high-definition gaming at its finest.It's fair to say then that its sequel, Fallout: New Vegas, has quite a lot to live up to. Ahead of its release at the end of the month I visited Bethesda HQ to play through the first two hours of the game and take a sneak peek at a few noteworthy sections later on.Despite near-universal acclaim, Fallout 3 did have some niggling issues, and it seems that, knowing they've all but perfected the basic structure of the game, Obsidian have taken great care to iron out the most apparent problems.I imagine I wasn't alone, for example, in finding the overarching narrative pretty lacklustre compared to the side-missions and secrets which made your adventure so memorable. As the main story was building to a climax, I was far more concerned with finding new weapons or characters to interact with than I was Liam Neeson and his giant water-purifier.New Vegas looks to remedy this with a more involving and less-linear story that weaves into the fabric of the game with much greater deftness. Although Bethesda are understandably loathe to release too much detail, the narrative looks to take the form of a rather unconventional whodunnit, tracking down those responsible for your own death – the game begins with your resurrection.Fallout 3 was criticised in many quarters for being visually dreary at times and suffered from a monotonously washed-out palette – and the use of colour in New Vegas, most obviously in the brilliantly blue sky, is one of the first things you notice as you take your first steps out into the world map.By shifting the setting from East to West coast, Obsidian have been able to present a significantly different Wasteland experience. Civilisation, all but obliterated in the nuked DC area of the last game, is now much more evident, with a fully functioning Las Vegas strip and colourful road signs and landmarks punctuating your journey.The art design and music used are mainly 50s-themed – licensed tracks also used in Mafia II play on the Pipboy's in-game radio, coincidentally – and the added effort made here to present not just a run-of-the-mill post-apocalyptic world but a stylised one makes New Vegas' setting all the more memorable.Graphics too have been significantly tweaked, with the developers pushing the capabilities of the existing engine much further than I'd seen in previous previews. Facial animations have been improved, and there looks to be much more variety in the voice-acting talent too – though I must admit hearing Chandler's voice in the intro sequence jarred-somewhat. Could therebeany more super-mutants?Still, if all you're expecting from New Vegas is a better-looking Fallout 3 with a new set of missions and enemies, you certainly won't be disappointed. Controls and the basic mechanics of the game are almost exactly the same, so you won't have any problems jumping straight in.One criticism I've heard a few times of Fallout 3 was from FPS fans that didn't like the VATS system, which essentially reduced the skill of shooting into a more RPG-like, points-spending affair. This time around, players will be able to use the bizarrely-named 'Ironsight' (which I insisted must in fact be called eye-in-sight, to no avail) which essentially just gives you the left-trigger look-down-the-sights that has become standard in FPS games.This small tweak actually changes the flavour of the action considerably – depending on your weaponry you now needn't use VATS at all, and it's much easier to take out targets from range without relying on percentages.Your use of companions throughout the game has been completely overhauled, with a new command wheel system meaning kitting out and controlling your comrade works much better than in Fallout 3. The AI has also been tweaked, I was told, so hopefully now your collected buddies will be of much greater use - spending less time getting noticed, using the wrong weapon to defend themselves, and then dying.There's also a new 'reputation' system to get to grips with, where the morality of your actions are not just judged broadly as they were in Fallout 3, but also seen in light of how they will be received by the warring tribes and villages that make up New Vegas' inhabitants. The moral choices the last  Fallout was famed for now have much weightier repercussions – I'm told it's impossible to play through the whole game and keep everyone happy.An array of jaunty hats are also available in the game. Photo: BethesdaAlong with these broader changes, Obsidian have introduced a few new features aimed specifically at Fallout's passionate online community. Weapon-modding, for example, has been introduced, allowing silencers, scopes, different ammo types and so on for added customisation.Fans will also be delighted with the frequent references to Fallouts 1 and 2 which I was told will be much more apparent than in Fallout 3, as a number of developers that worked on the first two games were brought back for this new instalment.A new 'Hardcore' difficulty level is also  available for players looking for a more intense challenge. In this mode you'll have to search for water or risk dying of thirst, scrabble for old bullet casings to make ammunition and sleep at regular intervals in safe places to stay healthy.I daren't offer too much detail regarding the missions I played through – but the dark humour of Fallout 3 is still very much evident. The map looks to be similar-sized, though I was promised even more side-missions and areas to explore than last time around. New Vegas has a level cap of 30, which potentially means a whole 33% more of incentivised character development to encourage exploration. Prepare to lose a few weekends.Obsidian have created a new world – not too dissimilar to the last one but pleasingly different nevertheless - that I, for one, can't wait to sink my teeth into. Look out for our review in a couple of weeks.Fallout: New Vegas is released on 22 October for Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and PC
Sega have annouced the release of Captain America: Super Soldier. The game is set in World War II and due out on PS3, 360, Wii and DS next summer. Scripted by Marvel comic writer Christos Gage the game will be a third person action adventure. If the images are anything to go by you can expect to be fighting Nazis in Castle Wolfenstein-style settings. Talking of setting the game should tie in nicely with the upcoming film. Sega marketing SVP Gary Knight is predictably excited:Videogame players the world over can now become Marvel's iconic Super Hero Captain America. Captain America: Super Soldier puts players in the boots of the ultimate Super Soldier, wielding Captain America's legendary shield. Working closely with Marvel ensures we're delivering the calibre of product that gamers and comic fans deserve and it's a partnership we're proud of here at SEGA.What about you though? Are you excited too? Do you think a Captain America game will work? And if so will it be anything more than a mindless button bashing romp?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Mirrors on the sea. Photo bySebastian W.on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple Challenges $625.5 Million Mirror Worlds Verdict &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Closely held Mirror Worlds, founded by Yale University computer-science Professor David Gelernter, sued in 2008, claiming Apple's iPod music device, iPhone and Mac computers infringed its patents for a way documents are displayed on a computer screen. Apple challenged the validity of the patents and whether they were infringed, according to court records. Some claims were thrown out before the case went to the jury."The trial focused on the Spotlight, Time Machine and Cover Flow features in Apple's Mac operating systems. Cover Flow lets users scroll through album cover art when browsing for music in their iTunes library. The feature also works for documents, pictures and other material stored in a computer."Mirror Worlds stands to gain $625.5m. Clearly, the rest of us are in the wrong business.Smartphone Forensics: Cracking BlackBerry Backup Passwords &gt;&gt; Advanced Password Cracking – Insight"Today, we are proud to present world's first tool to facilitate forensic analysis of BlackBerry devices by enabling access to protected data stored on users' BlackBerries." Don't anyone tell the Indian government.Augmented Reality Developer Challenge &gt;&gt; Qualcomm Developer NetworkGo for it: "Qualcomm is on a mission to help developers build fun, useful, exciting AR apps. That is why we're hosting the first ever Augmented Reality Developer Challenge with $200,000 in total prize money. Games, educational apps, media &amp; marketing tools, instructional manuals – You're only limited by the scope of your imagination (though you must of course use the Qualcomm AR SDK to build the app). The AR Challenge is now open and you can submit applications starting in November 2010."UK Adopts Open Government License for everything: Why it's good and what it means &gt;&gt; eaves.ca"On the National Archives website, the UK Government made public its new license for managing software, documents and data created by the government. The document is both far reaching and forward looking. Indeed, I believe this policy may be the boldest and most progressive step taken by a government since the United States decided that documents created by the US government would directly enter the public domain and not be copyrighted."In almost every aspect the license, the UK government will manage its  "intellectual property" by setting the default to be open and free."New feature: one-click FoI requests for spending payments &gt;&gt; countculture"Thanks to the incredible work of Francis Irving at WhatDoTheyKnow, we've now added a feature I've wanted on OpenlyLocal since we started imported the local spending data: one-click Freedom of Information requests on individual spending items, especially those large ones."Forum:Anti-Wikia Alliance &gt;&gt; Wikia Community CentralThe Anti-Wikia Alliance is groups who are trying to move their wikis out of Wikia. The question is, where to?Why the BlackBerry PlayBook has the power to beat the iPad &gt;&gt; TechRadar UKYou start out thinking "Wow! TechRadar got a real scoop here - they've gotten their hands on the PlayBook plus an explanation!" as it starts out with "Earlier this week we learnt that the BlackBerry PlayBook has a UK release date of early 2011. But behind the hardware is a new OS that runs Adobe AIR apps, HTML 5 web apps and existing BlackBerry Java apps."But what else does the OS have in store? We decided to delve deeper into the BlackBerry Tablet OS while in conversation with Dan Dodge, the head of the QNX team at RIM."Then you realise that the "demonstration" is actually slides.&lt;br /&gt;Actual demonstrations of a working PlayBook known so far: still zero.Microsoft's Ballmer Hopes Windows Phone 7 Makes Up for Missteps &gt;&gt; WSJ.comWSJ: Will there be an immediate uptake of Windows Phones?Mr. Ballmer: I don't make forecasts. It's partly how many we can get made, it's partly how much we can—can not only build a great product, but how does the word of mouth work, how effective is the advertising that we'll do?WSJ: Do you think Windows phones will evolve into something that becomes a replacement for full-blown Windows on PCs?Mr. Ballmer: It's a complicated subject. Do I think the world's going to live all on small-screen devices? No. I think people are going to have small-, medium-, and large-screen devices.This year's Windows 7 slates: Not under my Christmas tree &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley isn't a fan: "If Microsoft does end up showing off any of this year's Windows slates at its October 11 Consumer Open House events in New York and London, where it will be launching Windows Phone 7, I'd bet they'll be models we've seen demonstrated earlier this year at Computex or other Microsoft conferences. I'm doubtful they'll be much to write home about."Why I spoofed science journalism &gt;&gt; Martin Robbins"Many bloggers would have their writing immeasurably improved if they stuck to a word limit – doing that forces you to plan, to organise your thoughts, and to avoid redundancy and repetition. On the other hand, some stories need more time to tell, and sticking dogmatically to an arbitrary 800-word limit for stuff that's published on the internet doesn't make a lot of sense. The internet is not running out of space."Conventional wisdom says that after a few hundred words, people start to lose attention. Conventional wisdom is a load of bollocks, asonline magazine Slate neatly demonstrated with their experiments in long-form writing. Detailed, investigative pieces running to tens of thousands of words netted millions of page views, and proved that audiences aren't quite the infantile content-junkies they're often made out to be."The Dream Is Over: Music Labels Have Killed Their Digital Future &gt;&gt; paidContent:UK"What the industry has accomplished is exactly what they didn't need. They killed competition. Brilliant. The dream is over."iPhone vs. Android: Apple and Google's Smart-Phone War &gt;&gt; Time"It's possible to sum up the tech industry's engine of progress in four words: Apple vs. everybody else. That's been true for a quarter-century in the personal-computer realm, where the Apple product in question is the Mac and everybody else consists of Windows PC makers. And now it's happening with smart phones, a product category increasingly defined by intense competition between Apple's iPhone and the gaggle of manufacturers who have embraced Google's Android software."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Based, apparently, on a popular Japanese strategy game, Front Mission Evolved is a solid, if uninspiring, shoot-em-up.Californian developers Double Helix have taken the original tactical RPG format and, basically, scrapped it in favour of flat-out robot wars – with a few side missions to give some variety.The plot is pretty standard stuff. There's been a mysterious invasion of one of the world's superpowers by another superpower's mechanical warriors. Only you, as a droid-building scientist can save the day and, in the process, discover just what part your dad played in all of the current shenanigans. Ad lib to fade.At the start of the game you're testing your fighting droid – known, quite amusingly, as a "wanzer" – which is mostly an excuse to run through some basic training. Here you learn how to move, shoot, melee, and all the other things that you'll need to get through the next few hours of gameplay.The majority of this is fighting other wanzers while stomping around – or skating – in your own wanzer. Skating is something you will have to master, if only to maintain your sanity: it speeds up your travel time and, if used in conjunction with the mechanical-hand-to-mechanical-hand combat, increases the damage you can inflict.The game's ingenuity becomes apparent the more you play for, while early levels can be rattled through thanks to your arsenal of heavy weaponry or by brute force, later levels require some thought. Not a huge amount of thought, admittedly, but some, as different opponents can only be taken out in different ways, some being more susceptible to rocket strikes, for example, while others require some carefully aimed bullets for the long-distance removal of wanzer limbs before you zip in for some good old fashioned pummelling.Variety comes from some evasion levels – lose the suit, run like hell – or, CoD-style airborne gunplay, while the multiplayer options – deathmatch and capture the flag – provide some limited fleshing-out of the title. There's nothing revolutionary here (and certainly nothing to explain why the release date was delayed by six months), but it's all jolly decent if you like this sort of thing.
Patent law needs reforming in the US and Europe, according to Steve Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft – who also warned that China's government needs to crack down on piracy there if home-grown companies are not to be stifled at birth.He also promised that there will be tablet computers running Microsoft's Windows operating system "to be seen" – but not necessarily on sale – by Christmas.Speaking at the London School of Economics, Ballmer said that while the patent system is "not perfect", it is better than no system, even though that "would not impede technological progress"."Is the patent system perfect, or the world in which we live? Answer is of course not, the patent law was crafted in a day and age that preceded modern IT systems," Ballmer said, pointing out that two of the biggest industries which use patent law – the pharmaceutical and software industries – did not exist when original patent law was written in the late 19th century."We think that the law ought to be reformed to reflect modern times. But if you ask me in general 'are we better off with today's patent system, or no system?' We're better off with today's patent system," Ballmer said.He added that Microsoft has paid out more in patent licence fees than it has received – "and yet I still tell you that I think the system is helpful and important and constructive".The company is mired in dozens of patent fights with various companies. Microsoft recentlyapplied to the US supreme court to overturn a decision by a lower courtwhich upheld a software patent held by i4i, a Canadian company, that for a while placed an injunction on sales of Microsoft's near-monopoly Office product. But in recent months Microsoft hassued handset maker Motorolaclaiming it infringes patents it holds.Ballmer suggested that in some cases large companies might prefer to negotiate rather than battle out patent issues in court – though he allowed that small inventors would need to be represented as well."There are negotiations that happen between substantial companies that work this through, I wouldn't say extralegally, but it's a way to deal with the way that the [patent] system is imprecise. We can work these things through privately."I do believe that the small inventor ought to have a seat at the table – yes, sometimes big companies can feel under the gun at that – but there ought to be a role for the small inventor."He added that piracy and lack of respect for intellectual property in China continues to be a substantial problem for Microsoft, but that it also posed a challenge to Chinese companies."Piracy in China is eight times worse than piracy in India, and is 20 times worse than piracy in the UK. I don't know who's to blame, but I think the enforcement of the law in China needs to be stepped up. It's one thing to say China is much bigger than the US or UK – people sort of understand that."But if you look at the environment today, there's a lot more piracy in China than there would be in India or Russia, and I think the Chinese government needs to hear the message, because it's ultimately a problem for Chinese companies more than it is for non-Chinese companies."That is because the development of China would require growth of its own companies with their own intellectual property, he suggested: "If Chinese companies are going to become innovative they're going to have to have ideas, I should think whether it's copyrighted or patented IP [intellectual property] that becomes important in China, it's to the disadvantage even more of the Chinese companies [if it's pirated]."Cutting piracy in China would bring significant value, he suggested: "China's now the No 2 country in the world and next year will be the No 1 market in the world for PCs, smartphones and so on."On tablets, he suggested that there will be tablet computers running Windows will be on show by Christmas. "You'll see new slates with Windows on them. You'll see them this Christmas," he said. "Certainly we have done work around the tablet as both a productivity device and a consumption device," he said.But he suggested that people still prefer keyboards: "when I look around the room – and I know how many PCs, how many Macs and how many iPads there are, it's my job to know this stuff – I've been looking around the room today and frankly the people who are typing with a keyboard [rather than a tablet] look more comfortable physically."However he suggested that PCs and laptops would remain the dominant form for users: "If you really want most of the benefits of what a PC has to offer, the ability to create and consume, make documents of all types, a form factor that has been tuned for a lot of things over a number of years, we ship these, and you'll see us continue to expand the footprint that Windows does a good job of targeting over time."The most urgent task facing Microsoft though was to re-enter the smartphone market: "But the job we've got to take right now is, we've got to get back seriously into the game of phones."Microsoft's Windows phone software had 8.7% of the smartphone market last year, and that could decline to 3.9% by 2014, according to Gartner. The release of the Kin smartphone earlier this year washalted after just three monthsof disappointing sales.Ballmer did not get his maximum bonus for the last fiscal year despite scoring the company's highest-ever sales, mainly because of missteps on phones and tablets."We've got to have a comeback against the competition and I think with our new Windows phones we really have a beautiful product," Ballmer said.[Update: An earlier version suggested Microsoft sued HTC. Instead, HTC has licensed various Microsoft patents for its Android-based smartphones.]
While sounding like a particularly pathetic insult – say that again and I'll train your face – Face Training is the DSi's answer to plastic surgery. Or, very possibly, a complete chocolate teapot of a title.Fumiko Inudo – a top Japanese beautician, apparently – has worked with Nintendo on a series of facial exercises. She reckons that regular deliberate face pulling tones and relaxes the facial muscles in the manner of any exercise, with various beauty benefits. Whether this has long term gains remains to be seen – and I for one am perched very sarcastically on the edge of my seat – but fair play to Nintendo for trying something so different.And fair play for demonstrating what the DSi's camera can do. Many of the exercises involve holding the machine in front of you, where the camera recognises your face and whether you're following the exercise properly. That's pretty damn clever for what's essentially an entry level and relatively cheap games system; it's almost a shame that it's wasted on something so bizarre. And one has to question the logic in releasing it on a portable games console. The manic faces you'll be asked to pull are not the sort of thing you'll want to attempt on the morning commute, although they will undoubtedly secure you a prized double seat.Other exercises come in the form of instructions, dictated over the DSi's tiny speakers, which are less than ideal as sound quality isn't the handheld's strongpoint. It's also difficult to tell if you're doing the exercise properly when there's no visual.Did I notice a difference after a week? No – and nobody's yet commented on how fit my cheeks are looking, so either the scientific thinking is a little woolly or I'm not protruding my upper lip properly or somesuch. It has felt oddly relaxing, however, but whether that's enough to justify the £29.99 spend is highly debatable.•Reviewed on a Nintendo DSi
Another week, another grandstanding Call of Duty: Black Ops announcement. Last Wednesday, there wasfinal confirmationthat the latest title in the shooter series would indeed contain a co-op zombie mode. Now, Activision has revealed that the PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game will support stereoscopic 3D from launch. Owners will of course need a 3D-compatible HDTV and a pair of active shutter glasses, while PC gamers will need a machine equipped with an NVIDIA GeForce GPU. The 3D effect will be available in single-player, multiplayer and the zombie co-op."Development of stereoscopic 3D began as an R&amp;D project," explains studio head, Mark Lamia. "But once we saw what the technology brought to the Call of Duty experience, what a great fit and how immersive it was, we knew that we had to develop it for Black Ops. Aiming down the sights of your weapons, flying in helicopters, rappelling down mountains, and moving through highly detailed environments are just some of the awesome experiences you will have in 3D with Black Ops."It seems that developers of high-end shooters are extremely keen to embrace this new technology. Killzone 3, SOCOM 4 and Crysis 2 will all be compatible with 3D set-ups, while Ubisoft hashintedthat it is prototyping a 3D shooter for PlayStation Move and Xbox Kinect. Combat games are seen as particularly benefitting from 3D visuals, allowing gamers to more quickly pick out distant targets from background scenery, as well as judge spatial elements like jumping and flying more accurately. Combined with motion systems like Kinect and Move, developers are also looking into head-tracking, so gamers can strafe, or look round corners, by simply tilting their heads left or right.What we can certainly expect from the famously explosive and cinematic Call of Duty series is a lot of involuntary ducks and flinches as tons of bullets, shrapnel and wounded comrades fly out of the screen, seemingly straight at our soft heads.Call of Duty: Black Ops is released on November 9.
Microsoft is launching legal action against Motorola over its line of Android-based smartphones, claiming the manufacturer infringes a number of its patents. The lawsuit is the latest in a series of patent infringement cases being fought in the increasingly-competitive mobile market.Microsoft, the world's largest software company, claims that Motorola infringes nine of its patents in mobile phones running Google's Android operating system; specifically, email, contacts and calendar synchronisation, scheduling meetings and notifying applications of changes in signal and battery strength.The increasingly-popular Android software is also at the heart of a legal battle between Oracle and Google, while Nokia is embroiled in a long-running legal battle against Apple, and Apple is separately suing manufacturer HTC. Manufacturers have become quick off the mark in launching legal action against rivals, owing to a dynamic smartphone market across continents.In a recentinterview with the Wall Street Journal, Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer suggested it was misleading to label Google's Android software as "free" in contrast to software produced by other companies, saying: "Android has a patent fee. It's not like Android's free. You do have to license patents."He also revealed that HTC is paying a per-handset fee to Microsoft over patents.The diagram above shows who is, or has been, suing who in the mobile industry: notably, Nokia is the most active litigator, with 6 companies targeted, compared to 2 incoming writs (from Apple and Qualcomm).By contrast Microsoft looks like a newcomer - having only served 2 writs.Google, intriguingly, only has 1 writ on its doorstep, from Oracle - but that pertains to Android. And so do all the lawsuits from Microsoft.Some of the cases have been settled (we'll update the graphic as things change) but we thought for now that this would help you to see how things stand. Which, briefly, is like an explosion in a spear factory.With that in mind, here's what Horacio Gutierrez, Microsoft's deputy general counsel in charge of intellectual property, saidin a blog post about the Motorola suit: "As we all know, smartphones have become an integral part of people's daily lives and are used for a variety of tasks beyond making phone calls; from watching video and listening to music to staying in touch with family and friends."The Microsoft innovations at issue in this case help make smartphones 'smart.'  Indeed, our patents relate to key features that users have come to expect from every smartphone. [...] That Microsoft has important patents in this area should not surprise anyone – we've spent over 30 years developing cutting-edge computer software."Motorola said it would "vigorously defend itself" when challenged with patent infringement cases, while Google said it was disappointed to see Microsoft taking legal action over its mobile operating system. "While we are not a party to this lawsuit, we stand behind the Android platform and the partners who have helped us to develop it," the company said.The lawsuit comes 10 days before Microsoft attempts to launch a fightback in the mobile market which has seen an inexorable market share landgrab from handsets running the Android operating system.[Update: the graphic and text have been amended to show that Microsoft and HTC signed a patent license agreement, but that there was no lawsuit.]
Last week, my fellow Guardian columnist Helienne Lindvallpublished a piece headlined The cost of free, in which she called it "ironic" that "advocates of free online content" (including me) "charge hefty fees to speak at events".Lindvall says she spoke to someone who approached an agency I once worked with to hire me for a lecture and was quoted $10,000-$20,000 (£6,300-£12,700) to speak at a college and $25,000 to speak at a conference. Lindvall goes on to talk about the fees commanded by other speakers, including Wired editor Chris Anderson, author of a book called "Free" (which I reviewed here in July 2009), Pirate Bay co-founder Peter Sunde and marketing expert Seth Godin. In Lindvall's view, all of us are part of a united ideology that exhorts artists to give their work away for free, but we don't practice what we preach because we charge so much for our time.It's unfortunate that Lindvall didn't bother to check her facts. I haven't been represented by the agency she referenced for several years, and in any event, no one has ever paid me $25,000 to appear at any event. Indeed, the vast majority of lectures I give are free (seeherefor the past six months' talks and their associated fees – out of approximately 95 talks I've given in the past six months, only 11 were paid, and the highest paid of those was £300). Furthermore, I don't use an agency for the majority of my bookings (mostly I book myself – I've only had one agency booking in the past two years). I'm not sure who the unfortunate conference organiser Lindvall spoke to was – Lindvall has not identified her source – but I'm astonished that this person managed to dig up the old agency, since it's not in the first 400 Google results for "Cory Doctorow".It's true that my stock response to for-profit conferences and corporate events is to ask for $15,000 on the grounds that almost no one will pay that much so I get to stay home with my family and my work; but if anyone will, I'd be crazy to turn it down. Even so, I find myself travelling more than I'd like to, and usually I'm doing so at a loss.Why do I do this? Well, that's the bit that Lindvall really got wrong.You see, the real mistake Lindvall made was in saying that I tell artists to give their work away for free. I do no such thing.The topic I leave my family and my desk to talk to people all over the world about is the risks to freedom arising from the failure of copyright giants to adapt to a world where it's impossible to prevent copying. Because itisimpossible. Despite 15 long years of the copyright wars, despite draconian laws and savage penalties, despite secret treaties and widespread censorship, despite millions spent on ill-advised copy-prevention tools, more copying takes place today than ever before.AsI've written here before, copying isn't going to get harder, ever. Hard drives won't magically get bulkier but hold fewer bits and cost more.Networks won't be harder to use. PCs won't be slower. People won't stop learning to type "Toy Story 3 bittorrent" into Google. Anyone who claims otherwise is selling something – generally some kind of unworkable magic anti-copying beans that they swear, this time, will really work.So, assuming that copyright holders will never be able to stop or even slow down copying, what is to be done?For me, the answer is simple: if I give away my ebooks under a Creative Commons licence that allows non-commercial sharing, I'll attract readers who buy hard copies. It's worked for me – I've had books on the New York Times bestseller list for the past two years.What should other artists do? Well, I'm not really bothered. The sad truth is that almost everything almost every artist tries to earn money will fail. This has nothing to do with the internet, of course. Consider the remarkable statement from Alanis Morissette's attorney at the Future of Music Conference: 97% of the artists signed to a major label before Napster earned $600 or less a year from it. And these were the lucky lotto winners, the tiny fraction of 1% who made it to a record deal. Almost every artist who sets out to earn a living from art won't get there (for me, it took 19 years before I could afford to quit my day job), whether or not they give away their work, sign to a label, or stick it through every letterbox in Zone 1.If you're an artist and you're interested in trying to give stuff away to sell more, I've got some advice for you, as I wrotehere– I think it won't hurt and it could help, especially if you've got some other way, like a label or a publisher, to get people to care about your stuff in the first place.But I don't care if you want to attempt to stop people from copying your work over the internet, or if you plan on building a business around this idea. I mean, it sounds daft to me, but I've been surprised before.But here's what Idocare about. I care if your plan involves using "digital rights management" technologies that prohibit people from opening up and improving their own property; if your plan requires that online services censor their user submissions; if your plan involves disconnecting whole families from the internet because they are accused of infringement; if your plan involves bulk surveillance of the internet to catch infringers, if your plan requires extraordinarily complex legislation to be shoved through parliament without democratic debate; if your plan prohibits me from keeping online videos of my personal life private because you won't be able to catch infringers if you can't spy on every video.And this is the plan that the entertainment industries have pursued in their doomed attempt to prevent copying. The US record industry has sued 40,000 people. The BBC has received Ofcom's approval to use our mandatory licence fees to lock up its broadcasts with DRM so that we can't tinker with or improve on our own TVs and recorders (and lest you think that this is no big deal, keep in mind that the entire web was created by amateurs tinkering with systems around them). What's more Apple, Audible, Sony and others have stitched up several digital distribution channels withmandatoryDRM requirements, so copyright holders don't get to choose to make their works available on equitable terms.In France, the HADOPI "three strikes" rule just went into effect; they're sending out 10,000 legal threats a week now, and have promised 150,000 a week in short order. After three unsubstantiated accusations of infringement, your whole family is disconnected from the internet – from work, education, civic engagement, distant relatives, health information, community. And of course, we'll have the same regime here shortly, thanks to the Digital Economy Act, passed in a three-whip wash-up in the last days of parliament without any substantive debate, despite the thousands and thousands of Britons who asked their legislators to at least discuss this extraordinarily technical legislation before passing it into law.Viacom is just one of the many entertainment giants suing companies like Google for allowing everyday people to upload content to the internet without reviewing its copyright status in advance. Never mind that there's 29 hours of video uploaded to YouTube every minute, that there aren't enough lawyers in all the world to undertake such a review, and that throttling the videos (by charging uploaders for legal review, for example) would put practically every person who finds in YouTube the opportunity for personal and creative expression out of business.Never mind that if this principle were passed into law, it would shutter every message board, Twitter, social networking service, blog, and mailing list in a second. That's bad enough, but in addition to these claims, Viacom has asked the court to order Google to make all user-uploaded content public so that Viacom can check it doesn't infringe copyright – it thinks that its need to look at my videos is greater than my need to, say, flag a video of my two-year-old in the bath as private and visible only to me and her grandparents.Meanwhile, the entertainment industries continues their push around the world for a series of China-style national firewalls (in the UK, former BPI executive Richard Molletboasted of getting this legislation inserted into the Digital Economy Act).This is an approach that millionaire pop stars like U2's Bono wholeheartedly endorse – last Christmas, he penned a New York Times op-ed calling for Chinese-style censorship everywhere. And just this month, MPAA representatives told the world's governments that adopting national internet censorship regimes for copyright would also allow them to block information embarrassing to their regimes, such as WikiLeaks.The MPAA was addressing a meeting for the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, a secret treaty that is being negotiated away from the UN, behind closed doors, and which includes proposals to search iPods, phones and laptop hard-drives at the world's borders to look for infringement.So yeah, if you want to try to control individual copies of your work on the internet, go ahead and try. I think it's a fool's errand, and so does almost every technical expert in the world, but what do we know?But for so long as this plan involves embedding control, surveillance and censorship into the very fabric of the information society's infrastructure, I'll continue to tour the world, for free, spending every penny I have and every ounce of energy in my body to fight you.Helienne, I can't fault you for not reading my Guardian columns; after all, I've never read yours. And while I do fault you for not correcting the record, I won't ask the Guardian's reader's editor to intervene or make silly, chiropractor-esque noises about libel. I'm a civil libertarian, and I have integrity, and I believe that the answer to bad speech is more speech, hence this column.But you really ought to familiarise yourself with the ideologies of the people you're condemning before you tear into them. I don't agree with everything Chris Anderson says, but he hardly tells people to give their stuff away: mostly, Chris talks about how different pricing structures, loss-leaders, and sales techniques can be used to increase the bottom lines of creators, manufacturers, publishers and inventors, and he cites case studies of people who've made this work for them.I have no idea what Seth Godin is doing on your hitlist: Seth's a marketing consultant. The last three times I've heard him speak, he's been talking about how to improve corporate communications and brand identity – that sort of thing. Sure, he apparently charges a very large sum of money for this advice, but that's the topsy-turvy world of marketing for you. If your point is that creative people deserve to get paid, then presumably you're all for Seth charging whatever the market will bear.Now, Peter Sunde is an interesting case. He reallydoesadvocate something like totally unrestricted copying. But as you note yourself, this is a belief that he's prepared to go to jail for, which is generally considered the gold standard for sincerity (the only higher standard I know of is being prepared to die for your beliefs – you should ask Peter where he stands on this). If your point is that Peter is only shamming about his politics, how do you explain this willingness to be imprisoned for them? Also: given Peter's latest startup, Flattr, exists for the sole purpose of making it simple for audiences to pay artists, I think you might reconsider his place in your parade of villainy.I understand perfectly well what you're saying in your column: people who give away some of their creative output for free in order to earn a living are the exception. Most artists will fail at this. What's more, their dirty secret is their sky-high appearance fees – they don'treallyearn a creative living at all. But authors have been on the lecture circuit forever – Dickens used to pull down $100,000 for US lecture tours, a staggering sum at the time. This isn't new – authors have lots to say, and many of us are secret extroverts, and quite enjoy the chance to step away from our desks to talk about the things we're passionate about.But you think that anyone who talks up their success at giving away some work to sell other work is peddling fake hope. There may be someone out there who does this, but it sure isn't me. As I've told all of my writing students, counting on earning a living from your work, no matter how you promote it or release it, is a bad idea. All artists should have a fallback plan for feeding themselves and their families. This has nothing to do with the internet – it's been true since the days of cave paintings.You know who peddles false hope to naive would-be artists? People who go around implying that but for all those internet pirates, there'd be full creative employment for all of us. That the reason artists earn so little is because our audiences can't be trusted, that once we get this pesky internet thing solved, there'll be jam tomorrow for everyone. If you want to damn someone for selling a bill of goods to creative people, go after the DRM vendors with their ridiculous claims about copy-proof files; go after the labels who say that wholesale lawsuits against fans on behalf of artists (where labels get to pocket the winnings) are good business; go after the studios who are suing to make it impossible for anyone to put independent video on the internet without a giant corporate legal budget.And if you want to find someone who supports artists, look at organisations such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, who have advanced the cause of blanket licences for music, video and other creative works on the internet. As a songwriter, you'll be familiar with these licences: as you say, you get 3% every time someone performs your songs on stage. What EFF has asked for is the same deal for the net: let ISPs buy blanket licences on behalf of their customers, licences that allow them to share all the music they're going to share anyway – but this way, artists get paid. Incidentally, this is also an approach favored by Larry Lessig, whom you also single out as "ironic" in your piece.It's been 15 years since the US National Information Infrastructure hearings kicked off the digital copyright wars. And for all the extraordinary power grabbed by the entertainment giants since then, the letters of marque and the power to disconnect and the power to censor and the power to eavesdrop, none of it is paying artists. Those who say that they can control copies are wrong, and they will not profit by their strategy. They should be entitled to ruin their own lives, businesses and careers, but not if they're going to take down the rest of society in the process.And that, Helienne, is what I tell people when I give my lectures, whether paid or free.
Here's an idea. What happens when celebrities start using Twitter? Their fans (or not, as the case may be) start replying to them.Rather than let those replies go to waste, the blogHilarious Tweets to Famous Peopleis trawling those replies to pick out the best.Early days yet, but we likeLATFQ's reply to P Diddy andKelly_NAproducRwho asked Bill Gates:"As a Nerd, Is Zuckerberg a Sexual Predator based on the way he created and he used FB?"[sic]Doesn't look like Gates replied...
Sorry to inflict the photo on you (which comes via the phone of Rory Cellan-Jones, the BBC's technology correspondent). But it seemed important just to prove that I'd been there and done that.Done what? Got a hands-on experience with the tablet from Next. Yes, Next the clothing people, not Next the bought-by-Apple-and-took-it-over people. It had been lent to Cellan-Jones, and while weawaited Steve Ballmer at the LSE, I had a quick play.Next is offering the tablet, which it's simply calling the "Next 10" tablet" (snappy naming, fashion folk) for what looks like the killer price of £180. Only £180!First things first: it's a 10" screen, though it's longer and wider than the iPad. It runs Android - allegedly.Allegedly? Well, when you press the power button, the word "Android" keeps being highlighted as it powers up. And then you're at a screen which looks much like the iPad's: a few icons on the bottom, and a restful background picture."Try to do something," suggested Cellan-Jones. So I thought I'd peek at his mail, and touched the Mail icon.Nothing happened. I pressed again. After a while, a file manager - from the adjacent icon - came up. Puzzled, I looked for an exit icon. There wasn't one. I resorted to the "home" button (now on the side of the device, as I was holding it in landscape mode). That took me to a screen with none of the icons of the starting screen, and a three-icon tab on the right. Er.. OK.Press the middle of the icons, which looked like an icon arrangement: ah, that brings up the screens that available, in a sort ofApple Exposémanner.Ah.. progress? But choosing or touching any of the screens did nothing. A few more prods and it gave up - nothing would get it to react. Seriously, if that's Android on a tablet, there's trouble ahead.My recommendation: do not buy this item unless you have tried it out thoroughly in a shop, and found out whether you can crash it (as I did in 30 seconds).You think that I'm some sort of death to devices aftermy Nokia S^3 hands-oncomments? Not at all. Here'sanother review via Androidcommunity:"PDA-247 bought one, and found it unbearably slow, that the battery lasted a mere 30 minutes of web browsing, and that the download application – not the Android Market – ended up hiding the software it had installed so you couldn't actually run it."Oh, but it gets better:Meanwhile the preloaded OfficeSuite app is in Chinese with no apparent settings to change that, and media loaded onto the bundled 8GB microSD card from a computer than couldn't be recognized on the tablet itself.  In short, save your money.I'd concur.&bull; Meanwhile, those who go violently apoplectic (Appleplectic?) at a mention of Steve Jobs's company look away now. The iPad is currently selling 4.5 million units per quarter, according toa new study by Bernstein Research– surpassing the adoption rate of both the iPhone and the DVD player. As we well know, Apple sold 3m iPad units in the first 80 days after its April release; Samsung has today said it hopes to sell 1m Galaxy Tab units before year-end – 87 days away.
Block 18.59am:We're here at the LSE writing about Steve Ballmer, who is giving a speech entitled "Seizing the Opportunity of the Cloud: the Next Wave of Business Growth"We're already about half an hour in (so that my battery wouldn't die - LSE has dispensed with power sockets in its lecture theatre).So far Ballmer has given a brief outline of how IT has developed. He sounds like someone who is constantly straining to make his voice heard in a crowded noisy room. But he also looks less bulky than one might expect.Block 29.02am:UK is a country where there's early adoption of tech - which is part of why the Move software for Xbox will be launched here first.These are terrible slides. He's no Steve Jobs....and now he's finished his speech. Eh? I thought we were in for an hour's disposition. Nope, half an hour of vague stuff was all.Block 39.04am:Reuters asks what makes Microsoft's cloud good. Computer Weekly asks ...."I was once at an event where you were introduced as Bill Gates..""We look alike," Ballmer says.Stuxnet - is that something that heralds a new threat? (We suspect Ballmer hasn't heard of it.)"I love where we are in the cloud. On the business side feel like we are ahead of whoever the closest second rival is. Where we are v the other competitors..."On the platform side, Windows Azure, we have competitors like Amazon, and who are doing only the private cloud like Oracle." No mention of the G-word.Block 49.06am:"On the consumer side we have opportunities to improve our market share... [still no G-oogle word]... and the Kinect stuff... cloud, TV connectivity thing, it's really early, but if you look at what you can do with an Xbox this holiday it's ahead of our competitors."Pause."Oh. Stuxnet."Pause."The degree to which inevitably society commits to the back end infrastructure is a big deal. We can all do a great job respecting privacy.. there will be bad guys in the world.. we need to design infrastructures.. that we get the same sort of protection ... that people expect in the prior world. That isn't going to be easy, and certainly we're hard at work at it."As our nation states work against this... don't expect government harmonisation on this any time soon." [Don't think he knows what it is yet.]Block 59.09am:Colleague in the press says: "I don't understand a bloody word he says."What's his favourite Xbox game? Ballmer into his element. "BEACH VOLLEYBALL BABY!!!" he yells. "My kids would tel you, THAT'S A LOT OF AIR UNDER YOUR FEET DADDY!"Block 69.10am:Complicated question from a student (they always are - students need to learn how to ask direct questions a la Paxman) about how technology will help people at the bottom of the economic pile."This will drive productivity, advance.. the size of the world's pie will be expanded by what we're doing... most of what I've talked about has the prospect both of helping people at the bottom of the economic pyramid and has the potential of making technology more affordable not less... because don't have to build proprietary infrastructure for each process."Block 79.12am:The Register asks if the operating system is dead. Goldman Sachs downgraded you. What does it mean for Windows 8. And his view on Chrome OS - Google's operating system."What? His what? It what?" Ballmer plays with her.I ask: you talk about cloud computing, but you've lost a pile of money in Online Services. Can you make money from it, and can it replace any lost revenue in the cloud?Block 89.14am:Ballmer: "how are we doing? Pretty darn good. Could be better... we're going to make about $26bn in profit pre tax, only one company does better.."We're making money in our online services, except in our search service we have made very deliberate decision to invest for the long run, if you believe that it's the right thing to do, we had a round in the early 2000s people were saying it was wrong to do the Xbox, I don't think it was wrong."Does that mean there aren't things we could have done differently.. will we have more competition.. of course. If you're in a business with cool things happening, of course you'll have competition."..."In terms of how the IT business is made up by our count there's 20-25m people who work directly somehow in the IT business, in a vendor or IT department of a company. There's maybe 10-15% whose jobs will be automated in new ways as a consequence of the move to the cloud."On the other hand most IT shops have a backlog of things they want to build that is super long. [Bill Gates-ism, that 'super-' prefix.]"Block 99.18am:"What's your take on tablet computing and the cloud and the growth of Android in the cloud and how it's hindering the growth of Windows in this area?" (Student question. Ask structured questions, folks. That's how you get the useful answers.)Another question: "....strategy... competition... operating systems..."Another question from someone who says he's a "patent lawyer and a judge": "does the patent system help or hinder you, and with the cloud with all companies having different bits will it get in the way?"Ballmer takes the last first: "Real good question." (It is.) "Is the patent system perfect - it's not. We think patent law ought to be reformed to reflect modern times. In general are we better with today's patent or none, we're better with today's. Patent reform needs to be taken up on this side and the US, but getting rid of the patent system in some way would not impede technological progress.""There's ways you want to weed out frivolous innovation... there's negotiation between substandard companies, not extralegally, where companies try to work these things through privately; I believe the small inventor should have a seat at the table, some companies feel under the gun, but they should."Patent reform should be taken up because the pharma business and the IT, software business, neither existed when patent law was written, and there is reform which could help it do more than it could."And this is from a company that's paid more out than we've taken in licensing patents."Block 109.23am:E-government and savings: "the fundamental advance that will help the UK government and others save money is the automation of tasks that today take labour."We have been a force for price reduction, but that misses the big picture: software helps automate things that people do and reduce the hardware that it requires, because both those are bigger in the food chain in terms of costs."Block 119.24am:On phones and tablets: "we're going to be able to afford to have phones and tablets in our pocket. Big screens are great for a big demo - we saw that with the Kinect demo."On the pocket side, we got an early jump, we've got competition that I'm ... not happy about, but we've got competion. It's my belief that with Windows Phone people are going to say 'wow', yesterday a kid wanted to take a picture of me with ONE OF OUR COMPETITORS PHONES and I told him he could have a free Xbox if he got RID OF THAT UGLY PHONE and got one of our PRETTY phones." [Getting the hang of the Ballmer EMPHASES now. They leap out at you.]"The people typing on a keyboard look happier... than those aren't.. I can tell you how many computers, how many Macs, how many iPads.."You'll see slates, but if you want most of the benefits of what a PC can offer, creating, a form factor that has been tuned over years, you'll see us expand the footprint of what Windows can target.."But we have to get back into phones.. and I love my Windows Phone 7."Block 129.27am:Chinese student question: why has piracy? become such a problem in China but not India? And which is a bigger threat in the future - blocking, or piracy?Another question: what's his take on privacy issues relating to cloud computing?Final question: what would it take to bring about the demise of Microsoft?Ballmer: "I'M GOING TO START WITH THE THIRD QUESTION!!!"Block 139.29am:Ballmer: "The demise of Microsoft would require our complicit behaviour because we'd not be getting our job done. Companies' futures are in their own hands but they're not assured."We gotta invent, we gotta create, we gotta do new things. Because our past can be a help and a hindrance."[Believe me, this is far better than the lecture. That was dull.]"We can see companies almost disappear and then burst back.. I put Apple in that category.."I kinda like what we're doing. That's about as good a job as I can do of not answering your question."Block 149.31am:Privacy: Ballmer says "We built something into Internet Explorer so that you could browse privately... it was a little controversial inside Microsoft when we did it, and there's a whole ecosystem on the web that's not happy about."My privacy I care a lot about. I gave you my email address (steveb@microsoft.com, if you're interested) but I'm not going to be your friend on Facebook."My son, he's 15, he doesn't care much about his privacy, but he wants something back for giving it away - he says 'why don't they just pay me $25 per month, they can track me everywhere'."Block 159.33am:On privacy still: "It's got to be a contract with the user."Piracy: "Piracy in China is 8 times worse than in India, 20 times worse than in UK. Enforcement of the law needs to be stepped up. If you look at the environment there's a lot more than in India, in Russia."I think the Chinese government hears the message, it's more of a problem for Chinese companies - they need to have IP, it's to the disadvantage even more of the Chinese companies. It woudl be worth a lot to us; China is the No.2 market in the world, will be the No.1 market in the world soon for smartphones and PCs."Don't know how you'd control it."As you move to the cloud there will be regulations coming from the government, and that could be a problem, I'm a little nervous about that, particularly in the Chinese case, but you'll have to wait and see how it works out."Block 169.35am:..winding up now. Apparently he's going to get an LSE baseball cap. He looks like the perfect Little League father.And we're done. Well, it was interesting, at least on patents - and China.
This latest imagining of the classical Chinese story Journey to the West delivers an immersive cinematic gaming experience, with author Alex Garland's touch creating fully-fleshed, lovable characters.The tale begins when tech-savvy teenager Trip escapes the grasps of the slavers who've captured her. Knowing she'll need help to get home, she enslaves fellow escapee Monkey with a headband that ties his life to hers, promising to release him should he escort her back safely. Unsurprisingly, this relationship turns from animosity to affection as they grow closer through their ordeals.Forget the drab post-apocalypse worlds we're used to exploring; developer Ninja Theory has created a lush green landscape full of vivid colour that is a joy to explore. More than 150 years after a devastating war killed off most of humanity, nature has reclaimed the cities, leaving you to find ways to safely traverse its leafy concrete and steel skeletal remains.Controlling Monkey and occasionally directing Trip, gameplay consists of platform action that sees you clambering around crumbling buildings and fighting off the last vestiges of the war – mechs that still follow their orders to kill on sight. Although the path forward is quite linear, the experience never stops being fun, especially with the use of the game's teamwork mechanism that sees you working with Trip to make progress.As well as simple puzzles that can be solved by guiding Trip to the right position, the characters have their own individual abilities. Monkey must use his strength to fling Trip across large gaps and up to high ledges, while Trip uses her tech skills to create a dragonfly mech that can search out mines and enemy weak spots. She also has a handy hologram that can grab mechs' attention, allowing Monkey to make a run for it across dangerous open ground.Combat is simple but effective. You can button mash your way through most fights, but collecting tech orbs unlocks new and improved abilities, which skilled gamers will enjoy putting together as eye-grabbing martial art combos. Mastering "takedowns" is also the best way to level the playing field when faced with a fresh wave of enemies.Unfortunately, the game hasn't overcome the camera angle issue that can often irritate platformers, and you'll regularly find yourself spinning the camera around to reposition yourself. Although not a deal breaker, when climbing a crumbing wall this can be frustrating. But its variety of brilliant set pieces more than make up for this weakness, with cinematic pace-changers such as fighting a giant mech dog in a Broadway theatre and chasing a robotic rhino through a mech graveyard.Enslaved provides a rollercoaster adventure wrapped up in a brilliantly told story, which sees you grow as attached to the characters as they do to each other.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Real Time Strategy (RTS) games are common on the PC but far less popular on the consoles. Historical takes on the genre even less so. So for me that makesGreat Battles Medieval- available on PS3 and Xbox 360 - something worth mentioning. Will it displace Halo and FIFA in the top 10? Not a chance but my brief play suggests the game is a decent stab at something different on the consoles. More thoughts soon but in the meantime here is an interview with the game's developer Slitherine.What do you think then? Can an historical RTS work on a console? And can it find an audience amongst Halo and FIFA fans?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Zeus lightning. Photo byChristian Frausto Bernalon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHands-on with the Nokia N8, a smartphone Symbian fans will love &gt;&gt; ZDNet"..let me state that the N8 is clearly the best Nokia Nseries device ever made and is the Nseries device that Nokia and Symbian users both deserve and will appreciate. I honestly doubt that many iPhone or Android owners will be switching to the N8 because the Symbian^3 OS is not familiar to them and is not as intuitive as either of these new flashier operating systems." Er, OK then.ZeuS taps Web forms: ZeuS dances the two step &gt;&gt; The EconomistYou thought that two-factor authentication was enough to keep you safe from internet attacks like Zeus? You were wrong.Monty Python and the Holy Grail Censorship Letter &gt;&gt; laughing squidNothing to do with technology, to be honest. But funny.Here comes Google TV &gt;&gt; Official Google Blog"This is just the beginning. Over the next few weeks, you can expect to hear from more sites that are enhancing their web content for the television. If you're interested in learning more about how to optimize your website for viewing on Google TV, please visit our developer page."Stupid Google Docs Tricks: Simple Tagging &gt;&gt; Ron Miller"I'm amazed that Google Docs doesn't have a tagging system similar to the one you can use in Gmail, but given this limitation, I created my own tagging system. I precede each document with a code that makes it simpler to find from the search box. For example I precede each FierceContentManagement post with the code 'FCM'."Obviously it would work for multiple words... or you could create a summary.. or you could just search on words in the document. Like Google already does.All your visualisations are belong to us &gt;&gt; visualizing.orgA site with a vast collection of visualisations of all sorts of data.Samsung says Bye-Bye Symbian &gt;&gt; Gartner"For Symbian this is another blow after the statement from Sony Ericsson a week or so ago. Does it make sense for Symbian to continue as open source?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Twitter co-founder Evan Williams has stepped down as chief executive in order to focus on "product strategy" in a move which sees Dick Costolo, until today the company's chief operating officer, promoted to run the business.In aposting on the Twitter blog, Williams, who founded the social networking site with Biz Stone, indicates that Costolo's promotion is part of a second phase of Twitter's development, in which it will shift from being a startup to a company that can make substantial amounts of money - and possibly aim for a stock market flotation in a few years' time.William says Costolo, who was brought on board in 2009, has proved a "strong complement" to himself. "During his year at Twitter, he has been a critical leader in devising and executing our revenue efforts, while simultaneously and effectively making the trains run on time in the office."Costolo is formerly chief executive of Feedburner, a web data company that was sold to Google; he then worked at that company before becoming an investor in Twitter with a $5m input in 2007 which also gained him a seat on its board.Rumours last week suggested that Google might try to buy Twitter, an idea played down by search analyst John Battelle who said that the idea was wrong because Twitter would not sell. Williams and Stone have already sold one company, the blogging company Blogger, to Google in 2000 and would have no wish to do so again when they could build a bigger company.In the posting, Williams says: "Growing big is no success, in itself. Success to us means meeting our potential as a profitable company that can retain its culture and user focus while having a positive impact on the world. This is no small task. I frequently reflect on the type of focus that is required from everyone at Twitter to get us there."Williams says he will personally focus on product strategy: "I am most satisfied while pushing product direction. Building things is my passion, and I've never been more excited or optimistic about what we have to build."Twitter has been making money, which is still free to users who want to register, by a number of methods since late last year. First in October it offeredsearch access to its stream of millions of "tweets" to the search engines Google and Bing.Then in April it began offering "promoted tweets", which turn up when people search for related topics. It also has ascheme for promoting products paid for by advertisersandpromoted accountswhich are suggested to people when they sign up or look for new people.Together, those are reckoned to bring in substantial revenues for the company, which now employs 300 people, has 165m registered users and handles 90m tweets per day.
Google's head of mobile Hugo Berra was said to have spooked many a manufacturer last month when he openly noted that Android 2.2 ("Froyo") is "not optimised for use on tablets".Fast forward three weeks, and LG has pulled the plug on its planned Android 2.2 tablet computer, initially due for release by the end of this year – suggesting it willjoin HTCandMotorolain holding out for the release of Android 3.0 ("Gingerbread")."We plan to introduce a tablet that runs on the most reliable Android version [...] We are in talks with Google to decide on the most suitable version for our tablet and that is not Froyo 2.2," an unnamed LG official isreported to have told Reuters, no doubt putting the wind right up Samsung. But fair enough – that gives us some indication at what we can expect at theJanuary CES.Although we've received no official word on when to expect Android 3.0 – Google's first tablet-oriented mobile operating system – some experts are predicting a release as early as this month. Carolina Milanesi, research vice president of mobile devices at Gartner, predicts that Gingerbread will be released in good time for a slew of tablet releases before Christmas. (Presumably high-end tablet devices, not those bashed out by high street fashion retailers)."The next Android OS, 'Gingerbread', will support larger screen sizes which makes it much better suited than Froyo for tablets," Milanesi told the Guardian. "It should be released in mid-October to hit the markets with products in time for the holiday season."Interesting, given that Samsung makes its market debut later this month in Italy, probably South Korea, then expanding to the US and Japan in November – all the while running already-outmoded software. Apposite, you might think, given the dynamism of the tablet market.Milanesi said: "It was interesting to hear LG say they have delayed their tablet to wait for the new OS – I think this is a sensible approach as 7" might not be enough for users that want a clear difference from what they get today on their 3.5 or 4" smartphone. I would expect the bigger push to market to happen around CES in January 2011. It will be interesting to see Apple come to market with its second generation iPad in the new year when most vendors will still be working on their first device."
Asblogged by Roy Greensladeearlier today, Take 2 Inc has accepted substantial undisclosed libel damages from the Daily Star in relation to the paper's "entirely false" story about Grand Theft Auto. On July 21, the tabloid alleged that Rockstar was planning to release a new version of the hit action adventure game, based around the life of Raoul Moat, who earlier this year shot three people, wounding his ex-girlfriend and a policeman, and killing his ex-girlfriend's new partner.But of course, no such game existed. The reporter responsible for the piece (which can be viewedhere) appears to have seen a crudely mocked-up cover of an imaginary game entitled Grand Theft Auto Rothbury – no doubt posted on a chat forum by some sneering teenager with a crude sense of humour and limited Photoshop skills. Without contacting Rockstar for clarification, it seems the decision was swiftly reached that this was a legitimate source.When it became abundantly clear that the story was nonsense, however, the piece was quickly removed from the Star's website, and replaced witha grovelling apology, which included the following confession: "We made no attempt to check the accuracy of the story before publication and did not contact Rockstar Games prior to publishing the story. We also did not question why a best selling and critically acclaimed fictional games series would choose to base one of their most popular games on this horrifying real crime event."Quite. But the question is, how could a national newspaper believe that such a bizarre development project was possible in the first place?In part, what the story typifies is a doggedly persistent belief that the games business is some sort of shadowy black market operation, rather than a major entertainment industry that contributes many millions to the UK economy. It is tempting to believe that, thanks to the rise of the family-friendly Wii console and the gigantic explosion in social titles like FarmVille, games are no longer demonised as essentially evil and corrupting in nature. But this fear and loathing appears to exist to this day, at least in the agendas of media purveyors who are happy to exploit theperceivedtechnophobia of their audience if it means an easy scare story.The article appeared a couple of months after a notorious edition of The Alan Titchmarsh Show in which Tim Ingham, editor of game news siteCVGwas harangued and insulted by a panel of 'experts' including ex-Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzie and actress Julie Peasgood, while attempting to defend video games that contain violence. Titchmarsh himself seemed to be labouring under the belief that the games industry has no age rating system, and was backed by a braying studio audience who gave Ingham's reasoned arguments short shrift."I'd be lying if I said at any stage I thought I was walking into a fair and balanced debate," says Ingham. "But I wasn't quite ready for something so one-sided and, to be frank, aggressive. There was one deliberate antagonist in the shape of Julie Peasgood, and it was pointless to get into a firefight with her. Her accusation that somehow games are racist was something I could sit down and think about for hours on end. But then there was MacKenzie who appeared to be there as a middleman – until he brought up the Bulger case... The point that annoyed me most though was when the presenter got involved. It felt as though he was deliberately painting me as an enemy of the programme."I mean, I can't be sure of this, but before the section, there was a floor manager who told the audience that if anyone on stage made a point they agreed with, they should applaud, but if someone said anything they didn't like, they shouldlet him know– and he did seem to be gesturing toward me..."With the Daily Star story, the reporter's alleged response to the controversy also spoke volumes about the contempt often felt toward the industry and gamers in general.According to MCVand other sources, the writer answered the growing controversy by posting the following on his Facebook page:"Baffled by the fury of adult gamers. These are grown (?!?) men who sit around all day playing computer games with one another who've today chosen to enter the real world just long enough to complain about my story slamming a Raoul Moat version of Grand Theft Auto! You would think I'd denied the Holocaust!!!"It would seem from this outburst, as odd as it was, that the journalist at least believed in the story – he did, after all, source a comment from a grieving relative of one of the victims. It is hard to imagine the monstrous apathy this would have required if the article was knowingly false.The question, though, is whether the ludicrous GTA Rothbury case will provide a turning point for tabloid coverage of games. Certainly, there are less 'ban this sick filth' splashes now than there were in the mid-90s, when the likes of Doom, Duke Nukem and GTA were being routinely blamed for the collapse of western society. And with the daily newspapers now competing for lucrative advertising from the games industry, while writing for a growing audience of game-literate readers, such stories are surely unlikely to have the desired impact in the future."There seems to be a blind arrogance in the tabloid media," says Ingham. "They assume that their audience will see that games are something to fear, that their only knowledge of them will be from prior reporting in The Star, The Mail and others. But I don't think that's the case. The majority of non-game playing mothers are aware of what Xbox 360s are, and they think about it far more sensibly than tabloid editors would assume."After the Alan Titchmarsh show I had several emails from people who explained that they weren't gamers but felt I had been treated poorly - that said a lot, really. We've reached a point where you can't just fictionalise these stories anymore – there's a wider public understanding of, and a respect for, video games. And because of that understanding, game publishers aren't as scared to defend themselves anymore. In the mid-90s, if Rockstar had tried to sue a tabloid, it would have been, 'look at these monsters, they're corrupting our kids, and now they're coming after your dear old newspaper!'"Then again, if page impressions can be boosted massively by an international community of gamers, all blogging and tweeting about your articles while posting handy links to the source material, the motivations are certainly going to be muddied. Perhaps the Daily Star took a calculated risk, and maybe that risk paid off. But maybe it spectacularly didn't.Anyway, what do you think? Might this case bring about a new era of respect and caution when it comes to video game news stories? Or, as the games industry grows in terms of mainstream interest, is it just as likely to pull in evermoresalacious attention? Today, it's the world famous football players, filmstars and pop singers who have to fend off intrusions into their lives. Tomorrow, could it be the biggest game designers?
Top 10 UK games (week ending 1 October 2010)PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)Wii (1)PSP (1)12 (1)F1 2010(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)PC (0)23 (3)Dead Rising 2(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)24 (2)Halo: Reach(16+)Xbox 360 (100)35 (6)Guitar Hero: Warriors Of Rock(12+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (26)26 (12)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 11(3+)PS3 (54)Xbox 360 (31)Wii (16)127 (5)Sports Champions (12+)PS3 (100)38 (7)Prince Of Persia: The Forgotten Sands(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (41)Wii (3)209 (9)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (48)Wii (21)Xbox 360 (16)PS3 (12)1210 (4)Civilization V(PG)PC (100)2Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy;2010UKIELtd
The Conservatives' abandonment of a manifesto tax pledge is set to cement BT's position as the dominant provider of next-generation broadband via fibre-optic cable, because it makes it prohibitively expensive for rivals to compete in laying new cable – which can be charged thousands of times more in tax than BT is.BT says it will carry out a "nationwide survey" to establish the demand among communities for high-speed broadband based on fibre-optic cable – setting areas in competition against one another, with the prize being an upgrade to faster internet connectivity.The company will be running the survey as a competition, which will continue to the end of the year: BT says it will "enable communities to express their desire for the service. This will help BT identify 'hot spots' where demand is high and influence the company's future deployment plans." So far, 4m premises are "within reach" of BT's fibre broadband, but that must grow beyond 16m for BT to reach its target of delivering high-speed fibre-optic broadband to two thirds of the UK by 2015.But the effect, with the abandonment of the Conservatives' manifesto tax pledge, may be to cement the telecoms operator's monopoly in the provision of next-generation broadband, because of the way that rivals are charged for laying new fibre-optic cable.BT's move looks calculated to drive adoption of, and interest in, its fibre-optic broadband in order to avoid forced deregulation by the coalition government. The Conservative party, inits technology manifesto published in March, promised to drive the adoptionof "superfast broadband" with connection speeds of up to 100 megabits per second (Mbps)- by breaking BT's "local loop monopoly".In January, the then shadow chancellor, George Osborne,said that the Conservatives would allow other operators to lay their own cablesto get fibre-optic systems: "I think the best way to deliver this is by breaking up the British Telecom monopoly at the moment, which holds back companies such as Carphone Warehouse [owner of Talk Talk, one of the UK's biggest internet service provider] or Virgin [the UK's only fibre-optic network provider]."But since taking office, the Conservatives have reneged on a key manifesto pledge that could affect competition in the fibre-optic market: a commitment to review the taxes imposed on new fibre-optic cables by the Valuation Office Agency (VOA) –which presently favour BT hugelyover would-be rivals –has been dropped. That gives BT a financial edge over rivals in laying new cable: at present the VOA assesses business rates on non-BT companies that lay short stretches of new fibre-optic cable outside London at £2 a metre – £2,000 a kilometre – plus £20 per home attached to the cable.By contrast BT is charged about £15 a km by the VOA for its fibre. A number of court cases are now in progress challenging the VOA's approach and valuation scale, alleging that it unfairly favours the incumbent operator. The VOA recently proposed an additional £20 a month levy on properties that receive fibre-optic broadband from a non-BT provider.Fibre-optic cable is assessed for business rates on the basis of its usefulness to businesses. It is charged per "pair" of connections. If a company first lays a length of cable to connect a number of premises – say, 20km – it is treated as a significant addition to its network. But BT already has a large fibre network, so that a 20km addition is treated as unimportant and the incremental difference in taxes due, where it already benefits substantially, can be rounded down under VOA rules.Fibre-optic cables carry signals using light and are not affected by distance in the way that standard copper cables, presently used to distribute broadband signals from exchanges to homes and premises, are. But replacing copper cables to every home with fibre-optic would be enormously expensive; even replacing the copper cables from exchanges to the "cabinets" in every street, as BT appears to be suggesting, requires huge capital investment. That has to be recouped by charges to the user.The problem is greater for rural areas, where larger distances between premises means that there are fewer potential subscribers per kilometre of cable, in effect increasing the investment per user.BT Retail, the ISP arm of BT, says it will promise funds "if needed" to help enable the five exchanges where people show the highest demand.BT pledged in May this year that, subject to there being "an acceptable environment for investment", it would spend £2.5bn on rolling out fibre broadband to two thirds of UK premises by 2015. This is one of the most ambitious fibre programmes in the world that isn't reliant on public sector support. Such support will be required, however, for exchanges in the "final third" of the UK where deploying fibre is commercially not viable.The "Race to Infinity" will run from early October to the end of December 2010, with the five winning exchanges being enabled by early 2012 at the latest. The competition will be supported by a marketing campaign that will direct participants towards a web page atbt.com/racetoinfinitywhere they will be able to register their interest in fibre broadband. This will enable BT to contact them as soon as the service is available in their area.BT Group is also pledging to engage with any community that gathers 75% of possible votes for their exchange but hasn't won the competition. This is in the hope that those exchanges can either be included in future commercial phases – if the exchange is deemed commercially viable – or enabled as a result of either public sector or community support as has already happened in some parts of the UK.
Let's face it, the Best of Chatterbox posts have always taken a lackadaisical approach to deadlines. Ideally, we'd have one of these out every Monday, and each edition would catalogue thepreviousweek's brilliant conversation and sparkling game-related repartee. But often, for one reason or another, you're kept waiting a little longer.Here then, is the best of what everyone said from Sept 20-24. It was the week that Halo: Reach was in the news, Chris Moyles had a pay dispute, the pope was in town, and the thing that everyone wanted to know was – what goes on in the back room at Argos?You can hardly wait, can you?Monday, September 20Another glorious Monday, another bulging blog! Today's chat seemed amazingly 'on topic' – perhaps the impending end of summer sparking more interest in gaming?A generally positive reception for Sony's PS Move, but perhaps not the universal adoration Sony would have liked. Even Sony's most ardent friend Chubster2010 was only moderately impressed: "Overall, I think the Move's launch line-up isn't too bad."[Definitely a quote for the adverts - Keef]ShadowMind on the other hand was a little blunter: "Can I have a game for this please?" Naboomagnoli was more positive in his reviews of RUSE and Flight Control, talking about the former: "RUSE + Move = Lovely Stuff". The mighty blog has spoken and the verdict is – nice kit, shame about the lack of games.The inevitable Halo: Reach discussion showed the blog's incredible capacity for gaming. Completions and review scores already? Fast work chaps! A quick (and likely less than accurate) assessment shows Reach to be a solid 8/10 in general. Not bad, but once again not the universal acclaim expected.Quotes of the Day:"Did you know that Limni once asked me (in all seriousness) to send him some pictures of myself and my old flatmate, recreating memorable scenes from the hit TV show 'Dynasty'? Dresses, wigs, lipstick, the whole works. He offered to pay for everything. That was on my first day in here, and to this day he has yet to explain how he got my home telephone number (I'm ex-directory)."HereComesTreble takes issue with the standard Chatterbox welcome package."Nothing says faith in the Lord like three inches of bulletproof glass"Art1eFufkin gets topical –andheretical...Thought of the day for Monday comes from old man Limni: "all is pain and suffering. Then there is only the void."[He clearly spent too much time with those Move launch titles - Keef]TuesdayThe actual games talk (such as it was) continued to be centred on Demon's Souls, with brief nods to BFBC2/Vietnam, Gran Turismo 5 and Psy-Duck. BUT, in addition to the usual support and advice on car/pet insurance, working, presentations and what to take to interviews (cheesecake and large testicles being the main advice given), the blog took on a distinctly historical, nay serious tone today.Inadvertently started by CountGinula mentioning the World at War TV series (not part of the Call of Duty franchise surprisingly for a Gamesblog), and from there on the theme continued with bloggers re-counting stories of their grandparents' involvement in the Second World War. Building railways as prisoners in Burma, being on sinking ships, hiding in hay bales as part of the Italian resistance, dropping spies behind enemy lines… endless tales which should be a lesson to us all, sitting idly in armchairs blowing virtual people to pieces. One positive to note though- as PicPicPic pointed out:"Real war: One of the few exceptions on the battlefield where camping would be acceptable."But nevertheless, the Killzone NaN Tuesday action for the evening was afoot with the most apt comment on Real Life vs Gaming coming from English Red:"We'd all be dead before the day was out... especially if Killzone is anything to go by."As the shadows lengthened the tone lightened, with 'Best-war-film/programme-theme-blog" rearing its head, which slowly degraded to best theme music, then to talk of ladies wrestling in gravy. Balance was restored.WednesdayWednesday. Hump-day. It's all downhill to the weekend now, and Simian was feeling it: "I emerged into the unfaltering morning light, blinking back the tears forming in my eyes from the harsh glare. I surveyed the surrounding landscape and was pleased with what I saw. Verdant plains of grass rolled away as far as my eyes could see. The mountains towered behind me a looming reminder of what I'd come through. It was a new day, a new start and hopefully, a new life... I made it to the second stage of the OZ interview...."Stay tuned for updates on Simian's job hunting. And remember not to take interview advice from the Chatterbox, especially if it involves fancy dress or fistfuls of pound coins.Gamesblog regulars are at the cutting edge of games and gaming technology (some of us even using PS3 interfaces that no one else uses….). Some of us are a bit behind on web 2.0 and social media though. Despite the Gamesblog Facebook group and Spotify playlist, Bloatboy has only got around to getting some online 'friends':"No gaming last night as I became a late, yet perhaps the most important adopter of Facebook. When my profile went online the value of FB increased threefold, such is the value of my 'name' online. Spent considerable time setting up privacy settings (you have to be a female and at least 9 out of 10 to look at my profile). I think when the internet gets popular this app could go global."Don't hold your breath for Farmville chat on here though.Halloween is just around the corner; well miles around the corner actually. And that means party time. Stackhaus had a request from his better half about a fancy dress party they plan to attend. Tired of the usual 'sexy vampire', 'sexy ghost', 'sexy zombie', 'sexy nurse'-type costumes for girls, she suggested a couples fancy dress outfit – the gorier the better (she's a keeper).In typical Chatterbox fashion, here are the top 5 suggestions (that we can publish):5. Pete Doherty &amp; Kate Moss – HappySocks4. Alien &amp; chestburster victim – timthemonkey3. Chucky &amp; Bride of Chucky – StiLteD2. Kurt &amp; Courtney – CunningStunt1. The Krankies - SuperSmashinWhat we learned todayDavid Cameron's favourite game is Angry Birds on the iPhone. Which is worse – citing the blogs' choice of mobile game or having an iPhone? Also there were some new arrivals - another Silveryfox cub (congratulations, and commiserations to Mrs Silveryfox – 9.5lbs!). GethWynJones joined looking for some sympathy and complaining about having to watch terrible TV (see above): "If I have a gaming night she calls it a 'Man's night'. Does anyone else get an option to have a 'Man's night' from their other half?"Sound advice from pdmalcolm though: "If you do get offered a 'man's night' you can be damn sure it's a trap."ThursdayThe big news today was Chris Moyles' incredible pay-related diatribe. This was met with much rejoicing on the box and when the news surfaced that he'd also split up with his girlfriend and was sleeping on his mate's sofa, the levels of schadenfreude on display rivalled those available from an average episode of Jeremy Kyle. However, all was not to be, as Moyles hadn't gone DLT on us, just refused to play music for the first half hour of his show in protest at not being receiving a salary cheque for two months. From what I remember of listening to his breakfast show, I'm not sure if his listeners would have noticed the difference. While I can sympathise with the guy for not being paid, surely anybody who earns around £1500 a day should have some put away for times like this?Moyles' continued employment by the BBC was a matter of some discussion during the morning, and although his contract is a blight on their performance, it was generally agreed that the BBC is worth the licence fee we pay for it. Radio 2 and 4, 6music, World Service, BBC documentaries and comedies outweighing the negativity from Moyles (but only just). Generally agreed, I say, because our resident Broken Britain expert, who shall remain nameless, doesn't pay his as he doesn't own any equipment capable of receiving a live signal. Despite the torrent of dross that, in his opinion, is pumped out by the BBC, he still manages to find it in him to watch iPlayer. But obviously not often enough to justify the frankly ludicrous £12pcm it costs to help keep such services available to the rest of us.Other discussions throughout the day involved whether the presence of a Wimpy restaurant could be used as an indicator of social depravation, which was the best film trilogy ever made (after Empire magazine got it totally wrong – Star Wars prequels above the Naked Gun trilogy?) and what exactly takes place in those back rooms of Argos? Enquiring minds want to know.Quotes of the Day"Bicycle racing, followed by too many beers followed by wandering round the battlefield, drunk, firing a Spas12 at anything that moved. Astonishingly a positive KDR as I recall. I put it down to the weaving. What they really need is a "pi**ed tramp" class."WilliumCobblers – very much living up to the latter part of his name."If anyone doesn't believe me then go into Argos and pick up a seasonal worker application form: you must sign the official secrets act, possess a 2:1 degree or higher (or lower if Bruce Forsyth) in Physics and have no hope left in life, just to get an interview to work there."Bloatboy is joking. At least about the 'no hope in life' bit.FridayQuote of the day (probably going to end up a running theme) came in from HereComesTreble on fine form as usual. "Does anyone else's internal dialogue tend to be in a foreign accent? Sometimes, very rarely, the voice in my head actually speaks in Afrikaans. I can't understand a word he's saying, it's just noise, but he's very angry, and I know he's angry at me." A worrying admission from a worrying man.Friday kicked off, as it has a tendency to do, with an impenetrable post about some game only known to the uber-geek elite. It was a start that could have quickly descended into another diceblog, but thankfully spirits were high as it was Friday and disaster was averted. This was followed by the usual gratitude for the previous night's games, most notably KZ2, along with the daily laments of the hungover and the suffering. Salubriousone unknowingly summed up the night, and the general NaN KZ2 experience: "I owe you an apology for the worst team kill I've ever managed last night. On Radec you were getting ready to defend the S&amp;D target and I was going in for a melee kill on a downed enemy, I had a real spazzy moment and hit upwards instead of down and ended up battering you instead. Ooops....." It was a quote that could quite easily be attributed to almost half of the players that night.A lot of the rest of the day was spent contemplating what resided behind those magical doors in Argos where all the good stuff comes out. Theories varied wildly and, given the malformed and depraved mind of the average gamer, soon turned from the bizarre to the extreme. HereComesTreble started to let his curiosity get the better of him, but details of his "investigation" are best not repeated for legal reasons, suffice to say I will be expecting a full debrief from him in the near future.Talk soon turned to how morally correct it is to change historic events for the sake of storytelling in a movie. There were probably a lot of very interesting and valid points, but I tuned out almost immediately and each post bought with it a soothing white noise.The day, and indeed the week ended with all the disappointment of a firework that doesn't go off. People said their goodbyes, finished their 'work' for the day and headed down the pub, ready to repeat the whole sorry mess again the following Monday.Films/TV this week:True Blood, Iron Man 2, This is England 86, Britain's Next Top Model, Full Metal Jacket, Rachel Getting Married, Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy, Resident Evil: AfterlifeLink of the Week:The taxonomy of hip-hop names.This week, Best Of was written by Humofevil, AlexP, ImperfectRex, PicPicPic, Schwen and Limni.
Mine was restricted but I did manage to get some Fifa in as well as finish the wonderful Enslaved. Anyway, how was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
